CITY OF BRONSON, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 228, passed 11-11-2024
 
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CITY OFFICIALS
OF
BRONSON, MICHIGAN
CITY COUNCIL
Mayor                              William Rinehart
Vice-Mayor                         Rick Johannes
Member                             Matt Watkins
Member                             William Earl
Member                             Larry McConn
                                   
CITY ADMINISTRATION
City Manager                       Brandon M. Mersman
City Attorney                      Charles J. Lillis
City Clerk/Treasurer               Tricia Rzepka
Utilities Director                 Jerry Rinehart
Department of Public Works Foreman Joe Swain
Chief of Police                    Stephen P. Johnson
Deputy Chief of Police             Frank Barker
Fire Chief                         Scott Wilber
                                   
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
Ordinance No. 192
An ordinance of the City of Bronson adopting the completed Code of Ordinances
of the City of Bronson
   The People of the City of Bronson Ordain:
   Section 1. The general ordinances of the City of Bronson as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of Bronson.”
   Section 2. Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following Titles:
   CITY CHARTER
   TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   General Code Construction; General Penalty
   TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      30.   City Organizations
      31.   Fire Department
      32.   Police Department
      33.   Emergency Management
      34.   Special Assessment Procedure
      35.   Tax and Finance
      36.   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
   TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Garbage and Refuse; Recycling
      51.   Water System Regulations
      52.   Sewer Use; Rates and Connections
   TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   General Provisions
      71.   Parking Regulations
      72.   Recreational Vehicles
      73.   Traffic Schedules
      74.   Parking Schedules
   TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Animal Regulations
      91.   Marijuana Provisions
      92.   Parks and Recreation
      93.   Public Nuisances
      94.   Streets and Sidewalks
      95.   Theaters, Exhibitions and Outdoor Shows
      96.   Trees
   TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   General Provisions
      111.   Hawkers and Peddlers
      112.   Basic Cable Rate Regulation
      113.   Telecommunications
   TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   Curfew for Minors
      131.   Offenses Against Property
      132.   Loitering on Public/Private Property
      133.   Disorderly Conduct
   TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      150.   General Provisions
      151.   Mobile Homes
      152.   Sign Regulations
      153.   Subdivisions
      154.   Zoning Code
   TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      I.   Franchises
      II.   Zoning Map Changes
   Section 3. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
   Section 4. Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Council. Upon approval by the City Council, the City
Clerk shall keep a copy available for public inspection in the Office of the
City Clerk.
   Section 5. Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in
Section 6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places
of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and the that the same is properly
signed, attested, recorded, and approved and any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   Section 6. Pursuant to the City Charter, this ordinance shall become
effective 10 days after publication in a newspaper of general circulation.
   Adopted at a regular meeting of the Bronson City Council this 4th day of
June, 2012.
____________________________________   ____________________________________
Thomas J. Rissman, Mayor            Karen A. Smith, City Clerk
ORDINANCE #213
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
   CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF BRONSON, MICHIGAN,
   AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2019 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Bronson, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Bronson; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE LEGISLATIVE AUTHORITY OF THE CITY OF
BRONSON OF BRANCH COUNTY, MICHIGAN:
Section 1.   That the 2019 S-2 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of Bronson as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati,
Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by reference as
if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Bronson is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement into the
copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the Legislative Authority of the City of Bronson on this
12th day of August 2019.
Motion by Councilmember  Kenny    Second:  Johannes
YEAS: All
NAYS: None
Approved August 12, 2019
____________________________________   ____________________________________
Larry McConn, Mayor               Karen A. Smith, City Clerk
CITY CHARTER
THE BRONSON CREED
   I believe in Bronson and its responsibilities; and I shall do my part to
make it a better place in which to live.
   I believe in good government for Bronson, and I shall assume my share of the
civic responsibility that rest on the shoulders of all our citizens.
   I believe in supporting local enterprises that make for community
development, and shall contribute my moral support and energy to any worthy
cause championed by them.
   I believe in patronizing home merchants, for they are greatly responsible
for our having good schools and churches, better roads and promotion of the
general welfare of this community.
   I believe in making Bronson clean and attractive, for a healthy atmosphere
is an inducement to honest and right-thinking citizens.
   I believe in boosting my home town at every possible opportunity; that
thinking, talking and acting progress is the quickest and surest way to bring
permanent prosperity to Bronson - the best town in America -because it is MY
HOME!
From The Bronson Journal
Section
   Preamble
CHAPTER I NAME AND BOUNDARIES
   Section
1.1   Name and Boundaries
   Section
1.2   Ward Description
CHAPTER II GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
   Section
2.1   General Powers
   Section
2.2   Intergovernmental Cooperation
   Section
2.3   Exercise of Powers
   Section
2.4   Division of Powers
CHAPTER III ELECTIONS
   Section
3.1   Qualifications of Electors
   Section
3.2   Election Procedure
   Section
3.3   Precincts
   Section
3.4   Election Commission
   Section
3.5   Regular Elections
   Section
3.6   Special Elections
   Section
3.7   Nominations Procedure
   Section
3.8   Form of Ballot
   Section
3.9   Canvass of Votes
   Section
3.10   Tie Vote
   Section
3.11   Recount
   Section
3.12   Recall
CHAPTER IV THE CITY COUNCIL
   Section
4.1   Elective Officers
   Section
4.2   Qualifications
   Section
4.3   Terms of Office
   Section
4.4   Oath of Office
   Section
4.5   Surety Bonds
   Section
4.6   Public Peace, Health and Safety
   Section
4.7   Budget
   Section
4.8   City Airport, Transportation, Communications
   Section
4.9   Compensation and Expenses
   Section
4.10   Mayor
   Section
4.11   General Powers and Duties
   Section
4.12   Judge of Qualifications of Members
   Section
4.13   Prohibitions
   Section
4.14   Vacancy Procedure
   Section
4.15   Appointment of City Manager
   Section
4.16   Removal of City Manager
   Section
4.17   Appointment of City Assessor
   Section
4.18   Appointment of City Attorney
   Section
4.19   Investigations
   Section
4.20   Procedures
   Section
4.21   Rights as to Property
   Section
4.22   Licenses
   Section
4.23   Public Property
   Section
4.24   Cemeteries
   Section
4.25   Trusts
   Section
4.26   Advisory Committees or Boards
CHAPTER V LEGISLATION
   Section
5.1   Legislative Powers
   Section
5.2   Forms of Legislation
   Section
5.3   Action Requiring an Ordinance
   Section
5.4   Ordinances
   Section
5.5   Publication and Recording of Ordinance
   Section
5.6   Codification
   Section
5.7   Technical Regulations
   Section
5.8   Penalties
   Section
5.9   Initiative and Referendum
   Section
5.10   Procedure
   Section
5.11   Initiation
   Section
5.12   Petitions
   Section
5.13   Certification
   Section
5.14   City Council Procedure on Initiatory & Referendary Petitions
   Section
5.15   Submission to Electors
   Section
5.16   General Provisions
CHAPTER VI CITY ADMINISTRATION
   Section
6.1   Administrative Officers
   Section
6.2   City Manager
   Section
6.3   City Manager - Function & Duties
   Section
6.4   City Clerk
   Section
6.5   Deputy Clerk
   Section
6.6   City Treasurer
   Section
6.7   Additional Administrative Powers, Duties, and Restrictions
   Section
6.8   City Planning
   Section
6.9   Zoning Board of Appeals
   Section
6.10   Merit System of Personnel Management
   Section
6.11   Compensation & Employee Benefits
CHAPTER VII GENERAL FINANCE
   Section
7.1   Fiscal Year
   Section
7.2   Budget Procedure
   Section
7.3   Budget Document
   Section
7.4   Budget Hearing
   Section
7.5   Adoption of the Budget
   Section
7.6   Transfer of Appropriations
   Section
7.7   Budget Control
   Section
7.8   Depository
   Section
7.9   Investments
   Section
7.10   Independent Audit
CHAPTER VIII TAXATION
   Section
8.1   Power to Tax
   Section
8.2   Tax Limits
   Section
8.3   Exemptions
   Section
8.4   Tax Day
   Section
8.5   Assessment Roll
   Section
8.6   Board of Review
   Section
8.7   Duties & Functions of the Board of Review
   Section
8.8   Notice of Meetings, Board of Review
   Section
8.9   Meetings of Board of Review
   Section
8.10   Certification of Roll
   Section
8.11   Clerk to Certify Tax Levy
   Section
8.12   City Tax Roll
   Section
8.13   Tax Roll Certified for Collection
   Section
8.14   Tax Lien
   Section
8.15   Taxes Due Notification Thereof
   Section
8.16   Collection Fees and Interest
   Section
8.17   Collection of Delinquent Taxes
   Section
8.18   Failure or Refusal to Pay Personal Property Tax
   Section
8.19   State, County, and School Taxes
CHAPTER IX BORROWING AUTHORITY
   Section
9.1   Municipal Borrowing Power
   Section
9.2   Preparation and Record of Bonds
   Section
9.3   Deferred Payment Contracts
CHAPTER X SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   Section
10.1   General Powers Relative to Special Assessments
   Section
10.2   Detailed Procedure to be Fixed By Ordinance
   Section
10.3   Additional Assessments: Correction of Invalid Special Assessments
   Section
10.4   Disposition of Excess Special Assessments
   Section
10.5   Contested Assessments: Limitations on Suits & Actions
   Section
10.6   Special Assessment Accounts
   Section
10.7   Failure to Receive Notice
   Section
10.8   Deferred Payment of Special Assessments
   Section
10.9   Special Assessments as a Lien on Property
   Section
10.10   Hazards and Nuisances
CHAPTER XI UTILITIES
   Section
11.1   General powers respecting utilities
   Section
11.2   Control of Utilities
   Section
11.3   Management of Utilities
   Section
11.4   Rates and Charges
   Section
11.5   Utility Charges - Collection
   Section
11.6   Accounts
   Section
11.7   Disposal of Plants & Properties
CHAPTER XII BIDS, CONTRACTS, PURCHASES, FRANCHISES AND PERMITS
   Section
12.1   Contracting Authority of Council
   Section
12.2   Purchase and Sale of Property
   Section
12.3   Limitations on Contractual Power
   Section
12.4   Franchises
   Section
12.5   Right of Regulation
   Section
12.6   Rates of Franchised Utilities
   Section
12.7   Revocable Rates
   Section
12.8   Use of Streets by Utility
CHAPTER XIII GENERAL PROVISIONS AND DEFINITIONS
   Section
13.1   City Liability
   Section
13.2   Unofficial Representation
   Section
13.3   City Records
   Section
13.4   Headings
   Section
13.5   Separability
   Section
13.6   Amendments
   Section
13.7   Definitions & Interpretations
CHAPTER XIV SCHEDULE
   Section
14.1   Purpose & Status of Schedule Chapter
   Section
14.2   Election to Adopt Charter
   Section
14.3   Form of Ballot
   Section
14.4   Elective Officers of the City
   Section
14.5   Effective Date of this Charter
   Section
14.6   Council Action
   Section
14.7   Continuation of Appointive Officers
   Section
14.8   Boards and Commissions
   Section
14.9   Pending Matters
   Section
14.10   Prior City Ordinances and Regulations
PREAMBLE
   To the end that the people of the City of Bronson may enjoy, to the fullest
extent, the advantages and benefits of local self-government as authorized by
the Constitution and Laws of the State of Michigan, they hereby establish this
Charter.
CHAPTER I
NAME AND BOUNDARIES
NAME AND BOUNDARIES:
Section 1.1 (a) The municipal corporation now existing and known as the City of
Bronson shall continue as a body corporate and shall include the territory
constituting the City of Bronson on the effective date of this charter,
together with all territorial changes that may be made in a manner prescribed
by law.
(b) The official description and map of the current boundaries shall be
maintained and kept available in the office of the City Clerk for public
inspection.
WARD DESCRIPTION:
Section 1.2 The city shall consist of one ward.
CHAPTER II
GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
GENERAL POWERS:
Section 2.1 The City of Bronson shall be vested with any and all powers and
immunities, expressed and implied, which cities are or hereafter may be,
permitted to exercise or to provide for in their charters under the
Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan, including all the powers and
immunities which are granted to cities. These powers and immunities shall
address the interests of the city, the good government and prosperity of the
municipality and its inhabitants as fully and completely as though those powers
and immunities were specifically enumerated in and provided for in this
charter. In no case shall any enumeration of particular powers or immunities in
this charter be held to be exclusive.
INTERGOVERNMENTAL COOPERATION:
Section 2.2 The city may exercise any of its powers or perform any of its
functions and may participate in the authorized financing thereof, jointly or
in cooperation, by contract or otherwise, with any one or more states or
political subdivisions of agencies thereof, or the United States or any agency
thereof.
EXERCISE OF POWERS:
Section 2.3 Where no procedure is set forth in this charter for the exercise of
any power granted to or possessed by the city and its officers, the council may
resort to any procedure set forth in any statute of the State of Michigan which
was passed for the government of cities, or in any other statute of the State
of Michigan. If alternate procedures are to be found in different statutes,
then the council shall select that procedure which it deems to be most
expeditious and to the best advantage of the city and its inhabitants. Where no
procedure for the exercise of any power of the city is set forth, either in
this charter or in any statute of the State of Michigan, the council shall
prescribe by ordinance and-or resolution a reasonable procedure for the
exercise thereof.
DIVISION OF POWERS:
Section 2.4 All the powers of municipal government prossessed by the city and
hereby divided into two (2) general divisions: (1) legislative or policy
forming as represented by the city council; and (2) administrative as
represented by the appointed city officials. It shall be the duty of every
officer of the city to preserve the divisions of the city government distinct
and separate.
CHAPTER III
ELECTIONS
QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS:
Section 3.1 The residents of the city having the qualifications of electors in
the State of Michigan shall be eligible to vote in the city.
(Ord. 182, § 3, passed 2-13-2012)
ELECTION PROCEDURE:
Section 3.2 The general election laws shall apply to and control all procedures
relating to city elections, including qualification of electors, establishment
of precincts, verification of petitions, registration of voters, and voting
hours. The clerk shall give public notice of each city election in the same
manner as is required by law for the giving of public notice of general
elections in the state.
PRECINCTS:
Section 3.3 The city shall consist of one voting precinct unless otherwise
required by State law. When a greater number of precincts is required, their
boundaries shall be defined by ordinance, it shall be the duty of the clerk to
advise the council when it is necessary to increase or decrease the number of
precincts in order to conform to State law.
ELECTION COMMISSION:
Section 3.4 An election commission is hereby created, consisting of the clerk,
assessor, and one other member to be appointed by the city manager. The
appointed member shall not be an employee, elected or appointed officer of the
City; and shall be appointed in January and shall serve for three years. The
clerk shall be chairperson. The commission shall have charge of all activities
and duties required of it by statute and this charter relating to the conduct
of elections in the city. The compensation of election personnel shall be
determined in advance by the city council.
REGULAR ELECTIONS:
Section 3.5 A regular city election shall be held on the Tuesday following the
first Monday of November in each odd-numbered year.
SPECIAL ELECTIONS:
Section 2.6 Special elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
council, setting forth the purpose of the election. Special elections shall be
scheduled pursuant to state law.
NOMINATIONS PROCEDURE:
Section 3.7 Every person desiring to become a candidate for any elective office
under this charter shall file with the city clerk a petition therefor signed by
not less than 25 nor more than 50 qualified electors of the city not later than
4:00* p.m. on the Tuesday following the second Monday in September. At least
one week before, and not more than three weeks before, the last day for filing
nominating petitions, the clerk shall post notice to that effect. Blank
petitions in substantially the same form as required by State law, except for
references to party, shall be furnished the clerk. The clerk shall immediately
determine the sufficiency of each petition filed, and if he finds any petition
does not contain the required number of signatures of qualified electors he
shall forthwith notify the candidate, who may file an amended petition not
later than seven days after the date and hour for filing the original petition.
No nominating petition shall be accepted for filing by the city clerk unless
accompanied by a signed acceptance of the nominee.
Withdrawal of a candidate’s name from consideration on the ballot must be made
in writing and in conformance with the time allowed by statute.
FORM OF BALLOT:
Section 3.8 (a) The form, printing and number of ballots or the preparation of
the voting machines used in any City election shall conform as nearly as may be
to the provisions of statute, except that no party designation or emblem shall
appear in regard to City offices. In all City elections, the names of qualified
candidates or nominees for each office shall be listed under a separate
heading. In the event that the City shall have more than one precinct, names of
qualified candidates or nominees for each office shall be listed under a
separate heading and shall be rotated systematically in a manner prescribed by
statute for the rotation of names.
(b) If two or more candidates or nominees for the same office have the same or
similar surnames, the Election Commission shall comply with PA 116 of 1954,
Section 561; MCLA 168.561; MSA 6.1561; and any amended provisions thereof.
CANVASS OF VOTES:
Section 3.09 The board of canvassers designated by statute shall canvass the
votes of all city elections in accordance with statute. The clerk shall notify
in writing the successful candidates of their election and do so upon receipt
of the results from the board of canvassers.
TIE VOTE:
Section 3.10 If at any city election there shall be no choice between
candidates by reason of two (2) or more candidates having received an equal
number of votes, then the determination of the election of such candidate by
lot will be as provided by state statute.
RECOUNT:
Section 3.11 A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office,
or upon any proposition, may be had in accordance with the general election
laws of the state.
RECALL:
Section 3.12 Any elective official may be removed from office by the registered
electors of the city in the manner provided by the general laws of the state. A
vacancy created by the recall of any elective official shall be filled in the
manner prescribed by state law.
CHAPTER IV
THE CITY COUNCIL
ELECTIVE OFFICERS:
Section 4.1 There shall be a city council of five members elected by the
qualified voters of the city at large on a non-partisan basis, and according to
the provisions in Chapter III of this charter.
QUALIFICATIONS:
Section 4.2 Each elective city official must be a duly registered elector in
the city, shall have attained the age of twenty-one (21), shall have been a
resident of the city for one (1) year on or before the election at which he or
she is a candidate for office, and shall not be in default to the city.
TERMS OF OFFICE:
Section 4.3 At each regular city election there shall be elected three (3)
council members and such additional number as may be required to fill vacancies
pursuant to the provisions of this charter. The two (2) receiving the highest
number of votes shall be elected for four (4) years, and the one receiving the
third highest number of votes shall be elected for a term of two (2) years. A
number equal to the number of vacancies being filled (if any) who shall receive
the next highest number of votes in order, shall be elected for a term of two
(2) years. The term of office of the council members shall commence on the
Monday following the certification of their election by the County Board of
Canvassers.
OATH OF OFFICE:
Section 4.4 Each elective officer of the city, before entering upon the duties
of this office, shall take and subscribe to the oath of office prescribed by
the state constitution for an officer of the state, which shall be filed and
kept in the office of the clerk.
SURETY BONDS:
Section 4.5 Any city officer may be required to give a bond to be approved by
the council for the faithful performance of the duties of his office in such
sum as the council shall determine, but all officers receiving or disbursing
city funds shall be bonded. All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds
and the premiums thereon shall be paid by the city. All official bonds shall be
filed with the clerk, except that of the clerk, which shall be filed with the
treasurer, as provided for by statute.
PUBLIC PEACE, HEALTH & SAFETY:
Section 4.6 The city council shall provide for the public peace and health and
for the safety of persons and property within the city.
BUDGET:
Section 4.7 The city council shall adopt on an annual basis a budget as
provided for in Chapter VII of this charter.
CITY AIRPORT, TRANSPORTATION, COMMUNICATIONS:
Section 4.8 The council shall have power to enact all ordinances and to provide
necessary regulations for the establishment, maintenance, operation and
protection of a city airport and airport facilities, and any municipal
transportation or communication system.
COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES:
Section 4.9 (a) The council shall create by ordinance a local officers
compensation commission within twelve months of the adoption of this charter.
The local officers compensation commission shall determine the salaries of
local elected officials pursuant to 1909 PA 279, Section 5(c); MCLA 117.5c; MSA
5.2084(3). Councilmembers shall receive their actual and necessary expenses
incurred in the performance of their duties of office.
Section 4.9 (b) Until changed by the local officers compensation commission,
council members shall be compensated, for their service to the city, the sum of
twenty dollars ($20) per regular or special city council meeting payable semi-
annually. No member shall be compensated for more than six hundred dollars
($600) per fiscal year and then only for actual attendance at meetings. The
Mayor shall receive an additional stipend of two hundred dollars ($200) per
year.
MAYOR:
Section 4.10 At its first meeting following a regular city election, the
council shall elect from among its members officers of the city who shall have
the titles of mayor and deputy mayor, each of whom shall serve until the next
regular election. The mayor shall preside at meetings of the council, shall be
recognized as head of the city government for all ceremonial purposes and by
the governor for purposes of military law but shall have no administrative
duties. The deputy mayor shall act as mayor during the absence or disability of
the mayor.
GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES:
Section 4.11 All legislative powers of the city shall be vested in the council,
except as otherwise provided by law or this charter, and the council shall
provide for the exercise thereof and for the performance of all duties and
obligations imposed on the city by law.
JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS:
Section 4.12 The council shall be the judge of the eligibility of its own
members, subject only to review by the courts.
PROHIBITIONS:
Section 4.13 (a) Holding Other Office. Except where authorized by law, no
council member shall hold any other city office or city employment during the
term for which they were elected to the council, and no former council members
shall hold any compensated appointive city office or employment until one year
after the expiration of the term for which they were elected to the council.
This shall not apply to appointed city boards and commissions or to volunteer
fire fighters.
(b) Appointments and Removals. Neither the council nor any of its members shall
in any manner dictate the appointment or removal of any city administrative
officers or employees who the manager or any of his subordinates are empowered
to appoint, but the council may express its views and fully and freely discuss
with the manager anything pertaining to appointment and removal of such
officers and employees.
(c) Interference with Administration. Except for the purpose of inquiries and
investigations under section 4.19, the council and its members shall deal with
city officers and employees who are subject to the direction and supervision of
the manager solely through the manager, and neither the council nor its members
shall give orders to any such officer or employee, whether publicly or
privately.
(d) Memberships. Other Boards and Commissions. Except where provided elsewhere
in this charter, no more than one council member shall serve on any appointed,
board or commission, and no member of the council shall serve on the Board of
Review.
(e) Parks and Cemeteries. The city council shall not have the power to sell,
divide, lease, partition, plat, subdivide or dispose of any city park or
cemetery, or any part thereof unless specifically approved by a majority of the
electors voting at any general or special election.
VACANCY PROCEDURE:
Section 4.14 (a) Vacancies. The office of a council member shall become vacant
upon their death, resignation or removal from office in any manner authorized
by law. A council member shall forfeit his - her office if he - she (1) lacks
at any time during his -her term of office any qualification for the office
prescribed by this charter or by law, (2) violates any express prohibition of
this charter, (3) is convicted of a felony, (4) is declared to be mentally
incompetent, or (5) fails to attend three consecutive regular meetings of the
council or 25 percent of all regular meetings in any* calendar year without
being excused by the council.
(b) Filling of Vacancies. A vacancy in the council shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term, if any, at the next regular election following
the occurrence of the vacancy, but the council by a majority vote of all its
remaining members shall appoint a qualified person to fill the vacancy until
the vacancy may be filled by election. If the council fails to do so within 30
days following the occurrence of the vacancy, the clerk shall call a special
election to fill the vacancy, to be held not sooner than 90 days and not later
than 120 days following the occurrence of the vacancy and to be otherwise
governed by the provisions of Chapter III.
APPOINTMENT OF CITY MANAGER:
Section 4.15 The city manager shall be appointed by a four - fifths (4-5) vote
of the entire council for an indefinite term. The appointment shall be on the
basis of executive and administrative qualifications. The council shall fix the
city manager’s compensation. It is desirable that the city manager live within
the City of Bronson, but may live within the city telephone exchange as it now
exists.
REMOVAL OF CITY MANAGER:
Section 4.16 (a) The council may, at a regular meeting, adopt by affirmative
vote of four-fifths (4-5) of its members, a resolution to remove the city
manager. The resolution shall include the reason for removal, and a copy shall
be served upon the city manager within 24 hours of the adoption of such
resolution.
(b) The manager shall have the right to request a hearing before the council.
Such a request shall be in writing and shall be made within seven (7) days of
the receipt of such request. Finally, the removal of the city manager shall
become final upon expiration of seven (7) days after service upon the city
manager wherein no request for hearing has been made, upon action by the
council following a hearing as above provided, or upon the expiration of such
time as may be required by the provisions of applicable State law.
(c) The manager shall continue to receive the same salary until the effective
date of removal from office.
APPOINTMENT OF CITY ASSESSOR:
Section 4.17 (a) The council shall appoint and fix the compensation of the city
assessor, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the council, and who need
not be a resident of the city.
(b) The assessor shall possess all the power vested in and shall be charged
with all the duties imposed upon assessing officers by the general laws of the
State or ordinances of the City;
(c) make and prepare all regular and special assessment roles in the manner
prescribed by this charter and the general laws of the State;
(d) shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law, the ordinances
of the city, or by the city manager.
APPOINTMENT OF CITY ATTORNEY:
Section 4.18 (a) The council shall appoint and fix the compensation of the city
attorney, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the council, and who need
not be a resident of the city. The city attorney shall be legal advisor and
counsel for the city and for all the officers and departments thereof in all
matters related to their official duties, and shall file with the city a copy
of all written opinions given by him. He shall prepare or review all
ordinances, regulations, contracts, bonds, and other such instruments as may be
required by this charter, the council, or the city manager, and shall promptly
give his or her opinion as to the legality thereof.
(b) The city attorney shall prosecute ordinance violations and shall represent
the city in cases before the courts and other tribunals. In such instances as
the council shall direct, he or she shall defend officers and employees of the
city in actions arising out of the performance of their official duties.
(c) Upon the recommendation of the attorney, or upon its own initiative, the
council may retain special legal counsel to handle any matter in which the city
has an interest, or to assist in counsel with the attorney therein.
(d) He shall perform such other duties in connection with his or her office as
may be prescribed by law, by this charter, or the council.
INVESTIGATIONS:
Section 4.19 The council may make investigations into the affairs of the city
and the conduct of any city department, office or agency, and for this purpose
may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, take testimony and require the
production of evidence. Any person who fails or refuses to obey a lawful order
issued in the exercise of these powers by the council shall be subject to
appropriate legal action.
PROCEDURES:
Section 4.20 (a) Meetings. The council shall meet regularly at least once a
month at such times and places as the council may prescribe by resolution. If
any regular meeting date as set by council resolution shall be a holiday, then
such regular meeting shall be held on the next following secular day which is
not a holiday or on such other day as may be set by the council. Special
meetings may be called by the clerk upon request of the city manager, the
mayor, or three council members on at least twenty-four (24) hours written
notice to each council member, served personally or left at their place or
residence. Public notice of special meetings stating date, time and place of
meeting shall be posted by the clerk at City Hall at least eighteen (18) hours
before the meeting.
(b) Rules and Journal. The council shall determine its own rules and order of
business and shall keep a journal in the English language of its proceedings.
This journal shall be a public record. After this record is approved by the
council, the clerk shall certify it by his signature. The minutes of the
council shall be posted at City Hall and single copies made available upon
request at no charge within twenty (20) days after the passage thereof. The
council shall have the minutes published either in their entirety, or in digest
form.
(c) Public Meetings. All regular and special meetings of the council shall be
open to the public and the rules or order of the council shall provide that the
citizens shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard at any such meeting on
matters within the jurisdiction of the council.
(d) Voting. Three (3) members of the council shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business at all meetings of the council, but, in the absence of
a quorum, any member may adjourn any regular or special meeting to a later
date. The vote upon the passage of all ordinances, and upon adoption of all
resolutions shall be taken by roll call vote and entered upon the record.
Except as otherwise provided in this charter, no ordinance or resolution shall
be adopted or passed except by the affirmative vote of at least three (3)
members of the council.
RIGHTS AS TO PROPERTY:
Section 4.21 (a) The council shall have the power to acquire for the city by
purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction or otherwise, either within
or without its corporate limits, and either within or without the County of
Branch, private property, for any public use or purpose within the scope of its
power to maintain and operate the same to promote the public health, safety and
welfare.
(b) The city council shall sell real property by resolution: however, if the
value of the property exceeds $10.00 per capita according to the last official
U.S. census, public readings must be made at two meetings of the city council.
Final adoption of the resolution may be made at the meeting wherein the second
public reading of the resolution has been made.
LICENSES:
Section 4.22 The council shall by ordinance prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which licenses may be granted, suspended, or revoked; and may require an
exact payment of such reasonable sums for any licenses as it may deem proper.
PUBLIC PROPERTY:
Section 4.23 Except as limited by State law, or the provisions of this charter,
the council shall have the power to establish, vacate and use, and to control
and regulate the use of public right-of-ways, streets, alleys, and public
places of the city (whether such public places be located within or without the
limits of the city) and the space above and beneath them.
CEMETERIES:
Section 4.24 The council shall establish, operate, maintain and protect
cemeteries, together with the improvements thereon and appurtenances thereto,
owned or hereafter acquired by the city either within or without its corporate
limits. In any cemetery established or owned by the city, a plan, provided by
ordinance, for the perpetual care of all lots, plots, and lands therein shall
be established.
TRUSTS:
Section 4.25 The council may at its discretion receive and hold any property in
trust for parks, cemeteries, or other municipal purposes. Any trust now
existing of benefit to the city of Bronson shall be continued in full and in
accordance with the cy pres doctrine.
ADVISORY COMMITTEES OR BOARD:
Section 4.26 The mayor or city manager with the advice and consent of the city
council may, from time to time, appoint such committees or boards as are deemed
approprite to advise and consult with them, and with appropriate departments,
regarding any municipal activity. Such committees or boards shall be advisory,
serve temporarily and without compensation unless otherwise provided by the
city council.
CHAPTER V
LEGISLATION
LEGISLATIVE POWERS:
Section 5.1 The legislative power of the City of Bronson is vested exclusively
with the city council, except as otherwise provided by law.
FORMS OF LEGISLATION:
Section 5.2 (a) All legislation of the city shall be by ordinance or by
resolution.
(b) A resolution is the official action of the council in the form of a motion
adopted by a majority vote of the council members present.
(c) The power of the council to act by resolution is limited to matters
required or permitted by law, or this charter, and to matters pertaining to the
internal concerns of the city.
(d) The council shall act by ordinance when establishing a rule or regulation
which provides for a penalty, when amending or repealing an ordinance
previously adopted, or when required by law or this charter.
ACTION REQUIRING AN ORDINANCE:
Section 5.3 In addition to other acts required by law or by specific provision
of this charter to be done by ordinance, those acts of the city council shall
be by ordinance which:
(1) Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or abolish any
city department, office or agency.
(2) Provide for a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or regulation for
violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed.
(3) Levy taxes, except as otherwise provided in Chapter VIII with respect to
the property tax levied by adoption of the budget.
(4) Grant, renew or extend a license or franchise.
(6) Authorize the borrowing of money, (subject to the provisions of this
charter).
(7) Convey or lease or authorize the conveyance or lease of any lands of the
city.
(8) Adopt with or without amendment ordinances proposed under the initiative
power; and
(9) Amend or repeal anv ordinance previously adopted, except as otherwise
provided in this Charter with respect to repeal of ordinances reconsidered
under the referendum power.
Acts other than those referred to in the preceding sentence may be done either
by ordinance or by resolution.
ORDINANCES:
Section 5.4 The style of all ordinances shall be “The City of Bronson ordains”.
No ordinance shall be revised, altered or amended by reference to its title
only, but the section or sections of the ordinance revised or altered shall be
published in full, except as otherwise provided in this charter. An ordinance
may be repealed by reference to its number and title only. The effective date
of any ordinance shall be prescribed therein, and shall not be less than ten
(10) days after its adoption and publication unless the council shall, upon
attaching a declaration of emergency affecting the public peace, health and
safety, fix an earlier date. No ordinance shall take effect until after
publication thereof and no measure making or amending a grant, renewal, or
extension of a franchise or other special privilege shall ever be passed as an
emergency measure.
PUBLICATION AND RECORDING OF ORDINANCE:
Section 5.5 All ordinances when enacted shall be recorded by the clerk in a
book called “The Ordinance Book”, and it shall be the duty of the clerk to
authenticate such record by his official signature. Before any ordinance may
become operative it shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation.
CODIFICATION:
Section 5.6 (a) Within three (3) years of the effective date of this charter
and at least ten (10) years thereafter, the council shall provide for the
preparation of a general codification of all city ordinances and resolutions
having the effect of law;
(b) The general codification shall be enacted by ordinance and be known as the
Bronson City Code; copies of the code shall be furnished to city officials,
placed in the city library and at least fifty (50) copies deposited in the
office of the city clerk for free public reference, and made available for
purchase by the public at cost.
(c) After publication of the first Bronson City Code, new ordinances and
resolutions shall be printed annually in a form for integration with code
currently in effect.
TECHNICAL REGULATIONS:
Section 5.7 The council may adopt any detailed technical regular, law, or rules
which have been promulgated and adopted by an authorized agency of the State,
or code which has been promulgated by the State or by a department, board or
other agency of the State, by an organization or association which is organized
and conducted for the purposes of developing the Code, by reference. The Code
shall be clearly identified in the Ordinance, and its purpose shall be
published with the adopting Ordinance. Printed copies involving any such
technical regulation, law, rule or code shall be kept in the Office of the City
Clerk, available for inspection by and distribution to the public at all times.
Publication shall contain a notice stating that a complete copy of the code is
made available to the public at the office of the City Clerk. Any amendments to
or revisions of such technical regulations, laws, rules or codes may be adopted
in the same manner.
PENALTIES:
Section 5.8 The council shall provide in each ordinance for the punishment of
violations thereof, but, unless permitted by law, no such punishment, excluding
the costs charged, shall exceed the maximum fine, or imprisonment, or both,
provided by statute, in the discretion of the Court. Imprisonment for
violations of ordinances may be in the city or county jail.
INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM:
Section 5.9 Any ordinance may be initiated by petition. A referendum on an
enacted ordinance may be had by petition, as hereinafter provided.
PROCEDURE:
Section 5.10 (a) Initiative. The qualified electors of the city shall have
power to propose ordinances to the council. If the council fails to adopt the
proposed ordinances or adopts the proposed ordinance but changes its substance,
the proposed ordinance shall be submitted to the electors for adoption or
rejection at a city election, provided that such power shall not extend to the
annual operating budget or capital program or any ordinance relating to
appropriation of money or levy of taxes.
(b) Referendum. The qualified electors of the city shall have power to require
the council to reconsider any adopted ordinance. If the council fails to repeal
an ordinance so reconsidered, the ordinance shall be submitted to the electors
for approval or rejection at a city election, provided that such power shall
not extend to the annual operating budget or capital programs, any emergency
ordinance relating to the appropriation of money or levy of taxes.
INITIATION:
Section 5.11 Any qualified elector of the city may commence initiative or
referendum proceedings by filing an affidavit with the city clerk stating the
person(s) who will constitute the petitioners committee and will be responsible
for circulating the petition and filing it in proper form. The affidavit shall
state their names and addresses, shall specify the address to which all notices
to the committee are to be sent, and shall set forth in full the proposed
initiative ordinance or cite the ordinance sought to be reconsidered.
PETITIONS:
Section 5.12 (a) Initiative and referendum petitions must be signed by at least
15 percent of the qualified electors of the city.
(b) All papers of a petition shall be uniform in size and style and shall be
executed in ink or indelible pencil, followed by the address of the person
signing and date signed. Throughout their circulation, the petitions shall
contain or have attached the full text of the ordinance proposed or sought to
be reconsidered.
(c) Each paper of a petition shall have attached, when filed, an affidavit
executed by the circulator thereof stating that the circulator personally
circulated the paper, the number of signatures thereon, that all the signatures
were affixed in the circulator’s presence, that the circulator believes them to
be the genuine signatures of the persons whose names they purport to be and
that each signer had an opportunity before signing to read the full text of the
ordinance proposed or sought to be reconsidered.
(d) Referendum petitions must be filed with the city clerk within thirty (30)
days after the council adopts the ordinance sought to be reconsidered.
Initiative petitions must be filed with the city clerk within one hundred
eighty (180) days after filing of the affidavit of the petitioner’s committee.
CERTIFICATION:
Section 5.13 (a) Within twenty (20) days after the petition is filed, the city
clerk shall complete a certificate as to its sufficiency, specifying if it is
insufficient, the particulars wherein it is defective and shall promptly send a
copy of the certificate to the petitioner’s committee by certified mail. A
petition certified insufficient for lack of the required number of signatures
may be amended once if the petitioner’s committee files a notice of intention
to amend the petition with the city clerk within two (2) days after receiving
the copy of the city clerk certificate, excluding weekends and holidays. The
amended petition shall comply with the requirements of subsections (b) and (c)
of Section 5.12 within five (5) days after it is filed, excluding weekends and
holidays, the city clerk shall complete a certificate as to the sufficiency of
the petition, as amended, and promptly send a copy of the certificate to the
petitioner’s committee by certified mail. If a petition or amended petition is
certified sufficient, or if a petition or amended petition is certified
insufficient and the petitioner’s committee does not elect to amend or request
council review under subsection (b) of this Section within the time required,
the city clerk shall promptly present the certificate to the council and the
certificate shall then be a final determination as to the sufficiency of the
petition.
(b) The signer of a petition shall sign his name, his place of residence by
street and number, and the date of signature. To each petition paper there
shall be attached a sworn affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the
number of signers thereof and that each signature thereon is the genuine
signature of the person whose name it purports to be, and that it was made in
the presence of the affiant. Such petition shall be filed with the clerk who
shall, within fifteen (15) days, verify the signatures thereon. If the petition
does not contain a sufficient number of registered electors of the city, the
clerk shall notify forthwith, by certified mail, the person filing such
petition, and fifteen (15) days from such notification shall be allowed for
filing of supplemental petition papers. When a petition with sufficient
signatures is filed as required and allowed by this section, the clerk shall
present the petition to the council at the next regular meeting.
CITY COUNCIL PROCEDURE ON INITIATORY AND REFERENDARY PETITIONS:
Section 5.14 Upon receiving a certified initiatory or referendary petition from
the clerk, the council shall within thirty (30) days, unless otherwise provided
by statute, either
(a) Adopt the ordinance as submitted by the initiatory petition.
(b) Repeal the ordinance or part thereof referred to by a referendary petition.
(c) Determine to submit the proposal provided for in the petition to the
electors.
The result shall be determined by a majority vote of electors voting thereon,
except in cases where otherwise required by law or this charter.
SUBMISSION TO ELECTORS:
Section 5.15 Should the council decide to submit the proposal to the electors,
it shall be submitted at the next election held in the city for any other
purpose, or at the discretion of the council at a special election called for
that specific purpose.
GENERAL PROVISIONS:
Section 5.16 Presentation to the council by the clerk of a valid referendary
petition shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance in question
pending repeal by the council or final determination by the electors.
An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory proceedings may not
be amended or repealed by the council for a period of two (2) years after the
date of the election at which it was adopted, and then by the affirmative vote
of not less than a majority of the council. Should two (2) or more ordinances
adopted at the same election have conflicting provisions the one receiving the
highest vote shall prevail.
CHAPTER VI
CITY ADMINISTRATION
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS:
Section 6.1 (a) The administrative officers of the city shall be the city
manager, city clerk, city treasurer, and such additional administrative
officers as may be created by ordinance. The duties of one or more of the
administrative officers of the city may be performed by one person when
determined by the council for an indefinite period, shall be responsible to and
serve at the pleasure of the council, and shall have compensation fixed by the
council.
(b) All administrative employees of the city, except the city manager, city
clerk, and city treasurer, shall be appointed by the city manager for
indefinite term of office, subject to the confirmation of the council. Such
employees compensation shall be fixed by the city manager in accordance with
budget appropriations and subject to approval by the council.
(c) All personnel employed by the city who are not elected officers of the
city, or declared to be administrative officers, or under the authority of this
charter, shall be deemed to be employees of the city. The head of each
department shall have the authority to hire and discharge the employees of that
department upon the advice and consent of the city manager, subject to the
provisions of any merit or civil service system.
CITY MANAGER:
Section 6.2 (a) The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of
the city government. He or she shall be selected by the council on the basis of
training and ability. The city manager shall serve for an indefinite period and
at the pleasure of and be subject to removal by the council, pursuant to
section 4.16 of this charter. Compensation shall be fixed by the council.
(b) The council shall appoint the city manager within ninety (90) days after
any vacancy exists in such position and they may appoint an acting manager
during the period of vacancy in the office. The city manager, with the consent
and approval of the council, may designate an administrative officer or
employee of the city to act as city manager if he or she is temporarily absent
from the city or unable to perform the duties of the office. No person who
holds or has held elective office in the city of Bronson shall be eligible for
appointment as city manager or acting city, manager during a vacancy in that
office until two (2) years have elapsed following the expiration of the term
for which this person was elected.
CITY MANAGER -- FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES:
Section 6.3 (a) The city manager shall be responsible to the council for the
proper administration of the affairs of the city. It shall be the manager’s
responsibility to recommend appointments and removals of administrative
personnel, subject to the confirmation of the council. The manager shall
establish administrative personnel and employees’ compensation in accordance
with budget appropriations. He or she shall supervise and coordinate the work
of the administrative employees and departments of the city, except the work of
the city clerk in keeping the council records and as clerical official of the
council. The city manager shall have council approval before retaining for
compensation any firm or individual(s).
(b) The city manager shall see that all laws and ordinances are enforced. The
manager shall prepare and administer the annual budget under the policies
formulated by the council and shall keep the council advised as to the
financial condition and the needs of the city. The manager shall furnish the
council with information concerning city affairs and prepare such reports as
may be required, or which the council may request, including an annual report
encompassing the activities of the several departments. The city manager shall
be responsible for the supervision and coordination of personnel policies and
practices of the city. The city manager shall be responsible, subject to
council approval, for the creation and maintenance of an employee manual, He or
she shall establish and maintain a central purchasing service for the city, and
he or she or an authorized reresentative shall be the purchasing agent for the
city.
(c) The city manager shall attend all meetings of the council, with the right
to be heard in all council proceedings but without the right to vote. He or she
shall possess such other responsibilities and perform such additional duties as
may be granted to or be required by the council, so far as may be consistent
with the provision of law. He or she shall establish any rules necessary to
carry out any or the foregoing duties.
CITY CLERK:
Section 6.4 (a) The City Clerk shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
(b) The clerk shall be the clerical officer of the council and shall keep its
journal. The clerk shall keep a record of all action of the council at its
regular and special meetings. The clerk shall certify all ordinances and
resolutions adopted by the council;
(c) have power to administer all oaths required by law, this charter or the
ordinances of the city;
(d) be custodian of the city seal, and shall affix it to all documents and
instruments requiring the seal, attest the same, and shall also be custodian of
all papers, documents, and records pertaining to the City of Bronson, the
custody of which is not otherwise provided for by this charter and shall attest
the same whenever required to do so;
(e) give the proper officials of the city ample notice of the expiration or
termination of any official bonds, franchises, contracts or agreements;
(f) perform such other duties as may be prescribed in the capacity of clerk of
the city, by law or this charter.
(g) the council shall appoint a city clerk within forty-five (45) days after
any vacancy exists in such position and they, may appoint an acting city clerk
during the period of vacancy in the office.
DEPUTY - CLERK:
Section 6.5 The clerk may appoint a deputy subject to the written confirmation
by the city, manager. The clerk may terminate the status of the deputy upon
written notice to the city manager. The deputy clerk shall have the authority
to assume the duties of the clerk in the clerk’s absence.
CITY TREASURER:
Section 6.6 (a) The city treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
(b) The city treasurer shall be the general accountant of the city and shall
keep the books of account of the assets, receipts and expenditures of the city
except as otherwise provided by state law or by this charter; the system of
accounts of the city shall conform to such uniform system as may be required by
law;
(c) examine and audit all accounts and claims against the city;
(d) have the custody of all moneys of the city, and all evidences of value
belonging to the city, or held in trust by the city;
(e) receive all moneys belonging to and receivable by the city;
(f) keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such manner and only in such places
as the council may determine and report the same to the city manager, and to
the council;
(g) have such powers, duties and prerogatives in regard to the collection and
custody of State, County, School District and City taxes upon real and personal
property;
(h) perform such other duties as may be prescribed in the capacity of treasurer
of the city, by law or this charter.
(i) the council shall appoint the city treasurer within forty-five (45) days
after any vacancy exists in such position and they may appoint an acting city
treasurer during the period of vacancy in the office.
ADDITIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE POWERS, DUTIES, AND RESTRICTIONS:
Section 6.7 (a) The council shall by ordinance establish departments of city
government and determine and prescribe the functions and duties of each
department. The council may by ordinance prescribe additional powers and duties
and diminish any powers and duties in a manner not inconsistent with the
charter, to be exercised and administered by appropriate officials in
departments of the city.
(b) Anti-nepotism. Unless the council shall determine by unanimous vote, which
vote shall be recorded as part of its official proceedings, that the best
interests of the city shall be served, the following relatives of any elected
or appointed officer are disqualified from holding any appointive office or
employment during the term for which said elective or appointive officer is
elected or appointed: spouse, child, parents, grandchild, grandparents,
brother, sister, half-sister, half-brother, or the spouses of any of them. All
relationships shall include those arising from adoption. This section shall in
no way disqualify such relatives or their spouses who are bonafied appointive
officers or employees of the city at the time of the election or appointment of
said official.
CITY PLANNING:
Section 6.8 The council shall provide for and maintain a city planning
commission, which shall possess all powers and perform the functions of
planning commissions as set forth by statute. The members of the planning
commission shall be appointed by the mayor subject to the confirmation of the
council. The members of the commission shall serve without compensation, except
for necessary expenses in connection with their work.
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS:
Section 6.9 The council shall serve as the Zoning Board of Appeals, and shall
possess all powers and perform all functions as set forth by statute. Council
members shall receive no additional compensation for their work as the Zoning
Board of Appeals, except for necessary expenses in connection with their work.
PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM:
Section 6.10 The council shall provide by ordinance a merit system of personnel
management for the city, including a position classification and pay plan,
which shall be part of the administrative code.
COMPENSATION AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS:
Section 6.11 The council shall have the power to make available to the
administrative officers and employees of the city and its departments, an
annually funded pension plan by ordinance, and any recognized group plan of
life, hospital, health, or accident and income protection service, or any one
or more thereof.
CHAPTER VII
GENERAL FINANCE
FISCAL YEAR:
Section 7.1 The fiscal year of the city shall begin on July 1 of each year.
BUDGET PROCEDURE:
Section 7.2 On or before the second Monday in March of each year, each officer,
department and board of the city shall submit to the city, manager an itemized
estimate of its expected income, if any, and expenditures for the fiscal year,
for the department or activities under its control. The city manager shall
compile and review such budget requests and shall then prepare his budgetary
recommendations and submit them to the city council at its meeting nearest to
the first Monday in May of each year.
BUDGET DOCUMENT:
Section 7.3 The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the
ensuing year and provide for a uniform chart of accounts and reports as
required by statute. It shall include at least the following information:
(a) The budget shall contain all of the required information and limitations as
stated in 1968 PA 2, section 15, as amended by 1978 PA 621, section 15; MCLA
141.435; MSA 5.3228 (35).
BUDGET HEARING:
Section 7.4 Before its final adoption, a public hearing on the budget proposal
shall be held as provided by law. Notice of the time and place of holding such
hearings shall be published in a newspaper having general circulation in the
city at least one (1) week in advance thereof. A copy of the proposed budget
shall be on file and available to the public during office hours at the office
of the clerk for a period not less than one (1) week prior to such public
hearing.
ADOPTION OF THE BUDGET:
Section 7.5 The council shall, not later than the regular meeting in May adopt
by resolution a budget for the ensuing fiscal year and make appropriations
therefor. After consideration of probable other revenues, the council shall
determine and declare the amount of money necessary to be raised by property
taxation, which amount shall not be greater than otherwise limited in this
charter or by law.
TRANSFER OF APPROPRIATIONS:
Section 7.6 After the budget has been adopted, no money shall be drawn from the
treasury of the city, nor shall any obligation for the expenditure of the money
be incurred except pursuant to the budget appropriation. The council may
transfer any unencumbered appropriation, balance or any portion thereof from
one department, fund, or agency to another. The balance in any appropriation
which has not been encumbered at the end of the fiscal year may be
reappropriated during the next fiscal year as determined by council. At the
beginning of each fiscal year, the council shall authorize the city manager to
transfer or expend from unencumbered funds an amount for individual
expenditures as the need arises.
BUDGET CONTROL:
Section 7.7 The city manager shall submit to the council quarterly financial
reports showing the relationship between the estimated and actual income and
expenses to date, and if it shall appear that the income is less than
anticipated, the council may reduce appropriations, except amounts required for
debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep
expenditures within the cash income. If the revenues exceed the amounts
estimated in the budget, the council may make supplemental appropriations.
Expenditures shall not be charged directly to the contingency account, except
in those cases where there is no other logical account to which expenditures
can be charged; instead, a necessary part of the appropriation from the
contingency account shall be transferred to the logical account, and
expenditure charged to such account.
(Ord. 182, § 3, passed 2-13-2012)
DEPOSITORY:
Section 7.8 The council shall designate the depository or depositories for city
funds and shall provide for the regular deposit of all city monies.
INVESTMENTS:
Section 7.9 Idle monies may be invested in obligations issued by the city and
obligations of the United States or any state thereof, in other municipal bonds
or other highly rated securities, or investments as the council may determine
in accordance with statute.
INDEPENDENT AUDIT:
Section 7.10 An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the city
government annually, and. more frequently if deemed necessary by the council.
Such audit shall be made by qualified accountants experienced in municipal
accounting. The results of such audit shall be made public in such manner as
the council may determine. An annual report of the city business shall be made
available to the public in such form as will disclose pertinent facts
concerning the activities and finance of the city government.
CHAPTER VIII
TAXATION
POWER TO TAX:
Section 8.1 The city shall have power to assess, levy and collect taxes, rents,
tolls, and excises. The subject of ad valorem taxation shall be the same as for
state, county, and school purposes under general law. Except as otherwise
provided by this charter, city taxes and special assessments shall be levied,
collected and returned in the manner provided by statute.
TAX LIMITS:
Section 8.2 Exclusive of any levy for the payment of principal of and interest
on outstanding general obligation bonds, and exclusive of any other levies
authorized by law to be made beyond charter tax rate limitations, the levy of
ad valorem taxes for general municipal purposes shall not exceed two percent (2
percent) on the assessed value of all real and personal property in the city.
EXEMPTIONS:
Section 8.3 No exemptions from taxation shall be allowed, except as expressly
required or permitted by law.
TAX DAY:
Section 8.4 Subject to the exceptions provided or permitted by statute, the
taxable status of persons and property shall be determined as of December 31,
or such other day as may subsequently be required by law, which shall be deemed
“Tax Day”.
ASSESSMENT ROLL:
Section 8.5 (a) On or before the first Monday in March of each year, the
assessor shall, in accordance with the state law, make and certify an
assessment roll of all persons and property in the city liable to taxation.
(b) At least 10 days prior to the first meeting of the Board of Review, the
assessor shall, by first class mail, give notice of any increase over the
previous year in the assessed value of any property, or of the addition of any
property to the roll to the owner as shown by such assessment roll. Notice by
first class mail to the last known address shall be sufficient. Certification
of this mailing by the city treasurer shall be maintained in the city office
(s).
BOARD OF REVIEW:
Section 8.6 (a) The board of review shall consist of three (3) qualified
electors who shall be property taxpayers in the city, but not city officers or
employees. The assessor is to be the clerk of the board of review and non-
voting. The board shall be entitled to such remuneration as shall be fixed by
the council.
(b) The council shall appoint the first such board of review under the
provisions of this charter. Board members shall be appointed for one, two and
three year terms. The council shall appoint a new member for a three (3) year
term at the first regular council meeting in December of each succeeding year,
the appointment to become effective on the first day of the ensuing year.
DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW:
Section 8.7 For the purpose of revising and correcting assessments, the board
of review shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as
are conferred by law and required of boards of review in townships, except as
otherwise provided by this charter. It shall hear the complaints of all persons
considering themselves aggrieved by assessments, and if it shall appear that
any person or property has been wrongfully assessed or omitted from the roll,
the board shall correct the roll in such manner as it deems just. In all cases,
the roll shall be reviewed according to the facts existing on the tax day and
no change in the status of any property after that day shall be considered by
the board in making its decision. Except as otherwise provided by law, no
person, other than the board of review, shall make or authorize any change upon
or addition or correction to the assessment roll. It shall be the duty of the
assessor to keep a permanent record of all the proceedings of the board and to
enter therein all resolutions and decisions of the board. Such proceedings
shall be filed in the office of the clerk.
NOTICE OF MEETINGS, BOARD OF REVIEW:
Section 8.8 Notice of the time and the sessions of the board of review shall be
published by the city clerk at least ten (10) days prior to the first Monday in
March of each year.
(Ord. 182, § 3, passed 2-13-2012)
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW:
Section 8.9 The board of review shall first convene during the week of the
first Tuesday following the first Monday in March of each year to review and
correct the assessment roll. The second meeting of the Board of Review shall be
during the week of the second Monday in March and the board shall remain in
session for not less than two (2) days. It shall choose its own chairman and a
majority of its members shall constitute a quorum. On or before the first
Monday in April, the board of review shall endorse the assessment roll as
provided hereafter.
CERTIFICATION OF ROLL:
Section 8.10 After the board of review has completed its review of the
assessment roll, and not later than the first Monday in April, the majority of
its members shall endorse thereon and sign a statement to the effect that the
same is the assessment roll for the city for the year in which it has been
prepared.
CLERK TO CERTIFY TAX LEVY:
Section 8.11 Within three (3) days after the council has adopted the budget for
the ensuing year, the clerk shall certify to the assessor the total amount
which the council determines shall be raised by the general ad valorem tax. The
clerk shall also certify all amounts of current or delinquent special
assessments, levies and all other amounts which the council requires or orders
to be assessed, reassessed, or levied upon said roll against any property or
any person, in accordance with the provisions of this charter or ordinances of
the city.
CITY TAX ROLL.
Section 8.12 After the board of review has completed its review of the
assessment roll, the assessor shall prepare a copy of the assessment roll to be
known as the “City Tax Roll”. Upon receiving the certification of the several
amounts to be raised, as provided for in Section 8.11, the assessor shall
spread upon said tax roll the several amounts determined by the council to be
levied, assessed, or reassessed against persons or properties. He shall also
spread thereon the amounts of the general ad valorem city tax according to and
in proportion to the several evaluations set forth in said assessment roll. To
avoid fractions in computation of any tax roll, the assessor may add to the
amount of the several taxes to be raised not more than the amount prescribed by
law. Any excess created thereby on any tax roll shall belong to the city.
TAX ROLL CERTIFIED FOR COLLECTION:
Section 8.13 After spreading the taxes, the assessor shall certify the tax roll
and shall annex his warrant thereto, directing and requiring the treasurer to
collect, prior to March 1 of the following year, from the several persons named
in said roll, the several sums mentioned therein opposite their respective
names as a tax, levy or assessment, and granting to him, for the purpose of
collecting the taxes, levies and assessments of such roll, all the statutory
powers and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the collection of
taxes, levies and special assessments.
TAX LIEN:
Section 8.14 On July 1 of each year, the taxes and special assessments thus
assessed shall become a debt due to the city from persons to who assessed. The
taxes and all interest and levies thereon and all personal taxes shall become a
first lien on all personal property of such persons so assessed. Such lien
shall take precedence over all other claims, encumbrances, and liens to the
extent provided by law, and shall continue until such taxes, interests, and
administration fees are paid.
TAXES DUE NOTIFICATION THEREOF:
Section 8.15 City taxes and special assessments shall be due on July 1 of each
year. The treasurer shall publish between June 15 and July 1 notice of the time
when said taxes and special assessments will be due for collection and of the
penalties and fees for the late payment thereof, and mail a tax bill to each
person named in said roll. Failure on the part of the treasurer to publish said
notice or mail such bills shall not invalidate such taxes on said tax roll, nor
release the person or property assessed from the penalties and fees provided in
this chapter in the case of late or nonpayment of same.
COLLECTION FEES AND INTEREST:
Section 8.16 No penalty shall be charged for city taxes and special assessments
paid on or before September 14, After September 14 a tax administration fee of
four percent (4 percent) shall be added to City taxes and special assessments
paid after that date. Should September 14 fall on a Saturday, Sunday, or
holiday, the next business day for the city shall be considered the last day
for payment without penalty. Taxes and special assessments remaining unpaid
after September 14 shall be subject to interest of one percent (1 percent) per
calender month or any part of a calender month added until paid. Such charges
belong to the city and constitute a charge, and shall be a lien against the
property to which the taxes and special assessment apply, collectible in the
same manner as taxes to which they are added. If summer school taxes are
collected by the city, collection shall be in accordance with the provisions of
public acts 1982 - No. 333 as amended.
COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES:
Section 8.17 All city taxes and special assessments on real property remaining
uncollected by the treasurer on March 1, or such date established by statute,
following the date when said roll was received by him, shall be returned to the
county treasurer in the same manner and with like effect as returned by
township treasurers of township, school, and county taxes. Such return shall be
made upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the treasurer, and shall
include all the additional charges and assessments hereinbefore provided. Such
charges shall be added to the amount assessed in said tax roll against such
description. City taxes and special assessments thus returned shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to the county treasurer,
in accordance with the provisions of the general laws of the state, and shall
remain a lien upon the property against which they are assessed until paid.
FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO PAY PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX:
Section 8.18 If any person, firm or corporation shall neglect or refuse to pay
any personal property tax assessed to him or them, the treasurer or his legal
representative shall collect the same and may seize the personal properties of
such person, firm or corporation, to an amount sufficient to pay such tax,
fees, levies and interest for subsequent sale, wherever the same may be found
in the state, and from which seizure no property shall be exempt. The property
so seized may be sold to an amount sufficient to pay the taxes and all charges,
in accordance with statutory provisions. The treasurer, or his legal
representative, may if otherwise unable to collect a tax on personal property,
sue the person, firm or corporation to whom it is assessed, in accordance with
the statute.
STATE, COUNTY, AND SCHOOL TAXES:
Section 8.19 The levy, collection and return of state, county, and school taxes
shall be in conformity with the general laws of the state.
CHAPTER IX
BORROWING AUTHORITY
MUNICIPAL BORROWING POWER:
Section 9.1 Within the limits of, and subject to the applicable provisions of
the state law and this charter, the council, by proper ordinance or resolution,
may authorize the borrowing of money for any purpose within the scope of the
powers vested in the city and the issuance of bonds of the city or other
evidences of indebtedness therefor, and may pledge the full faith, credit, and
resources of the city for the payment of the obligation created thereby. The
city shall also have power to issue special assessment, mortgage, revenue, or
other types of bonds, beyond the debt limits fixed by law for the issuance of
bonds or other evidences of indebtedness which are a general obligation of the
city, in the manner and for the purpose permitted by this charter, the
Constitution, and general laws of the State of Michigan. All collections on
special assessment rolls shall be set apart in a special fund for the payment
of principal and interest of any bonds issued in anticipation of the payment of
such special assessments, and shall be used for no other purpose until such
principal and interest shall have been paid or an amount accumulated in said
fund which shall be sufficient to pay such principal and interest as the same
shall fall due. No issued or unissued bonds to secure funds for any purpose
other than that for which they were specifically authorized.
PREPARATION AND RECORD OF BONDS:
Section 9.2 All bonds or other evidences of indebtedness issued by the city
shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned by the clerk under the seal of
the city. Interest coupons may be executed with the facsimile signature of the
mayor and clerk. A complete and detailed record of all bonds and other
evidences of indebtedness issued by the city shall be kept by the clerk or
other designated officer. On the payment of any bond or other evidence of
indebtedness the same shall be cancelled.
DEFERRED PAYMENT CONTRACTS:
Section 9.3 The city may enter into installment contracts for the purchase of
property or capital equipment. Each such contract shall not extend over a
period greater than that permitted by law. The total amounts of principal
payable under all such contracts shall not exceed a sum permitted by law. All
such deferred payments shall be included in the budget for the year in which
installment is payable.
CHAPTER X
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
GENERAL POWERS RELATIVE TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
Section 10.1 The council shall have the power to provide for assessing and
reassessing the costs, or any portion thereof, of public improvement to a
special assessment district and to determine, by resolution, with or without a
petition that the whole or any part of the expense of any public improvement be
defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially benefited in
proportion to the benefits derived or to be derived.
The council may, in the exercise of its powers of financing the whole or a part
of the cost of public improvements, make special assessments upon districts
benefited thereby.
DETAILED PROCEDURE TO BE FIXED BY ORDINANCE:
Section 10.2 (a) The council shall prescribe, by ordinance, the complete
special assessment procedure governing the initiation of projects, preparation
of plans and cost estimates, creation of districts, making and confirming of
assessment rolls, correction of errors in special assessment rolls, the number
of installments in which special assessments may be paid, collection of
assessments, refunds of excess moneys, and any other matters concerning the
making and financing of improvements by the special assessment method.
(b) Such ordinance shall be subject to the following provisions.
(1) No resolution finally determining to proceed with establishing any special
assessment district for the making of any public improvement shall be adopted
by the council, until cost estimates have been prepared and a public hearing
has been held on the advisability of so proceeding.
(2) No special assessment roll shall be finally confirmed, until after a
meeting of the council has been held for the purpose of reviewing such roll.
(3) Ten days notice of each meeting of the council for a public hearing on the
advisability of proceeding with any public improvement and to review any
special assessment roll shall be given prior to the date and time of such
meeting, which notice shall be published and sent to all property owners in the
proposed district, as shown by the current assessment roll of the city, by
first class mail.
(4) If, prior to the public hearing on the advisability of proceeding with the
making of the improvement, written objections to the proposed improvement have
been filed by the owners of property in the district which will be required to
bear more than fifty percent (50 percent) of the amount of such special
assessment, the resolution determining to proceed with the improvement shall be
adopted only by the affirmative vote of four or more members of the council.
ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS: CORRECTION OF INVALID SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
Section 10.3 (a) Additional pro rata assessments to defray the cost of any
public improvement may be made when any special assessment roll and - or the
proceeds of sale of special assessment bonds issued in anticipation thereof
proves insufficient to pay for the improvement for which it was levied and the
expenses incidental thereto, or to pay the principal and interest on bonds or
other evidence of obligation issued therefor; provided, that the additional pro
rata assessment shall not exceed fifteen percent (15 percent) of the assessment
as originally confirmed, unless a meeting of the council be held to review such
additional assessment, for which meeting notices shall be published and mailed
as provided in the case of the review of the original special assessment roll.
(b) Whenever any special assessment shall be invalid, or if any court of
competent jurisdiction shall adjudge such an assessment to be illegal, the
council shall have the power to cause a new assessment to be made for the same
purpose for which the former assessment was made, and to direct that the same
be levied accordingly. All proceedings on such reassessment and for the
collection thereof shall be conducted in the same manner as provided for the
original assessment, except respecting the correction of the proceedings for
the purpose of making the proceedings legal. Whenever any sum or part thereof
levied upon any property in the assessment so set aside has been paid and not
refunded, the payment so made shall be applied upon the reassessment or, if the
payments exceed the amount of the reassessment, refunds shall be made.
(c) No judgement or decree nor any act of the Council vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the City upon the premises
assessed for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged against
the same or as by regular mode of proceedings might have been lawfully assessed
thereupon.
DISPOSITION OF EXCESS SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
Section 10.4 The excess by which any special assessment proves larger than the
actual cost of the improvement and expenses incidental thereto may be placed in
the general fund of the City if such excess is five percent (5 percent) or less
of the assessment. If the assessment should prove larger than necessary by more
than five percent (5 percent), the entire excess shall be refunded on a pro
rata basis to the owners of the property assessed as shown by the current
assessment roll of the City. Such refund shall be made by credit against future
unpaid installments to the extent such installments then exist the balance of
such refund shall be in cash. No refunds may be made which contravene the
provisions of any outstanding evidence of indebtedness secured in whole or part
by such special assessment.
(Ord. 182, § 3, passed 2-13-2012)
CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS: LIMITATIONS ON SUITS AND ACTIONS:
Section 10.5 No suit or action of any kind shall be instituted or maintained
for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any special
assessment; (a) unless, within thirty days after the confirmation of the
special assessment roll, written notice is given to the Council of intention to
file such suit or action stating the grounds on which it is claimed such
assessment is illegal; and (b) unless such suit or action shall be commenced
within sixty days after confirmation of the roll.
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS:
Section 10.6 Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, moneys raised by
special assessment for any public improvement shall be credited to a special
account and shall be used to pay for the costs of the improvement for which the
assessment has levied and expenses incidental thereto and to repay any money
borrowed therefor.
FAILURE TO RECEIVE NOTICE:
Section 10.7 Failure to receive any notice required to be sent by this charter
or by ordinance shall not invalidate any special assessment or special
assessment roll. Notice by first class mail shall be presumed to be effective
service.
DEFERRED PAYMENT OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS:
Section 10.8 The council may provide for the deferred payment of special
assessments from persons who, in the opinion of the Council and Assessor, by
reason of property, are unable to contribute toward the cost thereof. In all
such cases, as a condition to the granting of such deferred payments, the City
shall require mortgage security on the real property of the beneficiary,
payable upon his death.
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AS A LIEN ON PROPERTY:
Section 10.9 Upon confirmation of each special assessment roll, the special
assessment thereon shall become a debt to the City from the owners of the
premises against which assessments are made and, until paid, shall be a lien
upon the property assessed for the amount of such assessments and all interest
and charges thereon. Such lien shall be of the same character and effect as
created by this Charter for City taxes.
The council may provide by ordinance for fees, penalties or interest for last
payments or nonpayment of special assessments, which fees, penalties and
interest shall be a lien and shall be collected as are penalties charged on
city taxes. The council may provide that delinquent special assessments be
placed upon the tax roll, together with any accrued fees, penalties and
interest thereon to be collected in all respects as are city taxes or may make
such other provision for the enforcement of the lien created by such special
assessment.
(Ord. 182, § 3, passed 2-13-2012)
HAZARDS AND NUISANCES:
Section 10.10 When any lot, building, or structure within the City, because of
age or dilapidation, the accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontolled
growing of noxious weeds, or because of any other condition or happening
becomes, in the opinion of the Council, a public hazard or nuisance which is
dangerous to the health, safety, or welfare of the inhabitants of the City, or
of those residing or habitually going near such lot, building, or structure,
the Council shall after investigation, give notice to the owner or owners of
the land upon which such nuisance exists, to the owner or occupant of the
building or structure itself, by posting notice upon the premises, by
publication, by personal service, or by registered or certified mail addressed
to the address set forth in the current assessment roll of the City, or the
records of the Assessor specifying the nature of the nuisance and requiring
such owner or occupant to alter, repair, tear down, abate, or remove the
nuisance within a time to be specified by the Council which shall be
commensurate with the nature of the nuisance. If, at the expiration of the time
limit in said notice, the owner has not complied with the requirements thereof,
or in any case where the owner of the land or of the building or structure
itself is not known or cannot be found, the Council may order such hazard or
nuisance abated by the proper department or agency of the City which is
qualified to do the work required, or may do the work by contract or by hire,
and the cost of such abatement may be assessed against the lot, premises, or
description of real property upon which such hazard or nuisance is located, by
special assessment.
CHAPTER XI
UTILITIES
GENERAL POWERS RESPECTING UTILITIES:
Section 11.1 The city shall possess, and hereby reserves to itself, all the
powers granted to cities by law to acquire, construct, own, operate, improve,
enlarge, extend, repair and maintain, either within or without its corporate
limits, including but not by way of limitation, public utilities for supplying
water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage treatment, transportation, and garbage
and refuse disposal facilities, and also to sell and deliver these and other
utility services within or without its corporate limits, as authorized by law.
CONTROL OF UTILITIES:
Section 11.2 The council may enact such ordinances and adopt such resolutions
as may be necessary for the care, protection, preservation, control, and
operation of any public utilities which the city may, in any manner, acquire,
own, or operate, and all fixtures, appurtenances, apparatus, buildings, and
machinery connected therewith or belonging thereto, and to carry into effect
the powers conferred upon the city by the provisions of this charter and by
statute.
MANAGEMENT OF UTILITIES:
Section 11.3 All municipally owned or operated utilities shall be administered
as a regular department of the city government under the management and
supervision of the city manager.
RATES AND CHARGES:
Section 11.4 The city council shall have the power to fix, by ordinance, from
time to time, such just and equitable rates and charges as may be deemed
advisable for supplying the inhabitants of the city and others with such
utilities and services as the city may acquire or provide.
UTILITY CHARGES - COLLECTION:
Section 11.5 The council shall provide by ordinance for the collection of all
public utility charges made by the city, and for such purpose shall have all
the powers granted to cities by this charter, any city ordinance or state
statute.
ACCOUNTS:
Section 11.6 Separate accounts shall be kept for each public utility owned or
operated by the city, distinct from other city accounts, and in such manner, as
to show true and complete financial result of such city ownership or operation,
or both, including all assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. These
accounts shall show the actual cost to the city of each public utility, the
cost of all extensions, additions and improvements, all expenses of
maintenance, the amount set aside for sinking fund purposes, and all operating
expenses. They shall show, as nearly as possible, the value of any service
furnished to or rendered by any such public utility by or to any other city
department. They shall also show a proper allowance for depreciation and
insurance. The council shall annually cause to be made, and printed for public
distribution, a report showing the financial results for such city ownership or
operation, or both, which report shall give for each utility the information
specified in this section, and such further information as the council shall
deem necessary.
DISPOSAL OF PLANTS AND PROPERTY:
Section 11.7 The city shall not sell, exchange, lease, or in any way dispose of
the property, easements, income, or other equipment, privileges or assets
belonging to and appertaining to any utility which it may acquire, unless and
except the proposition for such purpose shall have been submitted, at a special
election held for such purpose in the manner provided for in this charter, to
the qualified voters of the city and approved by them by majority vote of the
electors voting thereon. All contracts, negotiations, grants, leases, or other
forms of transfer in violation of this provision shall be void and have no
effect against the city. The provisions of this section shall not, however,
apply to the sale or exchange of any article or equipment of any city-owned
utility as are worn out or useless, or which could, with advantage to the
service, be replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment.
CHAPTER XII
BIDS, CONTRACTS, PURCHASES, FRANCHISES, AND PERMITS
CONTRACTING AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL:
Section 12.1 The power to authorize the making of contracts on behalf of the
city is vested in the council, and shall be exercised in accordance with the
provisions of the law. All contracts, except as otherwise provided by ordinance
in accordance with the provisions of this charter, shall be authorized by the
council, and shall be signed on behalf of the city by the mayor and the clerk.
PURCHASE AND SALE OF PROPERTY:
Section 12.2 The council shall establish by ordinance the procedures for the
purchases or sale of personal property for the city for the direction of the
city manager. At the beginning of each fiscal year, the council shall establish
by resolution a dollar limit within which purchases of property may be made
without the necessity of securing competitive bids, and the dollar limit within
which the purchases may be made without the necessity of prior council
approval. No purchases of personal property shall be made unless a sufficient,
unencumbered appropriation balance is available therefor.
LIMITATIONS ON CONTRACTURAL POWER:
Section 12.3 (a) The council shall only have power to enter into contracts
which, by the terms thereof, will be fully executed within a period of ten (10)
years, unless such contract shall first receive the approval of the majority of
the qualified electors voting thereon at a regular or special election. This
qualification shall not apply to any contract for services with a public
utility, or one or more other governmental units, nor to contracts for debt
secured by bonds or notes which are permitted to be issued by the city by law.
(b) Except as provided by ordinance authorized in this charter, each contract
for construction of public improvements, or for the purchase or sale of
personal property, shall be let after opportunity for competitive bidding.
(c) All bids shall be opened and read aloud in public by the city manager or an
authorized representative at the time designated in the notice of letting, and
shall be reported by him to the council at its next regular meeting. The
council may reject any or all bids if deemed advisable. If, after ample
opportunity for competitive bidding, no bids are received, or such bids as are
received are not satisfactory to the council, the council may either endeavor
to obtain new competitive bids or authorize the city manager, or other proper
officials of the city, to negotiate or contract on the open market. No contract
shall be made with any person, firm or corporation in default to the city.
FRANCHISES:
Section 12.4 (a) No franchise ordinance, which is not revocable at the will of
the council, shall be granted or become operative until same shall have been
referred to the people at a regular or special election and has received the
approval by three-fifths (3-5) of the electors voting thereon at such election
or as required by statute.
(b) All irrevocable public utility franchises, and all renewals, extensions and
amendments thereof, shall be granted only by ordinance. No such ordinance shall
be adopted before thirty (30) days after application therefor has been filed
with the council, nor until a full public hearing has been held thereon. No
such ordinance shall become effective until it has been submitted to the
electors and has been approved by a majority of the electors voting thereon. No
such ordinance shall be submitted to the electors at a general election to be
held less than sixty (60) days after the grantee named therein has filed its
unconditional acceptance of all terms of such franchise, and it shall not be
submitted to a special election unless the expense of holding the election, as
determined by the council, shall have been paid to the city treasurer by the
grantee.
(c) No exclusive franchise shall ever be granted, and no franchise shall be
granted for a longer term than ten (10) years.
(d) No such franchise shall be transferable, directly or indirectly, except
with the approval of the council expressed by ordinance.
(e) Purchase of a franchised utility by the city shall require the approval of
three-fifths (3-5) of the electors voting thereon.
RIGHT OF REGULATION:
Section 12.5 All public utility franchises, whether it be so provided in the
granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to the right of the city to:
(a) Repeal the same for misuse or non-use, or failure to comply with provisions
thereof.
(b) Require proper and adequate extension of plant and service, and maintenance
thereof, at the highest practicable standard of efficiency.
(c) Establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products, and
prevent unjust discrimination of service or rates.
(d) Make independent audit and examination of accounts at any time, and to
require reports annually.
(e) Require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public, in accordance
with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period thereof.
(f) Impose such other regulations as may be determined by the council to be
conducive to the safety, welfare, and accommodation of the public.
RATES OF FRANCHISED UTILITIES:
Section 12.6 The rates charged by public utilities under the supervision of
state regulatory agencies shall be fixed by such agencies. Those rates not pre-
empted by the state for public utilities shall be set, after public hearing, by
the city council.
REVOCABLE RATES:
Section 12.7 Temporary permits for public utilities, revocable at any time at
the will of the council, may be granted by the council by resolution on such
terms and conditions as it shall determine, provided that such permits shall in
no event be construed to be franchises or amendments to franchises.
USE OF STREETS BY UTILITY:
Section 12.8 Every public utility franchise shall be subject to the right of
the city to use, control and regulate the use of streets, alleys, bridges, and
public places, including the space above and beneath them. Every public utility
shall pay such part of the costs of improvements and maintenance of streets,
alleys, bridges, and other public places as shall arise from its use thereof,
and shall protect and hold the city harmless from all damages arising from said
use. The council shall by ordinance establish the terms and conditions for such
joint use of public right-of-way and the compensation to be paid therefor.
CHAPTER XIII
GENERAL PROVISIONS & DEFINITIONS
CITY LIABILITY:
Section 13.1 The City shall not be liable to pay damages for injuries which
arise out of governmental functions, sustained by any person either to his
person or property by reason of the negligence of the City, its officers or
employees, not by reason of any defective condition of or obstruction in any
public place unless such person shall serve or cause to be served upon the
Clerk, within thirty (30) days after the injury resulting in such damages shall
have occurred, a notice in writing, which notice shall set forth substantially
the time and place of such injury, the manner in which it occurred, the extent
of such damages as far as the same has become known, the names and addresses of
witnesses known at the time by the claimant and statement that the person
sustaining such damages intends to hold the City liable for such damages as may
have been sustained by him.
The City shall not be liable for any damage to person or property arising out
of any such injury unless there shall have been first presented to the Clerk a
claim in writing and under oath setting forth particularly the time, place,
nature and extent of such injury and the amount of damages claimed by reason
thereof. No person shall bring any action against the City for any such damages
until such claim shall have been filed with the Clerk and until the Council
shall have been given reasonable opportunity to act thereon, either by allowing
or refusing to allow the claim.
It shall be a sufficient bar and answer in any Court to any action or
proceeding for the collection of any demand or claim against the City under
this section that the notice of injury and the verified proof of claim as in
this section required were not presented and filed within the time and in the
manner herein provided. The foregoing language notwithstanding, the city
retains the right to claim governmental immunity as a result of any injury to
person(s) or property resulting from governmental functions.
UNOFFICIAL REPRESENTATION:
Section 13.2 No official of the City shall have the power to make any
representation or recital of fact in any franchise, contract, document, or
agreement, contrary to any city ordinance, or official action of the city, or
contrary to any state law. Any such action shall not be binding on the city.
CITY RECORDS:
Section 13.3 All records of the city shall be public, except those exempted by
state law, and shall be available for inspection by the public at all
reasonable times, and shall be kept in city offices, except when required to be
elsewhere for official reasons or for safekeeping. All records of the city
shall be in the English language, including the legislative journal of the
city.
HEADINGS:
Section 13.4 The article and section headings are used in this charter are for
convenience only and shall not be considered to be a part of this charter.
SEPARABILITY:
Section 13.5 If any provision of this charter is held invalid, the other
provisions of the charter shall not be affected thereby. If the application of
the charter or any of its provisions to any person or circumstance is held
invalid, the application of the charter and its provisions to other persons or
circumstances shall not be affected thereby.
AMENDMENTS:
Section 13.6 This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided in
Act. No. 279 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended. Should two (2) or more
amendments, adopted at the same election, have conflicting provisions, the one
receiving the largest affirmative vote shall prevail to those provisions.
DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS:
Section 13.7 Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the
context of this charter:
(a) The word “state” means the State of Michigan.
(b) The word “city” shall mean the City of Bronson.
(c) The word “council” shall mean the City Council of the City of Bronson.
(d) The word “officer” shall include, but shall not be limited to, the mayor,
the members of the council, and as herein provided, the administrative
officers, deputy administrative officers, members of city boards and
commissions created by or pursuant to this charter.
(e) The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies politic and corporate
and to partnerships and associations, as well as to individuals.
(f) The words “printed” and “printing” shall include printing, engraving,
stencil, duplicating, lithographing, typewriting, photostating, or any similar
method.
(g) Except in reference to signature, the words “written” and “in writing”
shall include hand written script, printing, typewriting and teletype and
telegraphic communications.
(h) The words “publish” or “published” shall include publication of any matter
required to be published in the manner provided by law, or where there is no
applicable law, in one (1) or more newspapers of general circulation in the
city, qualified by law for publication of legal notices.
(i) The words “public utility” shall include all common carriers in the public
street and water, sewage disposal, electric light and power, gas, telephone and
telegraph lines and systems, cable television, garbage and refuse collection
and disposal facilities, transportation, and such other different enterprises
as the council may determine or designate.
(j) All words indicating the present tense shall not be limited to the time of
the adoption of this charter, but shall extend to and include the time of
happening of any event or requirement to which any provision of this charter is
applied.
(k) The singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the
singular, the masculine gender shall extend to and include the feminine gender
and the neuter.
(l) All references to statute shall be considered to be references to such
statutes as amended.
CHAPTER XIV
SCHEDULE
PURPOSE AND STATUS OF SCHEDULE CHAPTER:
Section 14.1 The purpose of this schedule chapter is to inaugurate the
government of the City of Bronson under this charter and provide the transition
of the government of the City under the previous charter to that under this
charter. It shall constitute a part of this charter only to the extent and for
the time required to accomplish that end.
ELECTION TO ADOPT CHARTER:
Section 14.2 The charter shall be submitted to a vote of the qualified electors
of the territory comprised of the City of Bronson at a regular election to be
held on Tuesday, November 5, 1985, between the hours of 7:00 A.M. and 8:00 P.M.
All provisions for the submission of the question of adopting this charter at
such election shall be made within the manner provided by law. If, at such
election, the majority of the electors voting thereon shall vote in favor of
the adoption of this charter, then the city clerk shall perform all other acts
required by law to carry this charter into effect.
FORM OF BALLOT:
Section 14.3 The form of the question of submission of this charter shall be as
follows:
“Shall the proposed Charter of the City of Bronson, drafted by the Charter
Commission, elected November 8,1983, be adopted?”
         YES         NO
ELECTIVE OFFICERS OF THE CITY:
Section 14.4 (a) The elected officers of the city holding office on the
effective date of this charter shall continue to hold the offices to which they
were elected for the balance of the terms for which they were elected, and
shall conduct their several offices subject to the provisions of this charter.
When the terms of these elected officials shall expire, they shall be selected
in accordance with the provisions of this charter.
(b) At the election regarding adoption of this charter, the city clerk for the
City of Bronson shall perform the duties required by law respecting such
elections.
(c) The board of canvassers of the County of Branch, as established by law,
shall canvass the votes cast at such election.
EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER:
Section 14.5 If the canvass of votes upon the adoption of this charter shows it
to have been adopted, it shall take effect and become law as the charter of the
City of Bronson for all purposes at the next regularly scheduled city council
meeting following receipt of an affirmative declaration of the county board of
canvassers.
COUNCIL ACTION:
Section 14.6 In all cases involving the transition of city government from that
under the previous charter to that under this charter, which are not covered by
this schedule, the council shall supply the necessary details and procedures
and may adopt such rules, regulations and ordinances as may be required
therefor.
CONTINUATION OF APPOINTIVE OFFICERS:
Section 14.7 Except as otherside provided herein, after the effective date of
this charter, all appointive officers and all employees of the city shall
continue in city offices or employment which they held in the city prior to the
effective date of this charter, and they shall be subject in all respects to
the provisions of this charter.
BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS:
Section 14.8 The present boards and commissions now established shall continue
under the terms of the ordinance establishing them, subject to the provisions
of this charter.
PENDING MATTERS:
Section 14.9 All rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts, and legal or
administrative proceedings of the city shall continue except as modified
pursuant to the provisions of this charter, and in each case shall be
maintained, carried on, or dealt with by the city department, office or agency
appropriate under this charter.
PRIOR CITY ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS:
Section 14.10 (a) All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the
City of Bronson which are consistent with the provisions of this charter, in
force and effect at the time of the adoption of this charter, shall continue in
full force until repealed or amended by action of the proper authorities.
RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION
   At a meeting of the Charter Commission of the City of Bronson held June
13,1985, the following resolution was offered by Commissioner Hagen and
seconded by Commissioner Ward.
   RESOLVED, That the Charter Commission of the City of Bronson does hereby
adopt the foregoing proposed city charter and the clerk of this commission is
hereby instructed to transmit the same to the Governor of the State of
Michigan, in accordance with the provisions of the statute, for his approval.
   The vote on the adoption of said resolution was as follows:
   AYES: Commissioners Kirkpatrick, Snyder, Hagen, Diebel, Smith, Ward.
   NAYES: Commissioners None.
   ABSENT: Commissioners O’Rourke, Perkins, Younce.
Signed:
Gerald A. Hollister,
Clerk of the Charter Commission of the City of Bronson
Robert B. Kirkpatrick
Clarence G. Snyder
David J. O’Rourke
Laurence E. Hagen
Loranetta Diebel
Ralph R. Younce
A. Edward Perkins
Roberta A. Smith
Bill N. Ward
   All of the commissioners having attested as to said resolution as above and
also having attested the copy to be signed by the Governor, the meeting
adjourned, subject to the call of the chairman.
STATE OF MICHIGAN, County of Branch, ss:
Gerald A. Hollister, City Clerk-Treasurer and clerk of the charter commission
of the City of Bronson, being duly sworn, says that at an election duly called
and held in the City of Bronson, on November 8, 1983, the following named
persons were duly elected as a commission to revise the charter of the City of
Bronson, namely: Loranetta Diebel, Laurence E. Hagen, Robert B, Kirkpatrick,
David J. O’Rourke, A. Edward Perkins, Roberta A. Smith, Clarence G. Snyder,
Bill N. Ward and Ralph R. Younce, that the members of said charter commission
met and organized as required by law on the 22nd day of November, 1983, that
Robert B. Kirkpatrick was, at that meeting, elected chairman of the charter
commission, and by the foregoing resolution, which resolution and the charter
to which it is attached is in each case a true and correct copy thereof, and
that the said charter commission directed that said charter be presented to the
electors of the City of Bronson in accordance with the requirements of the laws
of the State of Michigan which provide therefore.
Dated: June 14, 1985
Gerald A. Hollister, City Clerk-Treasurer and
Clerk of the Charter Commission of the City of Bronson
Subscribed and sworn to before me this day of June 14, 1985.
Karen A. Smith,
Notary Public, Branch County, Michigan. My term expires February 1, 1989
   I do hereby certify that the above and foregoing is a true copy of the
proposed charter of the City of Bronson which has this day been approved by the
Charter Commission of the City of Bronson.
Dated: June 14, 1985
Gerald A. Hoilister,
Clerk Of the Charter Commission of the City of Bronson
Notice is hereby given of my approval of the submission of the above-mentioned
charter revision for the City of Bronson to the vote of the people.
Dated: October 18, 1985
________________________________
Governor of the State of Michigan
CITY CHARTER
   I, Karen A. Smith, City Clerk of the City of Bronson, Branch County,
Michigan, hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of the revised
charter of the City of Bronson, duly adopted at an election held November
5,1985, in the said City of Bronson.
   I further certify that the vote upon the proposition to adopt said revised
charter was as follows:
Yes -186
No - 44
   I further certify that the vote was canvassed and approved on the 6th day of
November, 1985.
___________________________________
City Clerk of the City of Bronson, Michigan
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Authority to issue appearance tickets
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Bronson, Michigan,
shall be designated as the Bronson City Code, and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY. The City of Bronson, Michigan.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of Bronson, Michigan.
      CODE, THIS CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY CODE or BRONSON CITY CODE.
This municipal code as modified by amendment, revision and adoption of new
titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. Branch County, Michigan.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath; and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality, unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Michigan.
      SUBCHAPTER. A subsection of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in a section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Unless declared to be an emergency ordinance, no ordinance shall
become effective earlier than 15 days after enactment.
   (B)   All ordinances requiring publication shall not take effect until after
publication thereof.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the ordinance repealing or
modifying it takes effect.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (M.C.L.A. § 15.231)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 15.231 et seq.
§ 10.19 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following employees shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
ordinances and codes of the city and are hereby authorized and empowered to
issue and serve appearance tickets:
   (A)   Police officers, including the Chief, all lieutenants and sergeants;
   (B)   Director and Assistant Director of the Department of Public Works;
   (C)   Superintendent of the Inspection/Sewer Department;
   (D)   Sanitary sewer senior technician/operators;
   (E)   Sanitary sewer service maintenance;
   (F)   Superintendent of the Water Department;
   (G)   Superintendent/Foreperson of the Street Department;
   (H)   Zoning Administrator;
   (I)   Building Inspectors;
   (J)   Code Enforcement Officers; and
   (K)   Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
31.   FIRE DEPARTMENT
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
      
34.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
      
35.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
36.   MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
37.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
CHAPTER 30: CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
General Organizations
   
30.01   Local Officer Compensation Commission
   
30.02   Housing Commission
   
30.03   Planning Commission
   
30.04   Cemetery Trustees
   
30.05   Downtown Development Authority
GENERAL ORGANIZATIONS
§ 30.01 LOCAL OFFICER COMPENSATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation, membership, terms, vacancies. A Local Officer Compensation
Commission is hereby created, which shall determine the salaries of each local
elected official. The Commission shall consist of five members who are
registered electors of the city, appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by a majority of the members elected and serving on the Council.
The terms of office shall be five years, except that, of the members first
appointed, one each shall be appointed for terms of one, two, three, four and
five years. All first members shall be appointed within 30 days after the
effective date of this section. Thereafter members shall be appointed at the
December meeting of Council each year. Vacancies shall be filled for the
remainder of the unexpired term. No member or employee of the legislative,
judicial or executive branch of government or a member of the immediate family
of a member or employee shall be eligible to be a member of the Commission.
   (B)   Determination of salaries, expense allowances or reimbursements. The
Commission shall determine the salary of the Mayor and Council members. The
determination shall be the salaries unless the Council, by resolution adopted
by two-thirds of the members elected to and serving on the Council, rejects it.
The determination of the Commission shall be effective 30 days following its
filing with the City Clerk/Treasurer unless rejected by the Council. If the
determination is rejected, the existing salary shall prevail. The expense
allowance or reimbursement paid to elected officials in addition to salary
shall be for expenses incurred in the course of city business and accounted for
to the city.
   (C)   Meeting of Commission; quorum; concurrence of majority; Chairperson;
session days; compensation. The Commission shall meet for not more than 15
session days in each odd-numbered year and shall make its determination within
45 calendar days after its first meeting. The first meeting and all subsequent
meetings shall be no later than April 15 of each odd-numbered year, and the
Commission shall file its determination with the City Clerk/Treasurer on or
before June 1 of each odd-numbered year. A majority of the members of the
Commission constitutes a quorum for conducting the business of the Commission.
The Commission shall not take action or make a determination without a
concurrence of a majority of the members appointed and serving on the
Commission. The Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its members. As
used in this section, SESSION DAY means a calendar day on which the Commission
meets and a quorum is present. The members of the Commission shall not receive
compensation, but shall be entitled to actual and necessary expenses incurred
in the performance of official duties.
   (D)   Open meetings. All business which the Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting of the Commission held in compliance with Public
Act 267 of the Public Acts, as amended. Public notice of the time, date and
place of the meeting of the Commission shall be given in the manner required by
Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, being the
“Open Meetings Act”.
   (E)   Freedom of information. A writing prepared, owned, used, in the
possession of or retained by the Commission in the performance of an official
function shall be made available to the public in compliance with Public Act
442 of 1976, being “The Freedom of Information Act”, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231
through 15.246.
   (F)   Implementation; changes in procedure for establishing compensation.
Council shall implement this section by resolution. After one year following
the date the ordinance goes into effect, the procedure for establishing the
compensation of elected officials may be changed by Charter amendment or
revision.
   (G)   Referendum in ordinance. Not more than 60 days after the effective
date of the ordinance, a petition for a referendum on the ordinance may be
filed pursuant to the procedure provided in the Charter or otherwise by filing
a petition with the City Clerk/Treasurer containing the signatures of a least
5% of the registered electors of the city on the effective date of the
ordinance. The election shall be conducted in the same manner as an election on
a Charter amendment. If a petition for referendum is filed, a determination of
the Commission shall not be effective until the ordinance has been approved by
the electors.
(Ord. 144, passed 12-13-1993; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 30.02 HOUSING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. Pursuant to Public Act 18 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.651
et seq., as amended by Public Act 80 of 1935, Public Act 265 of 1937 and Public
Act 5 of 1938, a Commission is hereby created in and for the city, to be known
as the “Bronson Housing Commission”.
(Prior Code, § 18.001)
   (B)   Members. The Mayor of the city is hereby directed to appoint the
members of the Housing Commission as soon as possible after this section shall
take effect.
(Prior Code, § 18.002)
   (C)   Powers and duties. The Housing Commission shall have all the powers
and duties vested or permitted to be vested in housing commissions by the
Public Act 18 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.651 et seq., as heretofore or
hereafter amended, and any laws heretofore or hereafter enacted which are
supplemental thereto, it being the intention of this section to vest in the
City Housing Commission all powers and duties permitted by law.
(Prior Code, § 18.003)
   (D)   Employees. The Housing Commission shall select and appoint employees
as it shall deem necessary for the proper exercise of its powers, functions and
duties and shall pay them a compensation as it shall, with the approval of the
Mayor, fix and determine.
(Prior Code, § 18.004)
   (E)   Publication; posting. The City Clerk/Treasurer is hereby directed to
cause this section to be published as soon as possible in the Bronson Journal,
published in the city, and to be posted in three public places in the city.
(Prior Code, § 18.005)
(Ord. 46, passed 6-1-1950)
§ 30.03 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation. There is hereby created a Planning Commission for the city,
to be known as the “City Planning Commission”. The Commission is created in
accordance with the provisions of Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 through 125.3885, as amended, and shall have all the duties and
powers, and shall perform all the functions provided by the Act as amended.
(Prior Code, § 14.001)
   (B)   Members; appointment, compensation, term of office.
      (1)   The City Planning Commission shall consist of five members who
shall represent insofar as possible different professions or occupations, the
members shall be appointed by the Mayor of the city, the appointment to be
subject to approval by a majority vote of the members elect of the City
Council.
      (2)   All members of the City Planning Commission shall serve as such
without compensation and shall hold no other municipal office.
      (3)   The term of each member of the City Planning Commission shall be
three years, except that in the case of the first City Planning Commission
appointed hereunder three of the members shall be appointed for a term of one
year, three for a term of two years and three for a term of three years.
      (4)   All the appointments shall date from July 1, 1959. All members
shall hold office until their successors are appointed.
      (5)   Vacancies occurring otherwise than through the expiration of the
term shall be filled by the Mayor subject to approval of a majority of the City
Council elect.
      (6)   The City Manager shall be a member ex-officio of the City Planning
Commission and shall attend all of its meetings and may participate in all its
discussions, but he or she shall not have any power to vote.
(Prior Code, § 14.002)
   (C)   Members; removal from office. Members of the City Planning Commission
may, after a public hearing before the City Council, be removed by the Mayor
for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, provided, however,
that the removal shall be subject to the approval of the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.003)
   (D)   Officers; records; meetings. The City Planning Commission shall, from
its appointed members, annually elect a Chairperson, and shall fill other
offices as it may determine. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall act as Secretary
and Clerk of the City Planning Commission and shall keep a record of all its
proceedings. The Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each
month and may adopt rules for the transaction of its business, and shall keep a
full and complete record of its resolutions, surveys, transactions, findings
and determinations, which record shall be a public record and open to
inspection in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer at any reasonable time
during business hours. Special meetings may be called by the Chairperson or any
two members of the Commission on at least six hours’ written notice to each
member of the Commission served personally or left at his or her regular place
of residence. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
(Prior Code, § 14.004)
   (E)   Funds; contracts. The City Planning Commission shall file with the
City Clerk/Treasurer on or before the third Monday in April a request for funds
for city planning for the ensuing year and the Clerk shall present the request
to the City Council on or before the first Monday in May. The City Council
shall not be obligated to appropriate any fixed amount of money for the
Commission. The City Planning Commission may contract with city planners,
engineers, architects and other consultants as it may require. The Commission
shall not expend any funds or enter into any contracts or agreements for the
expenditure of funds in excess of amounts appropriated for the purpose by the
City Council.
(Prior Code, § 14.005)
   (F)   Powers and duties. The City Planning Commission shall have powers
concerning the preparation and adoption of a master plan or any part thereof,
the mailing of surveys as a basis for the plan, the approval of public
improvements, the carrying out of educational and publicity programs, the
approval of plats and street system, the adoption of regulations governing
subdivision of lands, and other rights, powers, duties and responsibilities as
are provided under the provisions of Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 through 125.3885.
(Prior Code, § 14.006)
   (G)   Gifts. The City Planning Commission may receive gifts for purposes of
carrying out its objectives and may expend any funds received as a gift in any
manner it may determine.
(Prior Code, § 14.007)
   (H)   Reports and recommendations to city council. The City Planning
Commission shall make reports and recommendations to the City Council and the
City Council shall vote to accept or reject the recommendations. Not less than
a two-thirds vote of the members elect of the City Council shall be necessary
to reject.
(Prior Code, § 14.008)
(Ord. 81, passed 10-12-1959: Ord. 182, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-13-2012: Ord. 201,
passed 3-11-2016)
§ 30.04 CEMETERY TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Powers.
      (1)   The Board of Cemetery Trustees shall have power to recommend all
necessary regulations for the prudent and efficient care, management and
protection of the cemetery, and shall direct the improvements and
embellishments of the grounds, cause the grounds to be laid out in lots,
avenues and walks, the lots to be numbered and the plots therefor to be made
and recorded in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer.
      (2)   The Board shall have power in its discretion, to receive and hold
any property, real or personal, by devise or otherwise, which may be granted,
transferred or devised to the Board, in trust, for the purpose of caring for
and keeping in good order and repair, any lot or lots or portions thereof
specified in the trust, and any moneys received for those purposes shall be
turned over to the Clerk/Treasurer and he or she shall deposit same in a
special fund to be used only for the purpose of the trust.
      (3)   The Board shall recommend to the City Council the price to be fixed
for lots, and after the Council has set the price, no lot shall be sold by the
Board for a less sum than the price so fixed.
      (4)   The Board shall recommend to the City Council the appointment of
the employees of the cemetery as from time to time needed; submit to the City
Council the regulations for the burial of the dead, the care of grounds,
monuments and appurtenances of the cemetery, and the orderly conduct of persons
visiting the grounds all of which recommendations shall be passed on by the
City Council. All the regulations shall be enforced by the City Manager.
(Prior Code § 12.251)
   (B)   Annual report.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Board of Cemetery Trustees on the first
Monday of October of each year, to report to the City Board, the amount of
money on hand at the last annual report, the amount received and owing the
Cemetery Fund from all sources, the amount of funds in trust and from whom
received, and the date, amount, items and purpose of all expenditures and
liabilities incurred, and other matters as the Board shall require to be
reported, which report shall be verified by oath of the Clerk of the Board.
      (2)   It shall be the obligation of the City Clerk/Treasurer to collect
for lots and maintenance.
      (3)   The Board shall also, at the regular meeting in April each year,
make an estimate of the requirements for maintenance and improvement of the
cemetery for the ensuing year, and report the same to the City Council for
their approval and the amount of money so appropriated shall become a part of
the Cemetery Fund.
(Prior Code, § 12.252)
(Ord. 68, passed - -; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 30.05 DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, the city ordains as follows:
   (A)   The city shall establish a Downtown Development Authority.
   (B)   This Downtown Development Authority shall consist of not less than
eight nor more than 12 members.
   (C)   The members of the Authority shall be appointed by the Chief Executive
Officer of the city, subject to approval by the City Council.
   (D)   Not less than a majority of the members shall be persons having an
interest in property located in the downtown district or officers, members,
trustees, principals or employees of a legal entity having an interest in
property located in the downtown district.
   (E)   Of the initial members appointed, an equal number of members, as near
as practicable, shall be appointed for one year, two years, three years, and
four years. Members shall hold office until the member’s successor is
appointed. Thereafter, each member shall serve a term of four years.
   (F)   An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the Chief Executive
Officer of the city for the unexpired term only.
   (G)   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses.
   (H)   The Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by a majority of the
Board.
   (I)   Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking
and subscribing to the constitution of the oath of office.
   (J)   The Authority shall be granted all powers listed under M.C.L.A. §
125.1657, as amended.
(Ord. 193, passed 7-9-2012)
CHAPTER 31: FIRE DEPARTMENT
Section
Organization and Regulation
   
31.01   Personnel
   
31.02   Appointment of Chief and assistants
   
31.03   Appointment of members
   
31.04   Firefighters; record
   
31.05   Duties of firefighters
   
31.06   Damaging or taking fire implements
   
31.07   False alarm
   
31.08   Compensation
   
31.09   Care of engine room and apparatus
   
31.10   Duty of Secretary
   
31.11   Present fire organization
Fire Calls; Regulating Traffic and the Like
   
31.25   Riding on fire apparatus
   
31.26   Right-of-way; street traffic
   
31.27   Following fire apparatus
   
31.28   Parking of other vehicles
   
31.29   Safety lines
   
31.30   Hose laid or in use
 
   
31.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Emergency management provisions, see
Chapter 33
   Other city organizations, see
Chapter 30
   Police Department, see
Chapter 32
   Recreational fires, see §§
97.01 et seq.
ORGANIZATION AND REGULATION
§ 31.01 PERSONNEL.
   The Fire Department of the city shall consist of a Chief and first and
second assistants, and not to exceed 20 members unless otherwise ordered by
resolution of the Council.
(Prior Code, § 40.001) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.02 APPOINTMENT OF CHIEF AND ASSISTANTS.
   The Chief of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the City Council,
provided: that as long as the city shall maintain contractual relations with
surrounding townships for fire protection, the appointment shall be approved by
a five-person Board, consisting of the Mayor and the two city fire committee
members of the city, together with two representatives selected by the combined
township boards. The assistants to the Chief shall be selected by the fire
company members.
(Prior Code, § 40.002) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.03 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Fire Department shall be appointed by the Council upon the
recommendation of the fire company, and each firefighter so appointed shall
within ten days thereafter file with the Clerk/Treasurer his or her acceptance
of the appointment or otherwise the appointment shall become null and void.
Upon the acceptance being filed, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a certificate
of the appointment.
(Prior Code, § 40.003) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.04 FIREFIGHTERS; RECORD.
   It shall be the duty of the Clerk/Treasurer to keep a firefighters record as
directed by the laws of this state, also to record all firefighters
certificates issued.
(Prior Code, § 40.004) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.05 DUTIES OF FIREFIGHTERS.
   (A)   Upon the alarm of fire it shall be the duty of all firefighters to be
present at the fire, and the first and second assistants shall report
themselves to their chief and obey orders.
   (B)   In the absence of the Chief, the first assistant shall have command
and in the absence of both Chief and first assistant, then the second assistant
shall have command, and in the absence of all three officers named, the
Superintendent or any member of the Council in his or her absence may select
any one of the firefighters to take command; and it shall be the duty of the
person in command at any fire to take all measures as he or she may deem most
advisable for the effectual extinguishment thereof, and those officers shall
have full power, control and command of all persons present at fires, and shall
have full power to enter upon any premises adjoining or adjacent to any fire
and by the use of hose, fire hydrant or in any other manner obtain water from
any well, hydrant or cistern for the extinguishment thereof, and he or she
shall see that all persons do the duty prescribed by law and the ordinances,
and any person who shall disobey the lawful orders of any officer in command,
obstruct, hinder or resist him or her in the performance of the duties
prescribed for him or her by this subchapter or violate any of the provisions
herein prescribed by this subchapter shall be punished by a fine of not less
than $5, and not exceeding $100, or by imprisonment in the county jail not less
than ten or not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Superintendent of the Waterworks at times
of fire to see that all available aid is given by the plant to the Fire
Department.
(Prior Code, § 40.005) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.06 DAMAGING OR TAKING FIRE IMPLEMENTS.
   If any person shall willfully injure, take for his or her own private use,
or damage in any manner, any fire-engine, hose, hook and ladder or other fire
implements belonging to or connected with the Fire Department of this city, he
or she shall be punished as prescribed in §
31.05.
(Prior Code, § 40.009) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.07 FALSE ALARM.
   It shall not be lawful for any person to make any false alarm of fire in the
city; every person so offending shall be punished by fine as prescribed in §
31.05.
(Prior Code, § 40.010) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.08 COMPENSATION.
   The officers and firefighters of the Department shall receive compensation
as the Council may prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 40.011) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.09 CARE OF ENGINE ROOM AND APPARATUS.
   The care of the engine room and the fire apparatus shall be under the
supervision of the Chief of the Department.
(Prior Code, § 40.012) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.10 DUTY OF SECRETARY.
   It shall be the duty of the Secretary to report in the month of May of each
year to the Council, the names and number of its members.
(Prior Code, § 40.013) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.11 PRESENT FIRE ORGANIZATION.
   The present fire organization may continue in force.
(Prior Code, § 40.014) (Ord. 19, passed 6-6-1935)
FIRE CALLS; REGULATING TRAFFIC AND THE LIKE
§ 31.25 RIDING ON FIRE APPARATUS.
   No person other than members of the Fire Department, police officers and
city officials shall ride or attempt to ride on any fire apparatus when going
to or from fires.
(Prior Code, § 40.051) (Ord. 25, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.26 RIGHT-OF-WAY; STREET TRAFFIC.
   The fire apparatus of the city shall have the right-of-way over all other
vehicles in the streets and alleys of the city when traveling to a fire or in
response to a fire alarm, and it shall be the duty of the driver of the other
vehicle to immediately turn to the side of the street or alley and come to a
full stop upon a signal of approach of the fire apparatus by siren, bell, gong,
horn or other method and to remain at full stop until after the fire apparatus
shall have passed.
(Prior Code, § 40.052) (Ord. 25, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.27 FOLLOWING FIRE APPARATUS.
   No vehicle shall be driven to follow the fire apparatus at a distance nearer
than 500 feet from the rear of the apparatus.
(Prior Code, § 40.053) (Ord. 25, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.28 PARKING OF OTHER VEHICLES.
   No vehicle other than fire apparatus shall park or be within 500 feet of a
burning building, nor along a line of hose extending from the building to a
fire hydrant or in any other place that will impede free access of the
firefighters or apparatus to the fire or diminish the ability of the
firefighters to combat the fire.
(Prior Code, § 40.054) (Ord. 25, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.29 SAFETY LINES.
   The Mayor, Fire Chief or his or her assistant, the Chief of Police, or
persons designated by them shall have authority to establish safety lines
around the fire at places as they see fit, and to remove and keep out from the
spaces between the lines and the fire all vehicles not used in connection with
the fire and all persons other than the firefighters, police, city officials
and persons owning property within the safety lines. All other persons
remaining within the lines after warning to get out or stay out shall be
considered violators of this subchapter and subject to arrest as such.
(Prior Code, § 40.055) (Ord. 25, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 31.30 HOSE LAID OR IN USE.
   No person shall drive any vehicle over any line of hose laid or in use at
the fire.
(Prior Code, § 40.056) (Ord. 25, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
31.99
§ 31.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
31.25 through
31.30 shall upon conviction thereof be fined not more than $50 or be imprisoned
in the city prison or county jail not exceeding 30 days, or both the fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 40.057) (Ord. 25, passed 6-6-1935)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
Organization and Regulation
   
32.01   Organization
   
32.02   Appointment; oath and bond
   
32.03   Removal or suspension
   
32.04   Classification; regular and special
   
32.05   Duties of Chief of Police
   
32.06   Badge of office
   
32.07   Duties of police officer
   
32.08   Procedure following arrest
   
32.09   Negligence or refusal
   
32.10   Record of arrests
   
32.11   Reporting arrests
Minimum Employment Standards for Law Enforcement Officers
   
32.25   Minimum standards adopted
   
32.26   Notice to be published
   
32.27   Conflicting ordinances repealed
 
   
32.99   Penalty
ORGANIZATION AND REGULATION
§ 32.01 ORGANIZATION.
   A police force for the city is hereby organized and established to consist
of the Chief of Police, who shall hold his or her office by virtue of the
provisions of Ord. 1 (Ord. 1 was superceded by provisions in new Charter), of
the compiled ordinances of the city, entitled, “An Ordinance to Establish an
Administrative Code for the City of Bronson, Michigan”, and the number of
police officers as the City Council shall from time to time determine.
(Prior Code, § 40.101) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 32.02 APPOINTMENT; OATH AND BOND.
   All police officers shall be appointed by the City Manager, by and with the
consent of the City Council, and each of them shall, before entering upon the
discharge of the duties of his or her office, take and subscribe the oath of
office prescribed by the constitution of this state, and shall also, (except in
case of special police officers appointed for temporary duty), give a bond to
the city in sum as the City Council shall by resolution direct, with good and
sufficient surety or sureties, to be approved by the City Council, conditioned
for the good and faithful performance of the duties of his or her office, and
shall file the oath and bond with the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 40.102) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 32.03 REMOVAL OR SUSPENSION.
   Any police officer may be removed or suspended from the office by the City
Manager at any time when in the opinion of the City Manager there is reasonable
cause therefor and pursuant to any state or federal regulations.
(Prior Code, § 40.103) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, §§ 1, 5, passed 2-
13-2012)
§ 32.04 CLASSIFICATION; REGULAR AND SPECIAL.
   The police force of the city shall be classed as full-time and part-time.
The full-time police shall consist of the Chief of Police and an additional
number as the City Council and the City Manager shall from time to time
specify. Part-time officers shall be appointed as, from time to time, the City
Council and the City Manager may deem necessary for the good operation of the
Department. Part-time officers shall not be considered permanent members of the
police force of the city but shall have the authority full-time members of the
Department may have. The Chief of Police, with the expressed written consent of
the City Manager, may appoint un-paid reserve members of the Police Department
for assistance with various tasks s permitted by this code and state statute.
(Prior Code, § 40.104) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, §§ 1, 5, passed 2-
13-2012)
§ 32.05 DUTIES OF CHIEF OF POLICE.
   The Chief of Police shall have the absolute command of all of the police
force of this city, and shall, by attention and supervision, see that every
police officer at all times faithfully performs his or her duty, and shall
report to the City Council any neglect of duty or misconduct in office on the
part of any police officer.
(Prior Code, § 40.105) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 32.06 BADGE OF OFFICE.
   Every police officer, when on duty, shall wear a badge made of some polished
metal, on which shall be stamped or engraved in large plain letters the word
“Police” (in a conspicuous place on his or her left breast), as a badge of
office; but upon the badge worn by the Chief of Police shall be the words
“Chief of Police”.
(Prior Code, § 40.106) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 32.07 DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police and every police officer
to apprehend and arrest every person found drunk in the streets or other public
places within the city, and to lodge the person in jail until he or she shall
become sober.
   (B)   It shall be their duty to see that all the ordinances and regulations
of the City Council for the preservation of quiet, good order and for the
safety and protection of the inhabitants of the city are promptly enforced and
to suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace, and for those
purposes they shall have the right to enter, with or without process any
premises within the city in which any person or persons may be committing an
unlawful act, or where any person or persons may be who have been guilty of any
offense or crime committed in their hearing or presence.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or any police officer, and
they shall have power and authority, to apprehend and arrest with or without
process any person found in the act of committing in their presence any offense
against the laws of the state, or violating the ordinances or by-laws of the
city in any manner involving a breach of the peace, and to take the offender
before the proper magistrate to be punished; to make complaints before the
proper magistrate of any person known or believed by them to be guilty of any
violation of the ordinances or by-laws of the City Council; and to serve all
processes to them delivered for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 40.107) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 32.08 PROCEDURE FOLLOWING ARREST.
   Whenever any person shall be arrested as provided under this code or the
penal code of the State of Michigan he or she shall be taken to the Sheriff of
Branch County for custody or to any other jail which the City Council may
provide. The arrested person shall be treated according to applicable
ordinances, laws, and regulations of this code and the State of Michigan.
(Prior Code, § 40.108) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 5, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 32.09 NEGLIGENCE OR REFUSAL.
   If any police officer shall refuse, or neglect to obey or comply with the
lawful orders or requirements of the Chief of Police, he or she may in the
discretion of the City Manager be removed from office.
(Prior Code, § 40.111) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 32.10 RECORD OF ARRESTS.
   The Chief of Police shall keep a record of all arrests and the cause
therefor, and shall enter therein, within 24 hours after any person shall be
arrested, the cause of the arrest, the age and nationality of the person
arrested, and if discharged without being taken before a court, the reason for
such discharge.
(Prior Code, § 40.113) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 32.11 REPORTING ARRESTS.
   (A)   As the City Manager may direct, the Chief of Police shall report in
writing to the City Council at its regular meetings the activity of the Police
Department during the preceding month.
   (B)   Minimum standards for the employment of full-time and part-time police
officers shall be in accordance with the requirements of the State of Michigan
and the Michigan Commission on Law Enforcement Standards.
(Prior Code, § 40.114) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 5, passed 2-13-
2012)
MINIMUM EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
§ 32.25 MINIMUM STANDARDS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers as
established and adopted by the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training
Council in accordance with Public Act 203 of 1965, being M.C.L.A. §§ 28.601
through 28.616, are hereby adopted as follows:
   (B)   Standards:
      (1)   Be a citizen of the United States;
      (2)   Minimum age of 18 years;
      (3)   Graduation from high school or equivalent. Equivalent defined as
having attained a passing score on the general education development test
indicating high school graduation level;
      (4)   Finger printing of applicants with a search of local, state and
national finger print files to disclose any criminal record;
      (5)   The applicant shall not have been convicted of a felony offense;
      (6)   Good moral character as determined by a favorable report following
a comprehensive background investigation covering school and employment
records, home environment, personal traits and integrity. Consideration will be
given to any and all law violations, including traffic and conservation law
convictions as indicating a lack of good character;
      (7)   Acceptable physical, emotional and mental fitness as established by
a licensed physician following examination to determine the applicant is free
from any physical, emotional or mental condition which might adversely affect
his or her performance of duty as a police officer;
      (8)   The trainee shall possess normal hearing and normal color vision.
He or she shall be free from any impediments of the senses. He or she must
possess normal visual functions and visual acuity in each eye correctable to
20/20. The trainee must be physically sound; well developed physically, with
height and weight in relation to each other and to age as indicated by accepted
medical standards and in possession of his or her extremities. He or she shall
be free from any physical defects, chronic diseases, organic diseases, organic
or functional conditions, or mental instabilities which may tend to impair
efficient performance of duty to which might endanger the lives of others or
himself or herself if he or she lacks these qualifications;
      (9)   A declaration of the applicant’s medical history shall become a
part of the background investigation. The information shall be available to the
examining physician;
      (10)   An oral interview shall be held by the hiring authority or his or
her representative to determine the applicant’s acceptability for a police
officer position and to assess appearance, background and ability to
communicate; and
      (11)   Recruitment and employment practices and standards shall be in
compliance with existing state statutes governing this activity.
(Prior Code, § 40.151) (Ord. 94, passed 11-11-1974)
§ 32.26 NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall publish this subchapter in the manner
required by law.
(Prior Code, § 40.152) (Ord. 94, passed 11-11-1974)
§ 32.27 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   (A)   The standards of State Law Enforcement Officers Training Council are
recognized as minimum standards and higher standards are recommended by the
Training Council when qualified applicants are available.
   (B)   Any portion of any ordinance not meeting the minimum standards is
hereby repealed.
   (C)   Any portion of any ordinance which meets the minimum standards or
exceeds those standards shall remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 40.153) (Ord. 94, passed 11-11-1974)
§ 32.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   If the Chief of Police or any police officer, shall refuse or neglect
to obey or comply with the lawful orders of the Mayor or City Council of the
city, or neglect or refuse to faithfully discharge his or her duties, or to
comply with the provisions of §§
32.01 through 32.13, or any ordinance or by-law of the city, or shall in the
discharge of his or her official duties receive any bribe, or be guilty of any
fraud, extortion, favoritism, partiality, injustice, or willful wrong, he or
she shall, on conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of not less than $5 and
not more than $25, or by imprisonment in the county jail or city jail not
exceeding 20 days or by both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Prior Code, § 40.112) (Ord. 21, passed 6-6-1935)
CHAPTER 33: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
Hazardous Materials Incident Emergency Response
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Definitions
   
33.03   Charges imposed upon responsible party
   
33.04   Billing procedures
   
33.05   Other remedies
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS INCIDENT EMERGENCY RESPONSE
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   In order to protect the city from incurring extraordinary expenses
resulting from the utilization of city resources to respond to an incident
involving hazardous materials, the City Council authorized the imposition of
charges to recover reasonable and actual costs incurred by the city in
responding to calls for assistance in connection with a hazardous materials
release.
   (B)   Action to impose and or collect these fees shall be at the option of
the City Council. This subchapter recognizes that the city is a part of the
City Rural Fire Association, and the City Fire Department is the response
agency for the city. Further, for the purpose of this subchapter, that expenses
incurred by the City Rural Fire Association, the City Fire Department and the
city as a result of a hazardous material incident within this city shall be
considered as the chargeable expense of the city as it directly relates to cost
recovery by this subchapter.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
§ 33.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Include, but are not limited to, a chemical or product
that is a combustible liquid, a flammable gas, explosive, flammable, an organic
peroxide, an oxidizer, pyrophoric, unstable reactive or water reactive, or any
material which creates toxic smoke or by-products.
   RELEASE. Any actual threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting
(including smoke), emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or
disposing into the environment.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or
any other legal entity that is responsible for a release of hazardous material,
either actual or threatened, or is an owner, tenant, occupant or party in
control of property onto which or from which hazardous materials release.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
§ 33.03 CHARGES IMPOSED UPON RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
   When the City Fire Department responds to a call for assistance in
connection with an actual or threatened hazardous materials release, actual
cost incurred by the Fire Department and city may, at the city’s sole
discretion, be imposed upon the responsible parties, including, but not limited
to:
   (A)   Expenses incurred by the city in responding to the hazardous materials
incident, including, but not limited to, rental or purchase of machinery,
equipment, labor, consultants, legal and engineering fees, medical and
hospitalization costs, ambulance stand-by and transport costs, replacement
costs related to disposable and non-disposable items and equipment such as, but
not limited to, personal protective equipment, extinguishing agents, supplies,
hoses, nozzles, fire trucks, and related equipment, decontamination of
equipment, meals and refreshments for personnel while responding to the
hazardous material incident. Expenses will also include, but are not limited
to, the above expenses for any mutual-aid fire department, as well as costs
incurred in contracting with outside agencies for work related to the hazardous
material incident;
   (B)   Charges to the city imposed by any local, state or federal government
entities related to the hazardous material incident;
   (C)   Costs incurred in accounting for all hazardous material incident
related expenditures, including billing and collection;
   (D)   Reimbursement of $15 per hour, or a fraction thereof, for each paid
on-call, part-time and full-time fire personnel needed, in the opinion of the
officer in command, to stand-by at the hazardous material incident scene, at
the fire station or any other designated location; and
   (E)   A fee of $150 per hour, or a fraction thereof, for each search engine,
aerial, tanker or rescue apparatus required in the opinion of the officer in
command, to stand-by at the hazardous material incident scene or any other
designated area. For each hour that the pumps are activated, an additional sum
of $50 per hour shall be charged for each pump operating.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
§ 33.04 BILLING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Following the conclusion of the hazardous material incident, the Fire
Chief shall, upon directive from the City Council submit a detailed listing of
all the known expenses to the City Treasurer, who shall, if so ordered by the
City Council prepare an invoice to the responsible party for payment.
   (B)   The Treasurers invoice shall demand full payment within 30 days of
receipt of the bill.
   (C)   Any additional expenses that become known to the Fire Chief of the
City Council following the transmittal of the bill to the responsible party
shall be billed in the same manner on subsequent bills to the responsible
party.
   (D)   For any amounts due that remain unpaid after 30 days, the city shall
impose a late charge of 1% per month or a fraction thereof.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
§ 33.05 OTHER REMEDIES.
   The city may pursue any other remedy, or may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings, in a court of competent jurisdiction to collect charges
imposed under this subchapter. The recovery of charges imposed under this
subchapter does not limit liability of responsible parties under local
ordinance or state or federal law, rule or regulation.
(Ord. 166, passed - -)
CHAPTER 34: SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Advisory petitions
   
34.03   Improvement procedure
   
34.04   Hazard or nuisance procedure
   
34.05   Sidewalk procedure
   
34.06   Single lot procedure
   
34.07   Lien created
   
34.08   Installments and collection of lien
   
34.09   Rebates, reassessments and additional assessments
   
34.10   Restrictions imposed
§ 34.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Single
words shall include the plural and masculine words shall include the feminine
and neuter.
   ASSESSOR, CITY MANAGER, CLERK, ENGINEER, or TREASURER. Those persons duly
appointed to those offices or positions in the city. In the absence of any
particular official designated herein to perform any specified act, the City
Manager may perform that act. If an outside engineer is specifically employed
for the work on an improvement, the word ENGINEER shall mean the person so
employed.
   COST. Includes the expense of survey, spreading of roll, notices,
advertising, printing, financing, legal, engineering, construction and
condemnation and all other costs incidental to the making of the improvement.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any public betterment.
   LOT or PARCEL OF LAND. Any subdivision or portion thereof as officially
platted or any unplatted parcel of land as may be described upon any official
records.
   OWNER. The last recorded title holder of any lot or parcel of land, or the
person whose name is last listed upon the city assessment roll or tax roll as
owner of a certain piece or parcel of land.
   PERSON. An individual, group, partnership, firm, association, corporation or
congregation.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 34.02 ADVISORY PETITIONS.
   (A)   Advisory petition. The Council, in order to ascertain whether or not a
reasonable number of property owners to be assessed desire any particular
improvement to be made, may request and receive a petition therefor, or may
receive such a petition voluntarily presented; but in either event, the
petition shall be advisory only and shall not be jurisdictional.
   (B)   Contents of petition. All advisory petitions shall be addressed to the
Council and contain a brief description of the improvement sought to be made or
the nuisance or hazard sought to be abated and shall be signed by property
owners only whose signatures shall be followed by a brief description of the
property owned by them. The signatures of the petitions shall be verified by
the oath of one or more of the circulators of the petition, before filing.
   (C)   Filing of petition. Advisory petitions shall be filed with the Clerk/
Treasurer who shall check them for signatures and correctness and if they are
found to be in order he or she shall refer them to the City Manager who shall
present them to the Council at its next regular meeting or special meeting
called for that purpose, together with his or her recommendations.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 34.03 IMPROVEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Initiatory resolution. When, by the provisions of the Charter and the
laws of the state, the Council shall have power to make a public improvement by
special assessment, it shall by resolution set forth the improvement intended
to be made and direct the City Manager to prepare a report containing any
information they may request concerning the improvement.
   (B)   Plans and specifications. The City Manager shall prepare, or cause to
be prepared, plans and specifications of the improvement to be made; an
estimate of the life of the improvement and of the cost thereof; a description
of the assessment district or lands affected; and other pertinent information
as the Council may have requested.
   (C)   Report of City Manager. The City Manager shall prepare his or her
report and include in it a schedule of all property affected by the proposed
improvement, listing the assessed valuation, tax delinquencies, whether land is
vacant or improved, and pertinent information on parcels as are owned by public
authorities, and other information as the Council may have requested; and shall
present it to the Council along with the plans and specifications covering the
project, together with his or her recommendation as to what proportion of the
cost should be paid by special assessment and what part, if any, should be a
general obligation of the city, the number of installments in which the
assessment should be spread and the lands which should be included in the
special assessment district.
   (D)   Notice of hearing. After the filing of the report and plans and
specifications above referred to, the Council shall by resolution, order the
same filed with the Clerk/Treasurer and provide for a public hearing before
them on the improvement to be made, which hearing shall be not less than ten
days after notice thereof has been given by publication.
   (E)   Public hearing, objections and changes. At the time and place
specified in the notice for the public hearing, the Council shall meet and hear
any person to be affected by the proposed public improvement. The hearing may
be adjourned from time to time by the Council and the Council may make any
changes in the proposed work or assessment, which shall seem reasonable or
proper in view of any objections, or for any other reason which may appear to
be for the best interests of the city; provided that, if the improvements
intended to be made are enlarged upon or additions made to the district to be
assessed, the same shall not be done until after another hearing is held
pursuant to notice as required for the original hearings.
   (F)   Resolution of determination. After the public hearing, the Council
may, by resolution, determine to make the improvement and defray the whole or
any part of the cost of the improvement by special assessment upon the property
especially benefitted in proportion to the benefits derived, or to be derived,
and designate whether it is to be assessed according to frontage, area,
valuation, benefit or other basis. By the resolution the Council shall approve
the plans and specifications for the improvement; determine the number of
installments in which assessments may be paid; determine the rate of interest
to be charged on installments, not to exceed 6% per annum; designate the
district or land and premises upon which special assessments shall be levied;
direct the Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with the
Council’s determination; and designate the name by which the assessment roll
shall be known and referred to.
   (G)   Special assessment roll. The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a
special assessment roll including all lots and parcels of land within the
special assessment district designated by the Council and shall assess to each
lot or parcel of land the relative portion of the whole sum to be levied
against all the lands in the special assessment district as the benefit to the
lot or parcel of land bears to the total benefits to all lands in the district.
There shall also be entered upon the roll the amount which has been assessed to
the city at large.
   (H)   Certificate of assessor. When the Assessor shall have completed the
assessment roll, he or she shall attach thereto, or endorse thereon, his or her
certificate to the effect that the roll has been made by him or her pursuant to
a resolution of the Council (giving date of adoption of same) and that in
making the assessments therein, he or she has, as near as may be, according to
his or her best judgment, conformed in all respects to the directions contained
in the resolution and the City Charter and the provisions of this chapter.
Thereupon, he or she shall file the special assessment roll with the Clerk/
Treasurer, who shall present the same to the Council.
   (I)   Notice of hearing on roll. Upon receipt of the special assessment
roll, the Council shall order it filed in the office of the Clerk/Treasurer for
public examination, and shall by resolution, fix the time and place when the
Council will meet and review the roll, which meeting shall be held not less
than ten days after notice thereof, specifying the purpose, time and place, has
been published.
   (J)   Written objections. Any person deeming himself or herself aggrieved by
the special assessment roll may file his or her objections thereto in writing
with the Clerk/Treasurer prior to the close of the hearing, which written
objections shall specify in which respect he or she deems himself or herself
aggrieved.
   (K)   Hearing on objections. The Council shall meet and review the special
assessment roll at the time and place appointed or at an adjourned date
therefor and shall consider any written objections thereto.
   (L)   Objection to improvements. If, at or prior to final confirmation of
any special assessment roll, written objections to the proposed improvement
have been filed by the owners of property which will be required to bear more
than 50% of the amount of the special assessment, the improvement shall not be
made by proceedings authorized by this chapter without the affirmative vote of
four members of the Council.
   (M)   Corrections and changes. The Council may correct the special
assessment roll as to any assessment or description of any lot or parcel of
land or other errors appearing therein. Any changes made in the roll shall be
noted in the Council minutes.
   (N)   Confirmation or rejection of roll. After the hearing and review the
Council, by resolution, may confirm the special assessment roll with
corrections as may have been made, if any, or may refer it back to the Assessor
for revision or may annul it and any proceedings in connection therewith.
   (O)   Certificate of confirmation. The Clerk shall endorse the date of
confirmation upon each special assessment roll and upon confirmation the roll
shall be final and conclusive.
   (P)   Contractual provision. In the event that all persons or property
owners to be affected by any proposed improvement agree that the proposed
improvement be made and that a special assessment be levied in connection
therewith, the city may in lieu of the foregoing procedure, enter into a
written contract with all of the persons or property owners affected thereby,
which contract when properly approved and executed, shall operate as a complete
special assessment procedure and the assessment shall be made in accordance
with the contract.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 34.04 HAZARD OR NUISANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Resolution and notice.
      (1)   When any lot, building or structure within the city, because of an
accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontrolled growing of noxious weeds,
the age or dilapidation of structure, or when any other circumstance, condition
or happening becomes in the opinion of the Council a public hazard or nuisance,
which is dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the inhabitants of the
city or those residing or habitually going near the lot, building or structure,
the Council may by resolution, after investigation, determine that a hazard or
nuisance exists.
      (2)   The Council shall prescribe a form of notice and direct the Clerk/
Treasurer to give the notice by publication or by first class mail, addressed
to the last known address of the owner of the land upon which the nuisance
exists or to the owner of the building or structure itself, to abate the
nuisance or remove the hazard. In the case of the removal of weeds, or snow, or
ice, no notice shall be necessary.
   (B)   Contents of notice. The notice to abate or remove the hazard or
nuisance shall specify the nature of the hazard or nuisance and describe the
property on which the same is located and require the owner to abate or remove
the hazard or nuisance promptly and shall designate a time within which the
same shall be abated or removed which shall be commensurate with the nature of
the hazard or nuisance.
   (C)   Removal by city. If at the expiration of the time limit specified in
the notice to remove or to abate a hazard or nuisance, the owner has not
complied with the requirements thereof, or in any case where the owner of the
land or of the building or structure itself is not known, the Council may, by
resolution, order the hazard removed or nuisance abated under the direction of
the City Manager by the proper department or agency of the city, or may do the
work by contract or by hire.
   (D)   City Manager’s duties. The City Manager shall take all steps necessary
to carry out the directions of the Council in removing a hazard or abating a
nuisance. He or she shall keep or cause to be kept an accurate record of all
expense in connection therewith. Upon completion of the work to be performed,
he or she shall submit a report of the work done and all expenses in connection
therewith to the Council.
   (E)   Assessment of costs.
      (1)   The Council shall, by resolution, after examination of the City
Manager’s report, determine what amount or part of each expense shall be
charged and the person, if known, against whom, and the premises upon which the
same shall be levied as a special assessment.
      (2)   By the resolution the Council shall determine the number of
installments in which the assessment may be paid; determine the rate of
interest to be charged on installments, not to exceed 6% per annum; designate
the district or land and premises upon which special assessments shall be
levied; direct the Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance
with the Council’s determination; and designate the name by which the
assessment roll shall be known and referred to.
      (3)   As often as the Council shall deem it expedient, notice of all of
the several amounts so reported and determined shall be given by the Clerk/
Treasurer either by first class mail sent to the last known address of the
owner as shown on the assessment roll of the city, or by publication.
   (F)   Special assessment roll. The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a
special assessment roll including all lots and parcels of land within the
special assessment district designated by the Council and shall assess to each
lot or parcel of land sums as may have been directed by the Council.
   (G)   Certificate of assessor. When the Assessor shall have completed the
assessment roll, he or she shall attach thereto and endorse thereon, his or her
certificate to the effect that the roll has been made by him or her pursuant to
a resolution of the Council (giving date of adoption of same) and that in
making the assessments therein, he or she has as near as may be, according to
his or her best judgment, conformed in all respects to the directions contained
in the resolution and the Charter and the provisions of this chapter.
Thereupon, he or she shall file the special assessment roll with the Clerk/
Treasurer, who shall forthwith give notice as has been required by the Council.
   (H)   Notice of hearing on roll. Upon receipt of the special assessment
roll, the Clerk/Treasurer shall give notice as has been directed by the
Council, which notice shall state the basis of the assessment, the amount
thereof, describe the property affected thereby and give a reasonable time,
which shall not be less than 30 days, in which a hearing may be had thereon or
payment made.
   (I)   Hearing on objections. In the event payment is not made within the
time specified in the resolution and notice, the Council shall meet at the time
and place provided and hear any objections to the roll as prepared.
   (J)   Corrections and changes. The Council may correct the roll as to any
assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land or other errors
appearing therein. Any changes made in the roll shall be noted in the Council
minutes.
   (K)   Confirmation of roll. After the hearing the Council shall confirm the
special assessment roll with corrections as may have been made and the Clerk/
Treasurer shall endorse the date of confirmation thereon and upon confirmation
the roll shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 34.05 SIDEWALK PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Initiatory resolution. When, in the opinion of the Council, any
sidewalk needs to be constructed, rebuilt or repaired, it shall by resolution
direct the City Manager to prepare a report containing any information it may
request concerning the work.
   (B)   Plans and specifications. The City Manager shall prepare or cause to
be prepared, plans and specifications of the work to be done, a schedule of
lands affected and other information as the Council may have requested.
   (C)   Report of City Manager. The City Manager shall prepare his or her
report and include in it a schedule of all property affected by the work
proposed to be done, pertinent information on the parcels as are owned by
public authorities, and other information as the Council may have requested;
and shall present it to the Council along with plans and specifications,
together with his or her recommendation as to what part, if any should be a
general obligation of the city, the number of installments in which the
assessments should be spread and the lands which should be included in the
special assessment district.
   (D)   Alternate procedure. When, in the opinion of the City Manager, any
sidewalks need to be constructed, rebuilt or repaired, he or she may request or
cause to be prepared, plans and specifications of the work needed to be done
and a schedule of the lands affected. The City Manager shall submit the
information, along with his or her report and recommendations to the Council,
in the same manner as though the Council had requested it.
   (E)   Resolution of determination. After reviewing the plans and
specifications and the report of the City Manager, the Council shall, if it so
desires, determine by resolution that the work be done, setting forth the
details concerning it, prescribe a form of notice, and direct the Clerk/
Treasurer to give the notice by publication or by first class mail, addressed
to the last known address of the owner of the land to be assessed.
   (F)   Contents of notice. The notice shall specify the extent of the work to
be done, describe the property affected by the work, and require the owner to
perform the work promptly in accordance with the plans and specifications of
the engineer and designate a time within which the same shall be done.
   (G)   Work done by city. If, at the expiration of the time limit specified
in the notice, within which the work must be done, the owner has not complied
with the requirements thereof, the Council shall by resolution, order the
sidewalks to be constructed, rebuilt or repaired under the direction of the
City Manager by the proper department, or may do the work by contract or by
hire.
   (H)   City Manager’s duties. The City Manager shall take all steps necessary
to carry out the directions of the Council in performing all work ordered,
shall keep, or cause to be kept, an accurate record of all expense in
connection therewith, and upon completion of the work to be performed, shall
submit a report of the work done and of all the expense in connection
therewith, to the Council.
   (I)   Assessment of costs. The Council shall, by resolution, after
examination of the City Manager’s report, determine what amount or part of each
expense shall be charged and the person, if known, against whom, and the
premises upon which the same shall be levied as a special assessment. By
resolution the Council shall determine the number of installments in which the
assessment may be paid; determine the rate of interest to be charged on
installments, not to exceed 6% per annum; designate the district or land and
premises upon which special assessment shall be levied; direct the Assessor to
prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with the Council’s
determination and designate the name by which the assessment shall be known and
referred to. As often as the Council shall deem expedient, notice of the
several amounts so reported and determined shall be given by the Clerk/
Treasurer either by first class mail sent to the last known address of the
owner as shown on the assessment roll of the city or by publication.
   (J)   Special assessment roll. The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a
special assessment roll including all lots and parcels of land within the
special assessment district designated by the Council and shall assess to each
lot or parcel of land sums as may have been directed by the Council.
   (K)   Certificate of assessor. When the Assessor shall have completed the
assessment roll, he or she shall attach thereto and endorse thereon, his or her
certificate to the effect that the roll has been made by him or her pursuant to
a resolution of the Council (giving date of adoption of same) and that in
making the assessment therein, he or she has, as near as may be, according to
his or her best judgment, conformed in all respects to the directions contained
in the resolution and the Charter and the provisions of this chapter.
Thereupon, he or she shall file the special assessment roll with the Clerk/
Treasurer who shall forthwith give notice as has been required by the Council.
   (L)   Notice of hearing on roll. Upon receipt of the special assessment
roll, the Clerk/Treasurer shall give notice as has been directed by the
Council, which notice shall state the basis of the assessment, the amount
thereof, describe the property affected thereby and give a reasonable time,
which shall not be less than 30 days, in which a hearing may be had thereon or
payment made.
   (M)   Hearing on objections. In the event payment is not made within the
time specified in the resolution and notice, the Council shall meet at the time
and place provided and hear any objections to the roll as prepared.
   (N)   Corrections and changes. The Council may correct the roll as to any
assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land or other errors
appearing therein. Any changes made in the roll shall be noted in the Council
minutes.
   (O)   Confirmation of roll. After the hearing, the Council shall confirm the
special assessment roll with corrections as may have been made and the Clerk/
Treasurer shall endorse the date of confirmation thereon and upon confirmation,
the roll shall be final and conclusive.
   (P)   Alternate procedure under improvement procedure. The Council may, if
it so desires, disregard the proceedings under this section and proceed
entirely under the improvement procedure provided in this chapter, either as an
individual improvement program or in conjunction with any other improvement
program.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 34.06 SINGLE LOT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Report of City Manager. When any expense shall have been incurred by
the city upon or in respect to any single lot or parcel of land, which expense
is chargeable against the lot or parcel of land and the owner thereof, by any
Charter provision, or ordinance, or the laws of the state, and is not of that
class required to be pro-rated among several lots or parcels of land in a
special assessment district, the amount of labor and material or any other
expense or service for which the expense was incurred, with a description of
the lot or parcel of land upon or in respect to which the expense was incurred,
and the name of the owner, if known, shall be reported by the City Manager to
the Council.
   (B)   Resolution of determination. After reviewing the report of the City
Manager, the Council may, if it so desires, determine by resolution what amount
or part of each expense shall be charged, and the person, if known, against
whom and the premises upon which the same shall be levied as a special
assessment. By the resolution the Council shall determine the number of
installments in which the assessment may be paid; determine the rate of
interest to be charged on installments, not to exceed 6% per annum; designate
the land and premises upon which the special assessment shall be levied; direct
the Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with the
Council’s determination; and designate the name by which the assessment roll
shall be known and referred to. As often as the Council may deem it expedient,
notice of the several amounts so reported and determined shall be given by the
Clerk, either by first class mail sent to the last known address of the owner
as shown on the assessment roll of the city, or by publication.
   (C)   Special assessment roll. The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a
special assessment roll including all lots and parcels of land within the
special assessment district designated by the Council and shall assess to each
lot or parcel of land sums as may have been directed by the Council.
   (D)   Certificate of assessor. When the Assessor shall have completed the
assessment roll, he or she shall attach thereto and endorse thereon, his or her
certificate to the effect that the roll has been made by him or her pursuant to
a resolution of the Council (giving date of adoption of same) and that in
making the assessments therein, he or she has, as near as may be, according to
his or her best judgment, conformed in all respect to the directions contained
in the resolution and the Charter and the provisions of this chapter.
Thereupon, he or she shall file the special assessment roll with the Clerk/
Treasurer who shall forthwith give notice as has been required by the Council.
   (E)   Notice of hearing on roll. Upon receipt of the special assessment
roll, the Clerk/Treasurer shall give notice as has been directed by the
Council, which notice shall state the basis of the assessment, the amount
thereof, describe the property affected thereby and give a reasonable time,
which shall not be less than 30 days, in which a hearing may be had thereon or
payment made.
   (F)   Hearing on objections. In the event payment is not made within the
time specified in the resolution and notice, the Council shall meet at the time
and place provided and hear any objections to the roll as prepared.
   (G)   Corrections and changes. The Council may correct the roll as to any
assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land, or other errors
appearing therein. Any changes made in the roll shall be noted in the Council
minutes.
   (H)   Confirmation of roll. After the hearing, the Council shall confirm the
special assessment roll with corrections as may have been made and the Clerk/
Treasurer shall endorse the date of confirmation thereon and upon confirmation,
the roll shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 34.07 LIEN CREATED.
   (A)   Lien established. Upon the confirmation of each special assessment
roll the special assessments shall become a debt to the city from the persons
to whom they are assessed and shall until paid be a lien upon the property
assessed for the amount of the assessment and all interest and charges thereon.
The lien shall be of the same character and effect as created by the Charter
for city taxes.
   (B)   Character of lien. All liens above referred to shall be of the same
character and effect as the lien created by the city for taxes and shall
include accrued interest and charges thereon.
   (C)   Destruction or impairment of lien. No judgment or decree, nor any
action of the Council vacating a special assessment shall destroy or impair the
lien of the city upon the premises assessed for the amount of the assessment as
may be equitably charged against the same, or as by regular mode of proceeding,
might have been lawfully assessed thereon.
   (D)   Failure to receive notice. Failure of any owner to receive any notice
required to be sent under the provisions of the City Charter and this chapter
shall not invalidate any special assessment or special assessment roll.
   (E)   Special liability of owner. In addition to the property tax lien
created hereunder, any special assessment levied by the city shall constitute a
debt owed to the city and may be collected in the same manner as any contracted
debt, or in the same manner as provided by law for the collection of personal
property taxes.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953)
§ 34.08 INSTALLMENTS AND COLLECTION OF LIEN.
   (A)   Installment payments. Any assessment may be made payable in yearly
installments not to exceed ten in number, as the Council may determine at the
time of confirmation of the roll. In the event a division of the assessment
operates to make any installment less than $10, the Assessor shall reduce the
number of installments so that each installment shall be above and as near to
$10 as possible.
   (B)   Due date. All special assessments levied hereunder shall become due
upon confirmation of the special assessment roll and if in annual installments,
the Council shall determine the first installment to be due upon confirmation
of the roll, and deferred installments to be due annually thereafter, or in the
discretion of the Council they may be spread upon and made a part of each
annual city tax roll thereafter until all are paid.
   (C)   First installment spread. The first installment of any special
assessment shall be spread upon a special city tax roll in a column headed
“special assessments”, or upon the next annual city tax roll at the direction
of the Council.
   (D)   Annual installment spread.
      (1)   Annual installments shall be spread thereafter either on a special
assessment roll or on the annual city tax roll, as may have been directed by
the Council, in the same manner and subject to the same provisions as provided
for first installments.
      (2)   The second installment shall be collected as a part of the first
city tax roll which becomes due six months or more after the due date of the
initial installment.
      (3)   All unpaid installments from a date as the Council shall prescribe,
shall bear interest not exceeding 6% per annum, which interest computed to the
following September 1 shall be spread yearly upon the city tax roll together as
one item with the amount of the installment then being spread. The Council may
provide for advance payment of unpaid installments with interest computed to a
date as the Council prescribes.
   (E)   Collection fees and penalties. Each special assessment, or the initial
installment of the assessment when installment payments are provided for, shall
be collected by the Treasurer without collection fee for a period ending on the
last day of the third month following the due day thereof. On the first day of
the fourth month following the due date, the Treasurer shall add to the
assessment or initial installment paid thereafter a collection fee of 4% of the
amount thereof, and on the first day of each succeeding month that the
installment remains unpaid, he or she shall add an additional one-half of 1%
collection fee. All collection fees shall belong to the city and be collectible
in the same manner as collection fees on city taxes.
   (F)   Publication of notice to pay. The assessment roll shall be transmitted
by the Clerk/Treasurer to the Treasurer for collection immediately after
confirmation and in the event it is not a part of the annual tax roll, the
Treasurer shall give notice by publication that the special assessment
(describing it) has been filed in the Treasurer’s office and specify when and
where payments may be made thereon.
   (G)   Notice by mail. The Treasurer may mail statements of the several
assessments to the respective owners as indicated by the records of the
Assessor, of the several lots or parcels of land assessed, stating the amount
of the assessment and the manner in which it may be paid. Provided, however,
that failure to mail any such statement shall not invalidate the assessment or
entitle the owner to an extension of time within which to pay the assessment.
   (H)   Delinquent assessments. Special assessments or initial installments
which become due other than on July 1 shall, if unpaid for 30 days or more on
May 1 of any year, be certified as delinquent to the Council by the Treasurer
and the Council shall place the delinquent assessments on the tax roll for that
year together as one item with accrued collection fees thereon to the following
September 1 and the interest and penalties as may be provided in the ordinance.
   (I)   Contested assessments.
      (1)   No suit of any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the
purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any special assessment:
         (a)   Unless within 30 days after the confirmation of the special
assessment roll written notice is given to the Council of intention to file the
suit or action stating the grounds on which it is claimed the assessment is
illegal; and
         (b)   Unless the suit or action shall be commenced within 60 days
after confirmation of the roll.
      (2)   Regardless of whether or not any public improvement is completed in
any special assessment district, no owner of real property located in the
district shall be entitled to commence any suit or action for the purpose of
contesting or enjoining the collection of any like special assessments after he
or she has received the benefits from the substantial completion of that
portion of the public improvement for which he or she is assessed.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953)
§ 34.09 REBATES, REASSESSMENTS AND ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   Certification. The City Manager shall, within 60 days after the
completion of each local or special public improvement compile the actual cost
thereof and certify the same to the Assessor who shall adjust the special
assessment roll to correspond therewith.
   (B)   Additional assessment. When any special assessment roll shall prove
insufficient to pay the cost of the improvement for which it was made
(including the expenses incidental thereto and the principal and interest on
bonds or other evidences of obligation issued therefor) additional pro rata
assessments may be made, but the total amount assessed against any one parcel
of land shall not exceed the value of benefits received by the lot or parcel of
land. The additional pro rata assessment shall not exceed 25% of the assessment
as originally confirmed unless a meeting of the Council be held to review the
additional assessment, for which meeting notices shall be published and mailed
as provided in the case of review of the original special assessment roll.
   (C)   Assessment refunds. The excess by which any special assessment proves
larger than the actual cost of the improvement and expenses incidental thereto
may be placed in the general fund of the city if the excess is 5% or less of
the assessment, but should the assessment prove larger than necessary by more
than 5% the entire excess shall be refunded. The refund shall be made by credit
against future unpaid installments to the extent of the installments then
existing and the balance of the refund shall be in cash. No refunds may be made
which contravene the provisions of any outstanding evidence of indebtedness
secured in whole or part by the special assessment.
   (D)   Illegal or invalid assessments.
      (1)   Whenever any special assessment shall, in the opinion of the
Council, be invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the
proceedings, or if any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge the
assessment to be illegal, the Council shall, whether the improvement has been
made or not, or whether any part of the assessments have been paid or not, have
power to cause a new assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the
former assessment was made.
      (2)   All proceedings on the reassessment and for the collection thereof
shall be conducted in the same manner as provided for the original assessment,
and whenever any sum or part thereof levied upon any property in the assessment
so set aside has been paid and not refunded, the payment so made shall be
applied upon the reassessment or if the payments exceed the amount of the
reassessment, refunds shall be made.
      (3)   No judgment or decree nor any act of the Council vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the city upon the premises
assessed for an amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged against
the same or as by regular mode of proceeding might have been lawfully assessed
thereupon.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 34.10 RESTRICTIONS IMPOSED.
   (A)   Special fund. Except as otherwise provided, moneys raised by special
assessment for any public debt improvement shall be credited to a special
account and shall be used only to pay for the costs of the improvement for
which the assessment was levied and expenses incidental thereto or to repay
principal and interest on any money borrowed therefor.
   (B)   Restricted use of funds. Each special assessment account must be used
only for the improvement project for which the assessment was levied.
   (C)   Combination of projects. The Council may combine several districts
into one project for the purpose of effecting a saving in the costs; provided,
however, for each district there shall be established separate funds and
accounts to cover the cost of the separate assessment rolls.
   (D)   Limitations on preliminary expenses. No public improvements to be
financed in whole or part by special assessment shall be made before the
confirmation of the special assessment roll for the improvement, except as
herein specifically provided.
   (E)   Failure to mail notices.
      (1)   The requirement for mailing any notice required to be so mailed
shall not be a jurisdictional requirement for the making of any special
assessment or any special assessment roll.
      (2)   Failure to mail any notice required shall not invalidate any
special assessment or special assessment roll.
(Ord. 54, passed 12-3-1953)
CHAPTER 35: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
Collection of Dishonored Checks
   
35.01   Purpose
   
35.02   Definitions
   
35.03   Checks drawn without sufficient funds
   
35.04   Person responsible
   
35.05   Presumption
   
35.06   Charges against person
   
35.07   Cost recovery schedule
   
35.08   Billing
   
35.09   Failure to pay; procedure to recover cost
Apartments Tax Exemption
   
35.20   Title
   
35.21   Authority
   
35.22   Definitions
   
35.23   Class of housing developments
   
35.24   Establishing of annual service charge
   
35.25   Contractual effect of subchapter
   
35.26   Payment of charge
   
35.27   Duration
   
35.28   Verification of rent
   
35.29   Limitation on the payment of annual service charge
   
35.30   Termination
   
35.31   Conflict
Tax Exemption for Bronson Senior Apartments
   
35.45   Purpose; city authority; findings of fact
   
35.46   Definition of terms
   
35.47   Class of housing projects
   
35.48   Establishment of annual service charge
   
35.49   Contractual effect of subchapter
   
35.50   Limitation on the payment of annual service charge
   
35.51   Determination and collection of service charge; lien
   
35.52   Duration
 
   
35.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Special assessment procedure, see
Chapter 34
COLLECTION OF DISHONORED CHECKS
§ 35.01 PURPOSE.
   The city finds that a significant number of checks are written and
dishonored within its geographical boundaries causing serious financial loss
and hardship to citizens and merchants herein. In addition, the city finds that
the financial loss and hardship incurred by its citizens and merchants
seriously impact on the stream of commerce and the general public by causing
increases in costs of goods and services. As a result of these activities, a
greater operational and financial burden is placed upon the city’s police and
legal services by persons who are placing dishonored checks into the stream of
commerce.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 35.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS OF RECORD. The address that appears on the check or the last known
address of record of the maker of a check that is recorded with the Secretary
of State at the time the check was presented for payment of money, goods or
services.
   CHECK. Any check, draft or order for the payment of money, to apply on
account or otherwise, upon any bank or other depository.
   DISHONORED.
      (1)   Any check, draft or order drawn or written on any account or
otherwise, upon any bank or other depository, without sufficient funds for the
payment of same when presentment is made to the drawee.
      (2)   Any check, draft or order drawn or written on any account which has
been closed with or by the bank or other depository upon which it is drawn.
      (3)   Any check, draft or order drawn or written on any account for stop
payment, any bank administrative purpose or any other reason that caused the
check to become dishonored when presentation is made to the drawee. Exceptions
include:
         (a)   A check that was stolen and passed; and
         (b)   A stop payment check where a verified dispute exists between two
parties.
   DRAWEE. A person, business, organization, partnership, company or
corporation to whom a check is presented or is requested to pay the amount of
money therein mentioned.
   EXPENSES OF DISHONORED CHECK RESPONSE. The direct and reasonable cost
incurred by the city or to the private person or corporation operating at the
request or direction of the city, when responding to a reported dishonored
check, including the cost of providing police, City Attorney and/or
administrative services in response to any reported dishonored check. These
costs further include all of salaries and wages of the city personnel and/or
contractors engaged in investigation, supervision and report preparation, and
all costs connected with the administration and provision of any prosecution of
the person responsible for the dishonored check, except actual cost which may
be levied by the court as a result of statue or court rule.
   MAKER. A person, business, organization, partnership, company or corporation
who is the maker or drawer of a check.
   PRESENT. The making, drawing, uttering or delivering.
   PRESENTING. The making drawing, uttering or delivering.
   PROTEST. A check has been refused for payment or acceptance by a bank or
other repository.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 35.03 CHECKS DRAWN WITHOUT SUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   (A)   No person shall with intent to defraud, make, draw, utter or deliver
any check, draft or order for the payment of money, to apply on account or
otherwise, upon any bank or other depository, knowing at the time of making,
drawing, uttering or delivering, that the make or drawer does not have
sufficient funds in or credit with the bank or other depository, for the
payment of the check, draft or order in full upon its presentation, of the
amount payable in the check, draft or order in any amount.
   (B)   No person shall with the intent to defraud, make, draw, utter or
deliver any check, draft or order for payment of money if at the time of
making, drawing, uttering or delivering the check, draft or order he or she
does not have an account in or credit with the bank or other depository for the
payment of the check, draft or other upon presentation.
   (C)   No person shall with the intent to defraud, make, draw, utter or
deliver any check, draft or order for the payment of money to apply on account
or otherwise, upon any bank, or other depository, unless the person has
sufficient funds for payment for same when presentment is due to the drawee in
any amount, except where the lack of funds is due to garnishment, attachment,
levy or other lawful cause, and the fact was not known to the person who made,
drew, uttered or delivered the instrument at the time of so doing.
   (D)   As against the maker or drawer thereof, the making, drawing, uttering
or delivering of a check, draft or order, payment of which is reused by the
drawee, when presented in the usual course of business, shall be prima facie
evidence of intent to defraud of knowledge of insufficient funds in or credit
with the bank or other depository, provided the maker or drawer shall not have
paid and protest fees, within five business days after receiving notice by
first class mail that the check, draft or order has not been paid by the
drawee.
   (E)   Where the check, draft or order is protested on the grounds of
insufficiency of funds or credit, the notice of protest thereof shall be
admissible as proof of presentation, non-payment and protest, and shall be
prima facie evidence of intent to defraud and knowledge of insufficient funds
or credit with the bank or other depository.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999) Penalty, see §
35.99
§ 35.04 PERSON RESPONSIBLE.
   Any person is liable for the expense of a dishonored check response, if the
person proximately causes any incident resulting in a dishonored check
response.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 35.05 PRESUMPTION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter a person is presumed to be the
proximate cause of an incident if the person makes, draws, utters or delivers
any dishonored check or causes directly or indirectly a check to become
dishonored.
   (B)   For the purpose of this subchapter a person is presumed to have acted
with intent to defraud if the person shall not have paid the drawer thereof the
amount due thereon, together with all costs and protest fees, including the
fees assessed, thereunder, within five business days after receiving notice by
first class mail to the last known address of records that the check, draft or
order has not been paid by the drawee.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 35.06 CHARGES AGAINST PERSON.
   The expenses of a dishonored check response shall be a charge against the
person liable for the expense under this subchapter. The charge constitutes a
debt of that person and is collectible by the city for incurring those costs in
the same manner as in the case of an obligation under contract, expressed or
implied.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 35.07 COST RECOVERY SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The City Council shall, by resolution, adopt a schedule of cost
included with the expense of a dishonored check response.
   (B)   This schedule shall be available to the public from the City Clerk/
Treasurer or the Police Department.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 35.08 BILLING.
   The City Clerk/Treasurer, or his or her designee, may submit a bill for the
dishonored check response by first class mail to the last known address of
record or personal service to the person liable for the expenses as enumerated
under this subchapter. The bill(s) shall require full payment within 30
consecutive days from the date of service. Service by mail shall be effective
upon depositing the bill in the United States postal service receptacle. In no
event shall billing be permitted after one year from the last expense incurred.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
§ 35.09 FAILURE TO PAY; PROCEDURE TO RECOVER COST.
   (A)   Any failure by the person described in this subchapter as liable for
the expense of a dishonored check response, to pay the bill within 30
consecutive days of service shall be considered in default.
   (B)   In case of default, the city may commence a civil suit to recover the
expenses and any cost allowed by the law.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
APARTMENTS TAX EXEMPTION
§ 35.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall hereafter be known and cited as “Brookfield Apartments
Tax Exemption Ordinance”.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.21 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the state,
and its political subdivisions, to provide housing for its citizens of low
income, and to encourage the development of the housing, by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes, in accordance with the State Housing
Development Authority Act of 1966 (Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq.).
   (B)   The city is authorized by the Act to establish or change the service
charge to be paid in lieu of taxes by any or all classes of housing exempt from
taxation under the Act at any amount it chooses not to exceed the taxes that
would be paid but for the Act.
   (C)   It is further acknowledged that the housing for persons of low income
is a public necessity, and as the city will be benefitted and improved by the
housing the encouragement of the same by providing certain real estate tax
exemption therefore is a valid public purpose. Further, that the continuance of
the provisions of this subchapter for tax exemption and the service charge in
lieu of taxes during the periods hereinafter contemplated are essential to the
determination of economic feasibility of housing developments which are
constructed and/or rehabilitated and financed in reliance thereon.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346 of
1966, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq., of the State of Michigan, as amended.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENT. The total possible scheduled rent during an agreed
annual period from all units of the housing development representing rent or
occupancy charges, exclusive of owner-paid utilities as herein defined.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   CITY. The City of Bronson, Michigan.
   CONTRACT RENTS. Defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development (“HUD”) in regulations promulgated pursuant to the U.S. Housing Act
of 1937, as amended by the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974.
   ELDERLY. A single person who is 55 years of age or older, or a household in
which at least one member is 55 years of age or older and all other members are
50 years of age or older.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for a person of low or moderate income and elements of other housing,
commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational facilities that
the authority determines improve the quality of the development as it relates
to housing for persons of low or moderate income.
   MORTGAGE LOAN. A loan to be made by the authority to the sponsor for the
acquisition, rehabilitation and permanent financing of housing development.
   OWNER. A-Mac Rural Development, LDHA, LLC.
   SPONSOR. Persons or entities with a general partner interest in the owner
which have applied to the authority for a mortgage loan to finance a housing
development.
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer services and/or electrical service
which are paid by the development.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 35.23 CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that the class of housing developments to
which the tax exemption shall apply for and for which a service charge shall be
paid in lieu of taxes shall be that portion of the development, which is for
persons of low income and, which is financed or assisted pursuant to the Act.
   (B)   It is further determined that all units of Brookfield Apartments are
of this class. The city acknowledges that the owner has offered, subject to a
receipt of a mortgage loan to rehabilitate, own and operate a housing
development identified as Brookfield Apartments, on certain property located at
415 Wayne Street, Bronson, Michigan (as described on Exhibit “A” attached to
the ordinance from which this subchapter is derived, which is on file in the
office of the City Clerk/Treasurer) in the city to serve persons of low income,
and that the owner has offered to pay the city an annual service charge for
public services in lieu of all taxes.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.24 ESTABLISHING OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The housing development, identified as the Brookfield Apartments, and
the property on which it is located shall be exempt from all property taxes.
   (B)   The city acknowledging that the owner, the authority and the HUD have
established the economic feasibility of the housing development in reliance
upon the enactment and continuing effect of this subchapter and the
qualification of the housing development for exemption from all property taxes
and a payment in lieu of taxes as established herein, and in consideration of
the sponsor’s offer, subject to receipt of a mortgage loan, to rehabilitate,
own and operate the housing development, hereby agrees to accept payment of an
annual service charge for public services in lieu of all property taxes subject
to the requirements of §§
35.27 and
35.28.
   (C)   The annual service charge shall be equal to 10% of the gross contract
rents charged, including any federal subsidy, but less owner paid utilities (or
as otherwise provided in a municipal services agreement between the parties).
In the event the development no longer receives contract rents, the annual
service charge shall be equal to 10% of the annual shelter rents. In no event
shall the service charge be less than $2,400 per year.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.25 CONTRACTUAL EFFECT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of § 15(a)(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
125.1415a, to the contrary, a contract between the city and the owner, with the
authority as third party beneficiary thereunder, to provide tax exemption and
accept payments in lieu thereof as previously described is effected by
enactment of the ordinance.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 35.26 PAYMENT OF CHARGE.
   The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined hereunder shall be payable
in the same manner as general property taxes are payable to the city except
that the annual payment shall be paid on or before February 1 for the preceding
year’s service charge.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.27 DURATION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall become effective upon acquisition of
the development by the owner and shall remain in effect for a period of 30
years and shall not terminate as long as the mortgage loan remains outstanding
and unpaid and the authority or sponsor or HUD have any interest in the
property, provided that the rehabilitation of the housing development is
completed within one year from the effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.28 VERIFICATION OF RENT.
   (A)   The sponsor shall verify the contract rents and/or annual shelter
rents, whichever is applicable pursuant to §
35.24, to the city with a statement of profit and loss of the housing
development as reported to the authority by an independent certified public
accountant or other form of financial documentation deemed suitable by the
city.
   (B)   The statement of profit and loss, or other form of financial
documentation acceptable by the city, together with a statement describing the
methodology by which the sponsor calculated the service charge, shall be
submitted to the City Clerk/Treasurer by February 1 of each year.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.29 LIMITATION ON THE PAYMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   Notwithstanding §
35.24, the service charge to be paid each year in lieu of taxes for the part of
the housing development, which is tax exempt and which is occupied by other
than low income persons or families shall be equal to the full amount of the
taxes which would be paid on that portion of the housing development if the
housing development were not tax exempt.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.30 TERMINATION.
   (A)   The tax exemption extended hereunder may be terminated and the
property restored to the tax rolls by resolution duly adopted by the city in
any of the following events upon notice of default in writing to the sponsor
and the authority by certified mail return receipt requested or by a nationally
recognized overnight carrier with receipt acknowledged in writing to the
address on file with the Department of Labor and Economic Growth (or successor
department) and a failure by the sponsor to cure the default within 30 days
following delivery of written notice to the sponsor by the city:
      (1)   Failure of the sponsor or the housing development to remain in
compliance with the terms of this subchapter or the Act;
      (2)   Failure of the sponsor to complete the rehabilitation as provided
in §
35.27; or
      (3)   Failure of the sponsor to provide reports and documentation as may
be required by §
35.28.
   (B)   Determinations of the event and continuing existence of default and
the sufficiency of actions taken to cure default shall be in the sole judgment
of the city.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
§ 35.31 CONFLICT.
   All ordinances of the city, or any amendments, thereto, which are in
conflict, are, to the extent of the conflict, repealed, provided, however, that
the repeal shall be effective only upon the rehabilitation of the housing
development by the sponsor as provided in §
35.27. Provided further that this subchapter shall not be deemed precedent for
other similar PILOT ordinances.
(Ord. 174, passed 4-11-2011)
TAX EXEMPTION FOR BRONSON SENIOR APARTMENTS
§ 35.45 PURPOSE; CITY AUTHORITY; FINDINGS OF FACT.
   (A)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for low income
persons and families and to encourage the development of such housing by
providing for a service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the
Act. The City of Bronson is authorized by the Act to establish or change a
service charge to be paid in lieu of taxes by any or all classes of housing
exempt from taxation under this Act at any amount it chooses, not to exceed the
taxes that would be paid but for this Act. It is further acknowledged that such
housing for low income persons and families is a public necessity, and as the
City of Bronson will be benefited and improved by such housing, the
encouragement of the same by providing real estate tax exemption for such
housing is a valid public purpose. It is further acknowledged that the
continuance of the provisions of this subchapter for the tax exemption and the
service charge in lieu of all ad valorem taxes during the period contemplated
in this subchapter are essential to the determination ofeconomic feasibility
ofthe housing development that is to be constructed or rehabilitated with
financing extended in reliance on such tax exemption.
   (B)   The City of Bronson acknowledges that the Sponsor (as defined below)
has offered, subject to receipt of an allocation under the Low Income Housing
Tax Credit Program administered by the Michigan State Housing Development
Authority, to construct, own and operate a housing development identified as
The Bronson Senior Apartments on certain property located at 435 Wayne, parcel
identification number 200-004-000-194-02, in the City of Bronson to serve low
income seniors (age 62 and older), and that the Sponsor has offered to pay the
City on account of this housing development an annual service charge for public
services in lieu of all ad valorem property taxes.
(Ord. 204, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 35.46 DEFINITION OF TERMS.
   All terms in this subchapter shall be defined as set forth in the Act,
except as follows:
   ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346 of
1966 (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq.), as amended.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENT. The total collections during an agreed annual period
from or paid on behalf of all occupants of a housing project representing rent
or occupancy charges, exclusive ofcharges for gas, electricity, heat, or other
utilities furnished to the occupants by the sponsor.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   CITY. The City of Bronson, a home rule municipality organized pursuant to
Public Act 279 of 1909, as amended, and located in Branch County, Michigan.
   DEVELOPMENT. The senior housing development to be located in the city on
certain unplatted to be known as “The Bronson Senior Apartments.”
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development that contains a significant element of
housing for persons of low income and such elements of other housing,
commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational facilities as
the Authority has determined improves the quality of the development as it
relates to housing for persons of low income.
   LIHTC PROGRAM. The Low Income Housing Tax Credit program administered by the
Authority under Section 42 ofthe Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
   LOW INCOME PERSONS AND FAMILIES. Persons and families eligible to move into
a housing development.
   MORTGAGE LOAN. A loan that is federally-aided (as defined in Section 11 of
the Act) or a loan or grant made or to be made by the Authority to the sponsor
for the construction, rehabilitation, acquisition and/or permanent financing of
a housing development, and secured by a mortgage on the housing development.
   SPONSOR. means Renovo Limited Dividend Housing Authority, L.P. which has or
intends to apply to the Authority for an allocation of low income housing tax
credits to finance a Housing Development.
   UTILITIES. Charges for gas, electric, water, sanitary sewer and other
utilities furnished to the occupants that are paid by the housing development.
(Ord. 204, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 35.47 CLASS OF HOUSING PROJECTS.
   It is determined that the class of housing developments to which the tax
exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu of
such taxes shall be housing developments used exclusively by low income persons
and families that are financed with a mortgage loan. It is further determined
that The Bronson Senior Apartments is of this class.
(Ord. 204, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 35.48 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The housing project identified as the Bronson Senior Apartments and
the property on which it will be located shall be exempt from all ad valorem
property taxes from and after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy for
the development. The City of Bronson acknowledges that the sponsor and the
Authority have established the economic feasibility of the housing project in
reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of this subchapter, and the
qualification of the housing development for exemption from all ad valorem
property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this
subchapter. Therefore, in consideration of the sponsor’s offer to construct and
operate the development, the city agrees to accept payment of an annual service
charge for public services in lieu of all ad valorem property taxes. Subject to
receipt of a mortgage loan, the annual service charge shall be equal to 8.25%
of the annual shelter rents actually collected by the development during each
operating year. In no event, will the PILOT service charge collected be less
than $10,000 annually. Nothing in this section shall be construed to exempt the
development and the property on which it is to be constructed from any special
assessments for street or other public improvements or as a result of its
location within a business improvement district authorized by 1999 Public Act
49, as amended.
   (B)   In addition to the annual service charge of 8.25% the sponsor as
outlined below, will include an additional payment deemed an inflationary
increase to the normal service charge collected annually. This inflationary
increase will consist of an additional 2.5% payment of the annual PILOT charge
to the city. It is intended that the inflationary increase is an additional
lump sum payment computed upon the base pilot charge at the end of the previous
five year term and not an increase computed upon the base pilot percentage. An
example that illustrates the additional payment to the pilot charge is included
here as Exhibit 1 and 1a.
   Exhibit 1. Inflationary PILOT Charge Payment Schedule
 
Year(s) PILOT Percentage Inflationary Increase to Annual PILOT Charge
1-5     8.25%            n/a
6-10    8.25%            2.5% added to Year 5 charge
11-15   8.25%            2.5% added to Year 10 charge
16-20   8.25%            2.5% added to Year 15 charge
 
Exhibit 1a. Projected PILOT Charge Amounts
 
Year(s) PILOT Charge Inflationary Increase to Annual PILOT Charge
5-10    $10,419.99   2.5% increase
11-15   $10,680.49   2.5% increase
16-20   $10,947.51   2.5% increase
Year 20 $11,221.19   2.5% increase
 
(Ord. 204, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 35.49 CONTRACTUAL EFFECT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of § 15(a)(5) of the Act to the contrary, a
contract between the city and the sponsor with the Authority as third party
beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax exemption and accept payments in
lieu of taxes, as previously described, is effectuated by enactment of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 204, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 35.50 LIMITATION ON THE PAYMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding §
35.48, the service charge to be paid each year in lieu of taxes for the part of
the housing project that is tax exempt but which is occupied by other than low
income persons or families shall be equal to the full amount of the taxes which
would be paid on that portion of the housing project if the housing project
were not tax exempt.
   (B)   The term “low income persons or families” as used herein shall be the
same meaning as found in § 15(a)(7) of the Act.
(Ord. 204, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 35.51 DETERMINATION AND COLLECTION OF SERVICE CHARGE; LIEN.
   The annual service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this
subchapter shall be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are
payable to the city and distributed to the several units levying the general
property tax in the same proportion as prevailed with the general property tax
in the previous calendar year. The annual payment for each operating year shall
be paid on or before September 15th of the following year. Collection
procedures shall be in accordance with the provisions of the General Property
Tax Act (1893 PA 206, as amended; M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1, et seq.). Annual payments
in arrears shall be subject to interest of 1% per month until the 12th month
after their due date, and to interest of 1.5% per month retroactive to the due
date for annual payments in arrears for longer than 12 months. Subject to any
limitations imposed by law, the sponsor shall provide to the city such
accounting records, audits, and financial reports as the city shall reasonably
require to verify the computation of the annual service charge as provided by
this section as of December 31 st of each year. The sponsor shall maintain such
records of rent or occupancy charges received and the occupancy of units in the
development as will permit the city to verify which of the units in the
development have been occupied by low income persons or families. Annual
service charges payable pursuant to this section shall be a lien on the
development, and if delinquent, without prejudice to any remedies for arrears
of payment or preceding breach of covenant, shall at the election of the city
be collected and enforced in the same manner as general property taxes.
(Ord. 204, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 35.52 DURATION.
   This subchapter shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as a
mortgage loan remains outstanding and unpaid and the housing project remains
subject to income and rent restrictions under the LIHTC Program. If the
development is no longer subject to income and rent restrictions under the
LIHTC Program, then the exemption from all ad valorem property taxes
established by this subchapter shall terminate upon the payoff of the mortgage
loan or upon the sale of the development to an unrelated third party.
(Ord. 204, passed 2-12-2018)
§ 35.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   The penalty for a person convicted of violating §
35.03 shall be a fine of not more than $500 and cost of prosecution an cost of
recovery or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both the fine and
imprisonment is at the discretion of the court. Each act of this violation and
ever day upon which the violation shall occur shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. 153, passed 7-12-1999)
CHAPTER 36: MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement
   
36.03   Municipal civil infraction citations; issuance and service
   
36.04   Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau; creation; location; supervision;
employees; rules and regulations
   
36.05   Authorized city officials
   
36.06   Disposition of violations; Bureau limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility
   
36.07   Municipal civil infraction violation notices
   
36.08   Appearance; payment of fines and costs
   
36.09   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid
   
36.10   Civil fines
   
36.11   Accounting and disposition of civil fines
   
36.12   Availability of other enforcement remedies
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8396 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL.  A police officer or other personnel of the city
authorized by the City Manager or this code or any ordinance to issue municipal
civil infraction citations or municipal civil infraction violation notices.
   BUREAU.  The Bronson Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau as established
hereby.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.  A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the
person cited.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION. A written notice prepared by an
authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed
for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the city, as
authorized under §§ 8396 and 8707(6) of the Act.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.02 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION; COMMENCEMENT.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized city official of:
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged violator
to appear in court; or
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.03 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the district
court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the state's Court Administrator. The original citation shall be
filed with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the
city and issued to the alleged violator as provided by § 8705 of the Act.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint and
if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date and
signature of the official: “I declare, under the penalties of perjury, that the
statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and belief.”
   (E)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction and if the prosecuting attorney or city attorney approves in
writing the issuance of the municipal civil infraction citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
city official as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by division (G)(2) below, an authorized city
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting a copy
on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a
copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the
land, building or structure at the owner's last known address.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.04 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATION BUREAU; CREATION; LOCATION; SUPERVISION;
EMPLOYEES; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The city hereby creates the Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau
(“Bureau”) pursuant to the Act (M.C.L.A. § 600.8396), as it may be amended from
time to time, to accept admissions of responsibility for municipal civil
infractions for which municipal civil infraction violation notices have been
issued and served by authorized city officials, and to collect and retain civil
fines for admissions of responsibility as prescribed by this code or any
ordinance.
   (B)   The Bureau shall be located at the city hall and shall be under the
supervision and control of the City Clerk. The City Clerk, subject to the
approval of the City Council, shall adopt rules and regulations for the
operation of the Bureau.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.05 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   City police officers are authorized to enforce the provisions of this
chapter and may issue municipal civil infraction violation notices or municipal
civil infraction citations for any municipal civil infraction. An official who
has previously been authorized to enforce any provision of the code or any
ordinance of the city, by the code or any ordinance shall be authorized to
enforce that provision of the code or any ordinance as a municipal civil
infraction under the provisions of this chapter, and may issue municipal civil
infraction violation notices or municipal civil infraction citations.
Additionally, the City Council may by resolution, authorize other persons to
enforce the provisions of this chapter, including issuing municipal civil
infraction violation notices or municipal infraction citations.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.06 DISPOSITION OF VIOLATIONS; BUREAU LIMITED TO ACCEPTING ADMISSIONS OF
RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Bureau may only dispose of municipal civil infraction violations for
which a fine has been scheduled and for which a municipal civil infraction
notice, as compared to a citation, has been issued. The Bureau's authority
shall be limited to accepting admissions of responsibility for municipal civil
infractions and collecting and retaining civil fines and costs as result of
those admissions. The Bureau shall not accept payment of a fine from anyone who
denies having committed the offense or who admits responsibility only with
explanation and, in no event shall the Bureau determine or attempt to determine
the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to the alleged violation.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.07 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICES.
   Municipal civil infraction violation notices shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials under the same circumstances and upon the same
persons as provided for citations in §
36.03(F) and (G). In addition to any other information required by this code or
other ordinance, the notice of violation shall indicate the date by which the
alleged violator must appear at the Bureau, the methods by which an appearance
may be made, the address and telephone number of the Bureau, the hours during
which the Bureau is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the alleged
violation and the consequences for failure to appear and pay the required fine
within the required time.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.08 APPEARANCE; PAYMENT OF FINES AND COSTS.
   An alleged violator receiving a municipal civil infraction violation notice
shall appear at the Bureau and pay the specified fine and costs at or by the
date specified for appearance in the municipal civil infraction violation
notice. An appearance may be made by mail, in person or by representation.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.09 PROCEDURE WHERE ADMISSION OF RESPONSIBILITY NOT MADE OR FINE NOT PAID.
   If an authorized city official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the
civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the
violation are not paid at the Bureau, the Clerk/Treasurer or other designated
city employee shall notify the issuing official that the alleged violator has
not admitted responsibility and/or has not paid the fine and costs. A municipal
civil infraction citation may be filed with the district court and a copy of
the citation may be served by first-class mail upon the alleged violator at the
alleged violator’s last known address. The citation filed with the court does
not need to comply in all particulars with the requirements for citations as
provided by §§ 8705 and 8709 of the Act, but shall consist of a sworn complaint
containing the allegations stated in the municipal ordinance violation notice
and shall fairly inform the alleged violator how to respond to the citation.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.10 CIVIL FINES.
   Unless a different civil fine is provided for in any ordinance, the schedule
of civil fines, payable to the Municipal Ordinance Violation Bureau for
admissions of responsibility by persons served with municipal civil infraction
violation notices shall be as established from time by a resolution adopted by
the City Council.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.11 ACCOUNTING AND DISPOSITION OF CIVIL FINES.
   The Clerk/Treasurer or other designated employee shall retain all municipal
civil infraction violation notices and shall account to the City Council as
directed concerning the number of admissions and denials of responsibility for
municipal civil infractions and the amount of fines and costs collected. The
amounts collected in civil fines and costs shall be placed in the general fund
of the city.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 36.12 AVAILABILITY OF OTHER ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require the city to initiate its
ordinance enforcement activity through the issuance of a municipal civil
infraction violation notice. The city shall have the right to directly proceed
with the issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation for any municipal
civil infraction, or to take other enforcement action as authorized by law.
(Ord. 183, passed 2-13-2012)
CHAPTER 37: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Ethics
   
37.01   Ethical conduct
   
37.02   Conflicts of interest
   
37.03   Statutory prohibitions
   
37.04   Non-discrimination
   
37.05   Promulgation
 
   
37.99   Penalty
ETHICS
§ 37.01 ETHICAL CONDUCT.
   In all actions, employees, the City Manager, and City Council members will
adhere to all local, state and federal laws regulating ethical action. Various
professional codes of ethics and other similar documents may be used to
supplement determinations of ethical conduct.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 37.02 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Conflicts of interest will naturally occur from time to time and in
such cases when they may or do in fact arise, should be presented publicly to
diminish the potential of actual or perceived special interests.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this subchapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONFLICT OF INTEREST. May occur when action by the city, either through
its employees or the City Council, could be construed as impacting negatively
or positively an interest of an employee or Council Member, his or her
relatives, business or financial investments, property, or other interests.
      IMMEDIATE FAMILY. The spouse, child, parents, grandchild, grandparents,
brother, sister, half-sister, half-brother or the spouses of any listed
relatives. All relationships shall include those arising from adoption.
   (C)   City Council reporting of conflicts of interest.  
      (1)   If a case may arise when a Council Member or the Mayor has a
conflict of interest, he or she shall make known the potential conflict in open
session when City Council business might involve such interest. The Council
Member or Mayor need not provide detail on the potential conflict so as to
injure a client or patient relationship.
      (2)   In addition to the general rule on conflicts of interest above, the
following specific conflicts of interest are specifically prohibited:
         (a)   Holding of other offices. Pursuant to Section 4.13(a) of the
City Charter, no Council Member shall hold any other city office or employment
during the term for which they were elected to the Council except where
specifically allowed by the Charter.
         (b)   Appointments and removals. Pursuant to Section 4.13(b) of the
City Charter, the Council and individual Council Members may not direct the
removal or hiring of employees appointed by the City Manager or his or her
subordinates.
         (c)   Voting involving a conflict of interest. No member of the
Council shall vote on any question in which he, she or a member of their
immediate family as defined in this subchapter, has a financial interest, other
than the common public interest, or on any question concerning his or her own
conduct. Council Members who may have a financial interest shall state such
interest and then refrain from debating, commenting, or otherwise seeking to
influence the Council on such question.
         (d)   Nepotism. Pursuant to Section 6.7(b) of the City Charter, unless
the Council shall determine by unanimous vote, which vote shall be recorded as
part of its official proceedings, that the best interests of the city shall be
served, that the immediate family members of any elected or appointed officers
are disqualified from holding any appointive office or employment during the
term for which the elective or appointive officer is elected or appointed. This
section shall in no way disqualify such relatives or their spouses who are bona
fide appointive officers or employees of the city at the time of the election
or appointment of said official.
   (D)   City Manager reporting of conflicts of interest. 
      (1)   If a case may arise when the City Manager has a conflict of
interest, he or she shall make written notification of such conflict to the
Mayor and the City Clerk. To the extent possible, the City Manager’s
involvement in the situation will be minimized to avoid the appearance of
impropriety. The City Manager’s conduct shall at all times be in accord with
the ICMA Code of Ethics.
      (2)   It shall not be deemed a conflict of interest by the City Manager
to enforce or cause to be enforced zoning or ordinance violations in keeping
with standard practice. It shall also not be deemed a conflict of interest for
action to be taken by the city to improve or otherwise conduct normal public
activities in the neighborhood where the City Manager may reside.
   (E)   Employee reporting of conflicts of interest. If a case may arise when
an employee of the city or the city’s Attorney, Auditor, or other professional
contractor may have a conflict of interest, he, she, or the corporation,
partnership or entity shall promptly report such conflict or potential conflict
to the City Manager. The City Manager shall determine what steps if any may be
necessary to avoid the potential for preferential or adverse action because of
the conflict.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-10-2012) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.03 STATUTORY PROHIBITIONS.
   In accord with Public Act 196 of 1973 (being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.342 et seq.) the
following shall apply to members of the City Council, the City Manager, and all
other employees of the city.
   (A)   Confidential information. A Council Member, the City Manager, or an
employee shall not divulge to an unauthorized person, confidential information
acquired in the course of employment in advance of the time prescribed for its
authorized release to the public.
   (B)   Personal opinions. A Council Member, the City Manager, or an employee
shall not represent his or her personal opinion as that of the city.
   (C)   Use of city resources. A Council Member, the City Manager, or an
employee shall use city personnel resources, property, and funds judiciously
and solely in accordance with prescribed constitutional, statutory, and
regulatory procedures and not for personal gain or benefit.
   (D)   Acceptance of gifts. A Council Member, the City Manager, or an
employee shall not solicit or accept a gift or loan of money, goods, services,
or other thing of value for the benefit of a person or organization, other than
the state, which tends to influence the manner in which the public officer or
employee or another public officer or employee performs official duties.
   (E)   Use of office for private gain. A Council Member, the City Manager or
an employee shall not engage in a business transaction in which the public
officer or employee may profit from his or her official position or authority
or benefit financially from confidential information which the person has
obtained or may obtain by reason of that position or authority. Instruction
which is not done during regularly scheduled working hours except for annual
leave or vacation time shall not be considered a business transaction pursuant
to this division if the instructor does not have any direct dealing with or
influence on the employing or contracting facility associated with his or her
course of employment with this state.
   (F)   Outside employment. A Council Member, the City Manager, or an employee
shall not engage in or accept employment or render services for a private or
public interest when that employment or service is incompatible or in conflict
with the discharge of the officer or employee’s official duties or when that
employment may tend to impair his or her independence of judgment or action in
the performance of official duties.
   (G)   Negotiation for private gain. Except in cases of an employment
agreement or contract, a Council Member, the City Manager, or an employee shall
not participate in the negotiation or execution of contracts, making of loans,
granting of subsidies, fixing of rates, issuance of permits or certificates, or
other regulation or supervision relating to a business entity in which the
person has a financial or personal interest.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-10-2012) Penalty, see §
37.99
§ 37.04 NON-DISCRIMINATION.
   The city will not discriminate against any person in the provision of public
service or employment on the basis of gender, race, creed, age, sexual
orientation, language proficiency, income level, or any other legally protected
classification. Such non-discrimination provisions may be limited by state or
federal law.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 37.05 PROMULGATION.
   The City Manager is authorized to draft policies, procedures, and other
documents necessary to enforce provisions of this subchapter. To the extent
deemed necessary, statements from this subchapter may be appended to contracts
with outside vendors and contractors. The City Manager may also revise the
city’s Personnel Policy as needed to reflect this subchapter.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-10-2012)
§ 37.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations by Council members. Violation of any provision of §§
37.01 -
37.05 by a member of the City Council may be punishable by action of the City
Council to censure, reprimand, or otherwise discipline its own members.
Additionally, violations of §§
37.01 -
37.05 may also be felonies or misdemeanors under state or federal law.
      (2)   Violations by employees. Violation of any provision of §§
37.01 -
37.05 may subject an employee to punishment up to and including termination. In
addition to employment disciplinary action, the city may seek remedy in a court
of competent jurisdiction for damages relating to violation of §§
37.01 -
37.05.
(Ord. 195, passed 12-10-2012)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE; RECYCLING
      
51.   WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
      
52.   SEWER USE; RATES AND CONNECTIONS
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE; RECYCLING
Section
Garbage and Refuse; Collection and Disposal
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Disposal of garbage
   
50.03   Disposal of refuse
   
50.04   Exceptions
   
50.05   Public grounds
   
50.06   Keeping of animals
   
50.07   Regulation of commercial collection of garbage or refuse
   
50.08   Enforcement
   
50.09   Nuisance
   
50.10   Abatement of nuisance by city
   
50.11   Collection of garbage and refuse
Recycling Regulations
   
50.25   Purpose
   
50.26   Separation of materials
   
50.27   Designation of recyclable items
   
50.28   Implementation
   
50.29   Ownership
   
50.30   Unauthorized collection
   
50.31   Fees
   
50.32   Collection of recyclable materials
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GARBAGE AND REFUSE; COLLECTION AND DISPOSAL
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. All manner of same including, but not limited to, rejected food
waste and to include accumulation of animal, fruit or vegetable matter used or
intended for food, or that attends the preparation or results from the
preparation of, cooking, handling or dealing in or with or storing meat, fish,
fowl, fruit or vegetables.
   REFUSE. All manner of same including, but not limited to, ashes, rags,
discarded clothing, tin cans, tin ware, bottles, broken glass, waste paper,
scrap metal, motor vehicles or automobiles or trucks which are unlicensed and
which are in inoperable condition, or motor vehicles which although licensed
are abandoned. The word REFUSE shall further include all types of automotive or
motor vehicle parts or components for which no storage in a building is
provided.
(Prior Code, § 35.101) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965)
§ 50.02 DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on his or her premises or
elsewhere any garbage unless the same shall be kept in a watertight receptacle
which shall be kept tightly covered so as to prevent the access of flies and
insects thereto, and the contents of the receptacles shall be removed at least
once in four days and completely buried, or burned in an incinerator designed
for those purposes and installed in compliance with all other ordinances of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 35.102) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for the owner of premises and the occupant
thereof to permit or suffer the accumulation of refuse on any premises in the
city. Refuse shall be stored in covered receptacles, contents of which shall be
removed at least once in four days. Items of refuse too large to be stored in
the containers shall be neatly stacked and removed from the premises within
four days.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for the registered owner of any motor
vehicle, truck or automobile which is herein defined as “refuse” to permit the
same to remain in the city, unless the same is housed in a garage, or unless
same is placed on commercial premises referred to in §
50.04.
(Prior Code, § 35.103) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   There shall be excepted from the definition of “refuse” motor vehicles,
automobiles and trucks which are located on the premises of commercial garages,
commercial automobile shops, auto service stations and automotive dealers which
businesses and the owners thereof may have motor vehicles, automobiles and
trucks on their premises which would otherwise be prohibited by this subchapter
while the same are being repaired or stored so long as such motor vehicles,
automobiles and trucks are stored and maintained in an orderly manner.
(Prior Code, § 35.104) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965)
§ 50.05 PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   No person shall throw or deposit any garbage or refuse on any of the public
streets, lanes, alleys, parks, cemeteries or other public grounds in the city
at any time.
(Prior Code, § 35.105) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall collect or confine poultry, or any sheep, swine, cattle,
horses or any other animals, in herds, pens, enclosures or otherwise, so as to
become offensive to, or injurious to the health of, his, her or their
neighbors, or to the public, in any locality within the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.106) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.07 REGULATION OF COMMERCIAL COLLECTION OF GARBAGE OR REFUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of collecting
garbage or refuse in the city without first obtaining a license therefor. The
license may only be issued upon the express authority of the City Council upon
terms and conditions as may be imposed by the City Council.
(Prior Code, § 35.107) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.08 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department is hereby charged with the enforcement of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 35.108) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965)
§ 50.09 NUISANCE.
   (A)   The storing, keeping or accumulating of garbage or refuse in violation
of the terms of this subchapter is declared a nuisance.
      (1)   The Police Department is authorized to issue notices of violation
and to require abatement thereof within a period of not more than ten days, or
less than ten days if public health is endangered from date of the notice.
      (2)   The notice shall further state that failure to comply with the
terms of the notice within the specified period shall subject the person, firm
or corporation to prosecution for a misdemeanor as provided herein and shall
further make the lot or premises liable for necessary expenses incurred by the
city in abating the nuisance.
   (B)   The City Council, upon petition filed, may for good cause extend the
ten-day period.
   (C)   Notice shall be given to the owner and occupant of premises on which
nuisance occurs and in the event that the notice relates to motor vehicles,
automobiles or trucks which are refuse as herein defined, the notice shall be
given also to the registered owner thereof. Failure of any person to receive
notice shall not prevent the city from abating the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 35.109) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.10 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCE BY CITY.
   (A)   In the event that any person, firm or corporation doing or omitting to
do anything declared to be a nuisance shall not discontinue same within the
time stated in the notice to abate the nuisance, the City Manager shall be
authorized to order the necessary work to be done to abate the nuisance, and
any expense incurred by the city in abatement of the nuisance shall be charged
against the lot or premises upon which the nuisance was maintained and from
which it was removed and shall become a lien against the lot or premises and
may be collected in the same manner as the lien created by city taxes assessed
against the lot or premises and shall be assessed on the next assessment roll
following the incurring of the expense.
   (B)   The amount of expense shall be certified by the City Manager to the
Tax Department of the city for assessment and collection.
(Prior Code, § 35.110) (Ord. 87, passed 3-8-1965; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 50.11 COLLECTION OF GARBAGE AND REFUSE.
   (A)   The City Council for the City of Bronson is authorized to solicit
bids, and award contracts, as determined by the City Council, for the
collection and disposal of garbage and refuse within the City of Bronson.
   (B)   The City Council for the City of Bronson, shall, by resolution,
establish guidelines, including rules and procedures, for the collection of
garbage and refuse.
   (C)   The City Council for the City of Bronson, may provide, by resolution,
for appropriate penalties, either civil or criminal, for individuals,
businesses or other entities who place hazardous materials into the garbage and
refuse stream, or otherwise violate rules and regulations established by the
City of Bronson for the collection and disposal of garbage and refuse.
   (D)   A resident may decline to participate in the garbage and refuse
collection program by giving notice to the city office on a form established
for such purpose by the city. That form shall be retained on file by the city
until either revoked by the resident, or the resident vacates the property in
which they reside.
   (E)   Any person, business, or other entity who is not a participant in the
garbage and refuse collection program shall not place materials of any sort
into the garbage and refuse stream. Any violation of this provision shall be
subject to the penalties under the Bronson City Code §
10.99.
(Ord. 198 passed 7-1-2015)
RECYCLING REGULATIONS
§ 50.25 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to reduce the amount of solid waste
materials disposed of in landfills, protect the environment, conserve the
natural resources, save energy and contain the financial burden of solid waste
disposal.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to establish a
city-wide recycling program, pursuant to the outline listed below, and to
establish rules and regulations for the implementation of the program. This
implementation may include regular scheduled curbside pickup, or centralized
disposal, as approved by the City Manager, and if necessary, the City Council.
(Ord. 177, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 50.26 SEPARATION OF MATERIALS.
   All persons in residential structures who are owners, lessees, land contract
purchaser or occupants thereof, shall separate recyclable materials in
accordance with regulations established by the City Manager as to the types of
materials to be separated, preparation of materials for collection and the
method, time and location of the collection.
(Ord. 177, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 50.27 DESIGNATION OF RECYCLABLE ITEMS.
   The City Manager shall prepare a list of refuse items designated to be part
of the recycling programs. Those items must be ones which are generally
accepted by the recycling industry for re-manufacture and reuse, which can be
cleaned, prepared and stored in a manner to protect the public health, safety
and welfare, as well as the environment, and which can be collected and
recycled without threatening the economic viability of the recycling program.
Copies of this list shall be on file with the City Clerk/Treasurer after two
weeks published notice in the official local newspaper. The City Manager may
modify the items on this list as circumstances warrant by following the
procedure specified for the original designation. The City Manager is
authorized to consult with any outside experts or other officials as the City
Manager deems appropriate to assist in developing this list.
(Ord. 177, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 50.28 IMPLEMENTATION.
   (A)   All recyclable materials intended and set out at designated collection
points for the recycling program shall be clean, prepared and stored in
accordance with the city’s specifications.
   (B)   Failure to do so shall constitute a public nuisance where the failure
causes the threat to the public health, welfare or safety or the environment or
results in an un-orderly or unsightly collection of refuse visible to the
public.
   (C)   In the event that the City Manager selects a curbside collection
system, the City Manager shall develop and promulgate regulations providing for
the timing of the curbside pickup, as well as the schedule by which residents
may place items at the curbside for collection, as well as removing any
containers after collection has occurred.
(Ord. 177, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 50.29 OWNERSHIP.
   (A)   Ownership of recyclable materials remains with the person or household
from which materials originated until collected by the designated collection
program.
   (B)   Upon removal by the city or its designated agents or contractors from
a designated collection point, ownership of properly prepared and stored
recyclable materials intended for a city-authorized collection program shall be
vested in the city.
   (C)   Materials not prepared, cleaned or stored according to city
specifications shall remain the responsibility and property of individuals or
household from which the materials originated.
   (D)   Nothing in this chapter shall abridge the right of any individual or
household to give or sell their recyclable materials to any recyclable
materials program.
(Ord. 177, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 50.30 UNAUTHORIZED COLLECTION.
   No person, other than one expressly authorized by the Council and approved
by the City Manager, shall take or collect recyclable materials set out for the
authorized collection program within the city should one be established.
(Ord. 177, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 50.31 FEES.
   The City Council shall, upon recommendation of the City Manager, from time
to time, as necessary, by resolution, set the fee structure for the collection
of recyclable materials by the city.
(Ord. 177, passed 6-13-2011)
§ 50.32 COLLECTION OF RECYCLABLE MATERIALS.
   (A)   The City Council for the City of Bronson is authorized to solicit
bids, and award contracts, as determined by the City Council, for the
collection and recycling of eligible materials within the City of Bronson.
   (B)   The City Council for the City of Bronson, may provide, by resolution,
for appropriate penalties, either civil or criminal, for individuals,
businesses or other entities who place hazardous or non-recyclable materials
into the recycling stream.
   (C)   A resident may decline to participate in the recycling collection
program by giving notice to the city office on a form established for such
purpose by the city. That form shall be retained on file by the city until
either revoked by the resident, or the resident vacates the property in which
they reside.
   (D)   Any person, business, or other entity who is not a participant in the
recycling collection program shall not place materials of any sort into the
recycling materials stream. Any violation of this provision shall be subject to
the penalties under Bronson City Code §
10.99.
(Ord. 199, passed 7-15-2015) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 182, § 6, passed 2-13-2012)
CHAPTER 51: WATER SYSTEM REGULATIONS
Section
   
51.01   Short title
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Operation and maintenance
   
51.04   Service connections
   
51.05   Meters
   
51.06   Fire hydrants
   
51.07   Water main extensions
   
51.08   System use
   
51.09   Prohibiting cross-connections
   
51.10   Water rates, charges and deposits
   
51.11   Payments and collections
   
51.12   Powers and authority of city employees
   
51.13   Amendment
   
51.14   Groundwater wells
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Water Use, Rate and Connection
Ordinance”, and may be cited as such.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED.  Approved by the city and State Department of Public Health.
   BACKFLOW. The flow of water or other liquids, mixtures or substances into
the water system from any source other than its intended source, due to either
back pressure or back siphonage.
   BACKFLOW PREVENTER. A device to prevent backflow.
   CITY. The City of Bronson, Branch County, Michigan, as represented by the
Bronson City Council.
   CITY MANAGER. The chief administrative officer of the city appointed by the
City Council, regardless of title.
   CONTAMINATION. The presence of any foreign substance (organic, inorganic,
radiological or biological) in water that tends to pollute or degrade the
quality of the water so as to constitute a health hazard or to render the water
non-potable.
   CONNECTION CHARGE. The amount charged for the installation and inspection of
a service connection and meter at the time, and in the amount hereinafter
provided, to each premises in the city which connects to the water system.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. Any physical connection between the water system and any
waste pipe, soil pipe, sewer, drain or any unapproved source or system.
Furthermore, it is any potable water supply outlet which is submerged or can be
submerged in wastewater and/or any other source of contamination. See BACKFLOW.
   CUSTOMER. The person who owns any home or dwelling, retail or wholesale
business, multi-family dwelling, manufacturing establishment, educational,
religious or social establishment, or any federal, state or local government
office or service facility that are served by the water system.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied to all customers for
miscellaneous services and related administrative costs associated with the
water system.
   HEALTH HAZARD. Any condition, device or practice in the water system and its
operation which created, or, in the judgement of the city, may create by
contamination or otherwise a danger to the health and well-being of the
customer. An example of a HEALTH HAZARD is a structural defect in the water
system, whether of location, design or construction, that regularly or
occasionally may prevent satisfactory purification of the water supply or cause
it to be contaminated.
   METER. An instrument for measuring the rate of flow of public water.
   O, M & R CHARGE. The periodic charge levied on all customers for operation,
maintenance and replacement costs.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT COSTS. All costs, direct and
indirect, necessary to provide adequate water supply on a continuing basis to
conform with all federal, state and local water management requirements and to
assure optimum long-term management of the water system and shall include a
reasonable allowance for the replacement of the equipment and appurtenances
necessary to maintain the intended performance of the water system.
PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   PLUMBING SYSTEM. Includes the water supply and distribution pipes, plumbing
fixtures, and traps; soil, waste and vent pipes; building drains and building
sewers, including their respective connection; devices and appurtenances and
water-treating or water-using equipment; all as located within the property
lines of the premises.
   PREMISES. A parcel of property or lot and includes appurtenant land and
improvements.
   PUBLIC WATER. Water provided by the water system.
   REDUCED PRESSURE PRINCIPLE BACKFLOW PREVENTER. An assembly of differential
valves and check valves, including an automatically opened spillage port to the
atmosphere designed to prevent backflow under conditions of pressure reversal.
   SAFE AIR GAP or AIR GAP. The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening
above the maximum high water level or overflow rim in a future device or
container to which public water is furnished which must be at least two times
the inside diameter of the water inlet pipe but must not be less than one inch
and need to be more than 12 inches.
   SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY. A water supply system maintained in addition to the
water system, including water systems from ground or surface sources or water
from a public water supply system which, in anyway, has been treated, processed
or exposed to any possible containment or stored in other than an approved
storage facility.
   SERVICE CONNECTION. The corporation cock, service lateral and curb stop that
conveys public water from the city mains to the property line.
   SERVICE LINE. A pipe extending from the property line into the premises
supplied with public water.
   SUBMERGED INLET. A service line or extension thereto from the water system
terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture or appliances which may contain water of
questionable quality, waste or other containment and which is unprotected
against backflow.
   TURN-ON/OFF FEE. The amount charged to reinstate service because of
violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   UNMETERED FIRE PROTECTION CONNECTION. A pipe extending from the water system
to supply a sprinkler, yard main or other fire protection system.
   WATER, NONPOTABLE. Water that is not safe for human consumption or that is
of questionable potability.
   WATER, POTABLE. Water free from impurities in amounts sufficient to cause
disease or harmful physiological effects. Its bacteriological and chemical
quality shall conform to the requirements of the federal drinking water
standards or to the regulations of the State Department of Public Health.
   WATER SYSTEM or SYSTEM. All facilities of the city and all subsequent
additions, including wells, pumps, mains, hydrants, storage tanks, service
connections, meters and all other facilities used or useful in the pumping,
treatment and distribution of public water.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 51.03 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The operation, maintenance, alteration, repair and management of the
water system shall be under the supervision of the City Manager, authorized to
make appropriate decisions and judgements to preserve the intent of the
provisions of this chapter. The city may employ a person or persons in a
capacity or capacities as it deems advisable to carry out the efficient
management and operation of the water system and may make rules, orders and
regulations as it deems advisable and necessary to assure the efficient
management and operation of the water system.
   (B)   The customer is responsible for the maintenance and repair of the
service line as defined.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 51.04 SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Prior to the installation of a service connection, a prospective
customer must file a permit application for the service connection on an
application form to be supplied by the city. The application must be
accompanied by payment in full of the connection charge and other charges or
deposits required by this chapter.
   (B)   Service connections shall be installed only by the city or its
authorized representative and only after approval of the permit application by
the city.
   (C)   All service lines shall be installed in an approved manner by a
licensed plumber at the customer’s expense. The plumbing system in or on the
premises in connection therewith must conform in character, design and quality
to the law of the state and the State Plumbing Code.
   (D)   All service connections and service lines shall be of Type “K” copper
of size and quality. All underground fittings and connections shall be
approved. No service connection of less than three-fourths-inch diameter will
be permitted. Service connection of larger size shall be determined and
approved by the city.
   (E)   All service connections and service lines must be laid on solid ground
not less than six feet below finished grade. The installation must be inspected
by the city or its authorized representative. A distance of ten feet from all
sewer or septic lines must be maintained.
   (F)   No service connection shall be installed where the service line is in
line with a driveway, tree, fire hydrant, catch basin or other obstruction.
   (G)   No person shall obstruct or interfere in any way with any service
connection or other appurtenance of the system, including meters, by placing
in, on or about the service connection , meter or other appurtenance, building
materials, rubbish, soil, shrubbery, flowers or otherwise hindering the easy
and free access thereto.
   (H)   Service lines shall be protected from damage of every nature and
needed repairs shall be made by the customer when notified by the city. The
expense of repairing or thawing the service line, if frozen, shall be borne by
the customer. The service line, as repaired or thawed, shall not be covered
until inspected and approved by the city or its authorized representatives.
   (I)   The city may discontinue service if a customer fails to maintain the
service line in a leak-free condition or if the customer make an unauthorized
plumbing connection which bypasses the meter.
   (J)   A single service connection shall not serve more than one premises
unless approved by the city, even though the ownership of the adjacent premises
may the same; provided, however, that where a duplex or multiple family
dwelling is served by a single service connection, each living unit shall be
metered separately and additional service connections shall not be necessary.
   (K)   All service connections and service lines installed prior to the
adoption of this chapter shall conform to the standards set forth in this
section and shall be subject to inspection by the city or its authorized
representative. Any replacement or improvement cost necessary to bring the
service connection and service line into conformity with this section shall be
borne by the customer.
   (L)   All excavation for service connection installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.
Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of the work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the city at the
customers expense.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984)
§ 51.05 METERS.
   (A)   The public water used by each customer shall be metered. The meter
will be furnished, installed, tested and maintained by the city at the
customer’s expense and shall remain the property of and under control of the
city.
   (B)   Meters for ordinary domestic service shall be of five-eighths-inch by
three-fourths-inch size. The meter shall contain remote readouts. A separate
gate valve the same size as the meter connections shall be installed on the
service line on both sides of the meter. Where application for a larger service
is made, determination as to size shall be made by the city. Larger sizes may
be required for industrial, commercial or multiple dwelling use.
   (C)   Meters shall be set in an accessible location and in a manner approved
by the city. Where due to unusual circumstances it is necessary to place the
meter in a pit, the pit shall be installed by the city at the expense of the
customer as directed by the city.
   (D)   The city shall have the right to shut off the public water to any
customer where access is not available to the meter. Qualified employees of the
city shall at all reasonable hours have the right to enter the premises where
the meters are installed, for the purpose of reading, testing, removing or
inspecting same and no person shall hinder, obstruct or interfere with any such
employee in the discharge of his or her duties.
   (E)   Any damages to a meter resulting from carelessness or neglect of a
customer to properly secure and protect the meter from damages caused by frost,
hot water, steam or other misuse shall be paid for by the customer upon
presentation of the bill therefor. The same shall be collected in the same
manner as any customer service charge.
   (F)   Any meter installed prior to adoption of this chapter shall be subject
to inspection and testing by the city. All repair or replacement cost shall be
borne by the customer.
   (G)   If any meter shall fail to register properly, the city shall estimate
the consumption for the prevailing billing period and bill accordingly.
   (H)   The customer may request that a meter be tested upon depositing with
the city sum calculated on the basis of meter size as outlined in §
51.10. If the meter is found to register more than 3% fast, the deposit shall
be returned to the customer. If the meter is found to register less than 3%
fast, the city shall retain the deposit.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984)
§ 51.06 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person shall open, or cause to be opened, any fire hydrant except
for authorized employees of the city or members of the city public safety
department, except in the case of an emergency, without first securing a
“Permit to Use Fire Hydrant” from the city. A deposit of $50 will be required.
The person must report to the city when the use is terminated, at which time a
hydrant inspection will be made by the city. The cost of the estimated amount
of public water used and cost of and necessary repair, if needed, shall be
deducted from the deposit and the difference (if any) shall be refunded to the
permit holder. A minimum charge shall be $10. If the deposit is insufficient to
cover the costs, the permit holder shall pay the difference.
   (B)   The city must approve the type, size of openings and types of nozzle
thread on all hydrants installed on private property serviced by the water
system.
   (C)   No person shall, in any manner, obstruct or prevent free access to or
place or store temporarily or otherwise any object, material, snow debris,
automobile or structure of any kind within a distance of 20 feet of any fire
hydrant. Upon the failure of the person to remove the obstruction which shall
be set forth in a notice which shall be mailed to the person by city, the city
is hereby authorized and empowered to remove the obstruction and charge the
cost of the removal to the person.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.07 WATER MAIN EXTENSIONS.
   (A)   Extension of, or changes in, the water system within the city limits
of the city may be initiated by the city or by petition from 100% of the
affected property owners. The city may grant the petition, in its discretion,
and may prescribe the terms and conditions upon which the petition will be
granted and may require the written acceptance of the terms and conditions by
the petitioners.
   (B)   If the petition is granted, the city will proceed as promptly as
practical with the proposed work under the terms and conditions named. The work
will be done at the expense of the property owners unless otherwise stipulated,
and any all extensions shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984)
§ 51.08 SYSTEM USE.
   (A)   No person other than an authorized employee of the city shall turn on
or off any service connection without the written permission of the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to do any of the following:
      (1)   Damage or destroy any portion of the water system;
      (2)   To do anything which will in any way contaminate the water system;
or
      (3)   To connect any pipe to the water system or take or run any water
from the lines of the system without complying with all provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   The city may stop service to any customer at any time for any reason.
The city shall give reasonable notice except during emergencies and caused by
the failure of a customer to receive public water for any reason, including the
shutting off of the supply by the city, nor shall the city be liable for any
damage caused by any change in the pressure of public water delivered to any
customer.
   (D)   If the service line from the curb stop to the meter is found to the
deteriorated or leaking, the city may condemn or discontinue the service to the
premises and require that the same be repaired or replaced as directed by the
city and at the expense of the customer.
   (E)   No person, except an authorized employee of the city in the
performance of his or her duties, shall uncover or tamper with any portion of
the water systems. Any person responsible for any injury or damage to the water
system shall reimburse the city therefor and for the loss of water caused
thereby and shall be responsible for any damage caused by escaping water.
   (F)   Should it become necessary to shut off water from any section of the
water system because of any accident or for the purpose of making repairs or
extensions, the city will endeavor to give timely notice to the customers
affected thereby and will, so far as practical, use reasonable efforts to
prevent inconvenience and damage arising from any such causes, but the failure
of a customer to receive notice shall not render the city responsible or liable
in damage for any inconvenience, injury or loss which may result therefrom.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.09 PROHIBITING CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The city adopts the water supply cross-connection rules of the
Michigan Department of Public Health being R 325.11401 to R 325.11407 of the
Michigan Administrative Code as administrative rules.
   (B)   The city shall develop a comprehensive control program for the
elimination and prevention of all cross-connections. The plan for the program
shall be submitted to the State Department of Public Health for review and
approval. After the plan has been approved by the State Department of Public
Health, the city shall implement the program for removal of all existing cross-
connections and prevention of all future cross-connections.
   (C)   All devices for the prevention of cross-connection shall be approved.
The devices shall be installed in good working condition at the customer’s
expense. The city will inspect, routinely, the devices and, if found to be
defective or inoperative, shall require replacement thereof.
   (D)   The customer shall obtain prior written approval from the city before
taking or installing any proposed corrective action or protective device. The
total time allowed for completion of corrections ordered by the city shall take
into account the degree of hazard involved and the time required to obtain and
install necessary equipment. If the cross-connection has not been removed
within the time specified, the city shall physically separate the water system
from the on-site piping system in a manner that the two systems cannot again be
connected by an unauthorized person.
   (E)   When a secondary water supply is used in addition to the water system,
or in other high risk installations involving extensive plumbing, exposed water
system and secondary water supply piping shall be identified by the American
Water Works Association standard color code and tags and so maintained that
each pipe maybe traced readily in its entirety. If piping is so installed that
it is impossible to trace in its entirety, is shall be considered a cross-
connection.
   (F)   A private water storage tank supplied from the water system shall be
deemed a secondary water supply unless it is approved.
   (G)   It shall be the responsibility of the customer to maintain cross-
connection prevention devices in good working order and to make no piping or
other arrangements for the purpose of altering or bypassing the devices.
   (H)   Periodic testing and inspection schedules shall be established by the
city for all cross-connections prevention devices. The interval between in
accordance with the age and condition of the devices. Inspection intervals
should not exceed one year, and overhaul intervals should not exceed five
years. These devices should be inspected frequently after the initial
installation to assure that they have been installed properly and that debris
resulting from the installation has not interfered with the functioning of the
device. The testing procedures shall be in accordance with the manufacturer’s
instructions when approved. Certified testing of the reduced pressure principle
back flow preventer is required by a licensed plumber at the customer’s expense
on an annual basis. Records of the test as well as records of repair shall be
provided to the city by the customer.
   (I)   The city is hereby authorized to discontinue water service after
reasonable notice to any premises where a cross-connection exists. The city may
take other precautionary measures as necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the water system. Water service to the property shall not be
restored until the cross-connection has been eliminated and the customer pays a
turn-on charge.
   (J)   The city shall immediately stop water service to any customer
discovered to have a cross-connection which created an imminent health hazard.
Water service shall not be restored until the violations is permanently
corrected.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984)
§ 51.10 WATER RATES, CHARGES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   All premises connected directly or indirectly to the water system,
except as hereinafter provided, shall be charged and shall make payments to the
city in amounts computed on the basis of this section.
   (B)   The City Council shall establish appropriate rates and fees to the
charged for water service furnished by the water system so as to adequately
provide for ordained bond requirements and to preserve the financial soundness
of the water system. The rates and fees shall be established by Council
resolution based upon the recommendation of the city staff or designated
parties.
   (C)   The city staff or designated parties shall periodically review the
rates, fees, rules and regulations of the water system. The review shall be
completed not less than one time per year fiscal year. Results of the review
shall be reported to the City Council with respective recommendations for any
adjustments.
   (D)   The city shall, from time to time, establish a customer service
charge, as necessary, for miscellaneous services and related administrative
costs associated wit the water system.
   (E)   The customer shall be charged a fee whenever the city is requested by
the customer to turn on water service. There is no charge for a requested shut-
off. Whenever the city is requested to provide turn-on or off services at times
other than regular business hours of the city, there will be imposed an
additional charge of labor and materials. The customer shall be charged $15 for
late payment shut-off or turn-on. The fee shall be established in accordance
with other sections of this chapter.
   (F)   All premises connecting to the water system shall pay a connection
charge. The connection charge shall be billed and payable pursuant to §
51.04(A). The connection charge shall be established in accordance with other
sections of this chapter.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984)
§ 51.11 PAYMENTS AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Bills for the rates and charges set forth in §
51.10 shall be due and payable at the business office of the city or to any
designated agent on their due date of issue. If not paid by the fifteenth day
thereafter, a time price differential equal to 1% per month or fraction of a
month shall be charged on the unpaid balance. In addition, there shall be
charged a penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance.
   (B)   (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills, as set out in division (A) above,
only after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.
The city’s form for application for utility service and all bills shall
contain, in addition to the title, address, room, number and telephone number
of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable
provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of correct and proper billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be continued at the time specified, but in no event until
the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in an amount set by the city.
   (C)   The rates and charges imposed by §
51.10 shall be a lien on the respective premises served by the water system.
Whenever rates and charges shall be unpaid for 60 days or more, they shall be
considered delinquent. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall certify all delinquent
rates and charged annually, on or before April 1, of each year to the tax-
assessing officer of the city, who shall enter the delinquent rates and
charges, interest and penalties upon the next tax roll as a charge against the
premises affected and the charge shall be collected and the lien thereof
enforced in the same manner as ad valorem property taxed levied against the
premises.
   (D)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, public
or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
   (E)   Any rates and charges for water service rendered prior to the
effective date of this chapter are hereby ratified and shall be collected
pursuant to §
51.11 and the city shall pursue all remedied pursuant to §
51.11 upon failure of a customer’s to pay the rates and charges.
   (F)   All bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the
city and of the water system will be mailed to the customer’s address unless a
change of address has been filed in writing at the business office of the city.
The city shall not otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice,
nor will the customer be excused from nonpayment of a bill or from any
performance required in the notice.
   (G)   Applications for connection permits may be canceled and/or water
service disconnected by the city for any violation of any part of this chapter,
including without limitation, any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the permit application to the nature or extent
of the property to be serviced by the system;
      (2)   Nonpayment of bills;
      (3)   Improper or imperfect and/or failure to keep service lines in a
suitable state of repair;
      (4)   Damage to any part of the water system; and/or
      (5)   Existence of a cross-connection.
   (H)   Where the water service supplied to a customer has been discontinued
for nonpayment of delinquent bills, the city reserves the right as a condition
to reconnect the service to require a nominal sum of $100 be placed on deposit
with the city for the purpose of establishing or maintaining any customers
credit. The deposit shall not be considered in lieu of any future billing for
rates and charges. Service shall not be reestablished until all delinquent
charges and penalties, and a turn-on charge has been paid. Further, the charges
and penalties may be recovered by the city by court action.
   (I)   The city shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruptions
of service and, when these interruptions occur, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever service is interrupted for
the purpose of working on the water system, all customers affected by the
interruption will be notified in advance whenever possible.
   (J)   Any customer has the right to appeal any rates or charges levied in
accordance with this chapter. Appeals shall be directed to the city, along with
any supporting documentation for amendment of the charges in question.
      (1)   Any additional information that may be required to resolve the
appeal, as directed by the city, shall be obtained by the customer at his or
her expense.
      (2)   Resolution of appeals shall be made within 60 days by the city in
accordance with best available data and this chapter.
      (3)   All bills for rates and charges outstanding during the appeals
process, including all penalties or delinquency charges, shall continue to be
due and payable.
      (4)   Upon resolution of the appeal, the city shall, if necessary, adjust
the rates and charges accordingly, including any refunds due. Refunds shall be
retroactive to the previous 12 months billings only.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984; Ord. 182, § 7, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 51.12 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Duly authorized employees or representatives of the city, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
premises served by the system for the purpose of determining the presence of
cross-connections and test or inspect devices preventing cross-connections. On
request, the customer shall furnish to the city all pertinent information
regarding the plumbing system of the premises. Refusal of the access or
information shall be prima facie evidence of the presence of cross-connection.
   (B)   Duly authorized employees or representatives of the city, bearing
proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted to enter upon all
premises served by the system for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provision of this
chapter.
   (C)   While performing the duties in divisions (A) and (B) above, the duly
authorized employees or representatives of the city shall observe all
reasonable safety rules applicable to the premises established by the customer;
and the customer.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984)
§ 51.13 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   The city specifically reserved the right to amend this chapter in
whole or in part, at one or more times hereafter, or to repeal the same, and by
the amendment to repeal, increase, decrease or otherwise modify any of the
fees, charges or rates herein provided.
   (B)   All provisions of this chapter shall be considered severable and
should any section or division conflict with any new or existing state or
federal rule, regulation or law, the section or division shall be void as to
that specific portion which is conflict, however, all remaining provisions and
sections of this chapter shall remain valid and in full force and effect.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984)
§ 51.14 GROUNDWATER WELLS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AFFECTED PARCEL. A parcel of land, any part of which is located within a
specified restricted or buffer zone.
      BUFFER ZONE. The area legally described as such on Exhibit A attached to
Ord. 215. A map illustrating the BUFFER ZONE is attached to Ord. 215 as Exhibit
B.
      CITY. The City of Bronson, Michigan.
      EGLE. The Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy,
its divisions, offices, or its successor agency.
      GLACIAL TILL AQUITARD UNIT. That stratigraphic unit depicted on the
geologic cross section attached to Ord. 215 as Exhibit C, which is described in
well boring logs as a gray, clay-rich, very hard, dry, dense unit and located
at elevations ranging, generally, between 850 to 870 feet above mean sea level.
      INDUSTRIAL USE WELL. Any industrial well approved for use in the
restricted or buffer zones constructed in accordance with those provisions set
forth in division (C)(3) below.
      LOWER AQUIFER. Any water-bearing stratigraphic unit located:
         (a)   Below the glacial till aquitard unit that has a minimum
thickness of ten feet; and
         (b)   Within the restricted or buffer zone areas.
      NON-CONTACT WELL. A well designed and used in a manner that does not
involve the use of the water for human contact.
      PART 201. Part 201, Environmental Remediation, of the Natural Resources
and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, as amended.
      PART 213. Part 213, Leaking Underground Storage Tanks, of the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, as amended.
      RESTRICTED ZONE. The area legally described as such on Exhibit A attached
to Ord. 215. A scaled map illustrating the restricted zone is attached to Ord.
215 as Exhibit B.
      SHALLOW AQUIFER. Any water-bearing stratigraphic unit located:
         (a)   Above the glacial till aquitard unit, or where there is no
glacial till aquitard unit or the glacial till aquitard unit is less than ten
feet thick; and
         (b)   Within the restricted and buffer zone areas.
      WATER SUPPLY WELL. A well that is used to provide potable water for
drinking and domestic purposes.
      WELL. An opening in the surface of the earth for the purpose of removing
water through non-mechanical or mechanical means, and shall have the same
meaning as defined at § 12701(1)(d) of Part 127, Water Supply and Sewer
Systems, of the Public Health Code, Act 368 of 1978, as amended and R 325.1606
(3) of the Groundwater Quality Control Rules, 1994 AACS R 325.1601 et seq.
   (B)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   After the effective date of this section, except as provided in
division (C) below, no person or legal entity shall install or use or allow,
permit, or otherwise provide for the installation or use of a well on any
property within the restricted zone on which that person or legal entity has an
ownership interest, or lessee or tenant interest, or control. Property within
the restricted zone shall be serviced only by public water supply.
      (2)   After the effective date of this section, except as provided in
division (C) below, no person or legal entity shall install or use, or allow,
permit, or otherwise provide for the installation or use of a well on any
property within the buffer zone on which that person or legal entity has an
ownership interest, or lessee or tenant interest, or control, which well draws
its water from the shallow aquifer. The installation and use of water supply
wells located within the buffer zone that draw all their water from the lower
aquifer are prohibited. The installation and use of other wells (not water
supply wells) located within the buffer zone that draw all of their water from
the lower aquifer are permitted and are not restricted by this section, so long
as an exception is met in division (C) below and the exception's corresponding
conditions are met. Property within the buffer zone shall be serviced only by
public water supply.
      (3)   After the effective date of this section, no well shall be
installed or operated anywhere within the city boundaries if its operation
would render the controls intended by this section ineffective. Before the City
Council takes action to enforce this division, the City Council shall provide
the owner of the property with notice and an opportunity to be heard.
      (4)   After the effective date of this section, the City Council may take
action to amend this section to add or remove properties to or from the
restricted or buffer zones, if it is determined that such action is necessary
to maintain the effectiveness of the controls intended by this section, and
EGLE's written approval is obtained after the notice requirements of division
(E) below have been satisfied. Before amending this section, the City Council
shall provide the owner of an affected parcel with notice and an opportunity to
be heard.
   (C)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Construction dewatering wells. Wells in a restricted or buffer zone
used for construction dewatering are not prohibited by this section, provided
that the water generated by that activity is properly handled and disposed in
compliance with all applicable laws and regulations and will not result in
unacceptable exposure to contaminated groundwater or possible cross-
contamination between saturated zones. Any exacerbation of contamination caused
by the use of construction dewatering wells under this exception shall be
considered the responsibility of the person operating the dewatering well, as
provided in Part 201.
      (2)   Groundwater monitoring and remediation wells. Wells in a restricted
or buffer zone used for groundwater monitoring and/or remediation as part of
response activity approved by EGLE or the United States Environmental
Protection Agency (U.S. EPA) under Part 201, Part 213, or the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act are not prohibited by
this section.
      (3)   Certain industrial use wells.
         (a)   After the effective date of this section, any existing well
within the restricted or buffer zone shall not be used to produce industrial
cooling or process water, or to service heat pumps unless it meets the
requirements of division (C)(4) below.
         (b)   Any proposed new well installation must be reviewed and approved
by EGLE Superfund (or its successor) staff with notice to U.S. EPA prior to
well placement, drilling, and construction and must meet the following
requirements:
            1.   If the glacial till aquitard unit is not encountered during
drilling, then the well is not to be constructed and the borehole must be
properly abandoned;
            2.   If the glacial till aquitard unit is less than the ten feet
minimum thickness found to be acceptable by EGLE, then the well is not to be
constructed and the borehole must be properly abandoned to prevent any cross-
contamination between the shallow and lower aquifers.
            3.   If the glacial till aquitard unit meets the criteria to be
protective, the well may be constructed using specific means in the placement,
drilling, and construction of the well as approved by EGLE.
      (4)   Existing, specific non-contact wells. After the effective date of
this section, an existing non-contact well within a restricted or buffer zone
shall not be used unless all of the following conditions are present:
         (a)   EGLE recommends, in writing, that the use of a well will not:
            1.   Cause migration of contaminated groundwater;
            2.   Create a threat of cross-contamination between the shallow and
lower aquifers; or
            3.   Cause vapor intrusion resulting in exposure of industrial
workers to volatile organic compounds; and
         (b)   The person requesting the continued use or installation of the
well submits a copy of EGLE's written recommendation to the city; and
         (c)   The city, upon review of the written recommendation of EGLE, and
in consultation with EGLE and such other technical experts as the city deems
necessary, may execute a waiver allowing the continued use of the non-contact
well upon such terms and conditions that EGLE may identify or require. Such
terms and conditions may include, but are not limited to, hydrogeological
evaluations including pump tests, and an analysis of the degree of protection
from vertical migration of contaminants through geologic barriers. The person
requesting to continue to use the well shall be responsible for the costs of
providing EGLE with the information EGLE deems necessary to recommend whether
the city should execute a waiver.
      (5)   New, specific non-contact wells. After the effective date of this
section, a person shall not install a new non-contact well within a restricted
or buffer zone unless the requirements in division (C)(3)(b) above are met and
all of the following conditions are present:
         (a)   EGLE recommends, in writing, that the use of a non-contact well
will not:
            1.   Cause migration of contaminated groundwater;
            2.   Create a threat of cross-contamination between the shallow and
lower aquifers; or
            3.   Cause vapor intrusion resulting in exposure of industrial
workers to volatile organic compounds; and
         (b)   The person requesting the installation of the non-contact well
submits a copy of EGLE's written recommendation to the city; and
         (c)   The city, upon review of the written recommendation of EGLE, and
in consultation with EGLE and such other technical experts as the city deems
necessary, may execute a waiver allowing installation and use of the non-
contact well upon such terms and conditions that EGLE may identify or require.
Such terms and conditions may include, but are not limited to, hydrogeological
evaluations including pump tests, an analysis of the degree of protection from
vertical migration of contaminants through geologic barriers, and groundwater
modeling. The person requesting the installation of the well shall be
responsible for the costs of providing EGLE with the information EGLE deems
necessary to recommend whether the city should issue a waiver.
      (6)   Any wells identified in this division (C) are limited to non-
potable use and any wells identified in divisions (C)(3) through (5) must
include clear labeling on the plumbing identifying the use as non-potable only.
Potable water to the industrial facility must be supplied by the city water
system using separate plumbing.
   (D)   Notification of intent to amend or repeal. At least 30 days prior to
any amendment or repeal in whole or in part of this section, the city shall
notify EGLE and U.S. EPA, or their successor agencies, by registered mail
addressed to the Director of such agency, of its intent to so act.
   (E)   Process for adding new restricted and buffer zones. The city may amend
this section to add new restricted and buffer zones in accordance with the
following procedure:
      (1)   An applicant shall first file a request with the city advising of
the applicant’s interest in establishing a restricted zone pursuant to this
section. The request shall describe the following for the proposed restricted
and buffer zones:
         (a)   Proposed boundaries;
         (b)   The reason for the request;
         (c)   Proposed groundwater use restrictions to be applicable within
the restricted and buffer zones;
         (d)   A preliminary map;
         (e)   Proposed time schedule for implementation; and
         (f)   EGLE and U.S. EPA's concurrence on the appropriateness of the
use of this section to restrict exposure to contaminated groundwater and reduce
the threat to groundwater resources, as well as conceptual agreement that the
proposed restricted zone and proposed groundwater use restrictions are
appropriate.
      (2)   After review, the city shall provide the applicant with a written,
preliminary and non-binding indication of the city's willingness to consider
the application.
      (3)   After the applicant obtains the non-binding approval from the city
to proceed, the applicant shall formally apply to the city. This application
shall include, at a minimum, the following information:
         (a)   A statement requesting a proposed addition, modification of a
restricted or buffer zone as provided by division (D) above for the purpose of
protecting the public from the potential health hazards associated with
exposure to contaminated groundwater;
         (b)   The name, address, and phone number of the applicant; as well as
each person having an interest as owner, tenant, easement holder or mortgagee
in the real property, which is a site of contaminated groundwater (affected
parcels), if known;
         (c)   A scaled map showing:
            1.   The horizontal extent of the contaminated groundwater plume,
along with a proposed buffer zone.
            2.   Boundary of the proposed restricted and buffer zones with
parcel boundaries and associated parcel numbers.
            3.   Location of wells subject to the exception to prohibition, as
allowed under division (C) above;
         (d)   A written description of the boundaries of the proposed
restricted zone and buffer zone;
         (e)   The location, current status, and usage characteristics of all
existing wells within the proposed restricted and buffer zones and whether the
wells have or will be plugged or if they have been excepted from the
prohibition on use under division (C) above;
         (f)   A description and time schedule for any actions the applicant
will take to implement any remediation plan, mitigate the adverse impact of the
restricted zone (e.g., providing substitute water service), and to properly
plug per Well Construction Code any existing wells subject to the use
prohibition within the proposed restricted or buffer zones;
         (g)   A written statement from EGLE stating that the proposed new
restricted and buffer zones and use regulations have received EGLE approval as
part of the response actions for the groundwater contamination. EGLE approval
will be contingent upon the city's establishment of the proposed restricted and
buffer zones and their enforcement of such; and
         (h)   Any other information reasonably requested by the city.
      (4)   Along with the formal application, the applicant shall pay an
application fee to the city established by resolution by the city. The fee
shall be established at a level intended to cover the city's anticipated out-
of-pocket expenses to establish a restricted zone, as well as a reasonable
portion of the city's costs in administering and enforcing this section.
      (5)   Once the city is satisfied that the application is complete, the
matter shall be placed on the city's agenda to set a time, date, and place for
a public meeting on the application.
      (6)   After the city sets the public meeting, the applicant shall cause a
written notice of the meeting to be sent by first class mail to all persons
having an interest as owner, tenant, easement holder, or mortgagee of any of
the affected parcels, as provided for in division (A) above. The applicant must
also notify the local health department having jurisdiction over the
installation of wells in the proposed restricted or buffer zones of the public
meeting, as well as provide written notification of the pending passage of the
code amendment adding the restricted or buffer zones, as provided for in this
section.
      (7)   Upon the establishment of a new restricted and/or buffer zone, the
city shall publish notice of/record the amendment to the chapter in the manner
required by law in accordance with division (F) below.
   (F)   Publication and recording.
      (1)   The city shall publish any amendment to this section in a newspaper
of general circulation within 30 days of passage of the amendment to this
section.
      (2)   If the release, for which an amendment to this section is sought,
is regulated pursuant to Part 201, then the amendment to this section shall be
published and maintained in the same manner as zoning ordinances.
      (3)   If the release, for which an amendment to this section is sought,
is regulated pursuant to Part 213, then the amendment to this section shall be
filed by the applicant with the Register of Deeds as an ordinance affecting
multiple properties.
(Ord. 215, passed 11-9-2020) Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with, climb upon or enter
into any structure, appurtenance or equipment of the system.
   (B)   Except as provided in division (A) above, any person found to be
violating any provision of this chapter shall be served by the city with
written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing a reasonable
time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within
the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (C)   Any person who violates division (A) above or who shall continue any
violation beyond the time limit provided for in division (B) above shall be
fined in an amount not to exceed $500 for each violation, or shall be
imprisoned in the county jail for a maximum of 90 days, or shall be subject to
both the fine and imprisonment. Each day in which the violation shall continue
shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city for any expense, including reasonable attorney’s
fees, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason of the violation.
   (E)   (1)   Any person or legal entity who shall violate any provision of §
51.14 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor offense punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by fine of not more than $500 or
both. Such fine and imprisonment is at the discretion of a court of competent
jurisdiction. The City Police Department, the Hillsdale-Branch-St. Joseph
District Health Department, and the Branch County Prosecutor's Office have
authority to enforce §
51.14.
      (2)   In addition, the city may seek an order from a court of competent
jurisdiction to restrain any person from violating §
51.14, including the collection of costs and attorney fees associated with such
enforcement action. Any well in violation of §
51.14 shall also be declared and deemed a nuisance, subject to abatement, and
shall be immediately taken out of service and lawfully plugged consistent with
all applicable state and local regulations, including the Michigan Water Well
Construction and Pump Installation Code, Groundwater Quality Control, Part 127
of Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, as amended, and rules (Well Construction
Code). Any person found to be in violation is subject to being ordered by a
court of competent jurisdiction to properly and lawfully plug the well per the
Well Construction Code.
(Ord. 128, passed 12-20-1984; Ord. 215, passed 11-9-2020)
CHAPTER 52: SEWER USE; RATES AND CONNECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Short title
   
52.02   Purpose and policy
   
52.03   Administration
   
52.04   Abbreviations
   
52.05   Definitions
   
52.06   Operation and maintenance
   
52.07   Use of sanitary sewers required
   
52.08   Private sewage disposal
   
52.09   Building sewers and connections
   
52.10   Use of the sanitary sewers
   
52.11   Rates and charges
   
52.12   Payments and collections
   
52.13   Powers and authority of city employees
   
52.14   Right to amend
Industrial Waste Control Program
   
52.25   Industrial user responsibility for pretreatment, flow equalization and
new source compliance
   
52.26   Industrial user notification requirements
   
52.27   Information and reports to be provided to city
   
52.28   Signatory requirements for industrial user reports
   
52.29   Compliance monitoring
   
52.30   Sample collection and analytical requirements
   
52.31   Record keeping
   
52.32   Spent concentrates
   
52.33   Secondary containment or curbing
   
52.34   Slug control plans for significant industrial users
   
52.35   Hauled wastewater
   
52.36   Industrial user wastewater discharge permits
   
52.37   Confidential information
Enforcement
   
52.50   Administrative enforcement orders
   
52.51   Emergency suspensions
   
52.52   Termination of permit
   
52.53   Judicial remedies
   
52.54   Annual publication of significant industrial users in significant
noncompliance
   
52.55   Affirmative defenses to discharge violations
 
   
52.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Sewer Use, Rate Connection Ordinance”,
and may be cited as such.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   This chapter sets forth uniform requirements for users of the publicly
owned treatment works for the city and enables the city to comply with all
applicable federal and state laws, including the Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. §§
1251 et seq.) part 31 of the State Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act (“NREPA”) (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq.), and the federal and
state general pretreatment regulations set forth at 40 C.F.R. part 403 and 1995
Michigan Administrative Code R. 323.2301 et seq.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the publically owned
treatment works (“POTW”) that will interfere with its operation;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW that will
pass through the POTW, inadequately treated, into receiving waters, or
otherwise be incompatible with the POTW;
      (3)   To protect both POTW personnel who may be affected by wastewater
and sludge in the course of their employment and the general public;
      (4)   To promote reuse and recycling of industrial wastewater and sludge
from the POTW;
      (5)   To provide for fees for the equitable distribution of the cost of
operation, maintenance and improvements of the POTW; and
      (6)   To enable the city to comply with its national pollutant discharge
elimination system (“NPDES”) permit conditions, sludge use and disposal
requirements, and any other federal or state laws to which the POTW is subject.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 52.03 ADMINISTRATION.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the City Manager shall be responsible
for overall administration, implementation and enforcement the provisions of
this chapter. Any powers granted to or duties imposed upon the City Manager may
however be delegated by the City Manager to other city personnel, including,
but not limited to, the city Waste Water Treatment Plant (“WWTP”) Supervisor.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.04 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following abbreviations shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   EPA. United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   gpd. Gallons per day.
   MDEQ. Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
   MNREPA. Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Pollution Act.
   POTW. Publicly owned treatment works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act.
   SIC. Standard industrial classification.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   U.S.C. United States Code.
   WWTP. Wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Federal Water pollution Control Act, as amended by the Clean Water
Act and the Water Quality Act of 1987, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPROVAL AUTHORITY. The Chief of the Surface Water Quality Division,
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or his or her designated
appointee.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE USER.
      (1)   If the user is a corporation:
         (a)   The president, secretary, treasurer or a vice president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding 25 million dollars (in second-quarter 1980
dollars), the authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the
manager in accordance with corporate procedures.
      (2)   If the user is a partnership or sole proprietorship; a general
partner or proprietor, respectively.
      (3)   If the user is a federal, state or local governmental facility; a
director or highest official appointed or designated to oversee the operation
and performance of the activities of the government facility, or their
designee.
      (4)   The individuals described in divisions (1) through (3) above may
designate another authorized representative if the authorization is writing,
the authorization specified the individual or position responsible for the
overall operation of the facility from which the discharge originates or having
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, and the city
approves the designation.
   BOD. The quantity of oxygen required to biochemically decompose organic
matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system that receives the discharge from soil, waste and other discharge pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer beginning
five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension to the building drain to service lateral or
other place of disposal.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s treatment facility needed for compliance with pretreatment
standards.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing pollutant
discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with § 307(a) and (b) of
the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317), which applies to a specific category of industrial
users.
   CITY. The City of Bronson, Branch County, Michigan, as represented by the
Bronson City Council or its agents, including, but not limited to, the City
Manager and WWTP Supervisor.
   CITY MANAGER. The chief administrative officer of the city appointed by the
City Council, regardless of title.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. BOD, suspended solids, pH, ammonia nitrogen, total
phosphorus and fecal coliform bacteria plus any additional pollutants
identified in the NPDES permit if the system was designated to treat the
pollutants and can, in fact, remove the pollutants to a substantial degree. The
term SUBSTANTIAL DEGREE generally means removals on the order of 80% or
greater.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   CONNECTION CHARGE. The amount charges at the time, and in the amount
hereunder provided, to each premise in the city which connects to the system.
   COUNTY. Branch County.
   CUSTOMER or USER. Sanitary sewer users as divided into classes by similar
process or discharge flow characteristics as follows.
      (1)   RESIDENTIAL CUSTOMER. The owner of an individual home or dwelling
unit, including mobile homes, apartments, condominiums or multi-family dwelling
units that are served by individual water meters or service connections, and
that discharge only segregated domestic water or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
      (2)   COMMERCIAL CUSTOMER. Any retail or wholesale business engages in
selling merchandise or a service.
      (3)   INSTITUTIONAL CUSTOMER. Any educational, religious or social
organization such as a school, church, nursing home, hospital or other
institutional user.
      (4)   GOVERNMENTAL CUSTOMER. Any federal, state or governmental office or
governmental service facility.
      (5)   INDUSTRIAL CUSTOMER. Any manufacturing establishment which produces
a product from raw or purchased material.
      (6)   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   All industrial users subject to Categorical Pretreatment
Standards under 40 C.F.R. § 403.6 and 40 C.F.R. Chapter 1, Subchapter N; and
         (b)   Any other industrial user that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the system (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and
boiler blow-down wastewater);
            2.   Contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or more
of the average daily hydraulic or treatment capacity of the city sewage
treatment facility; or
            3.   Any industrial user who is designated as such by the city on
the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely
affecting the sewage treatment plant’s operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement.
   CUSTOMER SERVICE CHARGE. The charge levied to all customers for
miscellaneous services and related administrative costs related to the system.
   EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the
Region 5 Water Management Division Director, or other duly authorized official
of EPA.
   EXISTING SOURCE. Any source or discharge, the construction or operation of
which commenced prior to the publication by EPA of proposed categorical
pretreatment standards, which will be applicable to the source if the standard
is thereafter promulgated in accordance with § 307 of the Act.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation, cooking
an dispensing of food and handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream without regard to
the flow in the waste stream and over a period of time not to exceed 15
minutes.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant, as
defined above.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The introduction of any pollutants in to
the POTW from any non-domestic source regulated by § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Act.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. Liquid wastes from manufacturing processes.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the sanitary sewer system from the ground
including, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include and is distinguished from, inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the sanitary sewer system from the ground
including, but not limited to, building down spout, footing or yard drains,
cooling water discharges, seepage lines from spring and swampy areas and storm
drain cross-connections.
   INSPECTOR. Any person or persons authorized by the city to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the service
lateral.
   INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM ALLOWABLE DISCHARGE LIMIT. The maximum concentration
from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations of its sludge processes, use or disposal; and therefore, is a cause
of a violation of the city’s NPDES permit, § 405 of the Act or any other
federal or state law or regulation.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment
process or operations of its sludge processes, use or disposal; and therefore,
is a cause of a violation of the city’s NPDES permit, § 405 of the Act or any
other federal or state law or regulation.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any naturally formed outlet to a watercourse, ditch or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed limited discharges, provided that:
      (1)   The building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at
a site at which no other source is located;
      (2)   The building, structure, facility or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure or installation are substantially independent of an existing source
at the same site.
   NONCONTACT COOLING WATER. Water used for cooling which does not come into
direct contact with any raw material, intermediate product, waste product or
finished product.
   NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE. A sanitary wastewater flow containing an average
daily BOD of not more than 200 mg/l; an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 250 mg/l; an average daily phosphorus
concentration of not more than 10 mg/l; an average ammonia nitrogen
concentration of not more than 30 mg/l and containing no constituents that are
regarded as incompatible with the system as determined by the city.
   NPDES PERMIT. The permit issued pursuant to the National Pollution Discharge
Elimination System for the discharge of wastewater into the waters of the
state.
   O, M & R CHARGE. The charge levied on all customers for the operation,
maintenance and replacement cost associated with the system.
   OPERATION, MAINTENANCE AND REPLACEMENT COSTS. All costs, direct and
indirect, necessary to provide adequate sewage collection and treatment on a
continuing basis, to conform with all federal, state and local wastewater
management requirements, and to assure optimum long-term management of the
system and should include a reasonable allowance for the replacement of the
equipment and appurtenances necessary to maintain the intended performance of
the system.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirements of
the city’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of
a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The acidity or alkalinity of a solution, based on the reciprocal of the
concentration of hydrogen ions in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Dredged soil, solid waste, incinerator residue, filter backwash,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded
equipment, rock, sand cellar dirt, municipal, agricultural and industrial
wastes, and certain characteristics of wastewater (e.g., pH, temperature TSS,
turbidity, color, BOD, COD, toxicity or odor).
   PREMISES. The treatment of wastewater flows in privately owned pretreatment
facilities prior to discharge into the system.
   PRETREATMENT. The treatment of wastewater flows in privately owned
pretreatment facilities prior to discharge in the system.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment imposed on a user, other than a pretreatment standard.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or STANDARD. Any local, state or federal regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits.
   PRIVATE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A facility such as a septic tank, cesspool or any
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   PROHIBITED DISCHARGES. Prohibitions on the discharge of certain substances;
these prohibitions appear in §
52.10.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. Garbage that has been cut up to such a degree
that all particles will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally
prevailing in the system, with no particles greater than one-half-inch
dimension.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted and which all owners of abutting
properties have equal rights and which is controlled by the city.
   SEPTIC TANK WASTE. Any sewage from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers and septic tanks.
   SERVICE LATERAL. The pipe extending from the sanitary sewer to the
customer’s property line, including the wye branch.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water carried wasters from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with the
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SHALL. Mandatory. MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.  An industrial user is in significant
noncompliance is the user’s violation meets one or more of the following
criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or average limit for
the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4
for CBOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except
pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the city determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including
endangering the health of city personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or that has resulted in the
city’s exercise of it’s emergency authority to halt to prevent such a
discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the scheduled date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a discharge permit or enforcement
order for starting construction of pretreatment facilities, completing
construction or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports and reports on compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and/or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violation which the city determines
will adversely affect the operation of implementation of the local pretreatment
program.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine or episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC) CODE. A classification pursuant to
the SIC manual issued by the United States Office Management and Budget.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER. A sewer which carries storm and
surface waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other
than unpolluted cooling water and other permitted discharges.
   STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation, and resulting from the precipitation, including snowmelt.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or in the
suspension in, water, sewage or other liquids and which can be removed by
laboratory filtering.
   SYSTEM. All facilities of the city and all subsequent additions, including
all service laterals, sanitary sewers, pumps, lift stations, sewage treatment
facility and all other facilities used or useful in the collection, treatment
and disposal of sewage, including all appurtenances thereto and including all
extensions and improvements thereto which may hereafter be acquired. The term
SYSTEM or SEWER SYSTEM may be used interchangeably with the term POTW.
   TURN ON/OFF FEE. The amount charged to reinstate service because of
violations of the provisions of this chapter.
   UN-METERED CUSTOMERS. Customers that receive sanitary sewer service and do
not receive public water from the city.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the industrial user. An UPSET does not excise
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative
maintenance or careless or improper operation.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT (WWTP). The portion of the system which is
designated to provide treatment of municipal sewage and industrial waste.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WYE BRANCH. The portion of the service lateral connected to the sanitary
sewer that is made at an angle similar to a “Wye” so that a sewer cleaning rod
will come into the sewer at a right angle and penetrate the far side, but will
travel down the course of the sewer.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.06 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Management and operation of system. The operation, maintenance,
alteration, repair and management of the system shall be under the supervision
of the City Manager, subject however, to the control of the City Council. The
City Manager is authorized to make appropriate decisions and judgements to
preserve the intent of the provisions of this chapter. The city may employ the
person or persons in a capacity or capacities as it deems advisable to carry
out the efficient management and operations of the system and may make rules,
orders and regulations as it deems advisable and necessary to assure the
efficient management and operation of the system.
   (B)   Responsibility of city and customer. The city is responsible for the
operation, maintenance and repair of the system up to the customer’s property
line. The customer is responsible for maintenance and repair of the building
sewer. Where a clean-out is not provided on the building sewer, the customer is
responsible for the entire building sewer from the premise to the sanitary
sewer.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.07 USE OF SANITARY SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Depositing sewage upon public or private property. It shall be
unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be deposited any sewage
upon public or private property within the city in any unsanitary manner.
   (B)   Discharging sewage into a water course or natural outlet. It shall be
unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in an area
under the jurisdiction of the city, any sewage, industrial waste or polluted
waters, except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with
subsequent provisions of this chapter or permit issued by the State Department
of Environmental Quality (“MDEQ”).
   (C)   Construction of privy or septic tank. Except as hereunder provided or
in the case of an industrial customer discharging properly treated sewage under
the authority of a permit issued by the MDEQ, it shall be unlawful to construct
or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
   (D)   Connection to sanitary sewer; time limit; mandatory injunction.
      (1)   Any structure in which sewage originates within the city, with the
exception of industrial customers discharging properly treated sewage under the
authority of a permit issued by the MDEQ, shall be connected to any available
sanitary sewer within 90 days after publication by the city of this chapter and
notice of availability of a sanitary sewer in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, a sanitary sewer shall be considered
to be available when it is located in a right-of-way, easement, highway, street
or public way which crossed, adjoins or abuts upon the property in question and
passes not more than 200 feet at the nearest point from the structure in which
the sewage originates.
      (3)   For purposes of this section, the phrase STRUCTURE IN WHICH SEWAGE
ORIGINATES shall mean a building in which toilet, kitchen, laundry, bathing or
other facilities that generate sewage or industrial waste are used or are
available for use for household, commercial, industrial or other purposes.
      (4)   If the structure in which sewage or industrial waste originates has
not been connected to an available sanitary sewer within the 90-day period,
then the city shall require the connection to be made in accordance with Public
Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. § 333.12754, as amended, which provides that
the city may bring an action for a mandatory injunction or order in the
applicable court of jurisdiction to compel the immediate connection to the
subject premises to the system. In the proceeding, the city shall have the
rights and remedies provided by this chapter.
   (E)   Extension of system to lot in plats. Plats for premises located in the
city and subdivided into four or more lots or parcels shall not be approved by
the city after the effective date of this chapter unless an extension of the
system is constructed to serve all lots or parcels in the plat in compliance
with the construction and capacity requirements of the city as reviewed by the
city engineer, all at the cost of the owner of the premises. This is intended
to implement the provisions of the Subdivision Control Act of 1967 (Public Act
288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended).
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where permitted. Where a connection to the system is not available
under the provisions of §
52.07(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private disposal system
complying with all requirements of the County Health Department.
   (B)   When public sewer becomes available. At a time as the system becomes
available to a property served by a private disposal system, as provided in §
52.07(D), a direct connection shall be made to the sanitary sewer in compliance
with this chapter. Any septic tank cesspool or similar private disposal system
shall be abandoned, pumped out and filled with clean sand.
   (C)   Operation and maintenance. The owner of the private disposal system
shall operate and maintain the private disposal system in a sanitary manner at
all times, at no expense to the city.
   (D)   Additional requirements. A person operating and maintaining a private
disposal system pursuant to this section shall comply with any additional
requirements that may be imposed by the Michigan Department of Public Health or
the MDEQ.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.09 BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Permit required, bond, liability, insurance.
      (1)   Only a plumber or contractor authorized by the city shall uncover,
make any connections with or openings into, use, alter or disturb any portion
of the system or appurtenances thereof; and shall first obtain a permit from
the city.
      (2)   Before the city issues such a permit, the plumber or contractor, as
the case may be, shall deposit with the city a bond with corporate surety in
the sum of $1,000, conditioned that he or she will faithfully perform all work
with due care and skill, and in accordance with the laws, rules and regulations
established under the authority of the city pertaining to sewers and plumbing.
      (3)   The bond shall state that the plumber or contractor, as the case
may be, will indemnify and save harmless the city and the customer against all
damages, costs, expenses, outlays and claims of every nature and kind arising
out of mistake or negligence on his or her part in connection with plumbing,
service laterals or excavating for plumbing or sewer connection as prescribed
in this chapter. The bond must remain in force and must be executed for a
period of one year, except that, upon the expiration, it shall remain in force
as to all penalties, claims and demands that may have accrued thereunder prior
to the expiration.
      (4)   The permit shall also require proof of public liability insurance
for the protection of the city, the customer and all persons, to indemnity them
for all damages caused by accidents attributable to the work, with limits of
$100,000 for one person, $300,000 for bodily injuries per accident and $50,000
for property damages.
   (B)   New buildings permits; plans or specifications; connection charge. All
new buildings or buildings requiring new building sewers must obtain a permit
for construction from the city and the state. The customer or his or her agent
shall make application for the permit on a special form furnished by the city.
In addition to compliance with the terms of division (A) above, the permit
application shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other
information considered pertinent in the judgement of the city. The applicable
connection charge, as established by the city, shall be paid to the city at the
time the application is filed.
   (C)   Cost, expenses and liability. All cost and expenses incidental to the
installation and connection of the building sewer shall be borne by the
customer. The customer or the person installing the building sewer for the
customer shall indemnify the city from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be caused by the installation of the building sewer.
   (D)   Separate sewer for every building exception. A separate and
independent building sewer shall be provided for every building, except where
one building stands at the rear of another on an interior lot and no private
sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear building through an
adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building sewer from the front
building may be extended to the rear building and the whole considered as one
building sewer. Other exceptions will be allowed only by special permission
granted by the city. Plumbing fixtures installed in accessory buildings and
drains carrying sewage shall be connected to the sanitary sewer.
   (E)   Old building sewers. Old building sewers or portions thereof may be
used in connection with new buildings only when they are found, on examination
and testing by the city to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Pipe construction. The building sewer shall be constructed of either
of the following types of pipe meeting the current ASTM specifications.
      (1)   Plastic (ABS) ASTM D 1527 SDR 35;
      (2)   Plastic (PVS) ASTM D 1785 SDR 35;
      (3)   Vitrified Clay (VC) ASTM C-700 Extra Strength;
      (4)   Asbests-Cement (AC) ASTM C-428 Cl-2400;
      (5)   Cast Iron Extra Heavy ASTM A-74; and
      (6)   Non-reinforced Concrete ASTM C-14 Extra Strength.
   (G)   Size and slope. The size and slope of the building sewer shall be
approved by the city, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches. The minimum grade shall be as follows:
 
6-inch pipe 1/8" per foot or 1" Per 8 foot
4-inch pipe 1/4" per foot or 2" Per 8 foot
 
   (H)   Elevation; depth; excavations; backfill.
      (1)   Whenever possible the building sewer shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be
laid parallel to, or within three feet of, any bearing wall which might thereby
by weakened.
      (2)   The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. All
excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open
trench work unless otherwise approved by the Inspector.
      (3)   Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with
current ASTM specifications, except that no backfill shall be placed until the
work has been inspected by the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (I)   Lifting sewage by artificial means. In all buildings in which any
building drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the sanitary sewer, sewage
carried by the drains shall be lifted by artificial means and discharges to the
building sewer.
   (J)   Connection into public sewer. The connection of the building sewer
into the sanitary sewer shall be made at the wye branch designated for the
property if the branch is available at a suitable location. Any connection not
made at the designated wye branch in the sanitary sewer main shall be made only
as directed by the city.
   (K)   Inspection and connection. The applicant for the building sewer shall
notify the city when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection
to the sanitary sewer. The connection shall be made under the supervision of
the Inspector or his or her representative.
   (L)   Excavation; conditions of work. All excavations for building sewer
installation shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard. Streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public
property disturbed in the course of the work shall be restored in a manner
satisfactory to the city at the expense of the customer.
   (M)   Capacity. No connection shall be allowed unless there is hydraulic and
treatment capacity available in the POTW as determined by the city.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.10 USE OF THE SANITARY SEWERS.
   (A)   Unpolluted discharges to sanitary sewer. No person shall discharge, or
cause to be discharged, any storm water, surface water, groundwater, roof
runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated cooling water or unpolluted
industrial process waters into the system.
   (B)   Unpolluted discharges to storm sewers or natural outlet. Storm water
and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to sewers or drains
specifically designated for the use, or to a natural outlet approved by the
appropriate state agency. Any user proposing to discharge any unpolluted water
to a storm sewer other than storm water or potable water must first notify the
city.
   (C)   Limited discharges. Except as hereinafter provided, discharges of the
following pollutants and wastewaters are prohibited:
      (1)   No user shall introduce or cause to be introduced into the system
any pollutant or wastewater which causes pass-through or interference. This
general prohibition applies to all users of the system whether or not they are
subject to categorical pretreatment standards or any other national, state or
local pretreatment standards or requirements. The city shall investigate
instances of pass-through and interference, inform the responsible user(s) of
the impact and take enforcement action against the users in accordance with the
Enforcement Response Plan;
      (2)   Wastes which contain the following substances exceeding the
following concentrations:
Constituent           Daily Max
Compatible Pollutants mg/l
Constituent      Daily Max
Compatible       mg/l
Pollutants
BOD              1,000
Suspended solids 1,000
Ammonia nitrogen 50
Total phosphorus 20
Other Pollutants mg/l
Arsenic          125
Barium           7,650
Cadmium          50
Total chromium   2,330
Copper           594
Lead             472
Mercury          below quantification + 2
Nickel           1,700
Selenium         44
Zinc             226
The above limits apply at the control points specified by the city in the
users wastewater discharge permit or, if the user is not subject to the
permitting requirements contained in §§
52.25 through
52.37, at the point at which wastewater is discharged to the system. All
concentrations for metals are for “total” metals unless indicated
otherwise. The city may impose mass limits in addition to or in lieu of the
concentrations limits above.
1. These limits are maximum limits on compatible pollutants that cannot be
exceeded by any user. However, discharges of these pollutants at levels
exceeding those designated as normal strength sewage defined in §
52.05 are subject to surcharges.
2. The discharge of mercury above the quantification level shall represent
an exceedance of the local limit. Mercury sampling procedures, preservation
and handling, and analytical protocol for compliance monitoring shall be in
accordance with U.S. EPA method 245.1, unless Method 1631 is required by
the city. The quantification level shall be 0.2 ng/1 for Method 245.1 or
0.5 ng/1 for Method 1631, unless higher levers are appropriate because of
sample matrix interference. The city shall require an industrial user to
develop an implement a minimization plan where mercury is found at
detectable levels. The maximum allowable headwords loading may not exceed
0.00007 lb/d.
 
      (3)   Color (as from, but not limited to, dyes, inks or vegetable tanning
solutions) shall be controlled to prevent light absorbency which would
interfere with treatment plant process or that prevent analytical
determinations;
      (4)   Any substance which by reason of their nature or quantity may cause
fire or explosion hazard or be injurious to the system or to the operation of
the sewage treatment facility, including, but not limited to, waste streams
with a closed cup flash point of less than 140°F using the test methods
specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
      (5)   Garbage not properly shredded (no particle size greater than one-
half-inch);
      (6)   Grease, oil, wax or fat, petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting
oil or products of mineral oil origin (“FOG”), whether emulsified or not, in
excess of 100 mg/l or quantities which disrupt treatment or cause pass through
or interference, or any substances which may solidify or become viscous at
temperatures between 32 and 150°F;
      (7)   Inert suspended solids (such as, but not limited to, Fuller earth,
lime slurried and lime residue) or dissolved solids (such as, but not limited
to, sodium chloride or sodium sulfate) in concentrations that cause pass
through or interference;
      (8)   Insoluble, solid or viscous substances (such as, but not limited
to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, tar, feathers,
plastics, wood, hair and fleshings);
      (9)   Noxious or malodorous substances (such as, but not limited to,
hydrogen sulfide, sulphur oxide or oxides of nitrogen), other substances
capable of public nuisance, or any pollutants which result in the presence of
toxic gasses vapors, or fumes within the system or the sewage treatment
facility in a quantity that may cause acute worker health or safety problems;
      (10)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, including the contents of
septic, vehicular or marine holding tanks or other similar facilities, except
under the conditions and provisions established by and discharge points
designated by the city;
      (11)   Water or wastes with a pH less than six and one-half or greater
than nine and one-half;
      (12)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of a half-life or concentration
which may exceed limits established by applicable state and federal
regulations;
      (13)   Water or waste with a temperature less than 32°F or greater than
150°;
      (14)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amendable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment facility, or are amendable to
treatment to only a degree that the sewage treatment facility effluent or
sludge cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction over
discharge to the receiving waters and sludge disposal;
      (15)   Discharges that would result in excess foaming during the
treatment process. Excess foaming is any form which, in the opinion of the
Superintendent of the wastewater treatment facility, is a nuisance to the
treatment process; and
      (16)   No industrial user shall ever increase the use of process water
or, in any way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete
substitute for adequate treatment in order to achieve compliance with the
limitations contained in the federal categorical pretreatment standard, or in
any other pollutant-specific limitation developed by the city or state.
   (D)   National categorical pretreatment standards. All industrial users
shall comply with the applicable categorical pretreatment standards found at 40
C.F.R. parts 405-471 and Michigan Administrative Code R. 323.2317, which are
hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.
      (1)   Where a categorical pretreatment standard is expressed only in
terms of either the mass or the concentration of a pollutant in wastewater, the
Superintendent may impose equivalent concentration or mass limits in accordance
with Michigan Administrative Code R. 323.2311 (5).
      (2)   When wastewater subject to a categorical pretreatment standard is
mixed with wastewater not regulated by the same standards, the Superintendent
shall impose an alternate limit using the combined waste stream formula in
Michigan Administrative Code R. 323.2311 (7).
      (3)   A user may obtain a variance from a categorical pretreatment
standard if the user can prove, pursuant to the procedural and substantive
provisions in 40 C.F.R. § 403.13, that factors relating to its discharge are
fundamentally different from the factors considered by EPA when developing the
categorical pretreatment standard.
      (4)   A user may obtain a net gross adjustment to a categorical standard
in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15.
   (E)   State pretreatment standards. State pretreatment standards set forth
at Michigan Administrative Code R. 323.2303 are hereby incorporated by
reference in their entirety.
   (F)   Special arrangement. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangements between the city
and any industrial customer, after recommendations by the city, whereby an
industrial waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by the city
for treatment.
   (G)   Right of revision. The city reserves the right to establish, by
ordinance or in wastewater discharge permits, more stringent standards or
requirements on discharges to the POTW.
   (H)   Dilution. No user shall ever increase the volume of process water or
in any way attempt to dilute a discharge, as a partial or complete substitute
for adequate treatment to comply with these discharge prohibitions, unless
authorized to do so by an applicable pretreatment standard or requirements.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 52.11 RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Charges. All premises connected directly or indirectly to the system,
except as hereinafter provided, shall be charged and shall make payments to the
city in amounts computed on the basis of this section.
   (B)   Rates and fees. The City Council shall establish appropriate rates and
fees to be charged for sewage disposal furnished by the system so as to
adequately provide for ordained bond requirements and to preserve the financial
soundness of the sewage disposal system. The rates and fees shall be
established by Council resolution based upon the recommendations of city staff
or designated parties. The rates and fees may include appropriate surcharges
for compatible pollutants.
   (C)   Review of rates and regulations. The city staff or designated parties
shall periodically review the rates, fees and regulations of the sewage
disposal system. The review shall be completed not less than one time per
fiscal year. Results of the review shall be reported to City Council with
respective recommendations for any adjustments.
   (D)   Customer service charge. The city shall, from time to time, establish
a customer service charge, as necessary, for miscellaneous services and relates
administrative cost associated with the system and shall comply with the City
Council’s cost recovery policy.
   (E)   Connection charge. All premises connection to the system shall pay a
connection charge. The connection charges set forth above shall be due and
payable pursuant to §
52.09(B).
   (F)   Reinstalled service; turn-on fee. If sewer service is discontinued for
any reason, the service shall not be reinstalled until the customer shall pay
to the city a turn-on fee, which shall be established in accordance with other
sections of this chapter.
   (G)   Surcharges on compatible pollutants. Any discharges containing
compatible pollutants at levels exceeding the levels designated a normal
strength sewage defined in §
52.05 are subject to surcharges which the city may establish pursuant to
division (B) above.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.12 PAYMENTS AND COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   Billing procedure. Bills for the rates and charges set forth in §
52.11 shall be due and payable at the business office of the city or to any
designated agent on the date of issue. If not paid by the fifteenth day
thereafter, a time price differential equal to 1% per month or fraction of a
month shall be charges on the unpaid balance. In addition, there shall be
charges a penalty of 10% of the unpaid balance.
   (B)   Discontinued service; reinstatement.
      (1)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills, as set out in division (A) above,
only after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills.
The city’s form for application for utility service and all bills shall
contain, in addition to the title, address, room, number and telephone number
of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable
provisions to the effect:
         (a)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set
forth on the bill; and
         (b)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second
bill will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid
within ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued
for nonpayment; and
         (c)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer’s service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer’s complaint.
      (2)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained;
only questions of correct and proper billing will be considered. In the absence
of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be continued at the time specified, but in no event until
the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
      (3)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility
service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only
after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on
charge in an amount set by the city.
   (C)   Lien. The rates and charges imposed by §
52.11 shall be a lien on the respective premises served by the system. Whenever
rates and charges shall be unpaid for 60 days or more, they shall be considered
delinquent. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall certify all delinquent rates and
charges annually, on or before April 1 of each year to the tax assessing
officer of the city, who shall enter the delinquent rates and charges, interest
and penalties on the next tax roll as a charge against the premises affected
and the charge shall be collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same
manner as ad valorem property.
   (D)   No fee service. No free service shall be furnished by the system to
any person, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
   (E)   Charges for service prior to effective date. Any rates and charges for
service rendered prior to the effective date of this chapter are hereby
ratified and shall be collected pursuant to §§
52.50 through
52.55 and the city shall pursue all remedies pursuant to §§
52.50 through
52.55 upon failure of a customer to pay the rates and charges.
   (F)   Bills and notices to be mailed. All bills and notices relating to the
conduct of the business of the city and of the system will be mailed to the
customer’s address unless a change of address has been filed in writing at the
business office of the city. The city shall not otherwise be responsible for
deliver of any bill or notice, nor will the customer be excused from non-
payment of a bill or from any performance required in the office.
   (G)   Reasons for canceling applications and disconnecting service.
Applications for connection permits may be canceled and/or sewer service
disconnected by the city for any violation of any part of this chapter
including, without limitation, any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the permit application as to the nature or
extent of the property to be serviced by the system;
      (2)   Nonpayment of bills;
      (3)   Improper or imperfect and/or failure to keep building sewers in a
proper state of repair; and/or
      (4)   Damage to any component of the system.
   (H)   Conditions for reestablishing service. Where service supplied to the
customer has been disconnected for nonpayment or delinquent bills, the city
reserves the right, as a condition to reconnect the service, to require a
nominal fee of $100 be placed on deposit with the city for the purpose of
establishing or maintaining any customer’s credit. The deposit shall not be
considered in lieu of any future billings of rates and charges. Service shall
not be reestablished until all delinquent charges, and penalties, and a turn-on
charge, has been paid. Further charges and penalties may be recovered by the
city by court action.
   (I)   Interruptions of service. The city shall make all reasonable efforts
to eliminate interruptions of service and, when the interruptions occur, will
endeavor to reestablish service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever
service is interrupted for the purpose of working on the system, all customers
affected by the interruptions will be notified in advance whenever it is
possible to do so.
   (J)   Appeal; resolution of appeals. Any customer has the right to appeal
any rates or charges levied in accordance with this chapter. Appeals shall be
directed to the city, along with any supporting documentation for amendment of
the charges in question. Any additional information which may be required to
resolve the appeal, as directed by the city, shall be obtained by the customer
at his or her expenses. Resolution of appeals shall be made within 60 days by
the city in accordance with best available data and this chapter. All bills for
rates and charges outstanding during the appeals process, including all
penalties and delinquency charges, shall continue to be due and payable. Upon
resolution of the appeal, the city shall adjust the charges accordingly,
including any refund due. Refunds shall be retroactive to the previous 12-
months’ billings only.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002; Ord. 182, § 8, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 52.13 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   (A)   Authority to inspect and test. Duly authorized employees or
representatives of the city, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter all premises served by the system for the purpose
of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Observation of customer’s safety rules. When performing the duties of
division (A) above, the duly authorized employees or representatives of the
city shall observe all reasonable safety rules applicable to the premises,
established by the customer.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.14 RIGHT TO AMEND.
   The city specifically reserves the right to amend this chapter in whole or
in part, at one or more times hereafter, or to repeal the same, and by
amendment to repeal, abandon, increase, decrease or otherwise modify any of the
fees, charges, rates or penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
INDUSTRIAL WASTE CONTROL PROGRAM
§ 52.25 INDUSTRIAL USER RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRETREATMENT, FLOW EQUALIZATION AND
NEW SOURCE COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Pretreatment and flow equalization. Each industrial user is
responsible for the industrial wastes it admits to the system. The industrial
user shall provide pretreatment and/or flow equalization as necessary to comply
with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits and prohibitions set forth in §
52.10 within the time limitations specified by EPA, the state or the city,
whichever is more stringent. Any facilities necessary for compliance shall be
continuously and properly operated and maintained at the user’s expense.
Detailed plans describing the facilities and operating procedures shall be
submitted to the city for review and approval before the facilities are
constructed. The review of the plans and operating procedures shall in no way
relieve the user from responsibility for modifying facilities as necessary to
produce a discharge acceptable to the city under the provisions of the
ordinance.
   (B)   New source compliance. Existing sources which become industrial users
subsequent to promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
shall be considered existing industrial users except where the sources meet the
definition of a new source as defined in §
52.05. New sources shall install and have in operating condition, and shall
“start up” all pollution control equipment required to meet any applicable
substantive or procedural requirement related to pretreatment, before beginning
to discharge. Within the shortest feasible time (not to exceed 90 days), new
sources must meet all applicable pretreatment standards and requirements.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.26 INDUSTRIAL USER NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Notification of potential problems. All industrial users shall notify
the city immediately of all discharges that violate this chapter or could cause
problems to the system, including slug loadings.
   (B)   Notification of new of changed discharge. All industrial users shall
immediately notify the city of a new discharge or of any substantial change in
the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge. If there is advance
knowledge of the new or changed discharge, notification shall be made in
advance. The city shall evaluate all the new or changed discharges to determine
whether the discharge complies with the pretreatment standards and prohibitions
established by this chapter, and whether the city can accept, or in cases where
advance notice was not received, continue to accept the discharge.
   (C)   Notification of hazardous waste discharge.
      (1)   The industrial user shall notify the city, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director, and MDEQ Waste Management Division in writing of
any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of,
would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. part 261. The notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste set forth in 40 C.F.R. part 261, the
EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch or
other).
         (a)   If the industry discharges more than 100 kilograms of the waste
per calendar month to the system, the notification shall also contain the
following information to the extent the information is known and readily
available to the industrial user.
         (b)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
wastes, an estimation of the mass and concentration of the constituents in the
waste stream discharged during the calendar month, and an estimation of the
mass and concentration of the constituents in the waste stream discharged
during the calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
waste stream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
         (c)   Industrial users shall provide the notification no later than
180 days after the discharge of the listed or characteristics hazardous waste.
Any notification under this division need to be submitted only once for each
hazardous waste discharged.
      (2)   Industrial users are exempt from the requiring during a calendar
month in which they discharge no more than 15 kilograms of hazardous waste,
unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§
261.30(d) and 261.33(e). Discharges of more than 15 kilograms of non-acute
hazardous waste in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute hazardous
wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e) requires a one time
notification.
      (3)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substances as hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the city, the
EPA Regional Waste Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste
authorities of the discharge of the substances within 90 days of the effective
date of the regulations.
      (4)   In case of any notification made under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p), the
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes to the degree if has determined to be
economically practical.
   (D)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation
of any applicable pretreatment standard or requirement, the user must notify
the Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
      (2)   The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the
results of the repeat analysis to the Superintendents within 30 days after
becoming aware of the violation.
      (3)   The user shall not be required to re-sample if the city monitors
the user’s facility at least once a month, or if the city samples between the
user’s initial sampling and when the user receives the result of this sampling.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.27 INFORMATION AND REPORTS TO BE PROVIDED TO CITY.
   (A)   Baseline monitoring report. At least 90 days prior to commencement of
discharge, new sources and sources that becomes industrial users subsequent to
the promulgation of an applicable categorical standard, shall be required to
submit to the city a report which contains the following information. New
sources shall also be required to include in the report information on the
method of pretreatment the source intend to use to meet the applicable
pretreatment standards. New sources will give estimates of the information
requested when actual data is not available.
      (1)   Identifying information. The user shall submit the name and address
of the facility including the name of the operator and owners.
      (2)   Permits. The user shall submit a list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility.
      (3)   Description of operations. The user shall submit a brief
description of the nature, average rate of production, and standard industrial
classification of the operation(s) carried out by the industrial user. This
description should include a schematic process diagram which indicates points
of discharge to the system from the regulated process.
      (4)   Flow measurements.
         (a)   The user shall submit information showing the measured average
daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the system from each of
the following:
            1.   Regulated process streams; and
            2.   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula.
         (b)   The city may allow for verifiable estimates of these flows where
justified by cost or feasibility considerations.
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.
         (a)   The user shall identify the pretreatment standards applicable to
each regulated process.
         (b)   In addition, the user shall submit the results of sampling and
analysis identifying the nature and concentration of regulated pollutants in
the discharge from each regulated process. Both daily maximum and average
concentration shall be reported. The sample shall be representative of daily
operations.
      (6)   Certification. A statement, reviewed by the user’s authorized
representative and certified by a qualified professional, indicating whether
pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis, and, if not,
whether additional operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional
pretreatment is required to meet the pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (7)   Compliance schedule. If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be
required to meet the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide additional pretreatment and/or O&M. The completion date in
this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established for the
applicable pretreatment standard.
      (8)   Signature certification. All baseline monitoring reports must be
signed and certified in accordance with §
52.28. The user shall report any changes to the information in the report to
the city within 60 days of the user’s receipt of the changed information.
   (B)   Compliance schedule progress reports. The following conditions shall
apply to the compliance schedule required by division (A)(7) above. The user
shall report any changes to the information in the report to the city within 60
days of the user’s receipt of the changed information:
      (1)   The schedule shall contain progress increments in the form of dates
for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the construction
and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to meet the
applicable pretreatment standards (these events include, but are not limited
to, hiring an engineer, completing preliminary and final plans, executing
contracts for major components, commencing and completing construction, and
beginning and conducting routine operation);
      (2)   No increment referred to above shall exceed nine months;
      (3)   The user shall submit a progress report to the Superintendent no
later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the final date of
compliance including, as a minimum, whether or not it compiled with the
increment of progress, the reason for any delay, and, if appropriate, the steps
being taken by the user to return to the established schedule; and
      (4)   In no event shall more than nine months elapse between the progress
reports to the Superintendent.
   (C)   Categorical pretreatment standard compliance deadline report. Within
90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable categorical
pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source, following commencement
of the introduction of sewage into the system, any industrial user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the city a report
containing the information described in divisions (A)(4) through (6) above.
   (D)   Periodic reports on continued compliance.
      (1)   All users subject to a categorical pretreatment standard shall
submit to the city during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently, a report indicating the nature and concentration of the pollutants
in the effluent which are limited by the categorical pretreatment standards. In
addition, this report shall include a record on measured or estimated average
and maximum daily flows for the reporting period for the discharge reported.
The city may require more detailed reporting of flows. The city may agree to
alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
      (2)   Each non-categorical significant industrial user shall submit to
the city during the months of June and December, a description of the nature,
concentration and flow of the pollutants required to be reported by the city.
In addition this report shall include a record on measured or estimated average
and maximum daily flows for the reporting period for the discharge reported.
The city may require more detailed reporting of flows. The city may agree to
alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted and may
require more frequent reporting if the city determines that more frequent
reporting is necessary. These reports shall be based n sampling and analyses
performed in the period covered by the report and performed in accordance with
the techniques described in 40 C.F.R. part 136 and amendments thereto or any
other applicable sampling and analytical procedures suggested by the sewage
treatment facility or other persons approved by the city.
   (E)   Reports from unpermitted users. All users not required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit under §
52.36 shall provide appropriate reports to the city as the city may require.
   (F)   Timing. Written reports will be deemed to have been submitted on the
date postmarked. For reports that are not mailed, the date of receipt of the
report will govern.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.28 SIGNATORY REQUIREMENTS FOR INDUSTRIAL USER REPORTS.
   (A)   The industrial user shall provide the statement contained in this §
52.36(B)(2), certifying that all pretreatment standards are being met on a
consistent basis, and if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
measures or additional pretreatment is required for the industrial user to meet
the pretreatment standards.
   (B)   The certification statement shall be signed as follows:
      (1)   By a responsible corporate officer. A responsible corporate officer
means a president, secretary, treasurer or vice president of the corporation in
charge of principal business function, or any other person who performs similar
policy or decision-making functions for the corporation. A responsible
corporate officer or operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or
having gross annual sales or expenditures of more than $250,000 in second
quarter 1980 dollars, if authority to sign the documents has been assigned or
delegated to the manager in accordance with corporate procedures;
      (2)   By a general partner or proprietor, if the industrial user
submitting the reports is a partnership or sole proprietorship respectively;
and
      (3)   By a duly authorized representative of the individual described in
divisions (B)(1) or (2) above if:
         (a)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described
in divisions (B)(1) and (2) above;
         (b)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
industrial discharge originates or that has overall responsibility for
environmental matters for the company; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the city. If an
authorization is no longer accurate because a different individual or position
has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, or overall
responsibility for environmental matters for the company, a new authorization
must be submitted to the city prior to or together with any reports to be
signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.29 COMPLIANCE MONITORING.
   (A)   Industrial user self-monitoring. Significant industrial users shall
monitor for compliance with applicable pretreatment standards as directed by
the city in their wastewater discharge permits, unless the city assumes
responsibility for monitoring the user for compliance.
   (B)   Right of entry; inspection and sampling.
      (1)   The city shall have the right to enter the premises of any user to
determine whether the user is complying with all requirements of this chapter
and any wastewater discharge permit or order issued hereunder.
      (2)   Users shall allow the city ready access to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination and
copying, and the performance of any additional duties.
      (3)   All monitoring cost shall be paid by the user.
      (4)   A yearly surveillance fee may be initiated to reduce some equipment
cost or for maintenance of monitoring devices.
      (5)   If a graduated surveillance fee is deemed necessary to check
industrial discharges, then a factor may be incorporated to reduce the cost to
the user as the user reduces its waste strength.
      (6)   In addition, the following shall apply to inspection and sampling:
         (a)   Where a user has security measures in force which require proper
identification and clearance before entry into its premises, the user shall
make necessary arrangements with its security guards so that, upon presentation
of suitable identification, the city will be permitted to enter without delay
for the purposes of performing specific responsibilities;
         (b)   The city shall have the right to set up on the user’s property
or require installation of devices as are necessary to conduct sampling and/or
metering of the user’s operations;
         (c)   The city may require the user to install monitoring equipment a
necessary. The facilities sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained
at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the user at its own
expense. All devices used to measure wastewater flow and quality shall be
calibrated bi-monthly to ensure their accuracy;
         (d)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access
to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
user at the written or verbal request of the city and shall not be replaced.
The costs of clearing the access shall be born by the user;
         (e)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the city’s access to the user’s
premises shall be a violation of this chapter; and
         (f)   If directed by the city, the user shall provide an adequate
sampling vault or manhole at the user’s expense in order to allow city
personnel to obtain samples and flow measurement data. Electrical service shall
be accessible so as to allow 24-hour composite sampling. Samples collected by
the city may be split with the user upon user’s request.
   (C)   Search warrants. If the city has been refused access to building,
structure or property, or any part thereof, and is able to demonstrate probable
cause to believe that there may be a violation of this chapter, or that there
is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a routine inspection and sampling
program of the city designed to verify compliance with this chapter or any
permit or order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety and welfare of the community, then the city may seek insurance of a
search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.30 SAMPLE COLLECTION AND ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Flow proportionate composite sampling required.
      (1)   Except as indicated in division (B) below, the user must collect
wastewater samples using flow proportionate composite collection techniques.
      (2)   In the event flow proportion sampling is unfeasible, the city may
authorize the use of time proportionate sampling or a minimum of four grab
samples where the user demonstrates that this will provide a representative
sample of the effluent being discharges.
      (3)   In addition, grab samples may be required to show compliance with
instantaneous discharge limits.
   (B)   Grab samples. Samples for oil and grease, temperature, pH, cyanide,
phenols, sulfides and volatile organic compounds must be obtained used grab
collection techniques.
   (C)   Analytical requirements.
      (1)   All pollutants analyses, including sampling techniques, to be
submitted as part of a wastewater permit application or a report shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 C.F.R. part 136,
unless otherwise specified in an applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
      (2)   If 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not contain sampling or analytical
techniques for the pollutant in question, sampling and analyses must be
performed in accordance with the procedures approved by the EPA.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.31 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting and monitoring requirements of this
chapter shall retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all
records of information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required
by this chapter and any additional records of information obtained pursuant to
monitoring activities undertaken by the user independent of the requirements.
   (B)   Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed an analyses; the analytical techniques or methods
used; and the results of the analyses.
   (C)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years. This period shall be automatically extended for the duration of any
litigation concerning the user or the city, or where the user has been
specifically notified of a longer retention period by the city.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.32 SPENT CONCENTRATES.
   (A)   Spent concentrates shall be prevented from entering the system to
prevent toxic wastes from upsetting the sewage treatment facility.
   (B)   Supervision and operation of the pretreatment equipment to treat spent
concentrates, toxic wastes and high strength organic waste to an acceptable
level as defined by the city is the responsibility of the industrial customer.
   (C)   All sludges generated by the treatment must be handled in an
acceptable manner, as in a designated area of a sanitary landfill or by a
licensed waste hauler.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.33 SECONDARY CONTAINMENT OR CURBING.
   (A)   Adequate secondary containment or curbing must be provided to protect
all floor drains from accidental spills and discharges to the system,
regardless of whether the industrial user is required to prepare a slug control
plan in accordance with §
52.34.
   (B)   The curbing should be sufficient to hold 150% of total process area
tank volume.
   (C)   All floor drains within the containment area must be plugged and
sealed. Spill-throughs or sumps within process area must discharge to
appropriate pretreatment tanks. Secondary containment shall be provided for
storage tanks and chemical storage areas serviced by commercial haulers.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.34 SLUG CONTROL PLANS FOR SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   The city shall evaluate at least once every two years whether each
significant industrial user needs a plan to control slug discharges.
   (B)   The results of the activities will be made available to the MDEQ upon
request.
   (C)   If the city decides that a slug control plan is needed, the plan shall
contain, at a minimum, the following elements:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the city of slug discharges,
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under 40 C.F.R. §
403.5(b), with procedures for follow-up written notification within five days;
and
      (4)   If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental
spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas, handling or
materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site runoff,
worker training, building of containment structures or equipment, measures for
containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and/or measures and
equipment for emergency response.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.35 HAULED WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Septic tank waste.
      (1)   Septic tank waste may be introduced into the POTW only at locations
designated by the city, and at times as are established by the city.
      (2)   The waste shall not violate §
52.10(C), or any other requirements established by the city. The city may
require septic tank waste haulers to obtain wastewater discharge permits.
   (B)   Industrial waste haulers.
      (1)   The city shall require haulers of industrial waste to obtain
wastewater discharge permits. Generators of hauled industrial waste shall
obtain wastewater discharge permits and are subject to this chapter.
      (2)   The city also may prohibit the disposal of hauled industrial waste.
The discharge of hauled industrial waste is subject to all other requirements
of this chapter.
   (C)   Discharge of hauled industrial wastewater.
      (1)   Industrial waste haulers may discharge loads only at locations
designated by the city.
      (2)   No load may be discharged without prior consent of the city.
      (3)   The city may collect samples of each hauled load to ensure
compliance with applicable standards.
      (4)   The city may require the industrial waste hauler to provide a waste
analysis of any load prior to discharge.
   (D)   Waste tracking forms.
      (1)   Industrial waste haulers and septic haulers must provide a waste-
tracking form for every load.
      (2)   This form shall include, at a minimum, the name and address of the
industrial waste hauler, permit number, truck identification names and
addresses of sources of waste, and volume and characteristics of waste.
      (3)   The form shall identify the type of industry, known or suspected
waste constituents, and whether any wastes are RCRA hazardous wastes under RCRA
or part 115 of NREPA.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.36 INDUSTRIAL USER WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit requirements. It shall be unlawful for any significant
industrial user to discharge without a non-domestic wastewater discharge permit
to the system any wastewater except as authorized by the city in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharge permitting process. All significant industrial
users proposing to connect to or contribute to the system shall obtain a
wastewater discharge permit before connecting to or contributing to the system.
All existing significant industrial users connected to or contributing to the
system shall obtain a wastewater discharge permit within 180 days after the
effective date of this chapter.
      (1)   Permit application.
         (a)   Significant industrial users who are required to obtain a
wastewater discharge permit shall complete and file with the city, an
application in the form prescribed by the city, and accompanied by a fee of
$100.
         (b)   Existing users shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 30 days after the effective date of this chapter, and proposed new users
shall apply at least 90 days prior to connecting to or contributing to the
system.
         (c)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units
and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
            1.   Name, address and location (if different from the address) and
name of owner(s) and operator(s) of the discharging facility;
            2.   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
            3.   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including but not
limited to those mentioned in §
52.10 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory. Sampling and analysis
shall be preformed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA
pursuant to § 304(g) of the Act and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136 as amended;
            4.   Time and duration of discharge;
            5.   Average daily and 30-minute peak wastewater flow rates,
including daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
            6.   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation, and a current water use schematic;
            7.   Description of activities, facilities and plant process on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharges;
            8.   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by the city, state or federal pretreatment
standards, and a statement signed by an authorized representative of the user
and certified by a qualified professional regarding whether additional
operation and maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for
the user to meet applicable pretreatment standards;
            9.   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
the pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not
be later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
               a.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the
form of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to
the construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user
to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction and the
like);
               b.   No increment referred to in the above division (B)(1)
(c)9.a. shall exceed nine months; and
               c.   No later than 14 days following each date in the schedule
and the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to
the city including as a minimum, whether or not is complied with the increment
of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps being taken by the user to
return the construction to the schedule established. In no event shall over
nine months elapse between these progress reports to the city.
            10.   Each product and/or by-product produced by type, amount,
process or processes and rate of production;
            11.   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and
maximum per day);
            12.   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of the
plant and proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
            13.   List of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility; and
            14.   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be
necessary to evaluate the permit application. The city will evaluate the date
furnished by the user and may require additional information. After evaluation
and acceptance of the data furnished, the city may issue a non-domestic
wastewater discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided herein.
      (2)   Application signatories and certification. All wastewater discharge
permit applications and user reports must be signed by an authorized
representative (defined in § 52.28) of the user and contain the following
certification statement:
         “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (3)   Wastewater discharge permit decisions. The city will evaluate the
data furnished by the user and may require additional information. Within 60
days of receipt of a complete wastewater discharge permit application, the city
will determine whether or not to issue a wastewater discharge permit. The city
may deny any application for a wastewater discharge permit.
   (C)   Wastewater discharge permit contents. Non-domestic wastewater
discharge permits shall contain, as appropriate, the following:
      (1)   A term of duration not to exceed five years with specified issuance
and expiration dates and regulations deadlines;
      (2)   Effluent limitations based on the more stringent of categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits as established by this chapter, and state
and federal law;
      (3)   General and specific discharge prohibitions as established by this
chapter;
      (4)   Requirements to pay fees for the wastewater to be discharges to the
POTW;
      (5)   Limitations on the sewage and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (6)   Requirements for the installation and maintenance of inspection
facilities;
      (7)   Requirements and specifications for monitoring programs including
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number types and standards for tests
and report schedule;
      (8)   Compliance schedules;
      (9)   Requirements for submission of technical reports, discharge reports
or certification statements. These include any reporting requirements contained
in a categorical pretreatment standard or requirement;
      (10)   Requirement for collecting/retaining and providing access to plant
records relating to the user’s discharge and for providing entry for sampling
and inspection;
      (11)   Requirements for notification of any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater discharges to the WWTP;
      (12)   Requirements for the notification of spills. Potential problems to
the system including slug, loadings, upsets or violations;
      (13)   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance of
pollution control equipment;
      (14)   Requirements to develop and implement spill and slug control
plans;
      (15)   Requirements reflecting notification obligations set forth in §
52.26, as well as the bypass notice provisions set forth in §
52.55(B);
      (16)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this chapter, state and federal pretreatment standards and
requirements;
      (17)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation
of pretreatment standards and requirements;
      (18)   Statement of non-transferability without prior consent of the
city; and
      (19)   Conditions for modification or revocation of permit.
   (D)   Public notice of permits and permit appeals.
      (1)   The city shall provide public notice of the issuance of a
wastewater discharge permit.
      (2)   Any person, including the user, may petition the WWTP Supervisor to
reconsider the terms of a wastewater discharge permit within 21 days of notice
of its issuance.
      (3)   Failure to submit a timely petition for review shall be deemed to
be a waiver of the appeal.
         (a)   Contents of petition. In its petition, the appealing party must
indicate the wastewater discharge permit provisions objected to, the reasons
for this objection, and the alternative condition, if any, it seeks to place in
the wastewater discharge permit.
         (b)   No stay pending appeal. The effectiveness of the wastewater
discharge permit shall not be stayed pending the appeal.
         (c)   Actions of the WWTP Supervisor. If the WWTP Supervisor fails to
act within 30 days of the submission of the petition, a request for
reconsideration shall be deemed to be denied. Within 30 days of receiving the
petition, however, the WWTP Supervisor may modify the permit in the manner
requested by the user, affirmatively deny the request for reconsideration or
schedule a hearing on the request before the WWTP Supervisor. If a hearing is
granted, the hearing must be scheduled no later than 60 days after the date of
petition. The WWTP Supervisor must issue a decision not later than 30 days
after the hearing. Decisions not to reconsider a wastewater discharge permit,
not to issue a wastewater discharge permit, or not to modify a wastewater
discharge permit (whether with or without a hearing) shall be considered final
administrative actions for purposed of judicial review.
         (d)   Judicial review. Aggrieved parties may seek judicial review of
the final administrative wastewater discharge permit decision in accordance
with applicable law.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.37 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports, surveys,
wastewater discharge permit application, wastewater discharge permits, and
monitoring programs, and from the city’s inspection and sampling activities,
shall be available to the public without restriction, unless the user
specifically requests, and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
city, that the release of the information would divulge information, processes
or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets under
applicable state law.
   (B)   Any like request must be asserted at the time of submission of the
information or data.
   (C)   When requested and demonstrated by the user furnishing a report that
the secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by
the public, but shall be made available immediately upon request to
governmental agencies for uses related to the NPDES program or pretreatment
program, and in enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the
report. Wastewater constituents and characteristics and other “effluent data”
as defines by 40 C.F.R. § 2.302 will not be recognized as confidential
information and will be available to the public without restriction.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.50 ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT ORDERS.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the city finds that any user has
violated or is violating this chapter, or a wastewater discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, the city may serve upon the user written notice of the
violation, and within ten days of the receipt date of the notice, and
explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory correction and
prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall be submitted to
the city. Submission of this plan in no way relieves the user of liability for
any violations occurring before or after receipts of the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The city is hereby empowered to enter into consent
orders, assurances of voluntary compliance or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the user responsible for the noncompliance. The
orders will include compliance schedules, stipulated fines or remedial actions,
and signatures of the city and user representatives.
   (C)   Show cause order. The city is hereby empowered to issue an order to
any user which causes or contributes to violation of this chapter, wastewater
permit or order issued hereunder, to show cause at a hearing before the WWTP
Supervisor why a proposed enforcement action (including termination of a user’s
permit or continuation of an emergency suspension of the user’s permit in
accordance with § 52.51) should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall
be served personally or by registered mail (return receipt requested) at least
ten days prior to the hearing. The notice may be served on any principal
executive, general partner or corporate officer. Whether or not a duly notified
industrial user appears as noticed, enforcement action may be pursued as
appropriate.
   (D)   Compliance order. The city is hereby empowered to issue compliance
orders when the city finds that an industrial user has violated or continues to
violate the ordinance, or permit, or order issued thereunder. The order may
direct that, following a specified time period, sewer service shall be
discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices or other related
appurtenances have been installed and are properly operated, and compliance is
achieved. Orders may also contain other requirements as might be reasonably
necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the
installment of pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring and
management practices.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders.
      (1)   The city is hereby empowered to issue cease and desist orders when
the city finds that an industrial user has violated or continues to violate
this chapter or permit or order issued thereunder.
      (2)   The order may direct the user to cease and desist all illegal or
unauthorized discharges immediately.
         (a)   In an emergency, the order to cease and desist may be given by
telephone.
         (b)   In non-emergency situations, the cease and desist order may be
used to suspend or permanently revoke the user’s wastewater discharge permits.
         (c)   The cease and desist order may order the industrial user to take
remedial or preventative action as may be needed to properly address a
continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations and
terminating the discharge.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.51 EMERGENCY SUSPENSIONS.
   (A)   Suspension of service or permit. The city may immediately suspend the
wastewater treatment service and/or wastewater permit of an industrial user
whenever the suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
presenting or causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or
welfare of persons, the system or the environment.
   (B)   Duty to cease discharges. Any user notified of a suspension of the
wastewater treatment service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately
stop or eliminate its contribution. In the event of a user’s failure to
immediately comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the city shall take
steps as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer
connection, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or
endangerment to any individuals. Within five days of notifying the user of the
emergency suspension, the city shall issue a show cause order in accordance
with §
52.50(C) to determine whether the emergency suspension of the user’s permit
and/or treatment service shall continue. The city shall allow the user to
recommence its discharge when the danger has passes.
   (C)   Written of permit. Any industrial user which is responsible, in whole
or in part, for imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement
describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to
prevent any future occurrence.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.52 TERMINATION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Any industrial user who violates the following conditions of its
wastewater discharge permit or order or state or federal law, is subject to
permit termination:
      (1)   Violation of permit conditions;
      (2)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics or discharges;
      (3)   Failure to accurately report significant changes in operation or
wastewater constituents or characteristics;
      (4)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the purpose
of inspection, monitoring or sampling;
      (5)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
      (6)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
      (7)   Failure to meet effluent limitations;
      (8)   Failure to pay fines;
      (9)   Failure to pay sewer charges;
      (10)   Failure to meet compliance schedules; and
      (11)   Failure to complete a wastewater survey or the wastewater
discharge permit application.
   (B)   Noncomplying industrial users shall be notified of the proposed
termination of their non-domestic wastewater discharge permit and be offered an
opportunity to show cause under §
52.50(C) why the proposed action should not be taken.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.53 JUDICIAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes or other wastes
into the system contrary to the provisions of this chapter, or any permit or
order issued hereunder, the city, through the City Attorney, may commence an
action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the Circuit Court for
the county.
   (B)   Whenever an industrial user has violated or continues to violate the
provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the city,
through Council may petition the court for the issuance of a preliminary or
permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which restrains or compels
the activities on the part of the industrial user.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.54 ANNUAL PUBLICATION OF SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS IN SIGNIFICANT
NONCOMPLIANCE.
   The city shall publish, at least annually in the largest daily newspaper
circulated in the service area, a list of those industrial users which are
found to be in significant noncompliance as defined in §
52.05.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.55 AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSES TO DISCHARGE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Upset provision. An upset provision shall constitute an affirmative
defense to any noncompliance with a categorical pretreatment standard if the
requirements of division (A)(1) below are met.
      (1)   Conditions necessary for demonstration of upset. An industrial user
who wished to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate,
through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant
evidence that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the
causes(s) of the upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The industrial user has submitted the following information to
the city within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is
provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days):
            1.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance including exact dates and times,
or if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (2)   Burden of proof. In any enforcement proceeding the industrial user
seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
      (3)   User responsibility in case of upset. The industrial user shall
control production of all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain
compliance with pretreatment standards. Upon reduction, loss or failure of its
treatment facility until the facility is restored or an alternative method of
treatment is provided. This requirement applies in the situation where, among
other things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced,
lost or fails.
   (B)   Bypass.
      (1)   Generally.
         (a)   An industrial user may allow a bypass to occur which does not
violate pretreatment standards or requirements, but only if it also is for
essential maintenance to assure efficient operation of its pretreatment
facilities.
         (b)   These bypasses are not subject to divisions (B)(2)(a) and (b)
below.
         (c)   Any other bypass is prohibited and may result in enforcement
action unless, in the determination of the city, all three of the following
conditions are satisfied:
            1.   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent personal injury or
substantial physical damage to the user’s treatment facilities which would
cause them to become inoperable, resulting in a substantial and permanent loss
of natural resources which could reasonably by expected to occur in the absence
of a bypass;
            2.   There are no feasible alternatives; and
            3.   The industrial user submitted notice as required by division
(B)(2) below. The industrial user will be deemed to have had feasible
alternatives to the bypass if adequate back-up equipment should have been
installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering judgement to prevent by-
pass that occurred during normal business periods of equipment down time or
preventative maintenance.
      (2)   Notice.
         (a)   If an industrial user knows in advance the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the city, if possible at least ten days before the
date of the bypass.
         (b)   An industrial user shall orally notify the city of an
unintentional bypass that exceeds pretreatment standards or requirements within
24 hours of becoming aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be
provided within five days of becoming aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass and its cause; the
duration of the bypass, including exact times and dates, and if the bypass has
not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps
taken or planned to reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
   (C)   Compliance with prohibited discharge standards. Excepting the
discharge prohibitions set forth at §
52.10(C)(4), (9), (10) and (11), a user shall have an affirmative defense to an
enforcement action brought against it for noncompliance with the discharge
prohibitions in §
52.10(C) if it can prove that it did not know, or have reason to know, that its
discharge, alone or in conjunction with discharges from other sources, would
cause pass-through or interference and that either:
      (1)   A local limit exists for each pollutant discharged and the user was
in compliance with each limit directly prior to, and during, the pass-through
or interference; or
      (2)   No local limit exist, but the discharge did not change
substantially in nature or constituents from the user’s prior discharge when
the city was regularly in compliance wit the NPDES permit, and in the case of
interference, was in compliance with applicable sludge use or disposal
requirements.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalties.
      (1)   Malicious or negligent destruction or damage. No unauthorized
person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage, destroy,
uncover, deface or tamper with, climb upon or enter into any structure,
appurtenance or equipment of the system.
      (2)   Notice of violation. Except as provided in division (A)(1) above,
any person found to be violating any provisions of this chapter, shall be
served by the city with written notice stating the nature of the violation and
providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The
offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently
cease all violations.
      (3)   Penalty. Any person who violates division (A)(1) above, or who
shall continue any violation beyond the time limit provided for in division (A)
(2) above shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in an amount not to exceed $500 for each violation or shall be
imprisoned in the county jail for a maximum of 90 days or be subject to both
fine and imprisonment. Each day in which the violation shall continue shall be
deemed a separate offense.
      (4)   Liability. Any person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall become liable to the city for any expense, including reasonable
attorney and engineering fees, loss or damage occasioned by the city by reason
of the violation. Industrial customers are subject to liabilities specified in
§
52.10(C)(16).
   (B)   Administrative penalties. Notwithstanding any other section of this
chapter, any user who has violated, or continues to violate, any provision of
this chapter or permits or orders issued hereunder, has committed a municipal
civil infraction and shall be fined in an amount not to exceed $1,000 a day for
each violation. Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or continue shall
be deemed a separate and distinct violation. The assessments may be added to
the user’s next scheduled sewer service charge and the city may pursue other
collection remedies as required to collect other service charges. Unpaid
charges, fines and penalties shall constitute a lien against the industrial
user’s property. Industrial users desiring to dispute the fines must file a
request for the WWTP Supervisor to reconsider the fine within ten days of being
notified of the fine. The WWTP Supervisor shall hold a hearing on the matter
within 15 days of receiving the request from the user, and issue a final
decision on the penalty within 30 days after the conclusion of the hearing. The
WWTP Supervisor’s decision on the penalty shall be the final administrative
action for purposes of judicial review.
   (C)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any industrial user who has violated or continues to violate the
provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, shall be liable
to the city for a civil penalty of not more than $3,000 per day for each
violation, plus actual damages incurred by the city per violation per day as
long as the violation continues. In addition to the above described penalty and
charges, the city may recover reasonable attorney’s fees, court costs and other
expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including sampling,
monitoring and analyses expenses.
      (2)   The city shall petition the court to impose, assess and recover
these sums. In determining the amount of liability, the court shall take into
account all relevant circumstances, including, but, not limited to, the extent
of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any economic
benefit gained through the industrial user’s violation, corrective actions by
the industrial user, the compliance history of the user, and any other factor
as justice requires.
      (3)   Criminal prosecution:
         (a)   Violations generally.
            1.   Any industrial user who willfully or negligently violates any
portion of this chapter or any permits or orders issued hereunder shall, upon
first conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to
exceed $1,000 per violation per day or imprisonment of not more than one year
or both; and
            2.   In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $3,000 per violation per day and
imprisonment for not more than three years or both.
         (b)   Falsifying information. Any industrial user who knowingly makes
any false statements, representations or certifications, in any application,
record, report, plan or other document filed or required to be maintained
pursuant to this chapter, or wastewater permit, or who falsifies, tampers with,
or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under
this chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than
$1,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or
both.
(Ord. 162, passed 8-12-2002)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
      
73.   TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
      
74.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Bicycle registration
   
70.02   Proof of vehicular insurance
   
70.03   Recovery of expenses incurred by the city relative to alcohol or drug-
related traffic offenses, emergency response, or ancillary services dealing
with the above referenced matters
   
70.04   Uniform Traffic Code
   
70.05   Michigan Vehicle Code
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 BICYCLE REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Every person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all
rights and shall be subject to all duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle
under this section, except as to those provisions which by their nature can
have no application. Where the person dismounts from the bicycle, he or she
shall be subject to the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
   (B)   (1)   Every owner of a bicycle within the city shall list and register
with the Police Department his or her name and address, the name of the
manufacturer of his or her bicycle, its number, style and general description.
      (2)   He or she shall pay a registration fee of $0.25 upon the
registration of a bicycle and no further license shall be required for the same
bicycle.
      (3)   Upon the registration and payment of registration fee a suitable
metallic identification tag, upon which shall be stamped a distinguishing
number, shall be furnished to the owner of each bicycle when registered.
      (4)   The owner shall affix and keep affixed to the bicycle for which
same is issued the metallic tag and shall at all reasonable times upon demand
of any member of the Police Department exhibit same for the purpose of
identification and as proof of ownership.
      (5)   Upon change of ownership, the identification tag may be transferred
to the new owner and the license also transferred to him or her upon payment of
a fee of $0.15. No tag shall be transferred from one bicycle to another and no
person shall attach to any bicycle a tag not issued for use thereon.
      (6)   Upon loss of any identification tag a duplicate thereof will be
issued by the Police Department upon satisfactory evidence of the loss and upon
payment of a fee of $0.15.
(Prior Code, § 19.351) (Ord. 75, passed 12-9-1957)
§ 70.02 PROOF OF VEHICULAR INSURANCE.
   (A)   The owner of a motor vehicle who operates or permits the operation of
the motor vehicle upon the highways of this state or the operator of the motor
vehicle shall produce, pursuant to division (B) below, upon the request of a
police officer, evidence that the motor vehicle is insured under Chapter 31 of
Public Act 218 of 1956, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 500.3101 to 500.3179. An
owner or operator of a motor vehicle when requested to produce that evidence is
responsible for a civil infraction.
   (B)   A certificate of insurance, if issued by an insurance company, which
certificate state that security which meets the requirements of §§ 3101 and
3102 of Public Act 218 of 1956, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 500.3101,
500.3101a and 500.3102, is in force shall be accepted as prima facie evidence
that insurance is in force for the motor vehicle described in the certificate
of insurance until the expiration date shown on the certificate. The
certificate, in addition to describing the motor vehicles for which insurance
is in effect, shall state the name of each person named on the policy, policy
declaration, or a declaration certificate whose operation of the vehicle would
cause the liability coverage of that insurance to become void.
   (C)   If an owner of a motor vehicle is determined to be responsible for a
violation of division (A) above, the court in which the civil infraction
determination is entered may require the person to surrender his or her
operator’s or chauffeur’s license, unless proof that the vehicle has insurance
meeting the requirements of Public Act 218 of 1956, being M.C.L.A. § 500.3102,
as amended, is submitted to the court.
      (1)   If the court requires the license to be surrendered, the court
shall order the Secretary of State to suspend the person’s license and shall
forward the surrendered license and certificate of civil infraction to the
Secretary of State.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the certificate of civil infraction and the
surrendered license, the Secretary of State shall suspend the person’s license
beginning with the date of which a person is determined to be responsible for
the civil infraction for a period of 30 days or until proof of insurance which
meets the requirements of § 3102 of Public Act 218 of 1956, as amended, is
submitted to the Secretary of State, whichever occurs later.
      (3)   If the license is not forwarded, an explanation of the reason why
it is not forwarded shall be attached.
      (4)   A person who submits proof of insurance to the Secretary of State
under this division shall pay a service fee of $10 to the Secretary of State.
The person shall not be required to be examined as set forth in § 320(c)(2).
   (D)   This section does not apply to the owner or operator of a motor
vehicle that is registered in a state other than this state or a foreign county
or province.
(Ord. 150, passed 5-13-1996)
§ 70.03 RECOVERY OF EXPENSES INCURRED BY THE CITY RELATIVE TO ALCOHOL OR DRUG
RELATED TRAFFIC OFFENSES, EMERGENCY RESPONSE, OR ANCILLARY SERVICES DEALING
WITH THE ABOVE REFERENCED MATTERS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANCILLARY SERVICES. The costs associated with the apprehension or
transportation of individuals outside of Branch County who are arrested on
warrants issued from the City of Bronson or after conviction of charges issued
by the City of Bronson.
      EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
         (a)   Providing, sending and/or utilizing public service, police,
firefighting and rescue service by the city to an accident involving a motor
vehicle while under the influence of a alcoholic beverage or a controlled
substance or the combined influence of an alcoholic beverage or a controlled
substance.
         (b)   The making of a traffic stop or arrest by a police officer when
the driver was operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance or the combined influence of an
alcoholic beverage and a controlled substance.
      EXPENSE OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The cost associated with the occurrence of
an emergency response as set forth in the definition of “emergency response”
above, whichever is applicable. The EXPENSES of making an emergency response,
as set forth in the definition above, shall include the cost of connected with
the administration, provision and analysis of chemical tests and videotaping of
the driver, if applicable. These costs shall be set by Council resolution.
   (B)   Liability; presumption.
      (1)   Any person who, while under the influence of an alcoholic beverage
or a controlled substance or the combined influence of an alcoholic beverage
and a controlled substance, operates a motor vehicle which operation results in
an emergency response, shall be responsible and/or liable for the expenses of
the emergency response.
      (2)   For the purpose of this chapter, it shall be presumed that a person
was operating a motor vehicle under the influence of an alcoholic beverage if a
chemical analysis of the driver’s blood, urine or breath indicates that the
amount of alcohol in the driver’s blood, urine or breath was in excess of
0.07%; except in the case of an individual under the age of 21, in which case
it will presumed that the individual (under the age of 21) was operating a
motor vehicle under the influence of an alcoholic beverage if the chemical
analysis of the driver’s blood, urine or breath indicates that the amount of
alcohol in the driver’s blood, urine or breath was in excess of 0.02%.
   (C)   Interpretation. This section shall be construed to be a responsibility
and liability of a civil nature on the part of the driver and shall not be
construed to conflict, contravene, enlarge or reduce and criminal liability or
responsibility, including fines imposed by a judge under the Uniform Traffic
Code on a driver for operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of an
alcoholic beverage and/or a controlled substance.
   (D)   Reimbursable expenses.
      (1)   Following conviction of any of the following offenses, the person
convicted shall reimburse the city for the expenses of prosecuting that person,
as provided in this section:
         (a)   A violation or attempted violation of § 625(1), (3), (4), (5),
(6) or (7) or § 625m of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. §
257.625m, or of a local ordinance substantially corresponding to § 625(1), (3)
or (6) or § 625m of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. § 257.625
and § 257.625m.
         (b)   Felonious driving, negligent homicide, manslaughter, or murder,
or attempted felonious driving , negligent homicide, manslaughter, or murder,
resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle, snowmobile, ORV, aircraft,
vessel, or locomotive engine while the person was impaired by or under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, as defined in §
7104 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, M.C.L.A. § 333.7104, or a
combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance, or had an
unlawful blood alcohol content.
         (c)   A violation or attempted violation of § 82127 of the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, M.C.L.A. § 324.82127.
         (d)   A violation or attempted violation of § 81134 of the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, M.C.L.A. § 324.81134
and § 324.81135.
         (e)   A violation or attempted violation of § 185 of the Aeronautics
Code of the State of Michigan, 1945 PA 327, M.C.L.A. § 259.185.
         (f)   A violation or attempted violation of § 80176(1), (3), (4), or
(5) of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1995 PA 451,
M.C.L.A. § 324.80176, or a local ordinance substantially corresponding to §
80176(1) or (3) of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994
PA 451, M.C.L.A. § 324.80176.
         (g)   A violation or attempted violation of § 353 or 355 of the
Railroad Code of 1993, 1993 PA 354, M.C.L.A. §§ 462.353 and 462.355.
         (h)   A violation or attempted violation of chapter XXXIII or § 327,
327a, 328, or 41 la(2) of the Michigan Penal Code, 1931 PA 328, M.C.L.A. §§
750.200 to 750.212a, 750.327, 750.327a, 750.328, and 750.411a.
         (i)   A finding of guilt for criminal contempt for a violation of a
personal protection order issued under § 2950 or 2950a of the Revised
Judicature Act of 1961,1961 PA 236, M.C.L.A. §§ 600.2950 and 600.2950a, or for
a violation of a foreign protection order that satisfies the conditions for
validity provided in § 2950i of the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, 1961 PA
236, M.C.L.A. § 600.2950i.
      (2)   Emergency response means the following actions or services provided
by the city, or by a private individual or corporation operating at the request
or direction of the city:
         (a)   Extinguishing or fighting any fire occurring in or at a
structure or occurring on public or private property.
         (b)   Any incident requiring a response by the city that involves any
public or private utility property and requires city equipment or personnel to
remain at the incident to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public
until the utility provider responds to the incident and takes corrective
measures.
         (c)   The extrication of an individual(s) from a vehicle involved in
an accident.
         (d)   Extinguishing or fighting any vehicle fire.
         (e)   Any response to a false alarm at a property in excess of two
times in a calendar year.
      (3)   The costs of extraditing a person from another state to this state
including, but not limited to, all of the following:
         (a)   Transportation costs; and
         (b)   The salaries or wages of law enforcement and prosecution
personnel, including overtime pay, for processing the extradition and returning
the person to this state.
      (4)   Elements of reimbursable expenses. Expenses which maybe reimbursed
under the provisions of this section include but are not limited to the
following:
         (a)   The salaries or wages of law enforcement and prosecution
personnel, including overtime pay, for processing the offense charged.
         (b)   The salaries and wages of law enforcement or prosecution
personnel including overtime pay for processing extradition and returning an
individual person to the State of Michigan.
         (c)   Salaries and wages of emergency response personnel, whether
police, fire, or ambulance services, involved in responding to an emergency
response, including, but not limited to, fires, accidents, vehicle fires,
extrication of an individual from a vehicle, response to a false alarm if
deemed intentionally made, the cost of medical supplies or other supplies
utilized by the emergency responders.
      (5)   Billing. The City Manager and his/her designee shall submit a bill
for the expense of an emergency response by first class mail or personal
service to the person responsible for the expense as enumerated under this
Division. The bill shall require full payment within 28 days from the date of
billing.
(Ord. 203, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 70.04 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   Code and amendment and revisions adopted. The Uniform Traffic Code for
cities, townships and villages as promulgated by the director of the State
Department of State Police pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act of
1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 to 24.328, and made
effective October 30, 2002, and all future amendments and revisions to the
Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated and effective in this state are
incorporated and adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in code. References in the Uniform Traffic Code for cities,
townships and villages to a GOVERNMENTAL UNIT shall mean the City of Bronson.
   (C)   Notice to be published. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall publish this
section in the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a
notice stating the purpose of such and the fact that a complete copy of the
Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships and villages and the fact that a
complete copy of the code is available to the public at the office of the
Clerk/Treasurer for inspection.
   (D)   Penalties. The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for
cities, townships and villages are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 180, passed 8-8-2011)
§ 70.05 MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   Code amendment and revisions adopted. 
      (1)   The Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to
257.923, and all future amendments and revisions to the Michigan Vehicle Code
when they are effective in this state are incorporated and adopted by
reference.
      (2)   Section 625(1)(c) of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300,
M.C.L.A. § 257.625 and all future amendments and revisions to M.C.L.A § 257.625
(1)(c) when they are effective in this state are incorporated and adopted by
reference.
   (B)   References in code. 
      (1)   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to local authorities shall
mean the CITY OF BRONSON.
      (2)   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code, M.C.L.A § 257.625(1)(c) to
local authorities shall mean the CITY OF BRONSON.
   (C)   Notice to be published. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall publish this
section in the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a
notice stating the purpose of the Michigan Vehicle Code and the fact that a
complete copy of the code is available to the public at the office of the Clerk
for inspection.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference, provided, however, that the city may not enforce any provision of
the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days.
      (2)   The penalties for violation of M.C.L.A. § 257.625(1)(c) shall be
one or more of the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 260 hours.
         (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days.
         (c)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
(Ord. 179, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 190, passed 4-9-2012)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   An owner of operator of a motor vehicle who knowingly produced false
evidence under §
70.02 is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more than
one year, or a fine of nor more than $500, or both. Points shall not be entered
on a driver’s license record pursuant to § 320(a)(3) for a violation of §
70.02.
(Ord. 150, passed 5-13-1996)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking Violations Bureau
   
71.02   Authority of Parking Violations Bureau
   
71.03   Citations
   
71.04   Violations
   
71.05   Parking citation violation procedure
   
71.06   Special parking orders, permits and procedures
   
71.07   Temporary parking permits
   
71.08   Snow emergencies
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01 PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   A Parking Violations Bureau is hereby established as a part of the city
office.
(Ord. 210, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 71.02 AUTHORITY OF PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The Parking Violations Bureau shall have the authority to process all
parking violation citations issued by the City Police Department pursuant to
this chapter, and to assess and collect all fines according to the schedule
hereto attached and deposit same with the City Clerk/Treasurer to the credit of
the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 210, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 71.03 CITATIONS.
   When a motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or stopped in
violation of the provisions of this chapter within the city limits, the officer
finding the vehicle shall take the registration number and may take any other
information displayed on the vehicle which may identify its user, and shall
conspicuously affix to the vehicle a city “parking citation”.
(Ord. 210, passed 1-14-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Unattended vehicle in posted “No Parking” area. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to leave a motor vehicle unattended in any area of
the city which is posted “No Parking”.
   (B)   Parking between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. It shall be a
violation of this chapter to leave a motor vehicle unattended on any city
street whether posted or not posted between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00
a.m. It shall also be a violation of this chapter to leave a motor vehicle
parked in any City lot between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the
lot is adjacent to an apartment building or residence without dedicated
parking. Parking between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. at Greenwald Park
is prohibited. This provision shall not apply to City Hall, Department of
Public Works, Police Department, or Fire Department parking lots for those
performing official business on behalf of or for the City of Bronson or Bronson
Fire Department. This provision shall also not apply to semi truck or tractor
trailer parking at the Department of Public Works parking lot as outlined in §
71.04 (D).
   (C)   Certain streets. It shall be a violation to leave a motor vehicle
unattended on U.S. 12 (Chicago Street) between the intersection of Buchanan
Street and U.S. 12 west to the entrances to 120 W. Chicago St.
   (D)   Trucks and tractors in restricted parking lots. It shall be a
violation to park a semi-truck or a semi-tractor at any time on any residential
street or driveway or parking lot maintained by the city. Semi-trucks and
tractor trailers parking is permitted at the City’s Department of Public Works
parking lot located at 201 Industrial Ave.
   (E)   Left wheel to curb parking (parking against the flow of traffic) is
prohibited. A vehicle shall be stopped or parked with the wheels of the vehicle
parallel to the roadway and within 12 inches of any existing curb; or if no
curb is present, as close as practical to the edge of the improved roadway
surface on the passenger side of the vehicle.
   (F)   (1)   Other prohibited parking areas:
         (a)   On a sidewalk;
         (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   Front yard on an unimproved surface. An improved surface shall
consist of a parking strip, parking bay, driveway and garage, or any
combination thereof, and shall be located on the premises they are intended to
serve;
         (e)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (f)   On a crosswalk;
         (g)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk, or if there is no crosswalk, then
within 15 of the intersection or property lines at an intersection;
         (h)   Within 30 feet of the approach to a flashing beacon, Stop Sign,
or traffic control signal located at the side of a highway; and
         (i)   In a place or manner that block the use of an alley.
      (2)   The Chief of Police of the city shall have the authority to
designate the places for parking of semi-tractors and/or trailers on any
parking lot maintained and operated by the city and shall have the authority to
control traffic in the parking lots by appropriate signs or markings; the
driver, operator or person in charge of any vehicle who disregards any signs or
markings may be punished as provided herein.
      (3)   No motor vehicle which exceeds 24 feet in length; and no
combination of motor vehicle, truck, tractor, semi-trailer, bus or other
vehicle which in combination exceeds 24 feet in length, shall be parked on any
residential street or driveway or in a parking lot owned or operated by the
city, except as otherwise designated. The vehicles or combinations of vehicles
mentioned in this section may be prohibited from parking in such lots at any
other times as may be determined by the Chief of Police, upon notice thereof
being posted by him or her in such lots. School buses being used in the normal
course of school related activities shall not be deemed a violation of this
section.
(Ord. 210, passed 1-14-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05 PARKING CITATION VIOLATION PROCEDURE.
   Any person who shall receive a parking citation under this chapter shall
appear before the Parking Violations Bureau, on or before ten days from the
issuance date of the citation, pay the fine as assessed herein and deposit the
citation with the Bureau.
(Ord. 210, passed 1-14-2019) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.06 SPECIAL PARKING ORDERS, PERMITS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Council may, upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police
of the city, enact special parking orders and grant special parking permits at
its discretion.
   (B)   Requests for special parking orders or special parking permits shall
be filed with the Chief of Police of the city.
   (C)   The Chief of Police may upon his or her own initiative recommend to
the City Council special parking orders or permits as he or she may feel
necessary.
(Ord. 210, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 71.07 TEMPORARY PARKING PERMITS.
   The Chief of Police, or in his or her absence, the City Manager shall have
the authority to issue temporary parking permits for a period of time not to
exceed seven days for overnight parking on city streets under circumstances
where due to construction, repair or replacement of off-street parking, the
same shall be temporarily unavailable.
(Ord. 210, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 71.08 SNOW EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   Parking. Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
park any vehicle and/or trailer on any street during a declared snow emergency.
Permits for on-street parking issued under any ordinance or authority of the
City of Bronson shall not be valid during a declared snow emergency.
   (B)   Snow emergency alert/declaration authorized. Whenever snow has
accumulated or there is a possibility that snow will accumulate to such a depth
that extraordinary snow removal operations will be required on city streets,
the City Manager or the Manager's designee may declare a snow emergency alert,
and until such snow emergency alert is terminated it shall be unlawful for the
owner or operator of any vehicle and/or trailer to park upon any street, road
or avenue within the city, as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   Snow emergency alert/notice of declaration and termination. Upon
declaring a snow emergency alert, the City Manager or the Manager's designee
shall forthwith cause appropriate notice of such alert and publicize the snow
emergency in a manner reasonably calculated to inform the public of the
requirements of this section. Whenever the City Manager or the Manager's
designee finds that the conditions which gave rise to a snow emergency alert no
longer exist, the snow emergency alert shall be terminated by notice given
substantially in the same manner it was declared; provided, however, that any
street which has become clear of accumulations of snow and ice from curb to
curb for the length thereof lying between two successive street intersections
shall be automatically excluded from any parking restriction imposed by this
section.
   (D)   Time limit for removal of parked vehicles/impoundment.
      (1)   After the initial notice of a snow emergency alert has been given
as provided by this section, any motor vehicle/trailer parked on any street,
road or avenue within the city shall be removed in accordance with the
following schedule:
         (a)   Within six hours for any motor vehicle or trailer parked on
state trunk lines and streets designated as major streets by the city's street
plan; and
         (b)   Within 12 hours for any motor vehicle or trailer parked on
streets designated as local streets or alleys by the city's street plan.
      (2)   Any vehicle parked on any street, road or avenue in violation of
the provisions of this section may be removed and impounded by order of the
Bronson Police Department, and the owner shall be required to pay towing,
impounding and storage costs prior to the return of the vehicle in addition to
any fines and costs which may be assessed for a violation of this section.
   (E)   Violation/presumption that owner parked vehicle. In any proceeding for
a violation of this section, proof that the vehicle or trailer described in the
complaint was parked in violation of this section, together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was at the time of such violation the
registered owner of such vehicle or trailer, shall constitute a presumption
that the registered owner of such vehicle or trailer was the person who parked
such vehicle or trailer at the point where and for the time during which such
violation occurred.
   (F)   Other parking restrictions remain in force. Nothing contained in this
section shall be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it is
prohibited by any other provision of law.
(Ord. 224, passed 10-14-2024) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally. Violations of this chapter shall be deemed civil
infractions, and shall carry the following fines, if timely paid under §
71.05:
      (1)   First offense: $20;
      (2)   Second offense within 12 months: $40; and
      (3)   Handicapped zone: $75.
   (B)   Failure to appear. Any person receiving a parking citation who shall
fail to appear at the Parking Violations Bureau pursuant to the terms of §
71.05 shall be subject to a complaint and warrant filed with the County Third
District Court, and shall be responsible for a civil infraction which shall
carry a fine not to exceed $100.
   (C)   Any person who violates any provision of §
71.08 shall be deemed to have committed a civil infraction and may be ordered
to pay a civil fine of not more than $100, plus costs.
(Ord. 210, passed 1-14-2019; Ord. 224, passed 10-14-2024)
CHAPTER 72: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
Skateboards
   
72.01   Purpose
   
72.02   Skateboard ban in the downtown area
Golf Carts
   
72.10   Use of golf carts on public streets
 
   
72.99   Penalty
SKATEBOARDS
§ 72.01 PURPOSE.
   Skateboarders have been noted to jump from elevation to elevation on city
and state sidewalks; have been using commercial and city parking lots to
practice tricks, causing concern to the pedestrian public and property owners
alike. In an effort to promote safe use of the pedestrian walkways in the
downtown area; and to alleviate fear of liability claims, skateboards will be
banned in the area.
(Ord. 172, passed - -)
§ 72.02 SKATEBOARD BAN IN THE DOWNTOWN AREA.
   (A)   No person shall operate a skateboard on any public sidewalk in the
downtown area.
   (B)   Riding or operating a skateboard on public sidewalks is specifically
prohibited in the downtown area of the city, all blocks within the skateboard
ban area will be marked with “No Skateboards Allowed” signs.
   (C)   The area is delineated in the map attached to the ordinance from which
this section is derived, on file in the office of the City Clerk/Treasurer.
   (D)   The banned area specifically includes the library property and the
adjacent parking lot.
(Ord. 172, passed - -) Penalty, see §
72.99
GOLF CARTS
§ 72.10 USE OF GOLF CARTS ON PUBLIC STREETS.
   The City of Bronson allows the operation of golf carts on the streets of the
city subject to the requirements listed below.
   (A)   Any individual wishing to operate a golf cart on the streets of the
City of Bronson must register that golf cart with the City of Bronson.
   (B)   No person shall operate a golf cart on any street in the City of
Bronson unless he or she is at least 16 years old and is licensed to operate a
motor vehicle.
   (C)   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with the signal requirements
of § 648 of the Motor Vehicle Code (being M.C.L.A. § 257.648).
   (D)   The person operating the golf cart upon the roadway shall ride as near
to the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or a vehicle proceeding in the same direction.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section, no person shall
operate a golf cart on U.S. 12 within the city limits of the City of Bronson.
However, an individual operating a golf cart may cross U.S. 12 at any location
where there is a four-way stop light within the City of Bronson.
   (F)   In any location in the City of Bronson that has established a usable
and designated path for golf carts, golf carts must use that path.
   (G)   A person operating a golf cart shall not pass between lines of traffic
but may pass on the left of traffic moving in his or her direction in the case
of a two-way street or on the left or right of traffic in the case of a one-way
street, in an occupied lane.
   (H)   Golf carts shall not be operated on a sidewalk constructed for the use
of pedestrians in the City of Bronson.
   (I)   A golf cart shall not be operated at speed greater than 15 mph.
   (J)   Golf carts shall not be operated within the City of Bronson during a
time period from one hour before sunset to one hour before sunrise.
   (K)   This section does not apply to a police officer in the performance of
their official duties.
   (L)   A golf cart operated on the street in the City of Bronson is not
required to be registered for the purposes of § 3101 of the Insurance Code.
   (M)   As used in this section, a GOLF CART means a vehicle designated for
transportation while playing the game of golf. The City of Bronson requires
that a golf cart operated on the city streets in the City of Bronson, meet all
the following safety requirements for a low-speed vehicle:
      (1)   At least two head lamps that comply with M.C.L.A. § 257.685;
      (2)   At least one tail lamp that complies with M.C.L.A. § 657.686;
      (3)   At least one stop lamp and one lamp or mechanical signal devise
that complies with M.C.L.A. §§ 257.697 and 257.697(b);
      (4)   At least one reflector on each side of the golf cart as far to the
rear as practical and one reflector on the rear of the golf cart as required
for low-speed vehicles by 49 CFR 571.500;
      (5)   One exterior mirror mounted on the driver’s side of the golf cart
and either one exterior mirror mounted on the passenger side of the golf cart
or one interior mirror as required for low speed vehicles by 49 CFR 571.500;
      (6)   Breaks and parking brake that complies with M.C.L.A. § 257.704;
      (7)   A horn that complies with M.C.L.A. § 257.706;
      (8)   A windshield that complies with M.C.L.A. § 257.708(a);
      (9)   A manufacturer’s identification number permanently affixed to the
frame of the golf cart; and
      (10)   Safety belts that comply with M.C.L.A. § 257.710(a) and that are
used as required by M.C.L.A. § 257.710(e).
(Ord. 222, passed 11-13-2023)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates any provision of §
72.02 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, upon first violation a
written warning will be issued; a second infraction will result in confiscation
of the skateboard and a requirement to do five hours of community service, upon
completion of the community service the skateboard will be returned. A third
violation and all subsequent violations will result in a fine of $20 or an
amount at the discretion of the court plus costs and other sanctions.
   (C)   A violation of §
72.10 shall be treated as a civil infraction. The fine for the first violation
shall be $100, a fine for a second and subsequent violation shall be $150.
Additionally, the City of Bronson may rescind the permit to operate a golf cart
within the city limits.
(Ord. 172, passed - -; Ord. 222, passed 11-13-2023)
CHAPTER 73: TRAFFIC SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   Douglas Autotec parking area
      
II.   Dollar General
      
III.   Fairview Manor and Pleasant Homes
SCHEDULE I. DOUGLAS AUTOTEC PARKING AREA.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this schedule, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      PARKING AREA. An area used by the public as a means of access to and
egress from, and for the free parking of motor vehicles by patrons of a
shopping center, business, factory, hospital, institution or similar building
or location.
   (B)   Traffic regulation by City Police Department. The City Council, upon
the April 12, 1996 written request of Douglas Autotec, may now control traffic
in the Douglas Autotec parking area as follows:
      (1)   Order stop signs, yield signs or other traffic control devices
erected at specified entrance or exit locations to a parking area or at an
intersection in the parking area;
      (2)   Regulate traffic in the parking area, including regulation by means
of traffic control signals;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles at intersections or other designated locations in the parking area;
      (4)   Regulate the crossing of a roadway in the parking area by
pedestrians;
      (5)   Designate a separate roadway, drive or lane in the parking area for
one-way traffic;
      (6)   Prohibit, regulate, restrict or limit the stopping standing, or
parking of vehicles in specified areas of the parking area;
      (7)   Designate safety zones, loading zones and other restricted area in
the parking area;
      (8)   Provide for the removal and storage of vehicles parked and
abandoned in the parking area during snowstorms, floods, fires or other public
emergencies, or found unattended in the parking area, if the vehicles
constitute an obstruction to traffic or if stopping, standing, or parking is
prohibited, and for the payment of reasonable charges for the removal and
storage by the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
      (9)   Adopt additional reasonable rules with respect to traffic and
parking in a parking area as local conditions may require for the safety and
convenience of the public or of the users of the parking area.
(Ord. 151, passed 5-13-1996)
SCHEDULE II. DOLLAR GENERAL.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARKING AREA. An area used by the public as a means of access to and
egress from, and for the free parking of motor vehicles by patrons of a
shopping center, business, factory, hospital, institution or similar building
or location.
   (B)   Traffic regulation by City Police Department. The City Council, upon
the April 25, 2006 written request of the Dollar General Store, may now control
traffic in the Dollar General parking areas as follows:
      (1)   Order stop signs, yield signs or other traffic control devices
erected at specified entrance or exit locations to a parking area or at an
intersection in the parking area;
      (2)   Regulate traffic in the parking area, including regulation by means
of traffic control signals;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles at intersections or other designated locations in the parking area;
      (4)   Regulate the crossing of a roadway in the parking area by
pedestrians;
      (5)   Designate a separate roadway, drive or lane in the parking area for
one-way traffic;
      (6)   Prohibit, regulate, restrict or limit the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles in specified areas of the parking area;
      (7)   Designate safety zones, loading zones and other restricted area in
the parking area;
      (8)   Provide for the removal and storage of vehicles parked or abandoned
in the parking area during snowstorms, floods, fires or other public
emergencies, or found unattended in the parking area, if the vehicles
constitute an obstruction to traffic or if stopping, standing or parking is
prohibited, and for the payment of reasonable charges for the removal and
storage by the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
      (9)   Adopt additional reasonable rules with respect to traffic and
parking in a parking area as local conditions may require for the safety and
convenience of the public or of the users of the parking area.
(Ord. 168, passed 5-8-2006)
SCHEDULE III. FAIRVIEW MANOR AND PLEASANT HOMES.
   (A)   Definition. For the purpose of this schedule, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PARKING AREA. An area used by the public as a means of access to an
egress from, and for the free parking of motor vehicles by patrons of a
shopping center, business, factory, hospital, institution or similar building
or location.
   (B)   Traffic regulation by City Police Department. The City Council upon
the January 27, 2000 written request of the City Housing Commission may now
control traffic in the Fairview Manor and Pleasant Homes parking areas as
follows:
      (1)   Order stop signs, yield signs or other traffic control devices
erected at specified entrance or exit locations to a parking area or at an
intersection in the parking area;
      (2)   Regulate traffic in the parking area, including regulation by means
of traffic control signals;
      (3)   Prohibit or regulate the turning of vehicles or specified types of
vehicles at intersections or other designated locations in the parking area;
      (4)   Regulate the crossing of a roadway in the parking area by
pedestrians;
      (5)   Designate a separate roadway, drive or lane in the parking area for
one-way traffic;
      (6)   Prohibit, regulate, restrict or limit the stopping, standing or
parking of vehicles in specified areas of the parking area;
      (7)   Designate safety zones, loading zones and other restricted area in
the parking area;
      (8)   Provide for the removal and storage of vehicles parked or abandoned
in the parking area during snowstorms, floods, fires or other public
emergencies, or found unattended in the parking area, if the vehicles
constitute an obstruction to traffic or if stopping, standing or parking is
prohibited, and for the payment of reasonable charges for the removal and
storage by the owner or operator of the vehicle; and
      (9)   Adopt additional reasonable rules with respect to traffic and
parking in a parking area as local conditions may require for the safety and
convenience of the public or of the users of the parking area.
(Ord. 158, passed 2-14-2000)
CHAPTER 74: PARKING SCHEDULES
Section
I.Chicago Street
SCHEDULE I. CHICAGO STREET.
   (A)   This schedule shall provide for the regulation of parking on Chicago
Street (U.S. 12) within the city limits to promote the safety and welfare of
the citizens and to facilitate traffic flow.
   (B)   All parking shall be prohibited on the north and south sides of
Chicago Street (U.S. 12) from the west city limits easterly to a point 180 feet
west of the intersection of the highway with Matteson Street.
   (C)   All parking shall be prohibited on the north and south sides easterly
from the intersection of Chicago Street and Buchanan Street to the intersection
of Chicago Street with Wayne Street.
   (D)   Parking shall be regulated by traffic order on the north and south
sides of Chicago Street (U.S. 12) from a point 180 feet west of the Matteson
Street intersection to the intersection of Buchanan Street.
   (E)   This shall be a civil infraction punishable by a fine of $20 for the
first offense, $40 for the second offense within 12 months. Fines are payable
to the Municipal Civil Infractions Bureau.
(Ord. 139, passed 4-12-1993; Ord. 182, § 9, passed 2-13-2012)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMAL REGULATIONS
      
91.   MARIJUANA PROVISIONS
      
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
93.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
94.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
95.   THEATERS, EXHIBITIONS AND OUTDOOR SHOWS
      
96.   TREES
      
97.   FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
      
98.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Short title
   
90.02   Ownership defined
   
90.03   Keeping of farm or wild animals
   
90.04   Treatment of animals
   
90.05   Responsibility for damages
   
90.06   Licensing and registration required
   
90.07   Collar and license tag to be worn
   
90.08   Number of animals
   
90.09   Duty to keep dogs confined
   
90.10   Creating a nuisance
   
90.11   Noisy animals
   
90.12   Vicious animals
   
90.13   Animal bitten by another animal
   
90.14   Impounding of dogs
   
90.15   Confining animal for observation
   
90.16   Release of animals
   
90.17   Unclaimed animals
   
90.18   Quarantine
   
90.19   Violation notices
   
90.20   Repeated violations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   General public nuisances, see
Chapter 93
§ 90.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be described as the “Animal Ordinance” of the city, and
it shall be deemed sufficient in any proceedings to refer to the same by number
and by that short title.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.02 OWNERSHIP DEFINED.
   Every person in possession of any animal, who knowingly allows the animal to
remain about his or her premises for a period of five days, shall be deemed to
be the owner of the animal for the purposes of this chapter.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.03 KEEPING OF FARM OR WILD ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep or house any farm or wild animals within the
city.
   (B)   No horses, cows, swine, goats, sheep, chickens, geese, ducks, donkeys,
pigeons or any other farm or wild animal be kept in any dwelling, or part
thereof.
   (C)   No such animals or fowl shall under any circumstances be kept on any
lot or premises within the city limits.
   (D)   WILD ANIMAL means any animal, whether tame or not, that is not a farm
or other domesticated animal.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 TREATMENT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Every owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of an
animal shall provide for the animal’s adequate care. ADEQUATE CARE means the
provision of sufficient food, water, shelter and medical attention to maintain
an animal in a state of good health.
   (B)   No owner, possessor or person having the charge or custody of an
animal shall not do any of the following:
      (1)   Fail to provide an animal with adequate care;
      (2)   Fail to provide an animal with adequate shelter. SHELTER means
adequate protection from the elements and weather conditions suitable for the
age, species and physical condition of the animal as to maintain the animal in
a state of good health;
      (3)   Fail to provide an animal with sanitary conditions. SANITARY
CONDITIONS means space free from health hazards including excessive animal
waste, overcrowding of animals or other conditions that may endanger the
animal’s health; or
      (4)   Cruelly drive, work, beat or kick an animal, or cause an animal to
be cruelly driven, worked, beaten or kicked.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DAMAGES.
   Every owner of an animal shall be liable for damages for any and all
injuries to persons or property caused by the animal, to be determined and
collected in appropriate civil proceedings, and nothing contained in this
chapter shall be construed so as to impose any liability upon the city or its
agents or employees for damages caused by the animal.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.06 LICENSING AND REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, keep or house any animal within the city unless the
person shall have complied with the laws of the city, the county and the state,
providing for the licensing and registration of the animal. It shall be
unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor any dog six months old or
over in the city unless the dog is licensed as provided by law. The term DOG as
used in this chapter shall include male, female and unsexed dogs.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.07 COLLAR AND LICENSE TAG TO BE WORN.
   No person shall own, keep or house any dog six months old or older, or any
other animal that requires licensing and registration, that does not, at all
times wear a collar or harness with a suitable tag attached.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.08 NUMBER OF ANIMALS.
   Any lot or premises on which three or more dogs, cats or other household
pets are either permanently or temporarily boarded for remuneration is
considered to be a commercial kennel, and shall be subject to the rules,
regulations and licensing requirements thereto.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.09 DUTY TO KEEP DOGS CONFINED.
   (A)   No owner of any dog under any circumstances, except to go to the
veterinarian, shall allow any dog to leave his or her premises unless the dog
has been immunized against rabies.
   (B)   No owner of any female dog shall permit that female dog to go beyond
the premises of the owner when she is in heat, unless the female is held
properly in leash, and no owner shall allow any dog to stray beyond his or her
premises unless it is under the reasonable control of some person.
   (C)   For the purpose of this chapter, a dog shall be deemed to be under
“reasonable control” when the dog is on a leash, in an enclosed vehicle or
container, or with the owner or some member of the owner’s family, or some
other person with the permission of the owner, provided the dog is amenable to
orders and commands of the person in charge thereof.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.10 CREATING A NUISANCE.
   No person shall own, possess, shelter, keep or harbor any animals in the
city under conditions or in a manner so as to create a nuisance by way of
noise, odor, menace to health, destruction of property, trespassing on the
property of others or otherwise.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.11 NOISY ANIMALS.
   No person shall own, keep, house or have charge of any animal, which, by
loud or frequent or habitual barking, crying, yelping or howling, shall cause a
serious annoyance to the neighborhood or to people passing to and fro upon the
street.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.12 VICIOUS ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall own or harbor a fierce or vicious animal. All animals
found to be vicious shall be destroyed, unless otherwise disposed of by the
owner.
   (B)   Whenever an animal taken into custody by the County Animal Control
Officer or the City Police Department for having bitten a person, the Animal
Control Officer or the Police Department may, if deemed necessary and
advisable, and after holding the animal a sufficient length of time to meet the
requirements of the Health Officer for investigation cause the animal to be
destroyed as a vicious animal. Unless waived in writing, notice of intent to so
destroy the animal shall be given to the owner, if known.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13 ANIMAL BITTEN BY ANOTHER ANIMAL.
   It shall be the duty of any person owning or harboring an animal which has
been attacked or bitten by another animal showing symptoms of rabies or known
to have rabies, to immediately notify the Police Department and the District
Health Officer that he or she has the animal in his or her possession, and he
or she will comply with all lawful orders and requirements of the Police
Department and the District Health Officer.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.14 IMPOUNDING OF DOGS.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or any police officer to take
up, seize, place or impound any diseased or abandoned dog, or any dog found
running at large in the city not under the control of the owner or keeper,
contrary to the provisions of this chapter. The City Police Department is
hereby authorized to assist or call upon the County Dog Warden or the County
Animal Control Officer in executing the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.15 CONFINING ANIMAL FOR OBSERVATION.
   (A)   Any person who has in his or her possession an animal which has
contracted rabies, or which has been subject to same, or which is suspected of
having rabies, or which has bitten any person, shall, upon the demand of the
Police Department or of the District Health Officer produce and surrender up
the animal the animal to the Police Department or District Health Officer, to
be held in a licensed kennel of a licensed veterinarian, for treatment and
observation for a period of ten days.
   (B)   In lieu of the delivering up the animal as aforesaid, the person shall
have the option of delivering the animal to an approved kennel, there to be
held for treatment and observation for the ten-day period, and shall furnish to
the Police Department written evidence that the animal has been so delivered.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.16 RELEASE OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   No animal shall be released from the County Dog Warden, the County
Animal Control Officer, or a licensed kennel under the provisions of §
90.15, unless the owner or his or her authorized agent shall pay to the City
Police Department a fee set forth in the following schedule and any fee imposed
by the county or any licensed veterinarian:
      (1)   For the release of a licensed animal properly immunized against
rabies, or for the release of an animal not required to be licensed but
properly immunized against rabies, the sum of $20 shall be paid together with;
and
      (2)   Payment of the cost of boarding the animal at a minimum charge of
$3 per day.
   (B)   No animal shall be released from the impounding unless it is properly
immunized and licensed, if required. The owner in addition to the fees set
forth in this section shall pay the cost of the immunization and licensing. The
$20 fee so charged shall go to the General Fund of the city, and board charges
shall be remitted to the person providing authorized confinement of the animal.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.17 UNCLAIMED ANIMALS.
   All animals placed in the custody of the County Dog Warden or County Animal
Control Officer shall be held and/or disposed of according to state law.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.18 QUARANTINE.
   The Chief of Police of the city is hereby authorized to require that any
animal be quarantined, or that quarantine be established in the city for any
defined period, when in his or her opinion the measures are necessary in order
to protect the health of the inhabitants of the city, and it shall be the duty
of the Police Department to enforce the quarantine.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.19 VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   The Police Department of the city, the County Animal Control Officer
or the County Dog Warden may, upon witnessing violations of this chapter which
require impounding of the animal and where it is impractical or impossible to
impound the animal, issue to the owner of the animal a written notice of the
violation.
   (B)   The owner of the animal may, within 72 hours, present the notice to
the City Police Department, and there pay the penalties which would have been
imposed had the animal been impounded, with the exception that only the minimum
charge for board of the animal shall be made.
   (C)   If the owner of the animal shall fail to appear within the 72 hours,
the person issuing the notice shall forthwith file a complaint in District
Court and secure a warrant for the arrest of the owner of the animal. All
further proceedings shall be had in accordance with the rules and regulations
and practice of District Court.
   (D)   Payment of any penalty in accordance with the provisions of this
section shall be deemed full satisfaction for the violation. The Police
Department shall remit all monies collected under this section to the office of
the City Clerk/Treasurer for credit to the General Fund of the city.
(Ord. 173, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.20 REPEATED VIOLATIONS.
   If any person shall be guilty of more than one violation of this chapter
within any calendar year, it shall be the duty of any person witnessing any
subsequent violation to file a complaint in District Court, and the owner shall
not be permitted to settle the subsequent violation by payment of impounding
fees as herein before provided.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates §
90.11 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall be subject to
the payment of a civil fine of not less than $25, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction. A second offense, within a period of 90 days,
shall be subject to a civil fine of less than $50, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction. Third and subsequent offenses, within 90 days,
shall be subject to a civil fine of $100, plus costs and other sanctions, for
each infraction.
   (B)   If no specific penalty is provided, any person violating any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof before a court of competent jurisdiction shall be subject to
a fine not to exceed $100, or by imprisonment in the county jail for a period
not to exceed 90 days, or both by the fine and imprisonment in the discretion
of the court.
(Ord. 173, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: MARIJUANA PROVISIONS
Section
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Definitions
   
91.03   Compliance required
   
91.04   Requirements for qualifying patients
   
91.05   Requirements for primary care giver
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to impose specific requirements for those
individuals registering with the state as “qualifying patients” or “primary
care givers” as those terms are defined in M.C.L.A. § 333.26421, the Michigan
Medical Marijuana Act, and to regulate the conduct pursuant thereto in the city
so as to protect the health, safety and welfare of the general public.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 91.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the words and phrases as contained herein
shall have the meanings as set forth in M.C.L.A. § 333.26423 and the
regulations adopted by the State Department of Community Health, pursuant to
authority conferred by § 5 of Initiated Law 1 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §
333.26425, unless defined otherwise herein. For the purpose of this chapter,
the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
   DISTRIBUTION. The act of a primary care giver delivering medical marijuana
to a qualifying patient with whom the primary care giver is associated through
the Department of Public Health’s registration process.
   MANUFACTURING. The growing/cultivating of medical marijuana.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-9-2011; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 91.03 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   Those individuals within the city who are “qualifying patients” or “primary
care givers” as those terms are used in the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act
shall comply with the requirements set forth herein.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 91.04 REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFYING PATIENTS.
   A person within the city who has been issued and possesses a lawful registry
identification card as a qualifying patient as set forth in M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq. shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Consumption of marijuana shall not occur in any public place.
   (B)   Manufacturing and storage of medical marijuana by a qualifying patient
shall only occur at the residence of the qualifying patient or other location
permitted by this chapter and shall only be allowed inside of an enclosed,
locked facility which shall be a closet, room or other closed area equipped
with locks or other security devices that permit access only by a registered
primary care giver or registered qualifying patient. The facility shall be
under the exclusive control of the qualifying patient through written lease,
contract or deed.
   (C)   A qualifying patient may also possess on his or her person and under
the qualifying patient’s exclusive control an amount of medical marijuana
deemed medically necessary to alleviate the condition that gave rise to the
qualifying patient’s registration with the Department of Public Health.
   (D)   If a qualifying patient intends to manufacture and store medical
marijuana at a location other than his or her primary residence, the same shall
only occur at a location within an Industrial Zone as defined by the Zoning
Ordinances of the city after first obtaining a special land use permit from the
city and shall not be within 1,000 feet of a:
      (1)   Drug-free school zone;
      (2)   Church;
      (3)   Child care facility; or
      (4)   Residence or district zoned for residential use.
   (E)   Manufacturing and storage of medical marijuana by a qualifying patient
shall occur in one enclosed, locked facility so that manufacturing and storage
does not occur in multiple locations.
   (F)   Should a qualifying patient wish to dispose of any unused medical
marijuana, any incidental amount of seeds, stalks and unusable roots, the
material shall be removed by a commercial drug disposal carrier registered with
the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and/or the state for proper
disposal in a manner prescribed by law and regulation. Under no circumstance
shall a qualifying patient dispose of any unused medical marijuana, any
incidental amount of seeds, stalks and unusable roots through a regular garbage
receptacle or burning pit, barrel or container.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 91.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR PRIMARY CARE GIVER.
   A person within the city who has been issued and possesses a lawful registry
identification card as a primary care giver as set forth in M.C.L.A. §
333.26421 shall comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   Manufacturing and storage of medical marijuana shall only be allowed
inside of an enclosed, locked facility being a closet, room or other closed
area equipped with locks or other security devices that permit access only by a
registered primary care giver or registered qualifying patient. The facility
shall be under the exclusive control, through written lease, contract or deed,
in favor of the primary care giver or the qualifying patient with whom the
primary care giver is associated through the Department of Public Health’s
registration process.
   (B)   Manufacturing and storage of medical marijuana by a primary care giver
shall occur in one enclosed, locked facility so that manufacturing and storage
does not occur in multiple locations.
   (C)   Under no circumstances shall any third parties other than a qualified
patient to whom a primary care giver is lawfully registered to assist have
access to the location where medical marijuana is being manufactured and/or
stored.
   (D)   The location from which a primary care giver distributes medical
marijuana to a qualifying patient shall be under the exclusive control, through
written lease, contract or deed in favor of the primary care giver.
   (E)   Except for manufacturing and storage of medical marijuana that occurs
at property under the exclusive control, through written lease, contract or
deed in favor of a qualifying patient, a primary care giver shall only
manufacture, store and/or distribute medical marijuana at a location within an
Industrial Zone as defined by the Zoning Ordinances of the city after first
obtaining a special land use permit from the city.
   (F)   The location from which a primary care giver manufactures stores and
distributes medical marijuana to a qualifying patient shall not be used by
another primary care giver for any purpose whatsoever.
   (G)   Except for manufacturing, storage and distribution that occurs at the
primary residence of a qualifying patient as set forth above, the location from
which a primary care giver manufactures, stores and distributes medical
marijuana to a qualifying patient shall be in accord with division (E) above
and shall not be within 1,000 feet of a:
      (1)   Drug-free school zone;
      (2)   Church;
      (3)   Child care facility; or
      (4)   Residence or district zoned for residential use.
   (H)   Manufacturing, storage and distribution of medical marijuana shall not
occur in connection with or at a location at which any other commodity, product
or service is also available and shall only occur as otherwise in compliance
with the Zoning Ordinance of the city.
   (I)   No consumption of medical marijuana shall occur at a primary care
giver’s location for manufacturing, storage or distribution or a primary care
giver’s legal residence address, unless the primary care giver is a qualifying
patient and then the consumption shall only be by the qualifying patient/
primary care giver.
   (J)   Distribution of medical marijuana by a primary care giver to a
qualifying patient shall only occur at the location of manufacturing and
storage of medical marijuana or at the residence of the qualifying patient.
   (K)   A primary care giver shall annually register with the City Police
Department the location where the primary care giver shall engage in the
manufacturing, storage and distribution of medical marijuana and the location
shall be subject to an annual administrative inspection to ensure compliance
with this section. All information obtained through the registration process
that would be deemed confidential pursuant to the Michigan Medical Marijuana
Act shall be confidential and shall not be subject to disclosure pursuant to
the Freedom of Information Act.
   (L)   Should a primary care giver wish to dispose of any unused medical
marijuana, any incidental amount of seeds, stalks and unusable roots, the
material shall be removed by a commercial drug disposal carrier registered with
the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and/or the state for proper
disposal in a manner prescribed by law and regulation. Under no circumstance
shall a primary care giver dispose of any unused medical marijuana, any
incidental amount of seeds, stalks and unusable roots through a regular garbage
receptacle or burning pit, barrel or container.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-9-2011)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects or refuses to comply with
any provision of this chapter shall be punished for each offense, upon
conviction of a misdemeanor by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of
prosecution, or by imprisonment for a period not exceeding 90 days, or by both
fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. Each day that a
violation is permitted to continue shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 175, passed 5-9-2011)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions and Regulations
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Hours
   
92.03   Accepted use
   
92.04   Prohibited uses
   
92.05   Scheduling
   
92.06   Fees
   
92.07   Priority of users
Park Commissioners
   
92.20   Care and management of public parks
 
   
92.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOL. Includes any alcoholic beverage.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Includes snowmobiles or any unit, regardless of how many
wheels, powered by anything other than human effort.
   PARKS. Includes Albers Field, Douglas Park, Greenwald Park, Kiwanis Park,
Memorial Park and any other area that may be designated a PARK by City Council.
   TURFING. To operate a motor vehicle on the grass or other areas included in
a park area such as ball diamonds, ball fields, volleyball courts or tennis
courts in a manner so as to destroy or damage the surface by spinning tires or
doing donuts.
(Ord. 160, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 92.02 HOURS.
   The accepted hours of operation shall be from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m.,
unless otherwise permitted.
(Ord. 160, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 ACCEPTED USE.
   Accepted use shall include, but shall not be exclusively limited to,
recreational or athletic activities, family or group activities, meetings,
reunions, picnics or routine maintenance and/or contracted labor.
(Ord. 160, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 PROHIBITED USES.
   (A)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Turfing and the operation of motor vehicles on or in the park except
on established roadways or parking area.
(Ord. 160, passed 12-11-2000) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05 SCHEDULING.
   Scheduling shall be done by the city office according to the parks and
building policy.
(Ord. 160, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 92.06 FEES.
   Fees shall be established by Council as part of the parks and building
policy and shall be subject to periodic review.
(Ord. 160, passed 12-11-2000)
§ 92.07 PRIORITY OF USERS.
   Priority of users shall be as set forth in the city policy on scheduling and
use of city parks and buildings.
(Ord. 160, passed 12-11-2000)
PARK COMMISSIONERS
§ 92.20 CARE AND MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC PARKS.
   The City Council may appoint a Parks and Recreation Advisory Board to offer
advice on matters pertaining to parks, recreation, and green space in the city.
Composition of the Board and scope of study shall be set by the City Council
from time to time.
(Prior Code, § 12.201) (Ord. 35, passed 9-5-1940; Ord. 182, § 11, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Violations of §§
92.02 and
92.03 shall be civil infractions, punishable by a fine of up to $100 and court
cost.
      (2)   Violations of §
92.04 shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by up to 90 days in jail and a fine of
up to $250 or both in addition to court costs and restitution for any damage.
(Ord. 160, passed 12-11-2000)
CHAPTER 93: PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
93.01   Skins, hides and pelts; storage or keeping
Free-Standing Wood-Burning Furnace Ban
   
93.15   Purpose
   
93.16   Definition
   
93.17   Prohibition
   
93.18   Conflicts
   
93.19   Existing uses
   
93.20   Violations; declaration of nuisance
   
93.21   Issuance of civil infraction, citations and notices
Accumulation of Junk
   
93.35   Purpose
   
93.36   Definitions
   
93.37   Outdoor storage
   
93.38   Notice of violation
   
93.39   Posting of notice
   
93.40   Failure to correct
   
93.41   Removal of dangerous junk
   
93.42   Exceptions
   
93.43   Denial or refusal to removal material; assessment
   
93.44   Enforcement
Disposal of Refuse
   
93.55   Unlawful
   
93.56   Gas fired incinerator
   
93.57   Nuisance
 
   
93.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 93.01 SKINS, HIDES AND PELTS; STORAGE OR KEEPING.
   (A)   Odorous or offensive skins, hides or pelts. No person shall place,
keep or store any skunk skins or any other odorous or offensive skins, or any
hides or pelts in any store, storehouse, warehouse or other building or place
within the following limits of the city, viz: that portion of the city now
known as the fire limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.051)
   (B)   Violation. Each and every day or fraction of a day that any skins,
hides or pelts, mentioned in division (A) above are kept or stored by any
person contrary to the provisions thereof shall be deemed to constitute a
complete and distinct offense on the part of the person.
(Prior Code, § 35.052) (Ord. 26, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
93.99
FREE-STANDING WOOD-BURNING FURNACE BAN
§ 93.15 PURPOSE.
   To protect the citizens of the city health, safety and welfare from smoke
exhaust and potential fire hazards from the use of free-standing wood-burning
furnaces.
(Ord. 170, passed - -)
§ 93.16 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FREE-STANDING WOOD-BURNING FURNACE. Any device that:
      (1)   Is designed, intended or used to provide heat and/or hot water to
any residence or structure;
      (2)   Operates by the burning of wood or other solid fuel;
      (3)   Is not located within a residential structure; and
      (4)   Excluded from the definition of a free-standing wood-burning
furnace is any device which is not designed or used to heat a structure other
that the structure in which it is located.
(Ord. 170, passed - -)
§ 93.17 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install or operate a free-standing wood-
burning furnace, and to cause or permit the installation or operation of a
free-standing wood-burning furnace, within the city.
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply to an industrial manufacturer or
processor, located within an industrial zone of the city, which produces wood
waste products in its manufacturing or processing operation.
(Ord. 170, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.18 CONFLICTS.
   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this subchapter or any
other provision of law, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
(Ord. 170, passed - -)
§ 93.19 EXISTING USES.
   This subchapter shall not apply to any free-standing wood-burning furnace
that was installed, connected and operating as of the effective date of this
subchapter. However, this subchapter shall not be deemed as specific
authorization for the use of any preexisting free-standing wood-burning furnace
and shall not be deemed to bar, limit or otherwise affect the rights of any
person to take private legal action regarding damage to nuisance caused by the
use of a free-standing wood-burning furnace.
(Ord. 170, passed - -)
§ 93.20 VIOLATIONS; DECLARATION OF NUISANCE.
   Any free-standing wood furnace installed or operated in violation of this
subchapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 170, passed - -) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.21 ISSUANCE OF CIVIL INFRACTION, CITATIONS AND NOTICES.
   The City Zoning Official, Chief of Police and Fire Chief of the City Rural
Fire Association and their approved representative(s) are hereby designated as
the authorized city officials to issue municipal civil infractions (directing
alleged violators to appear in court).
(Ord. 170, passed - -)
ACCUMULATION OF JUNK
§ 93.35 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to restrict outdoor storage, parking or
unreasonable accumulation of junk, unused, partially dismantled or non-
operating motor vehicles, trailers, household goods, machinery and equipment
upon premises not zoned for industrial use; to avoid injury and hazards to
children and others attracted to the junk; to avoid devaluation of property
values and other depressing effects the presence of the junk has upon adjoining
properties and neighborhoods, and to avoid blight which causes large
expenditures of tax dollars to correct.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 93.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL. Includes any and all materials used in
the construction, remodeling or repairs of any dwelling, place of business or
structure.
   HOUSEHOLD GOODS. Includes all furniture, furnishings and household items
designed for use inside the residence, dwelling or place of business.
   ICE BOXES and REFRIGERATORS. Includes any air-tight container with door or
lids which cannot be opened from the inside and which in its intended use as
designed is constructed so as to maintain an internal temperature significantly
different from the outside environment, which might constitute a serious danger
to children at play.
   JUNK. Any unused or abandoned motor vehicles, trailers, ice boxes,
refrigerators, household goods, machinery, building or construction materials
where no building permit has been applied for or obtained, or other equipment
or material kept, stored or otherwise placed so as to present a potential
hazard to persons or property or create a littered appearance.
   MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT. Includes every type of machine, apparatus or
mechanical device ordinarily used in industry or commercial business.
   MOTOR VEHICLES. As set forth in the State Motor Vehicle Code and shall
include motorcycles, motor scooters, snowmobiles and all types of self-
propelled vehicles.
   OTHER EQUIPMENT. Any items or substance not previously herein specified
which based upon its nature, intended use and location, cannot reasonably be
found to serve a useful or decorative purpose.
   TRAILERS. Includes mobile homes, boat trailers and other wheeled entities as
are designed to be pulled or pushed by a motor vehicle or other source of
locomotion, with the exception of those entities which are capable of being
propelled by a single individual.
   UNUSED OR ABANDONED.
      (1)   With respect to motor vehicles, the operable motor vehicles that do
not have currently effective license, which would allow the motor vehicles to
be driven on the highways of the state, and shall in addition mean motor
vehicles that have a currently effective license, but which have been
inoperable for a period of 14 days or more.
      (2)   The term UNUSED OR ABANDONED shall be further defined for the
purposes herein as pertaining to any of the aforementioned items, substances or
materials to mean items which are not being utilized in the reasonable and
customary manner for which they were intended or those items, substances or
materials which have not been used in whole or in part for a period of 14 days,
and for which there is no reasonable likelihood based on identity and
circumstances that the items, substances or materials shall be used in a period
not to exceed 14 days.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 93.37 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit to remain
outside of any dwelling, building or other structure, any “junk” as herein
defined under §
93.36.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977; Ord. 196, passed 12-10-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.38 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police of the city to notify the owner
of the premises of the violations that are set forth herein, owner shall be
allowed 24 hours from the time of the notice to correct the defect, unless the
defect constitutes an immediate and extreme danger as set forth below, and the
notice shall notify the property owner that he or she may be assessed all costs
involved in the removal.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 93.39 POSTING OF NOTICE.
   In the event the owner cannot be located, prominent posting of the notice
upon the premises for 48 hours shall constitute adequate substitute notice.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 93.40 FAILURE TO CORRECT.
   In the event the owner fails to correct the defect within the 24-hour
period, or after the substituted notice as defined in §
93.39, he or she shall be in violation of this subchapter and shall be
prosecuted therefor.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.41 REMOVAL OF DANGEROUS JUNK.
   When the “junk” is of a nature that the Chief of Police believes that the
junk which violates this subchapter presents an immediate or extreme danger to
life, safety or property and that it must be removed immediately, the Police
Chief is hereby authorized to remove the junk, and to hold the junk until the
owner has been notified that he or she has seven days to claim and take
possession of the property.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 93.42 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to areas within the city which are presently
or may in the future be zoned for industrial purposes where properly fenced or
access by the general public is otherwise restricted wherein the substance or
materials shall not constitute a fire hazard or health hazard. Nor shall it
apply to the storage of one unoccupied camper trailer, recreational vehicle
and/or one boat and trailer which is property of the occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 93.43 DENIAL OR REFUSAL TO REMOVE MATERIAL; ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   In the event the owner and/or occupant of the property on which the
prohibited material is stored denies responsibility therefor or ownership
thereof, or in the event the owner or occupant refuses to remove the materials
after the 24-hour or 48-hour notice above referred to, the Chief of Police is
authorized to remove the material and dispose of the same.
   (B)   He or she shall then report the costs involved, less the scrap value
as may have been obtained, to the City Council, the City Council may then
assess the costs found due as a special assessment against the real property
involved, the special assessment to be added to the property taxed of the owner
of the real property.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
§ 93.44 ENFORCEMENT.
   This subchapter may be enforced by the use of an appearance ticket as
authorized by the laws of the state.
(Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
DISPOSAL OF REFUSE
§ 93.55 UNLAWFUL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly dump, deposit, place,
throw, or leave, or cause to permit the dumping, depositing, throwing, or
leaving of garbage or refuse on any public or private property within the city.
(Ord. 191, passed 4-9-2012) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.56 GAS FIRED INCINERATOR.
   No person shall burn any garbage or refuse except in a gas fired incinerator
designed for such purpose.
(Ord. 191, passed 4-9-2012) Penalty, §
93.99
§ 93.57 NUISANCE.
   No person shall burn any substance which shall, due to the nature of the
substance or manner of burning, create or constitute a nuisance.
(Ord. 191, passed 4-9-2012) Penalty, §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
93.01 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not less than $5 or more
than $75, or by imprisonment in the city prison not less than ten days or more
than 40 days, in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 35.053)
   (C)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
93.15 through
93.21 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to
the payment of a civil fine of not less than $100, plus costs and other
sanctions for each infraction. Each day that a violation exists shall
constitute a separate and additional violation.
   (D)   Any person violating §§
93.35 through
93.43 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be fined up to $100 or
sentenced to serve 30 days in the county jail, or both at the discretion of the
court. Each day’s continuance of the violation shall be an additional violation
and may be so charged.
(Ord. 170, passed - -; Ord. 26, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 106, passed 11-14-1977)
CHAPTER 94: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Use and Obstruction
   
94.01   Vehicles on sidewalks or crosswalks
   
94.02   Obstructions; exceptions
   
94.03   Lands adjacent to street
Street Excavations and Obstructions
   
94.15   Permit required; exceptions
   
94.16   Statement; necessary information
   
94.17   Investigation and endorsement of application; bond
   
94.18   Bond amount; indemnity
   
94.19   Excavations; permits; responsibility
   
94.20   Excavations; conditions of work
   
94.21   Sheeting and bracing
   
94.22   Backfill
   
94.23   Materials excavated; re-paving; cost
   
94.24   Sub-surface structures
   
94.25   Account of openings; repair; notice
Construction and Repair
   
94.35   Construction and repair; generally
   
94.36   Sidewalk construction specifications
   
94.37   Authorization by resolution; specifications
   
94.38   Notice to owner
   
94.39   Refusing or neglecting to construct
   
94.40   Duty of City Manager; special assessment; notice; lien
   
94.41   Sidewalk line and grade
 
   
94.99   Penalty
USE AND OBSTRUCTION
§ 94.01 VEHICLES ON SIDEWALKS OR CROSSWALKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to allow any truck, automobile or other
vehicle, other than bicycles and tricycles, to stand upon, to be driven, pushed
or propelled upon any of the sidewalks or crosswalks of this city; provided
that it shall be lawful to cross the sidewalks at the proper driveways.
(Prior Code, § 30.001) (Ord. 23, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 OBSTRUCTIONS; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed, or
maintained, on any of the sidewalks of this city, any refuse, cans, boxes,
barrels, cordwood, stands, incumbrances or obstructions of any kind or nature,
except for the purpose of repairing and building and then only under the
direction and supervision of the City Manager, and those incumbrances and
obstructions so placed shall be removed within a reasonable time and in all
cases upon the completion of repair work or building operations.
(Prior Code, § 30.003) (Ord. 23, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03 LANDS ADJACENT TO STREET.
   Nothing in this subchapter contained shall be construed to prevent any
person from crossing any sidewalk or crosswalk for the purpose of going from
the street onto or returning from any lands or premises adjacent to any street
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 30.005) (Ord. 23, passed 6-6-1935)
STREET EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 94.15 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation except the city shall:
   (A)   Make any excavation or opening in any part of any street, alley or
public place in the city;
   (B)   Place any obstruction on any part of the street, alley or public place
in the city; or
   (C)   Occupy any part of the street, alley or public place for the purpose
of construction, maintenance or repair of property immediately adjacent
thereto; without first obtaining a permit for that purpose provided that any
public utility corporation operating under franchise of the city may, in any
emergency requiring immediate action to preserve its property, make the
excavation or occupy that portion of the public street, alley or public place
without applying for the permit, but shall in all other respects comply with
the provisions of this subchapter in doing the work; provided further, that no
pavement shall be broken without a permit being issued and the work done under
the direct supervision of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 30.051) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.16 STATEMENT; NECESSARY INFORMATION.
   The applicant for the permit shall furnish to the Clerk/Treasurer a
statement showing where the opening or excavation is to be made and the purpose
and extent thereof, or where the obstruction or repair is to be carried on, and
in all cases, the extent to which the street, alley or public place is to be
used for the purpose applied for and also the time when the occupancy will
commence and the length of time it will continue, and the name of the person
who will be in charge of the work to be done there, together with other
information as the Clerk/Treasurer shall direct, which statement shall be
signed by the applicant and filed with the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30.052) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.17 INVESTIGATION AND ENDORSEMENT OF APPLICATION; BOND.
   (A)   On receipt of the application, the Clerk/Treasurer shall immediately
notify the Superintendent of the same, and the Superintendent shall investigate
and, if satisfied that the occupancy is necessary and reasonable, shall endorse
the application by signing his or her approval on the same.
   (B)   If the Superintendent shall determine that the application shall be
granted only on certain conditions and for a certain limited time, he or she
shall so state in his or her endorsement approving the application, and the
permit shall be issued only subject to those conditions or limitations.
   (C)   If in the opinion of the Superintendent, the occupancy will involve
such an obstruction of traffic or danger to the public use of the street, alley
or public place as will warrant the same, he or she shall provide in his or her
approval of the application that the permit be issued only on the execution and
delivery by the applicant of a bond to the city conditioned as hereinafter
stated.
(Prior Code, § 30.053) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.18 BOND AMOUNT; INDEMNITY.
   The bond, if and when required under the provisions of §
94.17, shall be in the sum of $1,000, and conditioned that the applicant will
indemnify and save harmless the city from any damage to any person or persons
or to the property of any person or persons resulting from the use of the
street, alley or public place by the applicant under the permit granted to him
or her for the occupancy and use of the street, alley or public place, the bond
to be effective only when filed with and the sureties approved by the Clerk/
Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30.054) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.19 EXCAVATIONS; PERMITS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   No work covered by this subchapter shall be started until all permits are
obtained and effective. All excavations in connection with water supply,
plumbing or drainage work, other than that performed by the city, shall be
under the direction and responsibility of a licensed master plumber.
(Prior Code, § 30.055) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.20 EXCAVATIONS; CONDITIONS OF WORK.
   (A)   All openings, excavations and obstructions shall be properly and
substantially barricaded and railed off and at night shall be provided with
three or more red warning lights for each opening, excavation or obstruction.
   (B)   On long trenches or obstructions, warning lights crosswise of the flow
of traffic shall not be over eight feet apart and parallel to the flow of
traffic not over 25 feet apart.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall determine what constitutes proper barriers
and lighting.
   (D)   The utmost care shall be exercised at all times in protecting life and
property in the performance of the work, and the work accomplished with as
little as possible interference to traffic and the use of the street, alley or
thoroughfare.
   (E)   Sufficient help and equipment shall be provided to expedite the work
to the satisfaction of the Superintendent.
(Prior Code, § 30.056) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.21 SHEETING AND BRACING.
   All openings and excavations shall be properly and substantially sheeted and
braced as a safeguard to the workmen and prevent cave-ins or wash-outs which
would tend to injure the thoroughfare or subsurface structure adjacent to the
work.
(Prior Code, § 30.057) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.22 BACKFILL.
   After the completion of the work, all trenches and excavations shall be
promptly backfilled and thoroughly settled by wetting or tamping, and all
excess material promptly removed from the job.
(Prior Code, § 30.058) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.23 MATERIALS EXCAVATED; RE-PAVING; COST.
   In excavating in paved streets, all materials of paving and ballasting must
be removed to the side of the street with the least possible loss or injury to
the same or the surrounding pavement. After the work is completed and proper
settlement has occurred, the city will re-pave the opening and charge and
collect the cost of the re-paving from the person to whom the permit was
granted. The Clerk/Treasurer may require a deposit to cover the cost of the
repaving before issuing permit for the work.
(Prior Code, § 30.059) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.24 SUB-SURFACE STRUCTURES.
   In excavations around or near other sub-surface structures, pipes, conduits
or other devices, care must be taken to properly safeguard them from injury,
and in case of interference or very close proximity to the same the
Superintendent shall determine how proper installation shall be made.
(Prior Code, § 30.060) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 94.25 ACCOUNT OF OPENINGS; REPAIR; NOTICE.
   Each person, firm or corporation opening or excavating any street, alley or
thoroughfare shall keep an account of all openings or excavations so made and
for one year after the opening or excavation shall keep the same filled and in
repair. Should the person, firm or corporation fail to do this, the Clerk/
Treasurer shall give them notice to do so within ten days, and if the person,
firm or corporation shall still fail to make the repairs the Street Department
shall cause the repairs to be made, and the cost of the same shall be charged
against the person, firm or corporation to whom the permit was originally
issued and may be collected by suit.
(Prior Code, § 30.061) (Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935)
CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 94.35 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR; GENERALLY.
   All crosswalks shall be constructed and kept in repair by the city under the
direction of the City Manager of the city at a time, in a manner, in places and
of material as the City Council shall from time to time by resolution direct.
(Prior Code, § 30.101) (Ord. 12, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.36 SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   No person shall build or cause to be built in or upon any street of the city
any sidewalk, except the sidewalk be constructed of Portland cement upon a
proper foundation.
(Prior Code, § 30.102) (Ord. 12, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.37 AUTHORIZATION BY RESOLUTION; SPECIFICATIONS.
   The City Council may at any time by resolution authorize, direct and require
that sidewalks shall be constructed, rebuilt or repaired on or along either or
both sides of any street or streets or part of any street or streets, under the
direction of the City Manager; and the resolution shall specify the points of
terminus and width of the sidewalks, the grade and the manner of construction
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 30.103) (Ord. 12, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 94.38 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   (A)   Within five days after the passing of the resolution the City Manager
shall prepare a written notice signed by him or her and addressed to the owner
of any lot or premises in front of or adjacent to which sidewalk is to be
constructed or rebuilt, requiring the person or persons to construct or rebuild
the sidewalks or portion thereof as may be ordered in front of or adjacent to
the several parcels of land so owned by him or her within 30 days from the date
of the notice; which notice shall be served by the Chief of Police by
delivering the same to the person or persons personally, if found within the
city, within five days from the date thereof; but if not so found within five
days then the notice shall be published at least once during the week next
thereafter in one or more newspapers published and circulating in the city.
   (B)   In case the owner of the lot or premises is unknown the notice shall
be published at least once each week for two weeks in succession in a newspaper
published and circulating in the city commencing with the first issue of the
newspaper next after the date of the notice. A copy of every notice served by
the Chief of Police shall be preserved, and he or she shall certify thereon the
time and manner of the service, and return the same to the Clerk/Treasurer to
be by him or her filed and preserved.
(Prior Code, § 30.104) (Ord. 12, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 94.39 REFUSING OR NEGLECTING TO CONSTRUCT.
   If the owner, owners or agent of any lot or premises in front of or
adjoining which the walk is ordered to be constructed or repaired shall refuse
or neglect to construct or repair the same after having been duly notified so
to do, in the manner and within the time prescribed by the City Council, the
City Manager is hereby authorized and required immediately after the expiration
of that time to cause the same to be constructed or repaired as the case may
be, and the expense of doing the same shall be assessed to the person or
persons refusing or neglecting to construct or repair the same and be charged
against the lot or premises in front of or adjoining which the sidewalk is
situated.
(Prior Code, § 30.105) (Ord. 12, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 94.40 DUTY OF CITY MANAGER; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; NOTICE; LIEN.
   It shall be the duty of the City Manager to make a full and complete report
to the City Council, when the sidewalk shall have been constructed or repaired
by him or her, of the expense of constructing or repairing the same and the
proportion of the expense to be charged against each lot or premises to be
charged as aforesaid. Upon receipt of the report, the City Council shall add
10% to the amount reported to be charged against the lot or premises and report
the same to the Board of Special Assessors to be levied by them as a special
tax or assessment upon the lot or premises adjacent to and abutting upon the
sidewalk, which special assessment shall be subject to review after proper
notice is given as in all other cases of special assessment provided for by the
Charter of the city; and after the opportunity for review the tax shall be
confirmed by the City Council and shall be a lien upon the lot or premises the
same as other special assessments, and the Council shall order the Board of
Special Assessors to spread the amount together with the penalty upon the
special assessment roll as a special assessment upon the lot or premises, and
the same shall be collected in the same manner as other city taxes; or the city
may collect the amount together with the penalty aforesaid from the owner or
agent of the premises in an action of assumpsit, together with the costs of
suit.
(Prior Code, § 30.106) (Ord. 12, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 94.41 SIDEWALK LINE AND GRADE.
   Whenever sidewalks are ordered on any street where none have heretofore
existed, it shall be the duty of the City Manager to immediately establish a
sidewalk line on the street for at least the distance that sidewalks have been
or are about to be ordered by setting stakes 200 feet apart, or as near as may
be, the stakes to designate the outer edge of the sidewalk from the lot; and
the City Manager shall also establish a proper grade for the sidewalk with the
distance, and the Manager shall keep a record of all sidewalk lines and grades
in a book prepared for that purpose which record shall be filed in the office
of the Clerk/Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 30.107) (Ord. 12, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of §§
94.01 through 94.05 shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $100, or by
imprisonment in the county jail or the city jail, not exceeding 90 days, or by
both the fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 30.006)
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of §§
94.15 through
94.25 shall be liable, on conviction thereof, to pay a fine not exceeding $30
and costs of prosecution, or to be imprisoned in the county jail of the not
exceeding 30 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of
the court. In addition to the above, any person, firm or corporation receiving
a permit under §§
94.15 through
94.25 who shall fail to comply with the provisions thereof, or fail to comply
with the conditions imposed by the Superintendent or file the bond required by
the Superintendent on approval of the application shall be liable to have the
permit suspended by the Superintendent and shall not proceed with the work for
which permit was granted until the Superintendent shall order the same to
proceed.
(Prior Code, § 30.062)
(Ord. 10, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 23, passed 6-6-1935)
CHAPTER 95: THEATERS, EXHIBITIONS AND OUTDOOR SHOWS
Section
   
95.01   License required
   
95.02   Application for license
   
95.03   Fee; license issued; refusal
   
95.04   Bond required for use of public grounds
   
95.05   Application procedure for exhibition or show consisting of several
small shows
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Required. No theaters, exhibitions, circuses or other public shows to
which admission is obtained upon payment of money, and having no permanent
location, shall be exhibited publicly in this city by any person, persons,
without having first obtained a license therefor from the Clerk/Treasurer in
writing, signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (B)   Waiver. Any organization whose headquarters, or main offices, are
located within the city, or Bronson Township, Branch County Michigan, may, by
application to the City Council for the city, request a waiver of the
requirements of this chapter. In determining whether or not a waiver shall be
appropriate, the City Council shall consider the following factors:
      (1)   Is the event designed to provide profit for individuals or groups
of individuals?
      (2)   Is the event designed to fulfill a unique cultural or educational
experience for the citizens of the city?
      (3)   Is the unique nature of the event such that it is unlikely that any
other group would present, or plan such an event.
(Prior Code, § 20.351) (Ord. 16, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 187, passed 3-12-2012)
Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The applicant for the license shall furnish to the Clerk/Treasurer a written
application giving the proposed location of the theater, exhibition, circus or
other public show, the written consent of the owner of the grounds, a statement
of the number of employees, a description of the sanitary and toilet facilities
of the grounds, and a sufficient description of the type of show or exhibition
to apprise the Clerk/Treasurer of the nature of the same.
(Prior Code, § 20.352) (Ord. 16, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 95.03 FEE; LICENSE ISSUED; REFUSAL.
   Upon receipt of the application, and upon payment to him or her by the
applicant of the sum of $25 per day for each day of intended exhibition within
the city, the Clerk/Treasurer shall issue a license for that period; provided
that it shall be the duty of the Clerk/Treasurer to refuse to grant a license
when it shall appear from the application that the grounds do not support
sufficient sanitary and toilet facilities to care for the personnel of the show
or exhibition, and also when it shall appear that the show or exhibition or any
part of the same is of an indecent or immoral nature.
(Prior Code, § 20.353) (Ord. 16, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 95.04 BOND REQUIRED FOR USE OF PUBLIC GROUNDS.
   Should the use of any public grounds owned or controlled by the city be
permitted for any show, circus, theater or other public exhibition; before
issuing any license, the Clerk/Treasurer shall require a bond from the
applicant, or applicants, in the sum of $100, conditioned upon the owners, or
agents in control of the show or exhibition, properly cleaning up the grounds
on their removal therefrom.
(Prior Code, § 20.354) (Ord. 16, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 95.05 APPLICATION PROCEDURE FOR EXHIBITION OR SHOW CONSISTING OF SEVERAL
SMALL SHOWS.
   Should application be made for any show or exhibition within the city, of
the nature of a carnival, so called, and consisting of several small shows,
exhibitions, booths and the like, the license fee shall be issued for the whole
on application of the party in control thereof, and upon payment of the sum of
$15 per day for each day of intended exhibition, and no further license shall
be required of the individual members or exhibitors.
(Prior Code, § 20.355) (Ord. 16, passed 6-6-1935)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, persons or corporation, operating or attempting to operate, any
theater, exhibition, circus or other public show, without a license shall be
punished by a fine not exceeding $25 and costs of prosecution or by
imprisonment in the county jail or the city jail not exceeding ten days, or by
both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court, and each day’s
violation thereof shall be considered a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 20.356) (Ord. 16, passed 6-6-1935)
CHAPTER 96: TREES
Section
   
96.01   Variety regulated
   
96.02   Removal or injury
   
96.03   Preservation from animals, articles or salt deposits
   
96.04   Trimming
   
96.05   Electric wires or devices
   
96.06   Tree planting policy
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 VARIETY REGULATED.
   Hereafter and from henceforth no shade or ornamental trees shall be planted
in any of the streets or public highways of the city of the variety of poplar,
box elder or willow.
(Prior Code, § 35.251) (Ord. 6, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.02 REMOVAL OR INJURY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall, without the written permit of the City
Manager, remove, destroy, break, cut down, deface or in any way injure or
interfere with any tree in any highway, park, avenue or boulevard in the city,
provided, however, that nothing in this section shall be construed so as to
apply to the trimming of trees as required herein.
(Prior Code, § 35.252) (Ord. 6, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.03 PRESERVATION FROM ANIMALS, ARTICLES OR SALT DEPOSITS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall fasten a horse or other animal to any
tree in any public highway in the city or cause a horse or any other animal to
stand in a position so that the horse or animal can injure the tree; nor shall
any person, firm or corporation attach any rope, wire, cable, sign, card or
poster or any other article to a tree in a public highway in the city without a
written permit from the City Council; nor shall any person, firm or corporation
pour or deposit salts or brine upon any public highway in a manner so as to
injure any trees growing thereon.
(Prior Code, § 35.253) (Ord. 6, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.04 TRIMMING.
   (A)   Any tree growing on any street or highway so located as to extend its
branches over a public alley, street or highway should be so trimmed by the
owner of property in front of which the tree shall stand or by the agent of the
owner, so that there shall be a clear height of 12 feet above the surface of
the street or highway unobstructed by its branches and the owner or his or her
agent shall remove all dead branches or stubs on the tree or trees which are,
or may become a menace to travelers on public highways, streets or alleys of
the streets of the city.
   (B)   Should the owner, or agent of the owner, at any time refuse or neglect
to so trim the trees the City Manager shall have the right, and it shall be his
or her duty to trim same in the manner aforesaid and the city shall have an
action at law against the owner, or owners, of the premises for the costs and
expenses incident to the work, and shall be entitled to a judgment for same.
(Prior Code, § 35.254) (Ord. 6, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 1, passed 2-13-
2012) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.05 ELECTRIC WIRES OR DEVICES.
   No person, firm or corporation shall attach any electric wires, insulators
or other device for holding electric wires to any tree now or hereafter growing
in any street, alley or public highway under the control of the city.
(Prior Code, § 35.255) (Ord. 6, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see §
96.99
§ 96.06 TREE PLANTING POLICY.
   The city will adopt a tree planting policy which may, from time to time, be
changed by action of the city council.
(Ord. 202, passed 1-9-2017)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of or failure to comply with provisions or requirements of
this chapter shall, on the conviction of the offender, be punished with a fine
of not less than $5, nor more than $50, and costs of conviction. On default of
payment of the fine, the person shall be imprisoned in the county jail or the
city jail, until the fine is paid, not exceeding the term of 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 35.256) (Ord. 6, passed 6-6-1935)
CHAPTER 97: FIRE PROTECTION AND PREVENTION
Section
Recreational Fires
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Open fires prohibited
   
97.03   Registration required
   
97.04   Conditions established
   
97.05   Authorization for burning ban
Fireworks
   
97.15   Definitions
   
97.16   Prohibition on use of consumer fireworks
   
97.17   Prohibition on discharge of fireworks on specified property
   
97.18   Novelties not prohibited
   
97.19   Enforcement
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire Department, see
Chapter 31
RECREATIONAL FIRES
§ 97.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCELERANT.  A substance used to enhance a fire, and includes lighter fluid,
gasoline, kerosene, and any other petroleum based liquid or gel. Any other
liquid, gel or substance intended to accelerate the rate of burning is deemed
to be an ACCELERANT and may include: alcohol, ethanol, and other chemicals.
   APPROVED CONTAINER.  A metal, clay, and/or aggregate container designed for
the purpose of holding a recreational fire. The construction of such container
shall inhibit the spread of fire and shall include appropriate covers and sides
to limit the projection of embers and sparks from the fire. An APPROVED
CONTAINER may not exceed an area of three feet by three feet.
   FIRE PIT. A hole or depression below the grade of soil intended to hold a
recreational fire. Such pit shall be maintained in such a way to limit the
spread of fire and appropriate precautions shall be taken to inhibit the
projection of sparks and embers from the fire. Such precautions shall include
use of rocks, cement, metal screening, or other approved protective measures. A
FIRE PIT may not exceed an area of three feet by three feet.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. A small fire set for recreational purposes kindled from
dried, cut wood. A RECREATIONAL FIRE does not include the burning of leaves or
other lawn refuse or a fire kindled from construction material or household
waste.
(Ord. 194, passed 7-9-2012)
§ 97.02 OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED.
   All open fires, except those which are specifically recreational and
properly registered, are prohibited.
(Ord. 194, passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   Recreational fires require annual registration. The City Council shall, from
time to time, establish a fee schedule for said registration. Registrations
expire on April 30 of each year. The registration shall be obtained by
requesting an inspection of the fire location; the inspection shall be
conducted by the Chief of Police or his or her designee. The inspection shall
ensure reasonable conformity to recreational fire regulations set forth in this
subchapter. An approved registration application shall be signed by the Chief
of Police or his or her designee and shall be remitted to the City Treasurer
along with the registration fee. A registration may not be issued if an
inspection determines the requirements of this subchapter are not satisfied
and/or if the property has been the source of frequent alcohol, drug, or fire
related complaints and/or for the presence of other unsafe conditions. A
registration application shall be created and modified as needed by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 194, passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 CONDITIONS ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Limited number. Only one recreational fire is permitted per residence
or lot, whichever is less.
   (B)   Location. Recreational fires may only be built in an approved
container or fire pit. A police officer shall determine if a container meets
the conditions for an approved container. Fires should be at least 25 feet from
property lines, structures, or other combustible material.
   (C)   Supervision. A recreational fire must have a competent and sober adult
monitoring the fire at all times. A water source and/or sand must, at all
times, be present to extinguish the fire.
   (D)   Liability. The property owner and/or occupant shall be liable for any
and all damage caused by a recreational fire on the premises.
   (E)   Complaints. If a police officer observes unsafe conditions at a
recreational fire or finds smoke becoming a nuisance to neighboring property
owners/occupants, she or he is authorized to direct the fire be completely
extinguished. Smoldering embers may be deemed a nuisance and a police officer
may require the property owner/occupant to completely extinguish the smoldering
embers.
   (F)   Prohibitions. Accelerants shall not be used in kindling or maintaining
a recreational fire. Material other than dried, cut timber is prohibited for
use in a recreational fire.
   (G)   Compliance with other ordinances. Violations of other city ordinances
may be deemed a violation of this subchapter if said violation occurs in a
manner related to a recreational fire.
(Ord. 194, passed 7-9-2012) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.05 AUTHORIZATION FOR BURNING BAN.
   Upon the advice of the Fire Chief and/or other emergency service personnel,
the City Manager is authorized to place a ban on any recreational fire at times
where weather conditions may make burning particularly unsafe. Such ban shall
be filed with the City Clerk, posted publicly at the Bronson City Hall, and
shall be conveyed by any method deemed appropriate. To the extent possible,
those holding registrations created under this subchapter shall be notified. A
burning ban, if issued, shall extend as long as it may be necessary and shall
be rescinded by either a notice from the City Manager or by a resolution of the
City Council.
(Ord. 194, passed 7-9-2012)
FIREWORKS
§ 97.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
or audible effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR 1500 and 1507,
and that are listed in APA Standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, or 3.5. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS do not include low-impact fireworks.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS. Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, as provided in 27
CFR 555.11, 49 CFR 172, and APA Standard 87-1, 4.1.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun, or a flare, designated for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS
consist of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic,
display fireworks, and special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Grand and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase is
defined under APA Standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5.
   MINOR. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase is defined under
APA Standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5.
   NOVELTIES. That term as defined under APA Standard 87-1, 3.2, 3.2.1, 3.2.2,
3.2.3, 3.2.4, and 3.2.5 and all of the following:
      (1)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips, rolls,
or individual caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive
content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content
per cap; and
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers, and toy
guns in which toy caps as described in division (1) above are used, that are
constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion; and
      (3)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding one-eighth inch in
diameter.
(Ord. 216, passed - -)
§ 97.16 PROHIBITION ON USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   (A)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use fireworks within the city,
except that consumer fireworks may be discharged on the following dates after
11:00 a.m., consistent with M.C.L.A. § 28.457, as amended, and all other
applicable local, state, or federal regulations:
      (1)   December 31, until 1:00 a.m. on January 1;
      (2)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Memorial Day, until
11:45 p.m. on each of those days;
      (3)   June 29 to July 4, until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days;
      (4)   July 5, if that date is a Friday or Saturday, until 11:45 p.m.; and
      (5)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Labor Day, until 11:
45 p.m. on each of those days.
   (B)   Further, fireworks may be permitted, by application to the Police
Department of the City of Bronson, for special community events such as Polish
Festival, football games, or other events. All requests shall be on forms that
will be available at the Bronson Area Fire Association Fire Department, and
must be approved by the Police Chief or Deputy Police Chief before a fireworks
display may be permitted. The City of Bronson, and the Bronson Police
Department, may impose any restrictions (such as the availability of fire
suppression equipment), upon any displays of fireworks regulated under this
section.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, no minor shall use, ignite, or possess
any consumer fireworks unless under the direct supervision of an adult at all
times.
(Ord. 216, passed - -)
§ 97.17 PROHIBITION ON DISCHARGE OF FIREWORKS ON SPECIFIED PROPERTY.
   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks at any time
on public property, school property, church property, or the property of
another person without that organizations or person’s express permission. This
prohibition and restriction shall not apply to the ignition, discharge or use
of consumer or display fireworks for educational and/or training purposes as
approved, in writing, by the Chief of Police or his or her designee.
(Ord. 216, passed - -)
§ 97.18 NOVELTIES NOT PROHIBITED.
   Novelties and model rockets and model rocket engines designed, sold and used
for the purpose of propelling recoverable aero models are not included within
the items prohibited by this subchapter. Also not included are sparklers
containing not more than 0.0125 pounds of burning portion per sparkler; flitter
sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding one-eighth of an inch in diameter; toy
snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes with not more than
12 pieces per box for retail sale and if the manufacturer’s name and the
quantity contained in each box are printed hereon; toy pistols, toy canes, toy
guns or other devices manufactured to utilize paper and/or plastic caps
containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive content per cap; or said
paper and/or plastic caps themselves, the sale of which shall be permitted at
all times.
(Ord. 216, passed - -)
§ 97.19 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Chief of Police and his or her designees and/or sworn law enforcement
officers are authorized to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 216, passed - -)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Recreational fires.
      (1)   Violations. Any person who violates any provision of §§
97.01 -
97.05 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 or more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction. Every day that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate offense. In addition to any fines so described above, a
$750 fee may be assessed for services of the Fire Department if service is
required to contain or fight a fire under §§
97.01 -
97.05.
      (2)   Repeat offenses. Repeat offenses under §§
97.01 -
97.05 shall be subject to increased fines as provided below. As used herein,
REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any subsequent) municipal civil infraction
violation of any provision of §§
97.01 -
97.05 committed by a person within any one year period and for which the person
admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible. The increased fine
for repeat offenses shall be as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense, which is a first repeat offense, shall
be not less than $100, plus costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense, which is a second repeat offense or
any subsequent repeat offense, shall be not less than $500, plus costs.
      (3)   Persons chargeable with a violation. Persons chargeable with a
violation of §§
97.01 -
97.05 and subject to being responsible for a municipal civil infraction may
include the following:
         (a)   The owner, agent, lessee, tenant, contractor or any other person
using or having control of the land, building or premises where such violation
has been committed or shall exist;
         (b)   Any person who knowingly commits, aids and abets, takes part or
assists in any such violation; or
         (c)   Any person who owns or maintains any land, building, or premise
on which such violation shall exist.
      (4)   Loss of burning privileges. Any person found responsible for a
violation of a municipal civil infraction offense pursuant to §§
97.01 -
97.05 shall have their burning privileges suspended for 60 days.
      (5)   Civil remedies. In addition to the municipal civil infraction
remedies provided above, the violation of any provision of §§
97.01 -
97.05 may be legally enjoined and otherwise abated in any manner provided by
law.
      (6)   For the purpose of this section, each day that any person, firm, or
corporation shall violate §§
97.01 -
97.05 shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Fireworks.
      (1)   Any person, firm, corporation or entity violating the provisions of
§§
97.16 or
97.17 shall be guilty of a civil infraction and shall be fined as follows:
         (a)   First offense: a fine of $250;
         (b)   Second offense within one year of a first offense: a fine of
$500;
         (c)   Third and subsequent offenses within two year of first offense:
a fine of $1,000.
      (2)   The issuance of one civil infraction citation for a violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and each violation after the
first, regardless of when committed, shall constitute a separate offense,
although the violation may occur on the same day as the first.
      (3)   Any individual, group, or organization which utilizes fireworks,
whether under the permission or in violation of §§
97.15 et seq., shall be civilly responsible for any damage caused to property
not belonging to that person, group, or organization through the use of the
fireworks.
(Ord. 194, passed 7-9-2012; Ord. 216, passed - -)
CHAPTER 98: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
98.01   Declaration of policy
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Prohibited acts
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the State of Michigan as expressed in its
constitution and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare,
peace and health of all the inhabitants of the city may be ensured, it is
hereby declared the policy of the City of Bronson, Michigan, to assure equal
opportunity to all residents, regardless of race, color, religion, national
origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or physical disability to live in decent,
sanitary, healthful standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the City of Bronson that no owner, lessee, sub-
lessee, assignee, managing agent, or other person, firm or corporation having
the right to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation
and/or real property within the city, or any agent of these shall refuse to
sell, rent, lease, or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability in
the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic, and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean, and weather tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state, and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any building, structure, or portion thereof which is
used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as a
home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or any real
estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who hold legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who hold legal or equitable title
to shares of, or hold any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rent for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the City of Bronson, Michigan.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 98.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesman, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser, or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the City of Bronson,
Michigan:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions, or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease, or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in
the city or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection
therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale or lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed, or disability;
      (5)   To distribute or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed, or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability; or
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent, or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed, or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-14-2020)
§ 98.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This section
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the City of Bronson, Michigan,
to specifically enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 214, passed 9-14-2020)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
111.   HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS
      
112.   BASIC CABLE RATE REGULATION
      
113.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Bill Posting
   
110.01   Posting of bills or notices
   
110.02   Distribution of handbills
 
   
110.99   Penalty
BILL POSTING
§ 110.01 POSTING OF BILLS OR NOTICES.
   It shall not be lawful for any person or persons to post any bills or
notices on any telegraph, telephone, electric light poles or sidewalks within
the limits of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20.201) (Ord. 27, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.02 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   It shall not be lawful for any person, firm or corporation to distribute or
cause to be distributed in the city, any handbills or any printed or written
advertisement matter by placing or causing the same to be placed in
automobiles, or in yards or on any porch or in any mail box in the city not in
possession or under the control of the person so distributing the same.
(Prior Code, § 20.202) (Ord. 27, passed 6-6-1935) Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §
110.01 or
110.02 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $25, or by imprisonment in
the city prison not more than 30 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 20.203)
(Ord. 27, passed 6-6-1935; Ord. 182, § 12, passed 2-13-2012; Ord. 184, passed
2-13-2012)
CHAPTER 111: HAWKERS AND PEDDLERS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License requirement
   
111.03   Application procedure
   
111.04   Standards for issuance
   
111.05   Revocation procedure
   
111.06   Standards for revocation
   
111.07   Appeal procedure
   
111.08   Exhibition of identification
   
111.09   City policy on soliciting
   
111.10   Notice regulating soliciting
   
111.11   Duty of solicitors to ascertain notice
   
111.12   Prohibited solicitation
   
111.13   Supersede prior ordinance
   
111.14   Exemption for certain groups
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. The business carried on by any person who is an itinerant
merchant, peddler, or solicitor as defined in this section.
   GOODS. Merchandise of any description whatsoever, and includes, but is not
restricted to, wares and foodstuffs.
   ITINERANT MERCHANT. Any person, whether as owner, agent, or consignee, who
engages in a temporary business of selling goods within the city and who, in
the furtherance of such business, uses any building, structure, vehicle, or any
place within the city.
   PEDDLER. Any person, not an itinerant merchant, who:
      (1)   Travels from place to place by any means carrying goods for sale,
or making sales, or making deliveries; or
      (2)   Without traveling from place to place, sells or offers goods for
sale from any public place within the city.
   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels by any means from place to place, taking
or attempting to take orders for sale of goods to be delivered in the future or
for services to be performed in the future. A person who is a solicitor is not
a peddler.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any person who is an itinerant merchant, peddler, or solicitor shall
obtain a license before engaging in such activity within the city.
   (B)   The fee for the license required by this chapter shall be as set from
time to time by the City Council.
   (C)   No license issued under this chapter shall be transferable.
   (D)   All licenses issued under this chapter shall expire 90 days after the
date of issuance thereof.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall file an
application with the Clerk. This application shall be signed by the applicant
if an individual, or by all partners if a partnership, or by the president if a
corporation. The applicant may be requested to provide information concerning
the following items:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   (a)   The name of the individual having management authority or
supervision of the applicant's business during the time that it is proposed to
be carried on in the city;
         (b)   The local address of such individual;
         (c)   The permanent address of such individual;
         (d)   The capacity in which such individual will act;
      (3)   The name and address of the person, if any, for whose purpose the
business will be carried on, and, if a corporation, the state of incorporation;
      (4)   The time period or periods during which it is proposed to carry on
applicant's business;
      (5)   (a)   The nature, character, and quality of the goods or services
to be offered for sale or delivered;
         (b)   If goods, their invoice value and whether they are to be sold by
sample as well as from stock;
         (c)   If goods, where and by whom such goods are manufactured or
grown, and where such goods are at the time of application;
      (6)   The nature of the advertising proposed to be done for the business;
      (7)   Whether or not the applicant, or the individual identified in
division (A)(2)(a) above, or the person identified in division (A)(3) has been
convicted of any crime or misdemeanor and, if so, the nature of each offense
and the penalty assessed for each offense.
   (B)   Applicants for peddler or solicitor licenses may be required to
provide further information concerning the following items, in addition to that
requested under division (A) above:
      (1)   A description of the applicant;
      (2)   A description of any vehicle proposed to be used in the business,
including its registration number, if any.
   (C)   All applicants for licenses required by this chapter shall attach to
their application, if required by the city, credentials from the person, if
any, for which the applicant proposes to do business, authorizing the applicant
to act as such representative.
   (D)   Applicants who propose to handle foodstuffs shall also attach to their
application, in addition to any attachments required under division (C), a
statement from a licensed physician, dated not more than ten days prior to the
date of application, certifying the applicant to be free of contagious or
communicable disease.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, an investigation of the applicant's
business reputation and moral character shall be made.
   (B)   The application shall be approved unless such investigation discloses
tangible evidence that the conduct of the applicant's business would pose a
substantial threat to the public health, safety, morals, or general welfare. In
particular, tangible evidence that the applicant:
      (1)   Has been convicted of a crime of moral turpitude; or
      (2)   Has made willful misstatements in the application; or
      (3)   Has committed prior violations of ordinances pertaining to
itinerant merchants, peddlers, solicitors, and the like; or
      (4)   Has committed prior fraudulent acts; or
      (5)   Has a record of continual breaches of solicited contracts.
will constitute valid reasons for disapproval of an application.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 111.05 REVOCATION PROCEDURE.
   Any license or permit granted under this chapter may be revoked by the Clerk
after notice and hearing, pursuant to the standards in §
111.06. Notice of hearing for revocation shall be given in writing, setting
forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time and place of the
hearing. Such notice shall be mailed to the licensee at his last known address,
at least ten days prior to the date set for the hearing.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 111.06 STANDARDS FOR REVOCATION.
   A license granted under this chapter may be revoked for any of the following
reasons:
   (A)   Any fraud or misrepresentation contained in the license application;
or
   (B)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with the business being conducted under the license; or
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter; or
   (D)   Conviction of the licensee of any felony, or conviction of the
licensee of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude; or
   (E)   Conducting the business licensed in an unlawful manner or in such a
way as to constitute a menace to the health, safety, morals, or general welfare
of the public.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 111.07 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by a decision under §§
111.04 or
111.06 shall have the right to appeal to the City Council. The appeal shall be
taken by filing with the City Council, within 14 days after notice of the
decision has been mailed to such person's last known address, a written
statement setting forth the grounds for appeal. The City Council shall set the
time and place for a hearing, and notice for such hearing shall be given to
such person in the same manner as provided in §
111.05.
   (B)   The order of the City Council after the hearing shall be final.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 111.08 EXHIBITION OF IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any license issued to an itinerant merchant under this chapter shall
be posted conspicuously in or at the place named therein. In the event more
than one place within the city shall be used to conduct the business licensed,
separate licenses shall be issued for each place.
   (B)   The Clerk shall issue a license to each peddler or solicitor licensed
under this chapter. The license shall contain the words “Licensed Peddler” or
“Licensed Solicitor,” the expiration date of the license, and the number of the
license. The license shall be kept with the licensee during such time as he or
she is engaged in the business licensed.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.09 CITY POLICY ON SOLICITING.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of the city that the occupants of the
residences in the city shall make the determination of whether solicitors shall
be, or shall not be, invited to their respective residences.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 111.10 NOTICE REGULATING SOLICITING.
   (A)   Notice of the refusal of invitation to solicitors, to any residence,
shall be given on a weatherproof card or other sufficiently durable sign,
approximately three inches by four inches in size, exhibited upon or near the
main entrance door to the residence, indicating the determination by the
occupant, containing the applicable words, as follows:
   “NO SOLICITORS INVITED”
   Or
   “NO SOLICITATION”
   Or
   “NO SOLICITORS”
   Or
   “SOLICITORS PROHIBITED”
   (B)   The card or sign so exhibited shall constitute sufficient notice to
any solicitor of the determination by the occupant of the residence of the
information contained thereon.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 111.11 DUTY OF SOLICITORS TO ASCERTAIN NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every solicitor upon going onto any premises
in the city upon which a residence is located to first examine the notice
provided for in §
111.10 if any is attached, and be governed by the statement contained on the
notice. If the notice states any of the applicable statements indicated in §
111.10 then the solicitor, whether registered or not, shall immediately and
peacefully depart from the premises.
   (B)   Any solicitor who has gained entrance to any residence, whether
invited or not, shall immediately and peacefully depart from the premises when
requested to do so by the occupant.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.12 PROHIBITED SOLICITATION.
   It is hereby declared to be unlawful and shall constitute a nuisance for any
person to go upon any premises and ring the doorbell upon or near any door, or
create any sound in any manner calculated to attract the attention of the
occupant of such residence, for the purpose of securing an audience with the
occupant thereof and engage in soliciting in defiance of the notice exhibited
at the residence in accordance with the provisions of §
111.10 above.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.13 SUPERSEDE PRIOR ORDINANCE.
   This chapter shall replace and supersede any previous ordinance
contemplating the licensing and regulation of peddlers, itinerant merchants,
and solicitors.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
§ 111.14 EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN GROUPS.
   This chapter shall not apply to solicitation by non-profit or charitable
groups, whose headquarters or main offices are located within the city or the
Township of Bronson, Branch County, Michigan.
(Ord. 185, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 112: BASIC CABLE RATE REGULATION
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
112.03   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
112.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
112.05   Proprietary information
   
112.06   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
112.07   Tolling order
   
112.08   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
112.09   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
112.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
112.11   Refunds; notice
   
112.12   Written decisions; public notice
   
112.13   Rules and regulations
   
112.14   Failure to give notice
   
112.15   Additional hearings
   
112.16   Additional powers
   
112.17   Failure to comply; remedies
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as defined
in the Act and FCC rules.
   ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as amended
by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub.
L. No. 102- 385), and as may be amended from time to time.
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Basic service, as defined in the FCC rules, and any
other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the city,
pursuant to the Act and the FCC rules.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time, pursuant to
the Act.
   INCREASE IN RATES. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services as provided in the FCC rules.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to: adopt regulations consistent with the Act
and the FCC rules with respect to basic cable service rate regulations; and
prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for consideration of
the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable service rate
regulation by the city. This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted
consistent with the Act and FCC rules.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.03 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic service and associated
equipment, the city shall follow all FCC rules.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.04 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rate for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such, rated in
accordance with the Act and the FCC rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission information as is necessary to show that its schedule of
rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and the FCC
rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or proposed
increase with the City Clerk/Treasurer. For purposes of this chapter, the
filing of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least
ten copies have been received by the City Clerk/Treasurer. The City Council may
by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations as allowed by law
prescribing the information, data and calculations which must be included as
part of the cable operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed
increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the city pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide all
information requested by the City Manager that is related and helpful in
connection with the city’s review and regulation of existing rates for the
basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates. The City Manager may establish reasonable deadlines for submission of
the requested information and the cable operator shall comply with the
deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in the
rates complies with the Act and the FCC rules including, without limitation, 47
U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. § § 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.05 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the city pursuant
to §
112.04(A), or any request for information pursuant to §
112.04(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable
operator shall produce the information. However, at the time the allegedly
proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request that
specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and
withheld from public disclosure.
      (1)   The request must state the reason why the information should be
treated as proprietary and the facts that support those reasons. The request
for confidentiality will be granted if the city determines that the
preponderance of the evidence shows that non-disclosure is consistent with the
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552.
      (2)   The city shall place in a public file for inspection any decision
that results in information being withheld. If the cable operator requests
confidentiality and the request is denied: where the cable operator is
proposing a rate increase, it may withdraw the proposal, in which case the
allegedly proprietary information will be returned to it; or the cable operator
may seek review within five working days of the denial in any appropriate
forum. Release of the information will be stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the city. The city shall weigh the policy considerations
favoring non-disclosure against the reasons cited for permitting inspection in
light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly notify the
requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the information as to
the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or condition a request. The
requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the decision by
filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be stayed pending
resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.06 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
112.04(A), the City Clerk/Treasurer shall publish a public notice in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the City Clerk/Treasurer and
(except those parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for
public inspection and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the City Clerk/Treasurer not later than seven days after the public
notice is published.
   (B)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall give notice to the cable operator of
the date, time and place of the meeting at which the City Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be
mailed by first class mail at least three days before the meeting.
   (C)   In addition, if a written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule
of rates or the proposed increase is prepared for consideration of the City
Council, then the City Clerk/Treasurer shall mail a copy of the report by first
class mail to the cable operator at least three days before the meeting at
which the City Council shall first consider the schedule of rates or the
proposed increase.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.07 TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
112.04(A), unless the City Council (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by issuing a
brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date of
filing. The City Council may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional 90 days
in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional 150 days
in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.08 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
112.07 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the city any additional information
required or requested pursuant to §
112.04.
   (B)   In addition, the City Council shall hold a public hearing to consider
the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or 150-day
period, as the case may be.
   (C)   The City Clerk/Treasurer shall publish a public notice of the public
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city which shall
state:
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at
the hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (D)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall mail by first class mail a
copy of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before
the hearing.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.09 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the City Manager shall cause a report to be
prepared for the City Council which shall (based on the filing of the cable
operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s
review, and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the City Council pursuant to §
112.10. The City Clerk/Treasurer shall mail a copy of the report to the cable
operator by first class mail not less than 20 days before the City Council acts
under §
112.10. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
City Clerk/Treasurer. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the
cable operator with the City Clerk/Treasurer within ten days after the report
is mailed to the cable operator, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall forward it to
the City Council.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.10 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   (A)   The City Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or
otherwise, which in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic
cable service and associated equipment or a proposed increase in the rates,
denies the existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction,
prescribes a reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to
become effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in
accordance with the FCC rules.
   (B)   If the City Council issues an order allowing the existing rates or
proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it shall also direct
the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933.
The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90 days of the
tolling order under §
112.07 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing.
   (C)   The order shall be issued within 150 days after the tolling order
under §
112.07 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.11 REFUNDS: NOTICE.
   The City Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47 C.F.R.
§ 76.942. Before the City Council orders any refund to subscribers, the City
Clerk/Treasurer shall give at least seven days written notice to the cable
operator by first class mail of the date, time and place at which the City
Council shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity
for the cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by
agent, or by letter at that time for the purpose of submitting comments to the
City Council.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.12 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the City Council pursuant to §
112.10 or §
112.11 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the City
Council, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.
   (B)   The Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk/Treasurer.
   (C)   In addition, the City Clerk/Treasurer shall mail a copy of the text of
the written decision to the cable operator by first class mail.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
112.04, the City Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC rules.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.14 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the City Clerk/Treasurer to give the notices or to mail
copies of reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the
decisions or proceedings of the City Council so long as there is substantial
compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.15 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the City Council may in its
sole discretion, hold additional public hearings, upon which reasonable notice
as the City Council shall prescribe.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.16 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   (A)   The city shall posses all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC rules,
the cable operator’s franchise and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC rules and this chapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise.
   (B)   The city may take any action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC
rules to protect the public interest in connection with basic cable service
rate regulation.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 112.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   (A)   The city may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against
the cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under
a cable operator’s franchise with the city) for failure to comply with the Act,
the FCC rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to this
chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder.
   (B)   Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the Act, the FCC
rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to this chapter, any
requirements of this chapter, or any rules and regulations promulgated
hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or denial of renewal
of a cable operator’s franchise.
(Ord. 143, passed 9-20-1993)
CHAPTER 113: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Permit required
   
113.04   Issuance of permit
   
113.05   Construction/engineering permit
   
113.06   Conduit or utility poles
   
113.07   Route maps
   
113.08   Repair of damage
   
113.09   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
113.10   Modification of existing fees
   
113.11   Savings clause
   
113.12   Use of funds
   
113.13   Annual reports
   
113.14   Cable television operators
   
113.15   Existing rights
   
113.16   Compliance
   
113.17   Reservation of police powers
   
113.18   Authorized city officials
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities, while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare, and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002) (Act), being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et
seq., and other applicable law and to ensure that the city qualifies for
distribution under the Act by modifying the fees charges to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), , being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
      CITY. The City of Bronson
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Bronson, or its designee.
This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Council.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All the other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning
as defined or as provided in the Act, including, without limitations, the
following.
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority, created pursuant to § 3 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3101.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
COMMISSION in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunications services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATIONS
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332 further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and service provided by
any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms defines in § 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act
179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER does not
include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of
the communication mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or service provided
by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose of the Act and
this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   A person providing broadband Internet transport access service.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunication facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(1). A telecommunications provider shall file one copy
of the application with the City Clerk/Treasurer, one copy with the City
Manager, and one copy with the City Attorney. Upon receipt, the City Clerk/
Treasurer shall make two copies of the application and distribute a copy to
City Manager and City Attorney. Application shall be complete and include all
information required by the Act, including, without limitation, a route map
showing the location of the provider’s existing and proposed facilities in
accordance with § 6(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5). A copy of the
application form as approved by the Commission can be obtained on Internet at
http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/comm/rightofway/rightofway.htm.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 to 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5),
the telecommunications provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of
each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit additional information which the City Manger deems reasonably necessary
or relevant. The applicant shall comply with the request in compliance with
reasonable deadlines for the additional information established by the City
Manager. If the city and the applicant cannot agree on the requirements of
additional information requested by the city, the city or the applicant shall
notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2), being M.C.L.A. § 151.3106(2), of the
act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(1), authorization or permits previously issue by the city
under § 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251 (now governed by Public Act 48 of 2002, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3115) and authorization or permits issued by the city to
telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit issued
by the city to telecommunications providers prior to 1995 enactment of § 251 of
the Michigan Telecommunications Act, but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from November 1, 2002 the effective date of the act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
that date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under §
251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 Public Act 179, being M.C.L.A.
§ 484.2251 (now governed by Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115),
shall submit the city an application for a permit in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3105(3), a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
section is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division
(D) above. A provider under this division shall be given up to an additional
180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the authority, as
provided in § 5(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(4).
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval of denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3), the City Manager shall approve or deny
an application for a permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications
provider files an application for a permit under this chapter for access to a
public right-of-way within the city. Pursuant to § 6(6) of the act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(6), the City Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City
Manager has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the
date on which the application was filed and the date on which the application
was filed and the date on which permit was granted or denied. The City Manger
shall not reasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2)
and 15 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3106(1), 484.3106(2) and 484.3115.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115
(4), the City Manager may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which
conditions shall be limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and
usage of the public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during
and after the telecommunications provider’s access and use.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3115(3), and without limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may
require that a bond be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition
of the permit. If a bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost
to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its original condition
during and after the telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.05 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under Chapter 30 of this Code,
as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be
charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 13, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.06 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 113.3104(3), obtaining a
permit or paying the fees required under the Act or under this chapter does not
give a telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
Copies of the permit forms currently approved by the MPSC can be obtained on
the Internet at http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/comm/rightofway/rightofway.htm.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.07 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(7), a
telecommunications provider shall, within 90 days after the substantial
completion of construction of new telecommunications facilities in the city,
submit route maps showing the location of the telecommunications facilities to
both the MPSC and to the city. The route maps should be in (paper or
electronic) format unless and until the MPSC determines otherwise, in
accordance with § 6(8) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(8).
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.08 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(5), a
telecommunications provider undertaking an excavation or construction or
installing telecommunications facilities within a public right-of-way or
temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a
permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the street surface and all
installations under, over, below or within the public right-of-way and shall
promptly restore the public right-of-way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.09 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
113.03(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the city’s public right-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3108.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.10 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(1), the city hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any
fees charged to telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the
effective date of the act, relating to access and usage of the public right-of-
way, to an amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under
the Act, which shall be paid to the authority.
   (B)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4), the city also hereby approves modification of the fees
of provider’s with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within
the city’s boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required
under § 8 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3108.
   (C)   The city shall provide each telecommunication provider affected by the
fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with requirements of § 13(4) of
the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4). To the extent any fees are charged
telecommunications providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act,
or which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, the imposition is hereby
declared to be contrary to the city’s policy and intent, and upon application
by a provider or discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having
been charged in error.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.11 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(5), if § 8 of the
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3108, is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, the
modification of fees under §
113.10 shall be void from the date of modification was made.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.12 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(4), all
amounts received by the city from the Authority shall be used by the city
solely for rights-of-way related purposes.
   (B)   In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city
from the Authority shall be deposited into the major street fund and/or local
street fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 247.651 through 247.675.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.13 ANNUAL REPORTS.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(5), the City
Manager may file an annual report with the Authority on the use and disposition
of funds annually distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, §§ 2, 13, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.14 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(6), the city shall
not hold a cable television operator in default or seek any remedy for its
failure to satisfy an obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the
effective date of this Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of
gross revenues from charges the cable operator received for cable modem
services provided through broadband Internet transport access services.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.15 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3104(2), except as
expressively provided herein with respect to fees, this chapter shall not
affect any existing rights that a telecommunications provider or the city any
have under a permit issued by the city or under a contract between the city and
a telecommunications provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.16 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
hereof should be construed in a manner so as to achieve that purpose.
   (B)   The city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A.§§ 15.231 through 15.246, as provided in
§
113.03(C);
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
113.03(F);
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing the providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
113.03(G);
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
113.04(A);
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
113.04(A);
      (6)   Not reasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
113.04(A);
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms as provided in §
113.04(B);
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
113.04(C);
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication providers access and
use, in accordance with §
113.04(D);
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
113.05;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunication provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
113.10;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the authority, in accordance with §
113.13; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
113.14.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.17 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(2), this chapter
shall not limit the city’s right to review and approve a telecommunication
provider’s access to and ongoing use of a public-right-of-way or limit the
city’s authority to ensure and protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
§ 113.18 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violations notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal
chapter violations bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by the
city code.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   A person or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter or terms
of conditioning of a permit shall be subject to fines as adopted by resolution
of the City Council from time to time. Nothing is this section shall be
construed to limit the remedies available to the city in the event of a
violation by a person or corporation of this chapter or a permit issued under
or in relation to this chapter.
(Ord. 165, passed 5-12-2003; Ord. 182, § 13, passed 2-13-2012)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   CURFEW FOR MINORS
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   LOITERING ON PUBLIC/PRIVATE PROPERTY
      
133.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT
      
134.   MARIHUANA REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: CURFEW FOR MINORS
Section
   
130.01   Curfew
§ 130.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   Under age 13. No minor under the age of 13 years shall loiter, idle,
or congregate in or on any public or private street, highway, alley, parking
facility, or public facility/park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., except where the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian, or an
adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor; where the
minor is upon an errand or other legitimate business directed by a parent or
guardian; or where the minor is coming or going from an organized civic
function.
   (B)   Thirteen years of age and older, but under the age of 16 years. No
minor 13 years of age and older, but under the age of 16 years, shall loiter,
idle, or congregate in or on any public or private street, highway, alley,
parking facility, or public facility/park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and
6:00 a.m., except where the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian, or an
adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor; where the
minor is upon an errand or other legitimate business directed by a parent or
guardian; or where the minor is coming or going from an organized civic
function.
   (C)   Under 18 years of age. No minor 16 years of age and older, but under
the age of 18 years shall not loiter, idle, or congregate in or on any public
or private street, highway, alley, parking facility, or public facility/park
between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 am., except where the minor is
accompanied by a parent or guardian, or an adult delegated by the parent or
guardian to accompany the minor; where the minor is upon an errand or other
legitimate business directed by his or her parent or guardian or where the
minor is coming or going from an organized civic function.
   (D)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
   (E)   This ordinance shall replace and supersede any previous ordinance
contemplating curfews for minors.
(Ord. 186, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
Defacing or Destroying City-Owned Property
   
131.01   Defacing or destroying buildings
   
131.02   Defacing or destroying personal property
Protection of Buildings/Land of Schools
   
131.15   Damaging or destroying school property prohibited
   
131.16   Persons required to leave school premises; authority of principal
 
   
131.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct, generally, see
Chapter 133
DEFACING OR DESTROYING CITY-OWNED PROPERTY
§ 131.01 DEFACING OR DESTROYING BUILDINGS.
   No person shall wilfully, or maliciously, injure, mar, deface or destroy any
building, or part of building, belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 20.101) (Ord. 43, passed 2-3-1949) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 DEFACING OR DESTROYING PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   No person shall wilfully, or maliciously, injure, mar, deface, remove or
destroy any personal property of any kind or nature belonging to the city.
(Prior Code, § 20.102) (Ord. 43, passed 2-3-1949) Penalty, see §
131.99
PROTECTION OF BUILDINGS/LAND OF SCHOOLS
§ 131.15 DAMAGING OR DESTROYING SCHOOL PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall damage, destroy or deface any public, private or parochial
school building, or any building occupied by any public, private or parochial
school, or the grounds, outbuildings, fences, trees, playground equipment or
other appurtenances or fixtures belonging thereto or located on the grounds
thereof.
(Ord. 99, passed 3-8-1971) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.16 PERSONS REQUIRED TO LEAVE SCHOOL PREMISES; AUTHORITY OF PRINCIPAL.
   (A)   No person shall create a disturbance, or engage in any immoral or
indecent conduct, in any private, public or parochial school building or on any
school ground.
   (B)   Any person who is on the grounds of a private, public or parochial
school, or in the buildings thereof, shall leave when requested to do so by the
principal or assistant principal without the necessity of reasons being
assigned for the request to leave.
(Ord. 99, passed 3-8-1971) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
(Ord. 43, passed 2-3-1949; Ord. 188, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 132: LOITERING ON PUBLIC/PRIVATE PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Loitering prohibited
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 LOITERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “No loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Ord. 189, passed 3-12-2012) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or by imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 182, § 14, passed 2-13-2012; Ord. 189, passed 3-12-2012)
CHAPTER 133: DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section
   
133.01   Definitions
   
133.02   Abolition of distinction between accessory and principal
   
133.03   Begging
   
133.04   Public conduct
   
133.05   Offenses affecting governmental function
   
133.06   Offenses against a person or persons
   
133.07   Offenses against property
   
133.08   Offenses against public peace
   
133.09   Offenses against public morals
   
133.10   Offenses against public safety
   
133.11   Offenses on school grounds
   
133.12   Authority to question
 
   
133.99   Penalty
§ 133.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HARASS. Any repeated verbal or non-verbal conduct which is specifically
intended to frighten, embarrass or anger the person or persons who are the
object of the conduct or which the person accused has reason to know is likely
to produce those reactions.
   LOITER. To stand or recline in one place or to move slowly about.
   PROFANE or OBSCENE. Words or gestures which by their very issuance or
utterance inflict injury or tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, government-owned or government-
controlled building, common hallway or public room or any dwelling of greater
than two units, or any other place to which the public has lawful access.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.337, M.C.L.A. § 750.167 and M.C.L.A.
§ 750.103
§ 133.02 ABOLITION OF DISTINCTION BETWEEN ACCESSORY AND PRINCIPAL.
   Every person concerned in the commission of an offense, whether he or she
directly commits the act constituting the offense or procures, counsels, aids
or abets in its commission may hereafter be prosecuted, indicted, tried and on
conviction shall be punished as if he or she had directly committed the
offense.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 767.39
§ 133.03 BEGGING.
   Begging shall be permitted in the public places of the city, as long as the
individual or group is not engaging in any of the following types of conduct
while begging:
   (A)   Blocking a sidewalk, driveway, park entrance, or building entrance so
that the public in general is prevented from using the sidewalks, or entering
the buildings or grounds in the normal course of usage.
   (B)   Aggressive begging shall be defined as continuing to confront,
request, talk to importune, block, or otherwise inconvenience an individual has
indicated non-interest, or has requested no further communication from the
individual begging.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, § 17, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Person defined as a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(h)
§ 133.04 PUBLIC CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful to urinate, defecate or spit on any street, sidewalk,
alley, parking lot or structure, public carrier, or upon any public building or
place of public assemblage; except where an approved sanitary facility is
provided and used.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.05 OFFENSES AFFECTING GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTION.
   (A)   Destruction of official notices. No person shall interfere with,
obstruct, mutilate, conceal or tear down any official notice or placard posted
by any city officer, unless permission is given by an officer to remove the
notice.
   (B)   Obstruction of officers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, resist, hinder or
oppose any member of the police force, or any peace officer in the discharge of
his or her duties as such.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to accurately identify
himself or herself when requested to do so by a police officer after the
officer observes that person commit a civil infraction or when the officer has
probable cause to believe the person has committed a misdemeanor outside the
officer’s presence.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely impersonate a police
officer, firefighter or housing, building or zoning code enforcer for the
purpose of gaining entry to private property, or access to private records, or
access to public records which would not otherwise be subject to public
disclosure under the law.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.06 OFFENSES AGAINST A PERSON OR PERSONS.
   (A)   Assault and battery. It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an
assault, or an assault and battery on any other person.
   (B)   Enticing children. It shall be unlawful for any person to invite,
entice, coax, persuade or induce by threat, any minor child under the age of 17
years to enter any motor vehicle, or conveyance, or private property or place,
except where the parent or guardian of the child has given that person his or
her express prior consent; this section shall not prohibit school personnel
from carrying out the normal duties of their employment.
   (C)   Assault by telephone. It shall be unlawful for any person to
maliciously telephone any other person for the purpose of harassing, molesting,
threatening, intimidating or annoying the other person or his or her family,
whether or not conversation ensues.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Assaults, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.81 et seq.
   Obstruction of police officer, see M.C.L.A. § 750.479
§ 133.07 OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY.
   (A)   Malicious mischief generally. It shall be unlawful for any person to
wilfully destroy, remove, damage, alter or in any manner deface any property
not his or her own, or any public school building, or any public building,
bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box, street light, street sign, traffic control
device, railroad sign or signal, parking meter or shade tree belonging to the
city or located in the public places of the city, or mark or post handbills on,
or in any manner mar the walls of, any public building, or fence, tree or pole
within the city, or destroy, take or meddle with any property belonging to the
city, or remove same from the building or place where it may be kept, placed or
stored, without proper authority; or disturb, tamper with, disconnect or damage
any city water meter without proper authority.
   (B)   Pollution, damage to drinking fountains. It shall be unlawful for any
person to destroy, injure or in any manner deface any drinking fountain located
in the city, or throw or deposit any substance therein, or in any manner
pollute the water in the basin of any fountain or detach the cups or other
parts of the drinking fountains.
   (C)   Prowling in alleys, on private property. It shall be unlawful for any
person to prowl about any alley or the private premises of any other person in
the nighttime, without authority or the permission of the owner of the
premises.
   (D)   Trespass upon lands or premises of another. Any person who shall
willfully enter upon the lands or premises of another without lawful authority,
after having been forbidden so to do by the owner or occupant, agent or servant
of the owner or occupant, or after the lands or premises have been previously
posted by the owner or occupant, agent or servant of the owner or occupant,
with a conspicuous notice forbidding any trespass thereon, or any person being
upon the land or premises of another, upon being notified to depart therefrom
by the owner or occupant, the agent or servant of either, who without lawful
authority neglects or refuses to depart therefrom, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (E)   Unlawful presence. It shall be unlawful for any person to lurk, lie in
wait or be concealed in any building or any yard or premises within the city,
with intent to do any mischief or to pilfer or to commit any crime or offense
whatever.
   (F)   Window peeping. No person shall be found looking into the windows or
doors of any house, apartment or other residence in the city, in a manner as
would be likely to interfere with the occupants reasonable expectation of
privacy and without the occupant’s express or implied consent.
   (G)   Unlawful entry. It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any
enclosed or unenclosed vegetable garden or orchard located within the city
without the consent of the owner or tenant, or his or her agent and there cut
down, injure, damage, destroy, eat or carry away any portion of the garden,
including any growing thing, crop, tree, timber, grass, seed, soil, fertilizer,
water supply, tool, implement, fence or any other protective device or any
other thing used for the development, cultivation, maintenance and use of the
aforesaid gardens or orchards, including decorative planters and flower gardens
and flowers or plants.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see
§
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Malicious mischief, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.377a et seq.
   Person defined as a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(c)
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.552
§ 133.08 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE.
   (A)   Disturbing the peace; generally. It shall be unlawful for any person
to disturb the public peace and quiet by loud noise, boisterous or vulgar
conduct.
   (B)   Language or gestures causing public disorder. A person shall be deemed
guilty of a misdemeanor if, with the purpose of causing public danger, alarm,
disorder or nuisance, or if his or her conduct is likely to cause public
danger, alarm, disorder or nuisance, the person willfully uses abusive language
or makes an obscene gesture to any other person when the words by their very
utterance inflict injury or tend to incite an immediate breach of the peace.
   (C)   Obstruction of public passages. It shall be unlawful for any person to
conduct himself or herself in any public place so as to obstruct, hinder or
interfere with the free and uninterrupted passage of the public after being
told to move on by a police officer.
   (D)   Playing in streets, sidewalks. It shall be unlawful for any person to
play any ball game in any public street or sidewalk or otherwise obstruct
traffic on any street or sidewalk by collecting in groups thereon, for any
purpose.
   (E)   Jostling. It shall be unlawful for any person to jostle or roughly
crowd persons in any street, alley, park or public building.
   (F)   Fighting in public. It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
any disturbance, fight or quarrel in a public place.
   (G)   Unlawful assemblies. It shall be unlawful for any person to collect or
stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage or abet the collection of persons in
crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any public place.
   (H)   Disorderly place. It shall be unlawful for any person to permit or
allow any place occupied or controlled by him or her to be a resort of noisy,
boisterous or disorderly persons.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Certain loiterers deemed disorderly persons, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(i-k)
   Cursing and swearing, see M.C.L.A. § 750.103
   Disorderly persons, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167
   Disturbing public places, see M.C.L.A. § 750.170
   Indecent language in presence of women or child, see M.C.L.A. § 750.337
    Person defined as a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(1)
   Riots and unlawful assemblies, see M.C.L.A. §§ 752.541 et seq.
§ 133.09 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS.
   (A)   Illegal gambling, prostitution and similar offenses. It shall be
unlawful for any person to:
      (1)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
      (2)   Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant or inmate of any place
where prostitution, illegal gambling, the illegal sale of alcoholic liquor, or
where any other illegal business or occupation is permitted or conducted;
      (3)   Engage in prostitution, illegal gambling, the illegal sale of
alcoholic liquor, or any other illegal business or occupation;
      (4)   Solicit or accost any person for the purpose of inducing the
commission of any illegal act;
      (5)   Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution or
illegal gambling is practiced, encouraged or allowed for the purpose of
enabling the person to engage in gambling or in any illegal act; or
      (6)   Keep or maintain a gaming room, gaming tables or any policy of pool
tickets, used for gaming; or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming tables or
any policy or pool tickets to be kept, maintained, played or sold on any
premises occupied or controlled by him or her without proper license.
   (B)   Indecent or obscene conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person to
engage in any indecent or obscene conduct in any public place.
   (C)   Open or indecent exposure. It shall be unlawful for any person to
knowingly make any open or indecent exposure of his or her person or of the
person of another.
   (D)   Disorderly intoxication. It shall be unlawful for any person to be
intoxicated or under the influence of any controlled substance in a public
place; and
      (1)   Endanger directly the safety of another person or of property; or
      (2)   Act in a manner that causes a public disturbance.
   (E)   Drug paraphernalia.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         COCAINE SPOON. A spoon with a bowl so small that the primary use for
which it is reasonably adapted or designed, is to hold or administer cocaine,
and which is so small as to be unsuited for the typical lawful uses of a spoon.
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor
designated as a schedule 1-5 substance in Article 7, Controlled Substances,
Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7101 et seq. as amended,
(commonly known as the Public Health Code).
         DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind
which are used, adapted for use, or designed for use, in planting,
manufacturing, compounding, producing, testing, containing, concealing,
injecting or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance
in violation of the public health code of the state.
         MARIJUANA OR HASHISH PIPE. A pipe characterized by a bowl which is so
small that the primary use for which it is reasonably adapted or designed is
the smoking of marijuana or hashish, rather than lawful smoking tobacco, and
which may or may not be equipped with a screen.
      (2)   Sale, display, possession prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to sell, offer for sale, display, furnish, supply, possess, give away or
advertise any drug paraphernalia which is primarily adapted or designed for the
administration or use of any controlled substance.
      (3)   Licensed persons; exemptions.
         (a)   This section shall not apply to a person licensed by the state
board of pharmacy (administrator) pursuant to the Public Health Code.
         (b)   The person may possess, manufacture, distribute, prescribe,
dispense or conduct research with controlled substances to the extent
authorized by its license.
         (c)   The following persons need not be licensed and may lawfully
possess controlled substances under this section:
            1.   An agent or employee of a licensed manufacturer while acting
in the ordinary course of employment;
            2.   Common or contract carrier or warehousemen, or employee
thereof while possessing in ordinary course of employment;
            3.   Persons suffering from diabetes, asthma or any other medical
condition requiring self injection or pursuant to a lawful order of a
practitioner; and
            4.   An officer or employee of a federal, state, political
subdivision or agency of this state who is engaged in the enforcement of state
or local laws relating to controlled substances and who is authorized to
possess controlled substances in the course of that person’s official duties.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Person is defined as a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(f)
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.335a
§ 133.10 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   Abandoned refrigerators. It shall be unlawful for any person to leave
outside of any dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned,
unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or container having air tight
doors.
   (B)   Fireworks prohibited.
      (1)   Sale prohibited. Within the city limits, a person shall not sell at
retail, offer for sale at retail, expose for sale at retail, keep with intent
to sell at retail, give, furnish, transport, use, explode or cause to explode
any firecrackers, torpedoes, sky rockets, Roman candles, day glow bombs or
other fireworks of like construction containing more than 0.25 of a grain of
explosive content per device, nor any fireworks containing an explosive or
inflammable compound or a tablet or other device commonly used and sold as
fireworks containing nitrates, chlorates, oxalate, sulphides of lead, barium,
antimony, arsenic, mercury, nitroglycerine, phosphorous or a compound
containing these or other modern explosives.
      (2)   Discharge, possession. It shall be unlawful for any person to fire,
discharge, display or possess any fireworks except of the type and under the
conditions permitted by Chapter 38 of the Penal Code of the state (M.C.L.A. §§
750.243i)
   (C)   Carrying dangerous weapons. It shall be unlawful for any person to
carry on his or her person or in the passenger compartment of any motor vehicle
any dangerous weapon, including, but not limited to, segments of chain, hunting
knives, jackknives having one or more blades which exceed three inches in
length, club, metal pipe or any other dangerous weapon, unless carried in the
normal course of a business or profession, excluding firearms.
   (D)   Discharge of weapons.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm, air
rifle, air pistol, bow and arrow, sling shot or wrist rocket within the city,
except as otherwise provided in this section.
      (2)   It shall be permissible for the City Police Department, and all
full time and part time officers who are employees of the Police Department, to
discharge firearms at a shooting range owned by the city. No individuals, other
than police officers, shall be permitted to utilize the shooting range.
   (E)   Throwing objects from vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person to
wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile or object from any moving
automobile.
   (F)   Throwing objects toward vehicles. It shall be unlawful for any person
to wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile or object toward any person
or automobile.
   (G)   Spectator conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person, while a
spectator in a sport stadium, to pass or assist in passing any person, with or
without that person’s consent above spectators in the stadium.
   (H)   False report. It shall be unlawful for any person to make a false
report, by telephone or otherwise, to any public official which may be
reasonably expected to cause the evacuation or closing of a building or place
open to the public, or to summon, as a joke or prank or otherwise without any
good reason therefore, by telephone or otherwise, the Police or the Fire
Department or any public or private ambulance to go to any address where the
service called for is not needed.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, § 2, passed 2-13-2012; Ord. 197, passed
6-10-2013)  Penalty, see §
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Dangerous weapons, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.224 et seq.
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.493d
§ 133.11 OFFENSES ON SCHOOL GROUNDS.
   (A)   Dropouts and suspended students. No former student who has dropped out
or quit school, or who has been suspended from school, shall enter upon or into
any school property within the city without first having received authorization
from the school authorities to so enter.
   (B)   School disturbances. No person who is not a member of the student body
or who has been suspended, or who has dropped out of school, shall disturb or
disrupt the normal school instructional program by creating or causing to be
created any disturbance or loud noises or commotion of any kind upon any school
property, or in any street, alley, park or other public place in close
proximity to the school.
   (C)   Damage or destruction of property. No person shall intentionally or
willfully or maliciously do any act which damages or destroys any school
property or the personal property of any other person, which personal property
is authorized to be on school property.
   (D)   Joint liability and penalty. Should any damage be done to school
property or other personal property by persons not authorized to be on school
property during the course of or as result of any disturbance or commotion on
school property or in the streets, alleys, parks or other public places which
adjoin school property, then all persons who are not authorized to be on school
property at that time, who take part in the disturbance or commotion, shall be
guilty of violating division (C) above and shall be punished as provided in
133.99.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, §§ 1, 2, passed 2-13-2012) Penalty, see
§
133.99
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing public places, see M.C.L.A. § 750.170
   Malicious mischief, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.377a et seq.
§ 133.12 AUTHORITY TO QUESTION.
   Under circumstances where a police officer has good reason to believe that
any individual has committed or is about to commit any unlawful act, the
officer may ask the individual to identify himself or herself and explain his
or her presence on the scene, but failure to respond to the questioning shall
not constitute an offense; provided, however, that this section shall not be
construed to affect any obligation to respond which is otherwise imposed by
law.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993)
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found in violation of this chapter shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or by imprisonment for not more
than 90 days, or by both fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 142, passed 9-20-1993; Ord. 182, § 15, passed 2-13-2012)
CHAPTER 134: MARIHUANA REGULATIONS
Section
   
134.01   Prohibition of marihuana establishments
   
134.02   Prohibition on sale and consumption of marihuana in public places
§ 134.01 PROHIBITION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of § 6.1 of the Michigan Regulation and
Taxation of Marihuana Act (the “Act”), marihuana establishments, as defined by
the Act, are completely prohibited within the boundaries of the City of
Bronson.
   (B)   Any applicant for a state or local license to establish a marihuana
establishment, as defined by the Act, within the boundaries of the city shall
be deemed to be not in compliance with this chapter or with the Code of
Ordinances amended by this chapter.
   (C)   This section does not supersede rights and obligations with respect to
the transportation of marihuana through the City of Bronson to the extent
provided by the Act, and does not supersede rights and obligations under
Michigan law allowing for or regulating marihuana for medical use.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-14-2019)
§ 134.02 PROHIBITION ON SALE AND CONSUMPTION OF MARIHUANA IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   In conformance with §§ 4.1(e) and 6.2(b) of the Act, [except as
otherwise provided in this section], the sale or consumption of marihuana in
any form and the sale or display of marihuana accessories, as defined by the
Act, is prohibited in any public places within the boundaries of the City of
Bronson.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this section shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction punishable by a civil fine of
$500, plus court-imposed costs.
   (C)   This section does not supersede rights and obligations with respect to
the transfer and consumption of marihuana on private property to the extent
authorized by the person who owns, occupies or operates such property, as
provided in and authorized by the Act, and does not supersede rights and
obligations with respect to the use of marihuana for medical purposes as
provided by any law of the State of Michigan allowing for or regulating
marihuana for medical use.
(Ord. 211, passed 1-14-2019)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   [RESERVED]
      
152.   [RESERVED]
      
153.   [RESERVED]
      
154.   UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
      
155.   RENTAL HOUSING
CHAPTER 150: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
150.01   Dividing of platted lots
   
150.02   Fire/smoke detection devices
   
150.03   International Property Maintenance Code
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Recreational fires, see §§
97.01 et seq.
§ 150.01 DIVIDING OF PLATTED LOTS.
   It is hereby ordained by the city that any lot, out-lot or other parcel of
land in a recorded plat, situated in the city may be further partitioned, so
long as it is not partitioned or divided into more than four parcels and
further, that the partitioning does not result in a parcel of land that is less
than the minimum width and area as provided for in Public Act 288 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, being a Subdivision Control Act for
the state.
(Ord. 104, passed - -) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.02 FIRE/SMOKE DETECTION DEVICES.
   (A)   Installation required. All owners of residential construction,
remodeled construction or commercial dwelling units, or upon the sale of any
residential unit designated for residential occupancy within the city limits of
the city shall install fire/smoke detectors in each unit on or before July
1,1987.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DWELLING. A single or multi-family unit including single-family, multi-
family, guest house, lodging house, boarding house, suite or single room of a
hotel or motel providing living facilities for one or more persons, including
permanent or temporary provisions for living, sleeping, cooking, eating and
sanitation.
      FIRE/SMOKE DETECTOR.
         (a)   Any unit, device or combination of devices and equipment
approved by and bearing the seal of a national testing laboratory capable of
sensing visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a suitable
alarm directly wired into the building’s electrical power supply and not
controlled by a switch other than the main power supply.
         (b)   Any unit, device or combination of devices and equipment
approved by and bearing the seal of a national testing laboratory capable of
sensing visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a suitable
alarm which can be plugged into and will operate from a wall plug; provided
that the plug is fitted with a plug restraining device and provided that the
wall outlet power supply is not controlled by a switch other than the main
power supply.
         (c)   Any unit, device or combination of devices and equipment
approved by and bearing the seal of a national testing laboratory capable of
sensing visible or invisible particles of combustion and providing a suitable
alarm that is operated by batteries, provided that the batteries are mounted to
assure that the following conditions are met:
            1.   All power requirements are met for at least one year’s life,
including weekly testing;
            2.   Distinctive, audible trouble signal is given before the
battery is incapable of operating (due to aging, terminal corrosion and the
like) a device(s) for alarm purposes;
            3.   For a unit employing a lock-in alarm feature, automatic
transfer is provided from alarm to trouble condition;
            4.   The unit is capable of producing an alarm signal for at least
four minutes at the battery voltage at which a trouble signal is normally
obtained, followed by seven days of trouble signal protection;
            5.   The audible trouble signal is produced at least once every
minute for seven consecutive days; and
            6.   The monitored batteries meeting these specifications are
clearly identified on the unit near the battery compartment.
      OWNER. Any person who alone, jointly or severally with another shall have
legal title to any building, structure or premises with or without accompanying
actual possession thereof, and shall include the building’s authorized agent or
attorney, purchaser, devisee, fiduciary or any other person having a vested or
contingent interest in the property.
      RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY. The use of a building or structure as a permanent
or temporary dwelling.
      SLEEPING AREA. An area or area of dwelling unit in which bedrooms
(sleeping rooms) are located. Bedrooms or rooms used for sleeping which are
separated by other rooms (kitchen, living room, bathroom) shall be considered
as a separate SLEEPING AREA for the purpose of this section.
   (C)   Installation for protection of sleeping areas.
      (1)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed in or immediately
adjacent to each sleeping area.
      (2)   At least one smoke detector shall be installed at the head (top) of
each stairway leading to an occupied area in a manner so as to assure that
rising smoke is not obstructed in reaching the detector and that the detector
intercepts rising smoke before it reached the sleeping area.
   (D)   Inspection.
      (1)   Immediately following the effective date, all specified residences
will be inspected.
      (2)   All new or remodeled construction will be inspected prior to
occupancy.
(Ord. 134, passed 8-11-1986) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.03 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk of the City of Bronson, being marked and designated as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2021 edition as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Bronson, Branch County, State of Michigan, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure the
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures in the City of Bronson as herein
provided; providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees
therefor; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said Property Maintenance Code on file in the office of
the City of Bronson are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as
if fully set out in this legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions
and changes, if any, prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1 Insert: City of Bronson;
      (2)   Section 103.5 Insert: Fees to be determined by resolution of the
City Council;
      (3)   Section 110.4 Insert: Not less than $100 and not more than $500;
      (4)   Section 302.4 Insert: eight inches;
      (5)   Section 304.14 Insert: From April 1 to November 1;
      (6)   Section 602.3 Insert: From October 1 to May 1; and
      (7)   Section 602.4 Insert: From October 1 to May 1.
   (C)   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this section
is, for any reason, held to be unconstitutional, such decision shall not affect
the validity of the remaining portions of this section. The City Council hereby
declares that it would have passed this section, and each section, division,
sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or
more sections, divisions, sentences, clauses and phrases be declared
unconstitutional.
   (D)   Nothing in this section or in the Property Maintenance Code hereby
adopted shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding impending in any
court, or any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or any cause or causes of
action acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance hereby repealed as
cited in division (C) above; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any
character be lost, impaired or affected by this section.
   (E)   Any violation of this section shall be deemed a civil infraction under
the laws of the State of Michigan, and subject to penalties as adopted, from
time to time, by the City Council.
   (F)   The City Clerk is hereby ordered and directed to cause the ordinance
codified herein to be published, as required by Michigan law.
(Ord. 178, passed 8-8-2011; Ord. 208, passed 9-10-2018; Ord. 219, passed 9-11-
2023)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, persons or corporation found in violation of any provision
of §
150.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not less than
$50 nor more than $500, or by imprisonment in the county jail for up to 90
days, at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 134, passed 8-11-1986)
CHAPTER 151: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 152: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 153: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 154: UNIFIED DEVELOPMENT ORDINANCE
Section
   
154.01   Introductory provisions
   
154.02   Definitions and measurements
   
154.03   Zoning districts
   
154.04   Uses
   
154.05   Development standards
   
154.06   Administration and enforcement
§ 154.01 INTRODUCTORY PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Short title. This chapter shall be known as the “City of Bronson
Unified Development Ordinance”.
   (B)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   Purpose. In interpretation and application, the provisions of this
chapter shall be held to be minimum requirements to provide adequate light,
air, access, circulation, open yard spaces, off-street parking areas and
protection to property value from incompatible uses; to limit and restrict the
height, size and location of buildings and uses; to secure safety from fire and
other dangers; to lessen congestion in the streets; to limit the density and
intensity of use of land; to promote the most appropriate and compatible uses
of land in various districts of the city; to provide for enforcement of and
variations to these provisions; and to impose penalties for violation thereof.
      (2)   Intent. It is the intent of this chapter to provide simplified
regulations and controls for buildings and uses of land most commonly
encountered in city development. Regulations and controls for unusual or unique
buildings, conditions or uses of land shall be imposed by the Zoning Board of
Appeals so that the intent of this chapter shall be carried out.
   (C)   Application of Unified Development Code. Except as hereinafter
specified, no structure, land or premises shall hereafter be used, subdivided
or occupied and no structure or part thereof shall be erected, raised, moved,
placed, reconstructed, extended, enlarged or altered, except subject to and in
conformity with the regulations herein set forth for the district in which it
is located.
   (D)   Zoning districts.
      (1)   Permitted uses in the several districts are listed in §
154.04 and within each district.
      (2)   The following zoning districts are hereby established and the
intended use of each district is stated:
         (a)   R-1 One-Family Residential District;
         (b)   R-2 Residential District;
         (c)   R-3 Residential District;
         (d)   MH Manufactured Housing Community (Mobile Home Park);
         (e)   B-1 Business Residential District;
         (f)   B-2 Central Business District;
         (g)   B-3 Community Commercial; and
         (h)   I Industrial District.
   (E)   Zoning map.
      (1)   The zoning map delineating the above zone districts is hereby
declared to be a part of this chapter.
      (2)   Except where reference is shown on the map to a street line or
other line designated by dimensions, the district boundary lines follow lot
lines or the centerlines of streets or alleys as they existed at the time of
the adoption of this chapter.
      (3)   Where a district line does not coincide with the lines, or the
dimensions, it shall be deemed to be 132 feet from the nearest parallel street
centerline.
         (a)   Lot divided by zone line. Where a district boundary line, as
established in this chapter, or as shown on the zoning map, divides a lot shown
or recorded as being in single ownership at the time of enactment of this
chapter, the district regulations and uses shall be observed on the respective
side of the district line to which they apply.
         (b)   Annexed areas. Where property not now in the city shall become
annexed to the city, the property shall be zoned automatically as shown by the
zoning pattern on the zoning map.
         (c)   Zoning table incorporated. The zoning table delineating, among
other things, the zoning district uses and the minimum yard, height and area
requirements for each zone are hereby declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (F)   Continuing existing uses. Upon the effective date of this chapter, any
building, structure or use lawfully existing by the prior zoning ordinance may
be continued, except as provided in §
154.06(M).
   (G)   Area of space required. No lot, yard, court, parking area or other
space shall be divided, altered or reduced so as to make the area or dimensions
less than the minimum required under this chapter. If already less than the
minimum required under this chapter, the area or dimension shall not be further
divided or reduced.
   (H)   Major streets. The following streets shall be defined as major streets
when used in this chapter:
      (1)   Chicago Street (U.S. 12); and
      (2)   Matteson Street.
(Ord. 225, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS AND MEASUREMENTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. Any subordinate building, such as a private garage,
located on the same lot with the main building, or any portion of the main
building if the portion is occupied or devoted exclusively to an accessory use.
When an ACCESSORY BUILDING is attached to a main building by a wall or roof,
the building shall be considered part of a main building for the purpose of
determining the required dimensions of yards.
   ACCESSORY USE. Any use customarily incidental to the main use of the
premises. ACCESSORY USE shall include satellite antennae receivers.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY. A governmental or nongovernmental establishment
that provides foster care to adults. It includes facilities and foster care
homes for adults who are aged, mentally ill, developmentally disabled, or
physically handicapped who require supervision on an ongoing basis but who do
not require continuous nursing care. An ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY does not
include nursing homes, homes for the aged, hospitals, alcohol or substance
abuse rehabilitation center, or a residential center for persons released from
or assigned to a correctional facility.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME. A private residence with the approved
capacity to receive six or fewer adults to be provided with foster care for
five or more days a week and for two or more consecutive weeks. The ADULT
FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME licensee must be a member of the household and an
occupant of the residence.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE LARGE GROUP HOME. A facility with approved capacity to
receive at least 13 but not more than 20 adults to be provided supervision,
personal care and protection in addition to room and board, for 24 hours a day,
five or more days a week, and for two or more consecutive weeks for
compensation.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE SMALL GROUP HOME. A facility with approved capacity to
receive 12 or fewer adults who are provided supervision, personal care and
protection in addition to room and board, for 24 hours a day, five or more days
a week, and for two or more consecutive weeks for compensation.
   ALLEY. A public way which affords only secondary access to abutting
property, not a street as herein defined.
   ALTERATION OF BUILDING. A change in the supporting members of a building,
and addition to, or a diminution, change in use or conversion of a building or
a part thereof.
   ANIMAL HOSPITAL. See KENNEL.
   APPLICANT. The landowner, developer, facility owner, and/or operator with
legal control of the project, including heirs, successors and assigns, who has
filed an application for development of a solar energy facility under this
section.
   AUTOMOBILE STORAGE, DAMAGED. Any storage of vehicles that are not road
worthy (defined as unable to pass a state police safety check), not incidental
to a vehicle repair shop or service garage.
   BASEMENT. A room or portion thereof or any portion of a building which has a
floor level more than three feet below ground, containing any of the following
features:
      (1)   Mechanical equipment such as heating, metering or laundry
facilities;
      (2)   No doorway opening directly to ground level or upon a hallway with
such a doorway; and/or
      (3)   No sash windows.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. The actual or intended rental of a lodging room or
lodging rooms in an owner-occupied dwelling for periods of not more than 14
continuous days, without the provision of separate cooking facilities or meals
except breakfast.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the City of Bronson.
   BOARDING HOUSE or ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling having one kitchen and used for
the purpose of providing meals or lodging for pay or compensation of any kind
to more than two persons other than members of the family occupying the
dwelling.
   BREEZEWAY. Any covered passageway between two buildings, the sides of which
may be enclosed by lattice, screens or other material allowing passage of air.
   BUILDING. A structure erected or placed on-site, a moveable pre-manufactured
or precut structure, above or below ground, designed primarily for the shelter,
support or enclosure of persons, animals or property of any kind.
   BUILDING HEIGHT.
      (1)   Building height is measured from grade to the highest point of the
roofline.
      (2)   Exception to height limits.
         (a)   Governmentally owned structures, churches, parapet walls not
exceeding four feet in height, belfries, cupolas, domes, chimneys, flagpoles,
radio towers, masts and aerials, television antennas, ornamental towers,
monuments, transmission towers and necessary mechanical appurtenances are
excepted from required height limitations unless otherwise specified in this
chapter. In industrial zones, stack chimneys, cooling and fire towers, elevator
buildings and bulkheads, storage tanks and other necessary appurtenances of any
height are permitted, provided they are located the same distance as their
height from any adjoining property line.
         (b)   All of the foregoing structures and structures determined to be
similar by the Planning Commission shall be subject to prior approval by the
Planning Commission.
   CANOPY. A permanent roof-like shelter extending from part or all of a
building face over a public access area.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility other than a private residence, receiving one
or more children under 13 years of age for group day care for periods of less
than 24-hours a day, and where the parents or guardians are not immediately
available to the child. It includes a facility which provides care for not less
than two consecutive weeks, regardless of the number of hours of care per day.
The facility is generally described as a child care center, day care center,
day nursery, nursery school, parent cooperative preschool, play group, or drop-
in center.
   CHILD CARE HOME, FAMILY. A private home in which one to seven minor children
are received for care and supervision by a state licensed caregiver for
compensation for periods of less than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or
legal guardian, except children related to an adult member of the household.
   CHILD CARE HOME, GROUP. A private home in which eight to 14 minor children
are given care and supervision by a state licensed care giver for periods of
less than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except
children related to an adult member of the household. GROUP CHILD CARE HOME
includes a home in which care is given to an unrelated minor child for more
than four weeks during a calendar year. GROUP CHILD CARE HOME includes a
private home with increased capacity.
   CHILD CARING INSTITUTION. A child care facility which is organized for the
purpose of receiving minor children for care, maintenance and supervision,
usually on a 24-hour basis, in a building maintained for that purpose, and
operates throughout the year. It includes a maternity home for the care of
unmarried mothers who are minors, an agency group home, and institutions for
mentally retarded or emotionally disturbed minor children. It does not include
hospitals, nursing homes, boarding schools or an adult foster care facility in
which a child has been placed.
   CHURCH. An organization that provides for religious worship.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo or other representation that,
directly or indirectly, names, advertises or calls attention to a business,
product, service or other commercial activity.
   COMPARISON RETAIL. A facility which offers for sale to the general public,
products and commodities of a durable nature such as hardware, apparel and
appliances.
   CONVENIENCE RETAIL. A facility which offers for sale to the general public,
products, commodities or services for daily living, primarily foodstuffs,
health and beauty aids and products of a consumable or perishable nature.
   DENSITY. A calculation of the maximum number of dwelling units per acre.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof usable exclusively for residential
purposes and conforms with the following standards:
      (1)   It complies with the minimum square footage requirements of this
chapter for the zone in which it is located.
      (2)   It has a minimum width across any section of 20 feet and complies
in all respects with the BOCA Building Code, including minimum heights for
habitable rooms. Where a dwelling is required by law to comply with any federal
or state standards or regulations for construction and where the standards of
construction are less stringent than those imposed by the BOCA Building Code,
then and in that event the less stringent federal or state standard or
regulations shall apply.
      (3)   It is firmly attached to a permanent foundation, constructed on the
site in accordance with the BOCA Building Code and co-extensive with the
perimeter of the building, which attachment shall also meet all applicable
building codes and other state and federal regulations.
      (4)   It does not have exposed wheels, towing mechanism, undercarriage or
chassis.
      (5)   The DWELLING is connected to a public sewer and water supply or to
the private facilities approved by the local health department.
      (6)   The DWELLING is aesthetically compatible in design and appearance
with other residences in the vicinity, with either a roof overhang of not less
than six inches on all sides, or alternatively with window sills and roof
drainage systems concentrating roof drainage along the sides of the dwelling;
with not less than two exterior doors, with one being in the front of the
dwelling and the other being either at the rear or side of the dwelling; and
with permanently attached steps connected to the exterior door areas or to
porches connected to the door areas where a difference in elevation requires
the same.
         (a)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined
in the first instance by the City Zoning Administrator upon review of the plans
submitted for a particular dwelling, subject to appeal by an aggrieved party to
the Zoning Board of Appeals within a period of 15 days from the receipt of
notice of the Zoning Administrator’s decision.
         (b)   Any determination of compatibility shall be based upon the
standards set forth within the definition of DWELLING, as well as the character
of residential development outside of mobile home parks within 2,000 feet of
the subject dwelling where the area is developed with DWELLINGS to the extent
of not less than 20% of the area; or, where the area is not so developed, by
the character of residential development outside of mobile home parks
throughout the city.
         (c)   The foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit innovative
design concepts involving such matters as solar energy, view, unique land
contour or relief from the common or standard designed home.
      (7)   The DWELLING contains no additions or rooms or other areas except
those which are constructed with similar materials and which are similar in
appearance and which have similar quality of workmanship as the original
structure, including the above-described foundation and permanent attachment to
the principle structures.
      (8)   The DWELLING complies with all pertinent building and fire codes
including, in the case of mobile homes, the standards for mobile home
construction as contained in the United States  Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) regulations entitled Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards, effective June 15,1976, as amended.
      (9)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home located in
a licensed mobile home park except to the extent required by the state or
federal law or otherwise specifically required in the ordinance of the city
pertaining to the parks.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing three or more dwelling
units designed for residential use that complies with the standards for a
dwelling above.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing not more than one dwelling
unit designed for residential use that complies with the standards for a
dwelling above.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY ATTACHED. A building containing multiple single-
family dwelling units attached by a wall design for residential use. SINGLE-
FAMILY ATTACHED DWELLING includes townhomes.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing not more than two separate
dwelling units designed for residential use that complies with the standards
for a dwelling above.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof providing complete housekeeping
facilities for one family.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of underground,
surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles and other
similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith reasonably necessary
for the furnishing of adequate service by the public utilities or municipal
departments or commissions or for the public health or safety or general
welfare; but not including buildings other than the buildings that are
primarily enclosures or shelters of the mentioned equipment.
   FAMILY. Two or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, and
residing together.
   FARM. Any area of two acres or more, used for agricultural purposes and uses
incidental thereto, but not to include the raising or keeping of livestock or
fowl, provided that the incidental uses shall be subordinate to normal
agricultural uses.
   FARM BUILDINGS. Any detached accessory building or portion of a main
building used for the storage or housing of farm implements or produce.
   FLOOR AREA. The area of all floors computed by measuring the dimensions of
the outside walls, excluding attic and basement floors, porches, patios, breeze
ways, carports and garages, or portions of rooms with less than seven feet of
space between the floor and ceiling. The FLOOR AREA of dwelling units in multi-
unit buildings does not include commercial hallways, stairs, laundries,
utilities or other commercial accessory uses.
   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A private home in which more than four but less
than seven minor children, who are not related to an adult member of the
household by blood, marriage or adoption, are provided care for 24 hours a day,
for four or more days a week, for two or more consecutive weeks, unattended by
a parent or legal guardian.
   FUEL DISPENSING SITE. A location for retail self-service refueling of
diesel, gasoline, kerosene, propane, fuel cells or any vehicle propulsion
product.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. A detached accessory building or portion of a main building
used for the storage of passenger vehicles and/or trucks of a rated capacity of
one ton or less.
   GARAGE, SERVICE. Any building or structure designed or used for the hire,
sale, storage, service, repair or refurbishing of motor vehicles or trailers,
but not for the storage of dismantled vehicles or parts thereof for purposes of
reuse or resale.
   GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. Any building or structure designed or used for the
retail sale or supply of fuels, lubricants, air, water or other operating
commodities for motor vehicles, and including the customary space and
facilities for the installation or furnishing of the commodities on or in or to
the vehicles and for the washing or polishing of the vehicles; but not
including the use of space or facilities for the refinishing of motor vehicles
or for the dismantling, for purposes of reuse or resale, of motor vehicles or
parts thereof, or for the outdoor storage or repair of motor vehicles or parts
thereof.
   GRAMMAR CLARIFICATION. The present tense shall include the future; the
singular number shall include the plural; and the plural shall include the
singular. The word SHALL is always mandatory. The words ZONE and DISTRICT are
the same.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING. The vertical distance, measured from the adjoining curb
level, to the highest point of ceiling of the top story in the case of a flat
roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; and to the mean height level between
eaves and ridge of a gable, hip or gambrel roof; provided however, that where
buildings are set back from the street line, the height of the building may be
measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of
the building.
   HOME APPLIANCE REPAIR SHOP. A commercial facility for the restoration of
damaged, inoperable or broken machines which are typically used in the home.
   HOME OCCUPATION. See §
154.04(C).
   IMPROVEMENTS. Buildings, signs, streets, pavements, curb and gutter, water
mains, storm sewers, sanitary sewers and laterals, sidewalks and walkways.
   INDUSTRIAL, HEAVY. A facility for the processing, manufacturing, repair,
compounding, or storage of materials, products, or energy, where the scale and
method of operation may produce significant external impacts detectable beyond
the lot lines of the property. External impacts may include noise, heat, glare,
dust, smoke, fumes, odor, vibration, and/or noxious byproducts. Uses may
regularly employ hazardous material or produce hazardous by-products, may
include outdoor storage areas, and may have activities that take place outside
of structures. Includes such uses as foundries, steel mills, and asphalt and
concrete product manufacturing.
   INDUSTRIAL, LIGHT. A facility for the processing or manufacturing of
products or parts, including fabrication, assembly, treatment, repair, and
packaging of such products, and the incidental storage, sales, and distribution
of such products, provided that all manufacturing processes are contained
entirely within a fully enclosed building. Any heat, glare, dust, smoke, fumes,
odors, or vibration are confined to the building, and little or no external
impacts are detectable beyond the lot lines of the property.
   INSTITUTIONAL AND PUBLIC USES. Churches, schools, hospitals, convalescent or
nursing homes, public or quasi-public nonprofit uses, utility transmission
towers, above ground regulator or substation structures, buildings owned or
occupied by public utilities and governmental buildings.
   JUNK YARD. An establishment or place of business which is maintained,
operated or used for storing, keeping, or selling junk. JUNK is considered to
be old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber
debris, waste or junked, dismantled or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof.
JUNK YARDS are considered to be different in nature than salvage resource
recovery facilities, which act as temporary storing and transfer facilities.
   KENNEL. Any building or land used for the sale, boarding, treatment or
breeding of dogs, cats or other household pets.
   LANDOWNER. The persons or entities possessing legal title to parcel(s).
   LEGISLATIVE BODY. The City Council of the City of Bronson.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land, exclusive of any adjoining street,
separated from other parcels or portions by description.
   LOT, CORNER. Any lot having at least two contiguous sides abutting upon a
street, provided that the interior angle at the intersection of the two sides
is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a curbed street or streets shall
be considered a CORNER LOT if the tangents to the curve, at its points of
beginning within the lot or at the points of intersection of the side lot lines
with the street line, intersect at an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      (1)   The owner shall have the discretion to decide upon which abutting
street the full front yard requirement shall be met.
      (2)   No portion of the lot within 25 feet of the side lot line of any
adjoining property may be utilized for a building or solid fence or wall over
four feet in height unless the front yard requirement for the adjoining
property is met within the area.
      (3)   Where the rear yard abuts the side yard of an adjoining property,
the side yard requirement of the adjoining lot shall be provided between any
structure over three feet in height and the rear lot line.
   LOT COVERAGE. Lot coverage is measured by dividing the total area of
building footprints for all primary and accessory structures by the total lot
area. Driveways, walkways, fences, decks/patios less than 30 inches above
grade, above-ground or inground pools, and walls not attached in any way to a
roof do not count toward building coverage.[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/IMAGES/0-0-0-1695.gif]
 
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot abutting two parallel streets, or abutting two
streets which do not intersect at the boundaries of the lot. Front yards shall
be provided along each street lot line which is not a side street lot line.
   LOT LINE. Any line bounding a lot:
      (1)    FRONT LOT LINE. The line separating the lot from the street; in
the case of a corner lot, the line separating the narrowest side of the lot
from the street.
      (2)    REAR LOT LINE. The line opposite to and most distant from the
front line; in irregularly shaped lots, it shall be the straight line entirely
within the lot, ten feet long, parallel to and most distant from the front lot
line.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINES. Any line other than front or rear lot lines.
      (4)   STREET OR ALLEY LOT LINES. Any line separating a lot from a street
or alley.
   LOT WIDTH. Lot width is the measure of the width of the lot at the building
setback line.
      (1)   Exception to lot width. A single-family dwelling may be constructed
on any officially platted and recorded lot which is less than the width
required by this chapter, provided that all other requirements of this chapter
are complied with.
      (2)   Restrictions for lot width adjacent to platted lots. In a block
where there exists some platted and unplatted land, and where 50% or more of
the total frontage on both sides of a street in the same block is platted, the
balance of the unplatted land must be divided into lots each having an average
width not less than the average of the 50% of the platted lots, but in no case
shall the width of any lot so determined be less than 60 feet; and if less than
50% of the frontage has been platted into lots, then the balance of the
unplatted land shall meet the width requirements for the district in which it
is located.
   MALL AREA. Those areas of multi-tenant developments which are designed
exclusively for the public promenade of pedestrians.
   MASTER STREET PLAN. The master plan of highways, major streets and parkways,
which may be adopted by the Planning Commission.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA. Defined in accord with M.C.L.A. § 333.26423 and the
regulations adopted by the state, Department of Community Health, pursuant to
authority conferred by § 5 of Initiated Law l of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §
333.26425, and where contemplated by the city code, unless defined otherwise
herein.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA MANUFACTURING AND DISTRIBUTION. Defined in accord with
M.C.L.A. § 333.26423, and the regulations adopted by the state, Department of
Community Health, pursuant to authority conferred by § 5 of Initiated Law 1 of
2008, and where contemplated by the city code, unless defined otherwise herein.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
permanent foundation, and which includes the plumbing, heating, air-
conditioning and electrical systems contained in the structure. MOBILE HOME
does not include a recreational vehicle.
   MOBILE HOME PARK - MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY. A parcel of land under
the control of a person upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a
continual non-recreational basis and which is offered to the public for that
purpose, regardless of whether a charge if made therefore, together with any
building, structure, enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended
for use incident to the occupancy of a mobile home.
   MOTELS. Groups of furnished rooms or separate structures providing sleeping
and parking accommodations for transient tourist trade.
   MUNICIPALITY. The City of Bronson.
   MURAL. See PUBLIC ART.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. Any building or portion thereof lawfully existing at
the time this chapter became effective and which now does not comply with its
regulations.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any property use which was lawful at the time this
chapter became effective and which now does not comply with its regulations.
   PARCEL. All land within a legally established parcel.
   PARKING, OFF-STREET ACCESSORY. Any parking area located on the same property
it is intended to serve, or across an alley therefrom, and within a district
which is not of greater restriction than the property it is intended to serve.
   PARKING SPACE, MOTOR VEHICLE. Any accessible area of not less than nine feet
by 18 feet, exclusive of access drive and aisles, which is not located on a
public street or alley right-of-way and has a shape satisfactory for parking of
motor vehicles.
   PETROLEUM BULK PLANT. An establishment for the storage of petroleum
products, in bulk and in packages, distribution by tank car, tank vehicle or
motor truck.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A predominately single-family residential
development in which dwelling units are placed together into one or more
groupings within a defined project area.
      (1)   The dwelling units are separated from adjacent properties or other
groupings of dwellings by substantial open space that is perpetually protected
from development.
      (2)   Commercial uses may be allowed within PUDs of ten acres or more.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Bronson.
   POOL, PRIVATE SWIMMING. Any artificially constructed basin or other
structure for the holding of water for use for swimming, diving and other
aquatic sports and recreation.
   PRACTICABLE. It is available and capable of being done after taking into
consideration cost, existing technology, and logistics in light of overall
project purposes.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use
allowed of the lot in the district in which it is situated.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary or predominant use of the premises.
   PROTECTED LANDS. Lands containing resources that are protected or regulated
by established regulatory standards of local, state, and federal agencies,
conservation easements or other contractual instruments in such a way that
prohibits or limits development of those lands.
   PUBLIC ART. A design or representation painted or drawn on a wall that does
not advertise the establishment, product, service or activity.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or
board, duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal, state or
municipal regulations to the public, electricity, gas, steam, communication,
telegraph, transportation or water.
   RECREATION EQUIPMENT. Shall include travel trailers, pickup campers, motor
homes, ice fishing houses, tent trailers, tents, snowmobiles, boats,
trampolines, boat trailers and similar equipment and cases or boxes used for
transporting recreational equipment, whether occupied by the equipment or not.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle primarily designed and used as temporary
living quarters for recreational, camping or travel purposes, including a
vehicle having its own motor power or a vehicle mounted on or drawn by another
vehicle.
   RENEWABLE ENERGY COMBINING ZONE. A zoning district that may be combined with
other base zoning and applied to specific geographic areas within the county,
where the county has determined the land is suitable for a specified variety of
solar energy facilities and where permitting for such facilities may be
expedited if specified conditions are met.
   REVIEW AUTHORITY. Applicable land use decision-making body as determined by
local ordinance and appeal procedures.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. An area of land set aside for the placement of public
utilities, sidewalks and vehicular traffic. Generally, when sidewalks are
present, the edge of the walk that is closest to the home is the outer most
edge of the RIGHT-OF-WAY. Common RIGHT-OF-WAY widths in the city are 49.5 feet,
50 feet, 57.75 feet and 66 feet. The RIGHT-OF-WAY for Chicago Street (U.S. 12)
is 99 feet.
   ROOF LINE. The top edge of a roof or parapet wall, whichever is higher, but
excluding any cupolas, chimneys or other minor projections.
   SALVAGE YARD. A place where waste, discarded or salvaged materials are
bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, cleaned or
handled, including house and vehicle wrecking yards, used lumber yards and
places or yards for use of salvaged house and vehicle parts and structural
steel materials and equipment, but excluding: the uses conducted entirely
within a completely enclosed building; pawn shops and establishments for the
sale, purchase or storage of used cars in operable condition, salvaged
machinery, used furniture and household equipment; and the processing of used,
discarded or salvaged materials as part of manufacturing operations.
   SCHOOL. An organization that provides general instruction and teaching for
children.
   SETBACK.
      (1)   The distance measured perpendicularly from the lot line to the
closest point of the building façade, structure, sign structure, parking area,
or any other permanent improvement.
      (2)   Any other provision of this chapter notwithstanding, the required
front setback or side street side setback and lot area in each zone shall not
include any part of a lot which lies closer than 40 feet to the centerline of
any minor street nor closer than 50 feet to the centerline of any major street
shown on the adopted master plan of the city, nor closer than 60 feet to the
centerline of any highway shown on the master plan.
      (3)   When determining the type of setback, any wall or any building can
be the front, rear or sides so long as the rear is opposite the front and sides
are opposite to each other. Doors or entrances or exits have nothing to do with
determining the front, rear or side setbacks so long as all setbacks are
adhered to in accordance with this chapter.
   SETBACK, FRONT. The open space extending the full width of the lot between
the front lot line and required front setback line.
      (1)   Exception for existing alignment. In any residential district the
front setback requirements of a lot may be modified so as to equal the average
depth of existing developed front setbacks on lots within 100 feet of the lot
and within the same block front; provided the front depth shall not be less
than ten feet.
      (2)   Structures or projections permitted.
         (a)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches and other similar features
are permitted in any front setback, provided they shall not be higher than 18
inches above the lowest above-grade floor level and shall not be located closer
than five feet from any lot line.
         (b)   Normal chimneys, flues and structural overhangs into a required
front setback are limited to 18 inches.
      (3)   Basis for determination of building setbacks on certain streets.
The line from which building setbacks are required by this chapter shall be
measured from the established right-of-way lines.
   SETBACK, REAR. The open space extending the full width of the lot between
the rear lot line and required rear setback line.
      (1)   When rear setbacks can be reduced.
         (a)   In all residential districts, any platted and recorded lot less
than 120 feet deep may have three inches deducted from the required rear
setback depth for every foot the lot is less than 120 feet deep, provided no
rear setback shall be less than ten feet.
         (b)   The required rear setback depth may be measured to the
centerline of any adjoining alley, but no building shall be erected within five
feet of the alley line.
      (2)   Structures or projections permitted.
         (a)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches or other similar features are
permitted in any rear setback and shall not be located less than ten feet from
the rear lot line or less than six feet from an accessory building.
         (b)   Bays, including their cornices and eaves, balconies and
fireplaces shall not project more than three feet into a required rear setback.
         (c)   Normal chimneys, flues, elevator shafts, connecting hallways,
belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters, lintels, ornamental features,
cornices, eaves, gutters and other similar features may project into a required
rear setback.
   SETBACK, SIDE.
      (1)   The open space extending from the front setback to the rear setback
between the side lot line and the required side setback line.
      (2)   When side setbacks can be reduced:
         (a)   On lots with a width of less than 60 feet and recorded as such
prior to the date of adoption of this chapter, the minimum width of each of the
side setbacks shall be five feet, except side street setbacks shall be a
minimum width of 15 feet;
         (b)   Terraces, steps, uncovered porches and other similar features
are permitted in any setback, provided they shall not be higher than 18 inches
above the lowest above-grade floor level and shall not be closer than five feet
from any lot line; and
         (c)   Normal chimneys, flues, belt courses, leaders, sills, pilasters,
cornices, eaves, gutters and other similar features, may project into a
required side setback.
   SIGN. Any announcement, declaration, display, illustration or insignia used
to advertise or promote the interests of any persons or product when the same
is placed out-of-doors in view of the general public, including every sign,
billboard, ground sign, roof sign, sign painted or printed on the exterior
surface of a building or structure, illuminated sign and temporary sign.
   SIGN, ABANDONED. Any sign that is still on the premises 90 days after a
business ceases to operate or moves from the location.
   SIGN, ANIMATED. Any sign that used movement or change of lighting, either
natural or artificial, to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
This term does not refer to changeable copy signs.
   SIGN, AWNING. A sign affixed flat against a retractable or fixed shelter
constructed of ridged or non-rigid materials on a supporting framework that
projects from the exterior wall of a building.
   SIGN, BANNER. A fabric, plastic or other sign made of non-rigid material
without a supporting structural framework.
   SIGN, BILLBOARD. A sign that advertises an establishment, product, service
or activity not available on the lot on which the sign is located.
   SIGN, BUSINESS CENTER. A freestanding or monument identification sign for a
group of multiple establishments.
   SIGN, CHANGEABLE COPY. Any sign designated or constructed whereby the
lettering or message usually contained thereon is capable of being changed by
rearranging or installing new letters without removing, replacing or
resurfacing the face of the sign.
   SIGN, CONSTRUCTION. A sign that identifies the owner, financiers,
contractors, architects, engineers or other individuals or firms involved with
the project under construction.
   SIGN, DIRECTIONAL. A sign that gives directions, instructions or facility
information such as parking, exit and entrance signs, or location.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign supported on poles, not attached to a wall or
building.
   SIGN, GOVERNMENT. A temporary or permanent sign erected by the city, the
county, townships or the state or federal government.
   SIGN, HISTORICAL. A sign for which certain criteria has been recognized, and
has been granted a historical permit.
   SIGN, MARQUEE. A sign fixed to a permanent structure constructed of rigid
materials that projects from the exterior wall of a building.
   SIGN, MONUMENT. A sign supported by a solid base with zero ground clearance,
not attached to a wall or building.
   SIGN, POLITICAL. A sign used to convey political opinions or in support or
opposition of political candidates, parties, or other political views.
   SIGN, PORTABLE. A sign designated to be moved easily, not permanently
affixed to the ground, structure or building, and visible from the public
right-of-way, for the purpose of advertisement.
   SIGN, PROJECTING. A sign attached to a building or wall that extends more
than 12 inches from the face of the building or wall.
   SIGN, REAL ESTATE. A sign advertising the real estate upon which the sign is
located as being for sale, rent, lease or auction.
   SIGN, ROOF SIGN. A sign erected above the roof line of a building.
   SIGN, SPECIAL EVENTS. Signs containing public messages concerning special
events sponsored by governmental agencies or nonprofit organizations, and/or
those special events by for profit organizations as determined by established
policy and the Zoning Administrator.
   SIGN, SUSPENDED. A sign suspended from a horizontal plane surface, and
supported by the surface.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. Any sign used only temporarily and not attached/affixed in
any permanent manner.
   SIGN, WALL. Any sign painted or attached directly to and parallel to the
exterior wall of a building.
   SIGN, WINDOW. Any paper, cardboard, paint, graphic or material placed on or
behind a window visible to the public. This term does not include merchandise
displayed in a window.
   SINGLE OWNERSHIP. Ownership by one person or by two or more persons whether
jointly, as tenants by the entirety, or as tenants in common of a separate
parcel of real property not adjacent to land in the same ownership.
   SOLAR ELECTRIC SYSTEM (SES). The components and subsystems that, in
combination, convert solar energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for
use, and may include other appurtenant structures and facilities. The term
includes, but is not limited to, photovoltaic power systems, solar thermal
systems, and solar hot water systems.
   SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY (SEF). An energy facility, an area of land, or a
structural rooftop principally used to convert solar energy to electricity,
which includes, but is not limited to, the use of one or more solar energy
systems.
   SPECIAL LAND USE. A special land use is a use permitted in a given zone when
the use is specified in §
154.04(A) and has been reviewed by the Planning Commission, after application,
to assure that all specified conditions are met.
   STABLE, PRIVATE. Any building for shelter of horses not kept for
remuneration, hire or sale.
   STOREFRONT. The predominant frontage of the building.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
above the average elevation or ground at the foundation wall and the surface of
the next floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then the space
between the floor and the ceiling above it.
   STREET. A public right-of-way which has been dedicated to the public and
accepted for the purpose of providing access to abutting private lots or land,
including space for curb, gutter, paving and sidewalks.
   STREET, LOCAL. A street intended to serve and to provide access to
neighborhood or sub-neighborhoods.
   STREET, MAJOR; HIGHWAY; PARKWAY. Streets or roads which serve or are
intended to serve as major traffic ways.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association syndicate, co-partnership,
corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing proceedings under this
chapter to effect a subdivision of land hereunder for himself or herself or for
another.
   SUBDIVISION. The division of a parcel of land to two or more lots or parcels
for the purpose of transfer of ownership or building development, or if a new
street is involved, any division of a parcel of land; provided that a division
of land which may be ordered or approved by a court, or affected by
testamentary or interstate provisions, or a division of land for agricultural
purposes into lots or parcels often acres or more, and not involving a new
street, shall not be deemed a SUBDIVISION. The term includes RE-SUBDIVISION,
and when appropriate to the context shall relate to the process of subdividing
or to the land subdivided.
   TOURIST HOME, BOARDING, ROOMING AND LODGING HOMES. The actual or intended
rental of a lodging room or lodging rooms in an owner-occupied dwelling for
periods of not more than 14 continuous days, without the provision of separate
cooking facilities or meals.
   TRAILER. Any vehicle designed to be drawn by an automotive vehicle.
   TRUCK TRACTOR AND/OR TRAILER RIG. A truck vehicle unit as classified by the
American Association of State Highway Officials as a wb-40 or wb-50 vehicle.
      (1)   The minimum specifications are as follows:
 
               Wb-40        Wb-50
Wheelbase      13+27=40 ft. 20+30=50 ft.
Front overhang 4            3
Rear overhang  6            2
Overall length 50           55
Overall width  8.5          8.5
Height         13.5         13.5
 
      (2)   This classification applies to TRUCK TRACTORS with or without
TRAILER RIGS.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the required provisions of the physical
development or land use standards of the zoning ordinance granted when strict
enforcement of this chapter would cause undue hardship owing to circumstances
unique to the individual property on which the VARIANCE is granted. The crucial
points of a VARIANCE are undue hardship and unique circumstances applying to
the property. A VARIANCE is not justified unless both elements are present in
the case.
   VEHICLE REPAIR SHOP. A building used for the painting or repair of damaged
motor vehicles, boats, mobile housing facilities or trailers.
   VEHICLE SALES AREA - LOT.
      (1)   A lot or portion thereof to be used only for the display, sale or
rental of new and used motor vehicles, boats, mobile housing facilities or
trailers, all in working or road worthy condition.
      (2)   A VEHICLE SALES AREA - LOT shall not be used for:
         (a)   The storage of wrecked vehicles;
         (b)   The dismantling of the vehicles; or
         (c)   The storage of parts.
   YARD, LEAST DEPTH OR WIDTH. The shortest horizontal distance from each of
the lot lines to the building thereon.
   ZONING OFFICIAL. City Manager or a designee appointed by the City Manager to
enforce and administer this chapter with the cooperation and assistance of the
County Building Inspector.
(Ord. 225, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 154.03 ZONING DISTRICTS
   (A)   R-1 One-Family Residential District.
      (1)   Intent. This district is established to create and preserve single-
family neighborhoods free from other uses except those which are both
compatible with and convenient to the residents of such a district. These
districts will be developed as lower density single-family neighborhoods.
      (2)   Uses. Uses are permitted according to the following table. More
information on use standards can be found in §
154.04
PERMITTED USES
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use P            Special Use  — S
         Accessory Use A            Use-Specific Standards  — *
Use                             Type Use-Specific Standards
Residential uses
Adult foster care facility      P*   §
                                     154.04(B)(1)
Child care home, family         P     
Child care home, group          S     
Dwelling, single family         P     
Home occupations                A/S* §
                                     154.04(C)(4)
Qualified residential treatment P*   §
program                              154.04(B)(13)
State licensed residential      P*   §
facility                             154.04(B)(15)
Industrial uses
Agriculture, plant              P     
Institutional and public uses
Institutional or public uses    P*   §
                                     154.04(B)(10)
Utility uses
Essential services              P*   §
                                     154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy facilities         *    §
                                     154.04(E)
 
      (3)   Development standards.
Min. lot width                                50 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot depth                                90 ft.
Min. lot area                                  
   Single-family dwelling                  4,500 sq. ft.
   Institutional or public uses            None
   All other uses                          None
Max. lot coverage                             40%
Min. setbacks                                  
   Front                                   25 ft. (B on graphic below)
   Corner                                  15 ft. (C on graphic below)
   Side setback                            5 ft. (D on graphic below)
   Rear                                    5 ft. (E on graphic below)
Max. building or structure height             35 ft.
Min. primary building or structure floor area 400 sq. ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1697.gif]
      (4)    Additional development standards.
         (a)    Parking: refer to §
154.05(A).
         (b )   Signs: refer to §
154.05(B).
         (c)    Landscaping and screening: refer to §
154.05(C).
         (d )   Site plan review and approval shall be obtained in accordance
with §
154.06(A).
         (e)    Conformance with smoke detector provisions in §
150.02.
   (B)   R-2 Traditional Residential District.
      (1)   Intent. This district is intended to allow for a mix of traditional
housing that provides a neighborhood of diverse housing types. R-2 also allows
for small community focused commercial uses and essential services.
      (2)   Uses. Uses are permitted according to the following table. More
information on use standards can be found in §
154.04.
PERMITTED USES
Key
      Permitted Use P            Special Use  —  S
      Accessory Use A            Use-Specific Standards  —  *
Use                                  Type Use-Specific Standards
Residential uses
Adult foster care facility           P*   §
                                          154.04(B)(1)
Child care home, family              P     
Child care home, group               S     
Dwelling, single family              P     
Dwelling, two family                 P     
Dwelling, apartments (5 to 12 units) S*   §
                                          154.04(B)(4)
Group dwellings                      S*   §
                                          154.04(B)(9)
Home occupations                     A/S* §
                                          154.04(C)(4)
Nursing or convalescent homes        P     
Qualified residential treatment      P*   §
program                                   154.04(B)(13)
State licensed residential facility  P*   §
                                          154.04(B)(15)
Commercial uses
Beauty salons and barber shops       S*   §
                                          154.04(B)(2)
Bed and breakfast                    P     
Funeral homes                        S*   §
                                          154.04(B)(8)
Offices                              S*   §
                                          154.04(B)(12)
Institutional and public uses
Institutional or public uses         P*   §
                                          154.04(B)(10)
Utility uses
Essential services                   P*   §
                                          154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy facilities              *    §
                                          154.04(E)
 
      (3)   Development standards.
Min. lot width 40 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot width                                   40 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot depth                                   60 ft.
Min. lot area                                     
   Single-family dwelling                     2,400 sq. ft.
   Single-family dwelling (attached)          None
   Two-family dwellings                       2,400 sq. ft.
   Institutional or public uses               None
   All other uses                             None
Max. lot coverage                                40%
Min. setbacks                                     
   Front                                      25 ft. (B on graphic below)
   Corner                                     15 ft. (C on graphic below)
   Side setback                               5 ft. (D on graphic below)
   Attached single-family side setback        0 ft.
   Rear                                       5 ft. (E on graphic below)
Max. building or structure height                35 ft.
Min. dwelling unit floor area single-family/two- 500 sq. ft.
family
Min. dwelling unit floor area three-family and   400 sq. ft.
above
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1699.gif]
 
      (4)   Additional development standards.
         (a)   Parking: refer to §
154.05(A).
         (b)   Signs: refer to §
154.05(B).
         (c)   Landscaping and screening: refer to §
154.05(C).
         (d)   Site plan review and approval shall be obtained in accordance
with §
154.06(A).
         (e)   Conformance with smoke detector provisions in §
150.02.
   (C)   R-3 Multifamily Residential District.
      (1)   Intent. The R-3 Multifamily Residential District provides for the
widest range of residential uses to meet the current and future housing needs
of the community. Mixing of residential uses within the same development is
encouraged to create unique developments that provide a wide range of housing
types and prices to residents.
      (2)   Uses. Uses are permitted according to the following table. More
information on use standards can be found in §
154.04.
PERMITTED USES
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use P               Special Use  — S
         Accessory Use A               Use-Specific Standards  —  *
Use                      Type Use-Specific Standards
Residential uses
Adult foster care        P*   §
facility                      154.04(B)(1)
Child care home, family  P     
Child care home, group   S     
Dwelling, single family  P     
Dwelling, two family     P     
Dwelling, three family   P     
Dwelling, four family    P     
Dwelling, apartments (5  P    154.04(B)(4)
to 12 units)
Dwelling, apartments (13 S*   §
or more units)                154.04(B)(5)
Group dwellings          S*   §
                              154.04(B)(9)
Home occupations         A/S* §
                              154.04(C)(4)
Nursing or convalescent  P     
homes
Qualified residential    P*   §
treatment program             154.04(B)(13)
State licensed           P*   §
residential facility          154.04(B)(15)
Commercial uses
Beauty salons and barber S*   §
shops                         154.04(B)(2)
Funeral homes            S*   §
                              154.04(B)(8)
Offices                  S*   §
                              154.04(B)(12)
Institutional and public uses
Institutional or public  P*   §
uses                          154.04(B)(10)
Utility uses
Essential services       P*   §
                              154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy facilities  *    §
                              154.04(E)
 
      (3)   Development standards.
Min. lot width 40 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot width                                   40 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot depth                                   60 ft.
Min. lot area
   Single-family dwelling                     2,400 sq. ft.
   Single-family dwelling (attached)          None
   Two-family dwellings                       2,400 sq. ft.
   Three/four-family dwellings                2,000 sq. ft. per unit
   Apartments                                 2,000 sq. ft. per unit
   Institutional or public uses               None
   All other uses                             None
Max. lot coverage                                40%
Min. Setbacks
   Front                                      25 ft. (B on graphic below)
   Corner                                     15 ft. (C on graphic below)
   Side setback                               5 ft (D on graphic below)
   Attached single-family side setback        0 ft.
   Rear                                       35 ft. (E on graphic below)
Max. building or structure height                40 ft.
Min. dwelling unit floor area single-family/two- 500 sq. ft.
family
Min. dwelling unit floor area three-family and   400 sq. ft.
above
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1701.gif]
      (4)    Additional development standards.
         (a)    Parking: refer to §
154.05(A).
         (b)    Signs: refer to §
154.05(B).
         (c)    Landscaping and screening: refer to §
154.05(C).
         (d)    Site plan review and approval shall be obtained in accordance
with §
154.06(A).
         (e)   Conformance with smoke detector provisions in §
150.02.
   (D)   MH Manufactured Housing Community.
      (1)   Intent.
         (a)   This district is designed to accommodate modern manufactured
housing communities or mobile home parks in a manner consistent with the
general rules of the State Manufactured Housing (Mobile Home) Commission.
         (b)   The regulations of this district are intended to provide
adequate space and facilities for healthful living conditions for the occupants
of those areas.
         (c)   Mobile home parks should be serviced by municipal services or by
systems approved by the appropriate state, county and city agencies.
         (d)   All mobile home districts should have direct access to a public
thoroughfare which provides safe and adequate access.
      (2)   Uses. Uses are permitted according to the following table. More
information on use standards can be found in §
154.04.
PERMITTED USES
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
Use              Type Use-Specific Standards
Residential uses
Manufactured
housing          P     
communities
Mobile home      P     
parks
Institutional and public uses
Institutional or P*   §
public uses           154.04(B)(10)
Utility uses
Essential        P*   §
services              154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy     *    §
facilities            154.04(E)
 
      (3)   Development standards.
Min. lot width 50 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot width                    50 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot depth                    None
Min. lot area                     8 acres
Min. outdoor recreation area      8%
Max. lot coverage                 25%
Min. setbacks                      
   Front                       25 ft. (B on graphic below)
   Corner                      15 ft. (C on graphic below)
   Side setback                15 ft. (D on graphic below)
   Rear                        15 ft. (E on graphic below)
Max. building or structure height None
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1703.gif]
      (4)    Additional development standards.
         (a)    Parking: refer to §
154.05(A).
         (b)    Signs: refer to §
154.05(B).
         (c)    Landscaping and screening: refer to §
154.05(C).
         (d)    Site plan review and approval shall be obtained in accordance
with §
154.06(A).
         (e)   Conformance with smoke detector provisions in §
150.02.
      (5)   Compliance with state law. Manufactured housing communities and
mobile home parks shall comply with all regulations promulgated under the
Mobile Home Commission Act (Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301
through 125.2350) as may be amended.
      (6)   Affidavit required. The plan for any new mobile home park or court
must include a signed affidavit from an architect, engineer, or other similar
professional before it is submitted to the City Council for approval.
      (7)   Landscaping required. Type 1 landscaping and screening is required
along property lines adjacent to residential uses.
      (8)   Roads, service drives, and street lighting. The park or court owner
or developer will be responsible for the construction and maintenance of all
roads, service drives, and street lighting in the park or court, exclusive of
dedicated streets. Maintenance shall include all care, including snow and ice
control. The roads, service drives, and street lighting must be included on the
plans and be approved by the City Council.
      (9)   Water and sewage facilities.
         (a)   Installation of water and sewage facilities will be brought to
the edge of the property at one place, to be designated by the city and at city
cost.
         (b)   All additional facilities will be constructed to city
requirements at the expense of the park or court owner or developer. Each
individual mobile home must have its own connections and water meter.
   (E)   B-1 Neighborhood Business District.
      (1)   Intent. This district is established to create and preserve areas
for those commercial facilities which are especially useful in close proximity
to residential areas, while minimizing the undesirable impact of the uses on
the neighborhoods which they service.
      (2)   Uses. Uses are permitted according to the following table. More
information on use standards can be found in §
154.04.
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
Use                Type Use-Specific Standards
Residential uses
Dwelling, above    P     
first floor retail
Commercial uses
Bank               S     
Beauty salons and  P    §
barber shops            154.04(B)(2)
Bed and breakfast  P     
Child care centers P     
Funeral homes      S    §
                        154.04(B)(8)
Medical or dental  P     
clinics
Offices            P    §
                        154.04(B)(12)
Retail sales and   P     
services
Institutional and public uses
Institutional or   P*   §
public uses             154.04(B)(10)
Utility uses
Essential services P*   §
                        154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy       *    §
facilities              154.04(E)
 
      (3)   Development standards.
Min. lot width                    60 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot depth                    None
Min. lot area                     None
Max. lot coverage                 None
Min. setbacks                      
   Front                       25 ft. (B on graphic below)
   Corner                      15 ft. (C on graphic below)
   Side setback                10 ft. (D on graphic below)
   Rear                        25 ft. (E on graphic below)
Max. building or structure height 28 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.gif]
      (4)    Additional development standards.
         (a )   Parking: refer to §
154.05(A).
         ( b)   Signs: refer to §
154.05(B).
         (c )   Landscaping and screening: refer to §
154.05(C).
         ( d)   Site plan review and approval shall be obtained in accordance
with §
154.06(A).
         (e )   Conformance with smoke detector provisions in §
150.02.
      (5)   Minimizing negative affects on adjacent property.
         (a)   All permitted uses shall be conducted within the confines of a
building or within an enclosure which screens any outdoor operations or storage
of materials from the view of adjoining streets or properties.
         (b)   Sales of produce and plants are permitted in semi-open
structures.
      (6)   Existing dwellings, group dwellings, and apartments. These existing
uses shall meet the provisions of the R-3 district and special land uses within
the R-3 district.
   (F)   B-2 Central Business District.
      (1)   Intent. This district is established to create and preserve a
central business district convenient and attractive for a wide range of retail
uses and business, government and professional offices and places of amusement
in a setting conducive to and safe for a high volume of pedestrian traffic with
limited residential use.
      (2)   Uses. Uses are permitted according to the following table. More
information on use standards can be found in §
154.04.
PERMITTED USES
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
Use                       Type Use-Specific Standards
Residential uses
Dwellings, above first    P     
floor
Commercial uses
Amusement and recreation  S     
Bank                      P     
Beauty salons and barber  P    §
shops                          154.04(B)(2)
Child care centers        P     
Drink and restaurant      P     
establishment
Funeral homes             P    §
                               154.04(B)(8)
Hotels, motels            P     
Laundry and dry cleaning  P     
Medical or dental clinics P     
Offices                   P    §
                               154.04(B)(12)
Plumbing, electrical,           
welding, repair shop
Printing and publishing   P     
Retail sales and services P     
Institutional and public uses
Institutional or public   P*   §
uses                           154.04(B)(10)
Train, bus, or taxi       S     
terminal or dispatching
Essential services        P*   §
                               154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy facilities   *    §
                               154.04(E)
 
      (3)   Development standards.
Min. lot width                    25 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot depth                    None
Min. lot area                     None
Max. lot coverage                 None
Min. setbacks                      
   Front                       0 ft. (B on graphic below)
   Corner                      0 ft. (C on graphic below)
   Side setback                0 ft. (D on graphic below)
   Rear                        0 ft. (E on graphic below)
Max. Building or Structure Height 35 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1707.gif]
 
      (4)   Additional development standards.
         (a)   None required. If provided, see §
154.05(A) for design standards.
         (b)   Signs: refer to §
154.05(B).
         (c)   Landscaping and screening: refer to §
154.05(C).
         (d)   Site plan review and approval shall be obtained in accordance
with §
154.06(A).
         (e)   Conformance with smoke detector provisions in §
150.02.
      (5)   Minimizing negative affects on adjacent property.
         (a)   All permitted uses shall be conducted within the confines of a
building or within an enclosure which screens any outdoor operations or storage
of materials from the view of adjoining streets or properties.
         (b)   Sales of produce and plants are permitted in semi-open
structures.
      (6)   Downtown character requirements. To preserve the downtown character
of the buildings within the B-2 Central Business District, buildings shall
comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The main entrance of buildings shall be prominently located and
facing the primary street; and
         (b)   Ground floors of buildings shall be a minimum of 60% transparent
for front façades. Corner façades are not required to meet this transparency
requirement; and
         (c)   A minimum of 66% of each front or corner façade shall be
constructed of high quality, durable, natural materials, such as stone or
brick; fiber cement board siding; and glass. High quality synthetic materials
may be approved by the Zoning Official.
   (G)   B-3 Community Commercial District.
      (1)   Intent. This district is composed of certain land along highways,
major thoroughfares or parcels near major thoroughfares with adequate isolation
from adjoining residential uses, intended for uses necessary or convenient to
service the residents of the community and those commercial establishments
which are of a similar nature in their service to the public.
      (2)   Uses. Uses are permitted according to the following table. More
information on use standards can be found in §
154.04.
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
Use                         Type Use-Specific Standards
Residential uses
Dwelling, above first floor P     
retail
Commercial uses
Amusement and recreation    P     
Bank                        P     
Beauty salons and barber    P    §
shops                            154.04(B)(2)
Building supply and lumber  P*   §
yards                            154.04(B)(3)
Child care centers          P     
Drink and restaurant        P     
establishment
Drive through               A     
Fuel sales with service     S*   §
                                 154.04(B)(7)
Fuel sales without service  S     
Funeral homes               P    §
                                 154.04(B)(8)
Greenhouse, produce stand   P     
Home appliance repair shops S     
Hotels, motels              P     
Laundry and dry cleaning    P     
Medical or dental clinics   P     
Offices                     P    §
                                 154.04(B)(12)
Plumbing, electrical,       P     
welding, repair shop
Printing and publishing     P     
Retail sales and services   P     
Vehicle repair and/or sales S*   §
                                 154.04(B)(16)
Retail sales and services   P     
Industrial uses
Warehousing and             S     
distribution
Institutional and public uses
Institutional or public     P*   §
uses                             154.04(B)(10)
Train, bus, or taxi         P     
terminal or dispatching
Utility uses
Essential services          P*   §
                                 154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy facilities     *    §
                                 154.04(E)
 
      (3)   Development standards.
Min. lot width 100 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot width                    100 ft. (A on graphic below)
Min. lot depth                    None
Min. lot area                     None
Max. lot coverage                 None
Min. setbacks                      
   Front                       30 ft. (B on graphic below)
   Corner                      15 ft. (C on graphic below)
   Side setback                10 ft. (D on graphic below)
   Rear                        25 ft. (E on graphic below)
Max. building or structure height 32 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1709.gif]
 
      (4)   Additional development standards.
         (a)   Parking: refer to §
154.05(A).
         (b)   Signs: refer to §
154.05(B).
         (c)   Landscaping and screening: refer to §
154.05(C).
         (d)   Site plan review and approval shall be obtained in accordance
with §
154.06(A).
         (e)   Conformance with smoke detector provisions in §
150.02.
      (5)   Minimizing negative affects on adjacent property.
         (a)   All permitted uses shall be conducted within the confines of a
building or within an enclosure which screens any outdoor operations or storage
of materials from the view of adjoining streets or properties.
         (b)   Sales of produce and plants are permitted in semi-open
structures.
      (6)   Existing dwellings, group dwellings, and apartments. These existing
uses shall meet the provisions of the R-3 district and special land uses within
the R-3 district.
   (H)   I Industrial District.
      (1)   Intent. This section establishes and preserves areas for industrial
and related uses of such a nature that they do not create serious problems of
compatibility with other kinds of land uses, and is intended to make provisions
for certain kinds of commercial uses which are most appropriately located as
neighbors of industrial uses or which are necessary to service the immediate
needs of the people in these areas.
      (2)   Uses. Uses are permitted according to the following table. More
information on use standards can be found in §
154.04.
PERMITTED USES
PERMITTED USES
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
Use                         Type Use-Specific Standards
Commercial uses
Adult entertainment         S     
Amusement and recreation    P     
Bank                        P     
Beauty salons and barber    P    §
shops                            154.04(B)(2)
Building supply and lumber  P*   §
yards                            154.04(B)(3)
Drive through               A     
Fuel sales with service     S*   §
                                 154.04(B)(7)
Fuel sales without service  S     
Greenhouse, produce stand   P     
Home appliance repair shops P     
Laundry and dry cleaning    P     
Offices                     P    §
                                 154.04(B)(12)
Plumbing, electrical,       P     
welding, repair shop
Printing and publishing     P     
Retail sales and services   P     
Vehicle repair and/or sales S*   §
                                 154.04(B)(16)
Industrial uses
Agriculture, plant          P     
Industrial, heavy           S     
Industrial, light           P     
Medical marijuana           S*   §
manufacturing                    154.04(B)(11)
Outdoor storage of goods or S     
vehicles
Salvage yard and resource   S*   §
recovery facilities              154.04(B)(14)
Warehousing and             P     
distribution
Institutional and public uses
Institutional or public     P*   §
uses                             154.04(B)(10)
Train, bus, or taxi         P     
terminal or dispatching
Utility uses
Essential services          P*   §
                                 154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy facilities     *    §
                                 154.04(E)
 
      (3)   Development standards.
Min. lot width                    None (A on graphic below)
Min. lot depth                    None
Min. lot area                     None
Max. lot coverage                 None
Min. setbacks                      
   Front                       30 ft. (B on graphic below)
   Corner                      20 ft. (C on graphic below)
   Side setback                10 ft. (D on graphic below)
   Rear                        25 ft. (E on graphic below)
Max. building or structure height 45 ft.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1711.gif]
 
      (4)   Additional development standards.
         (a)   Parking: none required. If provided, see §
154.05(A) for design standards.
         (b)   Signs: refer to §
154.05(B).
         (c)   Landscaping and screening: refer to §
154.05(C).
         (d)   Site plan review and approval shall be obtained in accordance
with §
154.06(A).
         (e)   Conformance with smoke detector provisions in §
150.02.
      (5)   Minimizing negative affects on adjacent property.
         (a)   All permitted uses shall be conducted within the confines of a
building or within an enclosure which screens any outdoor operations or storage
of materials from the view of adjoining streets or properties.
         (b)   The foregoing shall not apply to permitted automotive sales
areas, convenience store, fuel dispensing site, vehicle repair shop, the sale
of produce and plants in semi-open structures or drive-in retail establishments
serving the customer from his or her vehicle. Type 1 screening is required for
these uses with outdoor operations.
      (6)   Statement of compliance. Before the issuance of any building or
occupancy permit, the applicant shall sign an agreement stating that the use of
the property will meet the applicable city ordinances, county codes and state
and federal regulations, and that any violation of these standards in
subsequent operations will be corrected, the costs of inspection by experts to
determine compliance to be borne by the applicant.
   (I)   Planned Unit Development.
      (1)   Intent.
         (a)   Planned unit development (PUD) as authorized by § 4b of the City
Zoning Act (Public Act 207 of 1921, as amended) is intended for the following
purposes:
            1.   Encouraging the use of land in the city in accordance with its
character and adaptability;
            2.   Assuring the permanent preservation of open space, and natural
resources;
            3.   Providing recreational facilities within a reasonable distance
of all residential developments;
            4.   Allowing innovation and greater flexibility in the design of
residential developments;
            5.   Ensuring compatibility of design and use between neighboring
properties; and
            6.   Encouraging a less sprawling form of development, thus
preserving open space as undeveloped land.
         (b)   The regulations of this section are further intended to preserve
a traditional community character to the land use pattern in the city through
the creation of small residential areas with open space and less intensive land
uses.
         (c)   This section is not intended as a device for avoiding this
unified development ordinance of the city, the standards set forth therein, nor
the planning concepts upon which the unified development ordinance has been
based.
         (d)   These regulations are intended to result in a specific
development substantially consistent with unified development ordinance
standards, yet allow for modifications from the general standards to ensure
appropriate, fair and consistent decision making.
         (e)   The PUD District is an overlay district in all residential
districts.
      (2)   Criteria for eligibility. To be eligible for PUD consideration, the
applicant must present a proposal for residential development that meets each
of the following:
         (a)   Substantial benefit. A PUD shall result in a recognizable and
substantial benefit, both to the residents of the property and to the overall
quality of life in the city. The benefits can be provided through site design
elements in excess of the requirements of this chapter, such as high quality
architectural design, extensive landscaping, providing transition areas from
adjacent residential land uses, unique site design features, unified access,
preservation of woodlands and open space, particularly along major
thoroughfares, and buffering development from lakes, rivers, streams and
wetlands. This benefit should accrue in spite of any foreseeable detriments of
the proposed development.
         (b)   Project minimum acreage. The minimum size of a PUD shall be five
acres of contiguous land. The Planning Commission may consider development of a
site less than five acres in area as a PUD, provided that the parallel plan
shall be prepared at the existing zoning minimum lot size.
         (c)   Benefit of open space. The proposed development shall provide at
least one of the following open space benefits:
            1.   Natural features. The site contains significant natural assets
such as woodlands, individual trees over 12-inch diameter, measured at breast
height, rolling topography, significant views, natural drainage way, water
bodies, regulated or non-regulated wetlands, or natural corridors that connect
quality wildlife habitats which would be in the best interest of the city to
preserve and which might be negatively impacted by conventional residential
development. This determination shall be made by the Planning Commission after
review of a site analysis plan, prepared by the applicant, that inventories
these features. If animal or plant habitats of significant value exist on the
site, the Planning Commission, as a condition of approval, may require that the
PUD plan preserve these areas in a natural state and adequately protect them as
nature preserves or limited access areas;
            2.   Facilities for recreation. If the site lacks natural features,
the site can qualify if the development will preserve an existing recreation
facility or provide useable recreation areas to which all residents of the
development shall have reasonable access. The recreational facilities may
include a neighborhood park, golf course, passive recreational facilities,
soccer fields, ball fields, bike paths or similar facilities which provide a
feature of community-wide significance and enhance residential development;
and/or
            3.   Natural amenities. If the site lacks existing natural
features, the site can also qualify if the development will create significant
woodland features. The creation of significant woodland features shall be
considered providing perimeter buffer plantings and interior street tree
plantings at a rate of twice what is required by this chapter.
         (d)   Open space assurance. The applicant shall guarantee to the
satisfaction of the City Planning Commission that all open space portions of
the development will be maintained in the manner approved. Documents shall be
presented that bind all successors and future owners in fee title to
commitments made as part of the proposal. This provision shall not prohibit a
transfer of ownership or control, provided notice of the transfer is provided
to the city and the land uses continue as approved in the PUD plan.
         (e)   Neighborhood concept. The proposed development shall be designed
to create a cohesive community neighborhood through common open space areas for
passive or active recreation and resident interaction. All open space areas
shall be equally available to all residents of the PUD.
         (f)   Control. The proposed development shall be under single
ownership or control, such that there is a single person or entity having
proprietary responsibility for the full completion of the project. The
applicant shall provide sufficient documentation of ownership or control in the
form of agreements, contracts, covenants, and/or deed restrictions that
indicate that the development will be completed in its entirety as proposed.
         (g)   Density impact.
            1.   The proposed type and density of use shall not result in an
unreasonable increase in the need for or impact to public services, facilities,
roads and utilities in relation to the use or uses otherwise permitted by this
chapter, and shall not place an unreasonable impact to the subject and/or
surrounding land and/or property owners and occupants and/or the natural
environment.
            2.   The Planning Commission may require that the applicant prepare
an impact statement documenting the significance of any environmental, traffic
or socioeconomic impact resulting from the proposed open space community.
               a.   An unreasonable impact shall be considered an unacceptable
significant adverse effect on the quality of the surrounding community and
natural environment in comparison to the impacts associated with conventional
development.
               b.   The Planning Commission may require that the applicant
prepare quantitative comparison of the impacts of conventional development and
the PUD plan to assist in making this determination (such as an overlay of
conceptual development options to demonstrate the impacts have been minimized
to the extent practical).
               c.   If the cumulative impact creates or contributes to a
significant problem relative to infrastructure demand or environmental
degradation, mitigation shall be provided to alleviate the impacts associated
with the PUD.
         (h)   Master plan implementation. The proposed development shall be
consistent with and further the implementation of the city master plan.
      (3)   Design standards. A proposed PUD shall comply with the following
project design standards:
         (a)   Location. A PUD may be approved within any residential zoning
district;
         (b)   Permitted uses. A PUD is generally restricted to single-family
detached or attached residential dwellings.
            1.   Unless modified by the Planning Commission following the
standards herein, all dwellings shall meet the yard, lot width, and bulk
standards required by §
154.05, except that single-family attached dwellings may have zero side lot
lines.
            2.   If approved by the Planning Commission as a special use, a
commercial or a multiple family component may be allowed.
         (c)   Dwelling density. The number of dwelling units allowable within
a PUD project shall be determined by preparation of a parallel plan.
            1.   The applicant shall prepare, and present to the Planning
Commission for review, a parallel design for the project that is consistent
with state, county and city requirements and design criteria for a tentative
preliminary plat.
               a.   The parallel plan shall meet all standards for lot size,
lot width and setbacks as normally required, as well as public roadway
improvements and private parks, and contain an area which conceptually would
provide sufficient area for storm water detention.
               b.   Lots in the parallel plan shall provide for storm water
detention. Lots in the parallel plan shall provide sufficient building envelope
size without impacting wetlands regulated by the State Department of
Environmental Quality. This design shall include all information as required by
the guidelines adopted by the Planning Commission.
            2.   The parallel plan is only used to determine allowable density
for a PUD project.
            3.   The Planning Commission shall review the design and determine
the number of lots that could be feasibly constructed and be economically
viable following the parallel design. This number, as determined by the
Planning Commission, shall be the maximum number of dwelling units allowable.
         (d)   Base zoning regulations. Unless specifically waived or modified
by the Planning Commission, all requirements for the underlying zoning
district, except for minimum lot area, are applicable.
         (e)   Regulatory flexibility.
            1.   To encourage flexibility and creativity consistent with the
planned unit development concept, the Planning Commission may grant specific
departures from the requirement of this unified development ordinance as a part
of the process for the following:
               a.   Yard, lot width, and bulk standards may be modified,
provided that the modifications results in enhanced buffering from adjacent
land uses or public rights-of-way, or preservation of natural features.
               b.   Standards that apply to entryway features such as
decorative gates (non-closing), walls and signs may be modified, provided that
the overall entranceway design is reviewed by the Planning Commission and found
to be consistent with the proposed planned unit development and the character
of the surrounding area in terms of size, materials, color, lighting and
landscaping.
            2.   Any regulation modification shall be approved through a
finding by the Planning Commission that the deviation shall result in a higher
quality of development than would be possible using conventional zoning
standards. Regulatory modifications are not subject to variance approval of the
Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA).
            3.   No part of a planned unit development plan may be appealed to
the ZBA. This provision shall not preclude an individual lot owner from seeking
a variance following final approval of the PUD, provided the variance does not
involve alterations to open space areas as shown on the approved PUD site plan.
            4.   A table shall be provided on the site plan which specifically
details deviations from the established zoning area, height and setback
regulations, off-street parking regulations, general provisions or subdivision
regulations which would otherwise be applicable to the uses and development
proposed in the absence of this PUD section. This specification should include
ordinance provisions from which deviations are sought, and the reasons and
mechanisms to be utilized for the purposes of this chapter.
         (f)   Road standards. All roads shall be built to city requirements,
including curb and gutter, and shall be turned over to city ownership upon
completion to city satisfaction.
(Ord. 225, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 154.04 USES.
   (A)   Uses.
      (1)   This section classifies the uses allowed by zoning district in
order to identify the activities that support the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people that live and work in the City of Bronson. This section
also includes use definitions and any standards that may apply to a specific
use.
      (2)   No building or land may be used, or building erected,
reconstructed, altered, moved, converted, extended or enlarged, which is
arranged, intended or designed to be used for any purpose other than a use
which is permitted and specified in a district in which that building or land
is located.
      (3)   Use Table. Uses are permitted according to the table on the
following pages and classified as:
         (a)   Permitted use (P). Permitted uses are allowed by-right in the
district they are listed subject to the development standards of that district
and any use-specific standards.
         (b)   Special use (S). Special uses are allowed only if reviewed and
approved for a special use in accordance with the procedures of this chapter.
In addition, they shall comply with the development standards of the district
in which they are located and any applicable additional standards associated
with the use.
         (c)   Accessory use (A). Accessory uses are allowed by-right in any
district when accessory to a primary use and when typically accessory to the
primary use according to §
154.04(C). Accessory uses that have additional standards are included in the
use table, but this in no way excludes unlisted accessory uses. Accessory uses
are subject to the development standards of that district and any use-specific
standards.
         (d)   Prohibited use (blank). Uses without a symbol are prohibited in
the district because they are considered incompatible with the purpose of the
district.
         (e)   Use-specific standards ( * ). These uses shall comply with the
specific standards that apply to that use located in the referenced provision
in the “use-specific standards” column. Unless otherwise noted, these standards
apply in all districts.
         (f)   Uses not listed. Uses not listed shall be approved by the
Planning Commission according to §
154.06(H)(2).
USE TABLE
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
USE TABLE
Key
         Permitted Use — P               Special Use — S
         Accessory Use — A               Use-Specific Standards — *
             R-1 R-2 R-3 M H B- B-2 B- 3 I  Use-Specific Standards
                              1
Residential uses
Adult foster  P*  P*  P*                     §
care facility                                154.04(B)(1)
Child care    P   P   P                       
home, family
Child care    S   S   S                       
home, group
Dwellings,
above first                   P  P   P        
floor
Dwelling,     P   P   P                       
single family
Dwelling, two     P   P                       
family
Dwelling,             P                       
three family
Dwelling,             P                       
four family
Dwelling,                                    §
apartments (5     S*  P                      154.04(B)(4)
to 12 units)
Dwelling,
apartments            S*                     §
(13 or more                                  154.04(B)(5)
units)
Group             S*  S*                     §
dwellings                                    154.04(B)(9)
Home          A/  A/  A/                     §
occupations   S * S * S *                    154.04(C)(3 )
Manufactured
housing                   P                   
communities
Mobile home               P                   
parks
Nursing or
convalescent      P   P                       
homes
Qualified
residential   P*  P*  P*                     §
treatment                                    154.04(B)(13 )
program
State
licensed      P*  P*  P*                     §
residential                                  154.04(B)(15 )
facility
Commercial uses
Adult                                     S   
entertainment
Amusement and                    S   P    P   
recreation
Bank                          S  P   P    P   
Beauty salons                                §
and barber        S*  S*      P  P   P    P  154.04(B)(2)
shops
Bed and           P           P               
breakfast
Building                                     §
supply and                           P*   P* 154.04(B)(3)
lumber yards
Child care                    P  P   P        
centers
Drink and
restaurant                       P   P        
establishment
Drive through                        A    A   
Fuel sales                           S*   S* §
with service                                 154.04(B)(7)
Fuel sales
without                              S    S   
service
Funeral homes     S*  S*      S  P   P       §
                                             154.04(B)(8)
Greenhouse,                          P    P   
produce stand
Home
appliance                            S    P   
repair shops
Hotels,                          P   P        
motels
Laundry and                      P   P    P   
dry cleaning
Medical or
dental                        P  P   P        
clinics
Offices           S*  S*      P  P   P    P  §
                                             154.04(B)(12 )
Plumbing,
electrical,                          P    P   
welding,
repair shop
Printing and                     P   P    P   
publishing
Retail sales                  P  P   P    P   
and services
Vehicle                                      §
repair and/or                        S*   S* 154.04(B)(16 )
sales
Industrial uses
Agriculture,  P                           P   
plant
Industrial,                               S   
heavy
Industrial,                               P   
light
Medical                                      §
marijuana                                 S* 154.04(B)(11 )
manufacturing
Outdoor
storage of                                S   
goods or
vehicles
Salvage yard
and resource                              S* §
recovery                                     154.04(B)(14 )
facilities
Warehousing
and                                  S    P   
distribution
Institutional and public uses
Institutional                                §
or public     P*  P*  P*  P*  P* P*  P*   P* 154.04(B)(10 )
uses
Train, bus,
or taxi                          S   P    P   
terminal or
dispatching
Utility uses
Essential     P*  P*  P*  P*  P* P*  P*   P* §
services                                     154.04(B)(6)
Solar energy  *   *   *   *   *  *   *    *  §
facilities                                   154.04(E)
 
   (B)   Use-specific standards. When use-specific standards are designated as
required in the use table, the following standards shall apply:
      (1)   Adult foster care facility. State-licensed adult foster care
facilities are permitted in any residential district according to M.C.L.A. §§
125.3206 and 400.703 3(4)(k). This does not include adult foster care
facilities licensed by a state agency for care of persons released from or
assigned to adult correctional institutions.
      (2)   Beauty salons and barber shops. Beauty shops and barber shops
permitted as a special land use in an R-2 and R-3 District shall:
         (a)   Be located on a major street as enumerated in §
154.01(I);
         (b)   Be located within 700 feet of a B-2 District; and
         (c)   Not involve the sale or repair of products or equipment upon the
premises.
      (3)   Building supply and lumber yards.
         (a)   Building supply and lumber yards with operations completely
contained within buildings shall provide Type 1 screening.
         (b)   Building supply and lumber yards with outdoor operations shall
provide Type 2 screening.
      (4)   Apartments (five to 12 units).
         (a)   The density (lot area per dwelling unit) of the zone shall be
complied with;
         (b)   All apartment regulations and requirements of this chapter shall
be complied with;
         (c)   All yard requirements of the zone district shall be increased
50% except in a zone permitting apartments as a principal use;
         (d)   All dwelling units shall be supplied with public sewer and
water; and
         (e)   No building shall exceed 120 feet in width or depth and all
buildings shall be of substantially similar appearance as other conforming uses
in the neighborhood.
      (5)   Apartments (13 or more units).
         (a)   The project can have a maximum height of 52 feet;
         (b)   No type of building shall be located in front of the main
entrance wall of an apartment building unless separated by a common yard of at
least 50 feet;
         (c)   No apartment building shall be located in back of the rear
entrance wall of another apartment building unless separated by a common yard
of at least 80 feet;
         (d)   There shall be at least 40 feet of yard space behind the rear
wall of any apartment dwelling unobstructed by any accessory building or
parking area. However, for good cause the yard space may be located beyond a
parking area, drive or attached garage; and
         (e)   No building shall be located closer to another building than a
distance equal to its height.
      (6)   Essential services.
         (a)   Essential services are permitted in any zone as regulated by
state law and by city ordinances.
         (b)   Any essential service use which is an above ground substation, a
building housing equipment, a building occupied by persons or any tower
structure shall be comply with the following regulations:
            1.   These uses may be located in any business or industrial zone.
            2.   These uses are also permitted in any residential or apartment
zone, provided the following requirements are complied with:
               a.   Application and site plan shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission;
               b.   The required site plan shall show the property lines and
dimensions of the tract and the proposed development, including all existing
and proposed buildings and uses, as well as the location, dimensions and
capacities of all areas to be used for motor vehicle parking;
               c.   Sufficient additional data shall be provided as needed to
enable the City Planning Commission to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and to determine the best possible physical layout
for the proposed use from the standpoint of its relationship to the general
health, safety and welfare of the city and adjoining property values; and
               d.   Before approving the plan or plans, the Planning Commission
shall require proper guarantees that the proposed use shall not constitute a
public hazard and is reasonably necessary for the convenience of the community.
      (7)   Fuel sales with service.
         (a)   The lot is at least 100 feet in width and depth;
         (b)   All above ground or underground structures other than permitted
signs or drives are at least 20 feet from any lot line, and at least 25 feet
from any residential zone line;
         (c)   Driveways will be at least 24 feet from any intersecting street
rights-of-way or residential zone lines;
         (d)   A paved or enclosed area for the storage of inoperable or
damaged vehicles awaiting repair is provided which is screened from any public
street or residential zone; and
         (e)   Type l screening is required regardless of abutting zone.
      (8)   Funeral homes. Funeral homes permitted as a special land use in an
R-2 and R-3 District shall:
         (a)   Be located on a major street as enumerated in §
154.01(I);
         (b)   Be located within 700 feet of a B-2 District; and
         (c)   Not involve the sale or repair of products or equipment upon the
premises.
      (9)   Group dwellings.
         (a)   Group dwellings shall be located facing upon a marked state or
federal highway.
         (b)   Lot coverage shall not exceed 75%.
      (10)   Institutional and public uses.
         (a)   Institutional and public uses may be located in any business or
industrial zone.
         (b)   The uses are also permitted in any residential or apartment
zone, provided the following requirements are complied with:
            1.   Application and site plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission;
            2.   The required site plan shall show the property lines and
dimensions of the tract and the proposed development, including all existing
and proposed buildings and uses, as well as the location, dimensions and
capacities of all areas to be used for motor vehicle parking;
            3.   Sufficient additional data shall be provided as needed to
enable the City Planning Commission to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter and to determine the best possible physical layout
for the proposed use from the standpoint of its relationship to the general
health, safety and welfare of the city and adjoining property values;
            4.   Before approving the plan or plans, the Planning Commission
shall require proper guarantees that the proposed use shall not constitute a
public hazard and is reasonably necessary for the convenience of the community;
and
            5.   Where an institutional or public use is to be occupied as a
residence, nursing home, convalescent home, hospital or similar use where
humans will be living or cared for, the minimum lot size required for a family
in a zone shall be provided for each four humans to be accommodated.
      (11)   Medical marijuana manufacturing.
         (a)   No medical marijuana manufacturing and distribution facility
shall be permitted within 1,000 feet of a church.
         (b)   No medical marijuana manufacturing and distribution facility
shall be permitted within 1,000 feet of a drug-free school zone.
         (c)   No medical marijuana manufacturing and distribution facility
shall be permitted within 1,000 feet of a child care facility.
         (d)   No medical marijuana manufacturing and distribution facility
shall be permitted within 1,000 feet of a residence or a district zoned for
residential use.
         (e)   The distances provided in this section shall be measured by
following a straight line, without regard to intervening buildings, from the
nearest point of the property line upon which the proposed use is to be
located, and the zoning district boundary, property or residence from which the
proposed land use is to be separated.
      (12)   Offices. Offices permitted as a special land use in an R-2 and R-
3 District shall:
         (a)   Be located on a major street as enumerated in
154.01(I);
         (b)   Be located within 700 feet of a B-2 District; and
         (c)   Not involve the sale or repair of products or equipment upon the
premises.
      (13)   Qualified residential treatment program. State-licensed qualified
residential treatment programs providing services for ten or fewer individuals
are permitted in any residential district according to M.C.L.A. § 125.3206.
This does not include treatment of persons released from or assigned to adult
correctional institutions.
      (14)   Salvage yards and resource recovery facilities.
         (a)   Plans and specifications shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission, which shall include:
            1.   Specific location of the facility shown on a vicinity map;
            2.   Location of public roadways, habitable structures and places
of public use on the site and other properties influenced by the project;
            3.   Legal description and site boundaries;
            4.   Means of limiting access, including fencing, gates, natural
barriers or other methods;
            5.   Details of the method of treating or disposing of liquid waste
resulting from operation of the facility as it related to the city's wastewater
treatment facility;
            6.   Location of all structures and equipment;
            7.   Detailed description and statement of appurtenances and
procedures intended to handle heavy or bulky items, store refuse beyond the end
of the working day and control dust, odors and fire as they comply with state
and federal regulations;
            8.   Location of existing proposed utilities available to the site;
            9.   Method of final reduction such as compacting, grinding,
shredding, compression or tamping equipment;
            10.   Daily clean-up procedures;
            11.   A certified manifest which discloses the type and nature of a
material stored on-site (for any amount of time) shall be maintained with the
city for purposes of identifying any potential threat to public health or
safety. The city reserves the right to prohibit particular stored items,
materials or substances which would jeopardize public health or safety; and
            12.   Other details necessary as required by the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   A facility shall be located not less than 500 feet from the
nearest residential zone and must be screened by a fence of not less than eight
feet in height and not less than 75% solid. It must also be screened by fences
from streets, roads or highways open to public vehicle travel.
         (c)   The site must be located on major arterial roads and not on
residential or collector type roads. Roadways on the property shall be all-
weather roads and maintain a condition to prevent a dust nuisance.
         (d)   Dust and odor resulting from unloading and operation of the
facility shall be reasonably controlled at all times. Operation of the facility
shall be carried on in a manner to prevent noise and vibration which are a
nuisance to an adjoining property.
         (e)   Storage of highly flammable or explosive materials shall only be
allowed on the premises if storage methods, approved by the office of State
Fire Marshal, are utilized at all times.
         (f)   Salvage yard site shall not be less than five acres in size.
         (g)   Open burning shall not be carried on in a salvage area facility.
         (h)   The salvage yard area shall be maintained in a sanitary manner
at all times so as not to create general unsightliness or health and safety
hazards.
         (i)   Necessary operations of the salvage yard shall be carried out
promptly in a systematic manner so that conditions are unfavorable for
harborage and production of insects and rodents.
         (j)   Adequate provision shall be made for routine operational
maintenance of the facility and all appurtenances.
      (15)   State-licensed residential facilities. State-licensed residential
facilities are permitted in any residential district according to M.C.L.A.
125.3206.
      (16)   Vehicle repair and/or sales. No vehicle sales area may be
accessory to a convenience store with fuel dispensing. The plot plan for
proposed vehicle sales area shall show that:
         (a)   No vehicles or equipment shall be located closer than ten feet
to any side or rear property line nor closer than 25 feet to any front street
right-of-way;
         (b)   The lot is at least 100 feet in width and depth;
         (c)   All above ground or underground structures other than permitted
signs or drives are at least 20 feet from any lot line, and at least 25 feet
from any residential zone line;
         (d)   Driveways will be at least 24 feet from any intersecting street
rights-of-way or residential zone lines;
         (e)   A paved or enclosed area for the storage of inoperable or
damaged vehicles awaiting repair is provided which is screened from any public
street or residential zone;
         (f)   The direct source of display lighting shall be screened from any
public street or residential zone; and
         (g)   Type l screening is required regardless of abutting zone.
   (C)   Accessory uses.
      (1)   Applicability. An accessory use or structure may be established in
any district, provided that it is associated with a primary use, typically
accessory to the primary use, and that it complies with the standards of this
section.
      (2)   Accessory buildings in any district (except the B-2 District).
         (a)   No accessory building may be built upon any lot in single
ownership on which there is no principal building.
         (b)   No accessory building shall be placed in any required front or
side setback nor closer than ten feet to any other building without an approved
firewall.
         (c)   An accessory building located in a rear yard shall not be closer
than five feet to any lot line.
      (3)   Accessory buildings in residential districts.
         (a)   When the rear line of a corner lot abuts the side line of an
adjoining lot in a residential district, no accessory building shall be within
five feet of the abutting lot line nor closer to the side street lot line than
the front yard setback of the principal building on the adjoining lot, but in
no case shall the setback be less than 25 feet.
         (b)   When the rear line of a corner lot abuts the rear line of any
other lot or is directly across an alley therefrom, no accessory building shall
be closer to the side street lot line of a corner lot than the side street yard
setback of the principal building on the corner lot, but in no case shall the
setback be less than 25 feet.
         (c)   A private garage or a portion thereof may be rented or leased
for not more than two motor vehicles (non-commercial type only) to persons not
a resident of the dwelling on the lot.
         (d)   A maximum of three accessory structures shall be permitted per
lot. Pools are not counted as an accessory structure when calculating the
maximum number.
      (4)   Home occupations.
         (a)   Home occupations may be permitted in the R-1, R-2, and R-
3 Residential Districts as a special land use under the following procedures
and conditions.
         (b)   The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered or
the occupations within the residence be conducted in a manner which would cause
the premises to differ from its residential character either by the use of
colors, materials, construction, lighting, signs or the emission of sounds,
noises or vibrations.
         (c)   No more than one person other than members of the immediate
family occupying the dwelling shall be employed.
         (d)   In the R-1 District, a maximum of 25% of the gross floor area
shall be used for a home occupation and no use of an accessory structure.
         (e)   In the R-2 and R-3 Districts, no more than 50% of the gross area
of one floor of the residences shall be used for such purposes. Any portion of
a garage used in connection with a home occupation shall be included in the
calculation of a maximum area allowed for the home occupation.
         (f)   There shall be no outside storage of any kind related to any
home occupation.
         (g)   The use may not increase vehicular traffic flow and parking by
more than one additional vehicle at a time, unless off-street parking
regulations are provided.
         (h)   Mechanical or electrical equipment employed by the home
occupation shall be comparable to the machinery or equipment customarily found
in the home associated with a hobby or a vocation.
         (i)   Only one nameplate shall be allowed in accordance with the sign
regulations of this chapter. It may display the name of the home occupation
(e.g., John Doe, realtor).
         (j)   No use shall create noise, dust, vibration, smell, smoke, glare,
electrical interference, fire hazard or nuisance to any greater or more
frequent extent than that usually experienced in an average residential
occupancy in the district in question under normal circumstances wherein no
home occupation exists.
      (5)   Rear dwelling prohibited. No building to be used as a dwelling
shall be constructed, maintained, altered or moved in the rear yard of a
building situated on the same lot, nor shall any building be constructed or
moved in front of a principal building situated on the same lot.
      (6)   Basement dwellings. The use of a basement or basement of a partial
building or planned building as a residence or dwelling unit is prohibited in
all zones. This shall not prohibit a dwelling unit located partially below
ground which has access to two remote means of egress to ground level.
      (7)   Swimming pools.
         (a)   Swimming pools accessory to a principal permitted use are
allowed in all districts provided the pools are constructed, operated and
maintained in accordance with BOCA regulations pertaining thereto and further
provided that no pool shall be closer than six feet to any side or rear lot
line nor located in any required side street yard or required front yard.
         (b)   Any pool or pool of water which contains 24 inches or more of
water in depth at any point shall erect and maintain an adequate enclosure
either surrounding the property or pool area, sufficient to make the body of
water inaccessible to small children as follows:
            1.   The enclosure shall be four feet or greater above the
underlying ground; and
            2.   All gates must be self latching, with latches placed four feet
above the underlying ground and otherwise made inaccessible from the outside to
small children.
         (c)   A natural barrier, hedge, pool cover or other protective device
approved by the Zoning Official may be used so long as the degree of protection
afforded by the substituted devices or structures is not less than the
protection afforded by the enclosure, gate and latch described herein.
   (D)   Temporary uses.
      (1)   The Zoning Official may issue temporary use permits for the
following uses after determining that those uses will not be detrimental to
adjacent conforming uses during the permitted period of use.
      (2)   A second temporary use permit may be issued by the Zoning Official
at the end of the time limit for good cause shown.
      (3)   The Zoning Official may attach conditions and requirements deemed
necessary to meet the intent of the provisions of this chapter.
      (4)   A third temporary use permit may only be authorized by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
         (a)   Mobile homes. An individual mobile home or other temporary
structure may be used as temporary living or working quarters for up to 90 days
while a dwelling or structure is constructed or reconstructed on the same
premises. A temporary permit shall be issued by the Zoning Official prior to
the use.
         (b)   Supplies. The storage of building supplies and machinery,
temporary storage buildings, the assembly of materials and customary trade,
contractor, architect and identification signs in connection with a
construction project may be authorized by the Zoning Official for a period of
up to 12 months.
         (c)   Seasonal uses. The Zoning Official may authorize a temporary
permit for up to 30 days for seasonal or unusual non-recurrent temporary uses.
   (E)   Solar energy facilities.
      (1)   Applicability.
         (a)   This division applies to the construction of any new solar
energy facilities (SEFs) within the city.
         (b)   An SEF legally established or permitted prior to the effective
date of this section shall not be required to meet the requirements of this
section, however:
            1.   Physical modification or alteration to an existing SEF that
materially alters the size, type or components of the SEF shall be subject to
this section. Only the modification or alteration is subject to this section;
            2.   Substantial conformance review determinations are not major
amendments to a project’s existing permits; and
            3.   Routine operation and maintenance or like-kind replacements do
not require a permit.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of this division is to facilitate the
construction, installation and operation of SEFs in the City of Bronson in a
manner that protects public health, safety and welfare and avoids significant
impacts to protected resources such as important agricultural lands, endangered
species, high value biological habitats and other protected resources. It is
the intent of this section to encourage solar facilities that reduce reliance
on foreign petroleum supplies, increase local economic development and job
creation, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and/or promote economic development
diversification.
      (3)   Types of SEF uses. SEFs are categorized into the following use
types:
         (a)   Accessory use: an SEF designed primarily for serving on-site
needs or a use that is related to the primary use of the property.
         (b)   Direct use: an SEF designed and installed to provide on-site
energy demand for any legally established use of the property.
         (c)   Primary use: an SEF that uses over 50% of the parcel(s) and is
devoted to solar electric power generation primarily for use off-site.
         (d)   Secondary use: an SEF that is not the primary use of the
property and uses less than 50% of the parcel(s) land area.
      (4)   Permit requirements. SEFs shall be permitted according to the
following table:
 
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
Key
   Permitted Use (P)         Special Use (S)
Land Use                     Accessory/Direct SEF Primary SEF Secondary SEF
Agricultural and residential P                    S           S
Commercial and office        P                    S           S
Industrial                   P                    S           P
 
      (5)   Setback requirements. The following setbacks from the parcel line
to the closest part of the SEF shall be established as shown in the following
table. Fencing, roads, and landscaping may occur within the setback.
 
Setback Requirements
Accessory/Direct SEF Primary SEF Secondary SEF
Per zoning district  50 ft.      75 ft.
 
      (6)   Height limits. For ground mounted systems, height restrictions will
be measured from natural grade below each module in the event the site has
topographic changes.
 
Height Limits
Zoning District   Accessory/Direct  Primary SEF          Secondary SEF
                  SEF
                                    Roof: 2 ft. above    Roof: 2 ft. above
                  Roof: 2 ft. above roof surface and may roof surface and may
R-1, R-2, R-3, MH roof              project above the    project above the
                                    height limit         height limit
                  Ground: 15 ft.    Ground: 25 ft.       Ground: 15 ft.
                  Roof: 4 ft. above Roof: 4 ft. above    Roof: 4 ft. above
                  roof surface and  roof surface and may roof surface and may
B-1, B-2, B-3, I  may project above project above the    project above the
                  the height limit  height limit         height limit
                  Ground: 25 ft.    Ground: 25 ft.       Ground: 25 ft.
 
      (7)   General requirements. The following requirements apply to all SEFs
unless otherwise noted:
         (a)   Building permits are required.
            1.   Nothing in this chapter modifies the minimum building
standards required to construct an SEF, consistent with applicable building and
fire codes. The SEF components and all accessory equipment shall comply with
the most recently adopted Building Code as determined by the Building Official
and Fire Code as determined by the Fire Official.
            2.   A site plan shall be provided at the time of the building
permit application demonstrating compliance with the required setbacks.
            3.   The building permit shall include review by local permitting
departments including, but not limited to, the local fire authority, for health
and safety requirements.
         (b)   Supplemental information required.
            1.   The manufacturer’s or installer’s identification and
appropriate warning sign shall be posted on or near the panels in a clearly
visible manner.
            2.   On-site power lines between solar panels and inverters shall
be placed underground.
            3.   If the solar energy facility consists of batteries or storage
of batteries, adequate design must be provided to ensure all local, state and
federal requirements regulating outdoor battery storage have been met.
            4.   An affidavit or evidence of an agreement between the lot owner
and the facility’s owner or operator must be provided confirming the owner or
operator has permission of the property owner to apply for the necessary
permits for construction and operation of the solar energy facility.
            5.   A description of the proposed technology must be provided, to
include type of solar panel and system, fixed mounted verses solar tracking,
number of panels, and angles of orientation.
            6.   An information sign shall be posted and maintained at the
entrance(s) which lists the name and phone number of the operator.
         (c)   Off-site facilities. When the SEF is located on more than one
parcel, there shall be proper easement agreement or other approved methods for
the notification of all impacted parties.
         (d)   Septic system avoidance. The SEF shall not be located over a
septic system, leach field area or identified reserve area unless approved by
the Department of Environmental Health.
         (e)   Floodplain avoidance. If located in a floodplain as designated
by FEMA, or an area of known localized flooding, all panels, electrical wiring,
automatic transfer switches, inverters, and the like shall be located above the
base flood elevation; and shall not otherwise create a fire or other safety
hazard as determined by the Building Official.
         (f)   Conform to development standards for underlying zone. The SEF
shall be ground mounted, or when located on structures, the SEF shall conform
to the development standards for a principal structure in the zone in which
such facilities and structures are to be located, except as otherwise provided
herein.
         (g)   Visibility.
            1.   Not including accessory/direct SEFs for residential uses,
solar energy facilities abutting residential districts shall provide a Type l
landscaping buffer.
            2.   All ground mounted facilities shall:
               a.   If lighting is required, it shall be activated by motion
sensors, fully shielded and downcast type where the light does not spill onto
the adjacent parcel or the night sky;
               b.   Not display advertising, except for reasonable
identification of the panel, inverter or other equipment manufacturer, and the
facility owner;
               c.   Be sited behind existing vegetation (which shall be
supplemented with landscaping where not adequate to screen the project) or be
sited using the natural topography to screen the project; and
               d.   Be enclosed by a fence, barrier, barb wire, razor wire or
other appropriate means to prevent or restrict unauthorized persons or vehicles
from entering the parcel(s). Fences or barriers shall incorporate wildlife
friendly design. No barrier shall be required where projects employ full-time
security guards or video surveillance.
         (h)   Locations requiring discretionary review. The following
principles shall apply to the review of primary and secondary use locations: no
portion of the SEF or their structures shall occupy protected lands. Protected
lands that are potentially incompatible locations, requiring special land use
permits, include:
            1.   Floodways;
            2.   Wetlands, wetland transition areas, riparian corridors, or
open water;
            3.   Properties enrolled in the Michigan Farmland Preservation
Program;
            4.   Habitat of special status, threatened, endangered, candidate,
or fully protected species; species of special concern; or species protected by
local, state, and federal agencies; and
            5.   Lands within easements where SEFs are a prohibited use.
         (i)   Abandonment.
            1.   An SEF that ceases to produce energy on a continuous basis for
12 months will be considered abandoned unless the current responsible party (or
parties) with ownership interest in the SEF provides substantial evidence
(updated every six months after 12 months of no energy production) to the City
Manager or his or her designee of the intent to maintain and reinstate the
operation of that facility. It is the responsibility of the responsible party
(or parties) to remove all equipment and facilities and restore the parcel to
its condition prior to development of the SEF.
            2.   Upon determination of abandonment, the Zoning Administrator
shall notify the party (or parties) responsible that they must remove the SEF
and restore the site to its condition prior to development of the SEF within
360 days of notice by the City Manager or his or her designee.
            3.   If the responsible party (or parties) fails to comply, the
City Manager or his or her designee may remove the SEF, sell any removed
materials, and initiate judicial proceedings or take any other steps legally
authorized against the responsible parties to recover the costs required to
remove the SEF and restore the site to a nonhazardous pre-development
condition.
            4.   Facilities deemed by the city to be unsafe and facilities
erected in violation of this section shall also be subject to this section. The
Code Enforcement Officer or any other employee of the city shall have the right
to request documentation and/or affidavits from the applicant regarding the
system's usage, and shall make a determination as to the date of abandonment or
the date on which other violation(s) occurred.
            5.   Upon a determination of abandonment or other violation(s), the
city shall send a notice hereof to the applicant and/or landowner, indicating
that the responsible party shall remove the SEF and all associated facilities,
and remediate the site to its approximate original condition within 90 days of
notice by the city, unless the city determines that the facilities must be
removed in a shorter period of time to protect public safety. Alternatively, if
the violation(s) can be addressed by means short of removing the SEF and
restoration of the site, the city may advise the applicant and/or landowner of
such alternative means of resolving the violation(s).
            6.   If the applicant and/or landowner do not comply, the city may
remove the SEF and restore the site and may thereafter: (a) draw funds from any
bond, security or financial assurance that may have been provided; or (b)
initiate judicial proceedings or take other steps authorized by law against the
responsible parties to recover only those costs associated with the removal of
structures deemed a public hazard. In the event that the land owner/user fails
to properly remove the equipment installed for the collection of solar energy,
the City of Bronson may seek a court order allowing removal and charging costs
of removal back against the tax bill paid for the real estate.
         (j)   Decommission plan.
            1.   A decommissioning plan signed by the party responsible for
decommissioning and the landowner (if different) addressing the following shall
be submitted prior to the issuance of the development permit:
               a.   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be
initiated (i.e. end of land lease, no power production for 12 months,
abandonment, and the like);
               b.   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit,
structures, fencing, roads, solar panels and foundations;
               c.   Restoration of property to conditions prior to development
of the SEF;
               d.   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning activities;
               e.   Description of any agreement (e.g. lease) with the
landowner regarding decommissioning;
               f.   The party currently responsible for decommissioning; and
               g.   Plans for updating this decommissioning plan.
            2.   In the event that the land owner/user fails to properly remove
the equipment installed for the collection of solar energy, the City of Bronson
may seek a court order allowing removal and charging costs of removal back
against the tax bill paid for the real estate.
         (k)   Aviation notification.
            1.   For consideration of potential impacts to civilian flight
paths for airport operations located within five nautical miles from an airport
listed in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems, notification of
intent to construct an SEF shall be sent to the airport manager or designated
official and the Federal Aviation Administration's (FAA) Airport District
office (ADO) with oversight of Michigan. Notification shall include location of
the SEF (i.e. map, coordinates, address, or parcel ID), technology (i.e. roof
mounted PV, ground mounted fixed PV, tracked PV, solar thermal, and the like),
and the area of system (e.g. five acres). Proof of delivery of notification and
date of delivery shall be submitted with permit application. The airport must
be given 30 days for review.
            2.   For consideration of potential impacts to civilian flight
paths for airport operations located within five nautical miles from an airport
not listed in the National Plan of Integrated Airport Systems, notification of
intent to construct an SEF shall be sent to the airport manager or designated
official. Notification shall include location of the SEF (i.e. map,
coordinates, address, or parcel ID), technology (i.e. roof mounted PV, ground
mounted fixed PV, tracked PV, solar thermal, and the like), and the area of
system (e.g. five acres). Proof of delivery of notification and date of
delivery shall be submitted with permit application. The airport must be given
30 days for review.
         (l)   Solar energy facilities; accessory use; general requirements.
Accessory use solar energy facilities are ground mounted SEFs that provide
energy primarily for on-site use, or rooftop systems that provide energy for
any use. Rooftops or ground mounted systems covering developed parking areas or
other hardscape areas are encouraged as preferred locations for a SEF. In
addition to the general requirements in this section, the following standards
shall apply to all accessory use SEFs, notwithstanding the development
standards for the underlying zone:
            1.   Lot coverage. Rooftop systems can be any size; ground mounted
systems may not exceed half an acre;
            2.   Setbacks. Ground mounted structures shall conform to the
setbacks as shown in division (5) above;
            3.   Height limits. Facilities shall conform to the height limits
of division (6) above, unless demonstrated by a structural engineer to meet
public safety standards; and
            4.   Floodplain. An accessory use SEF shall not be located in a
floodplain.
         (m)   Solar energy facilities; direct use.
            1.   General requirements. Direct use SEFs provide energy for on-
site use. In addition to the general requirements in this section, the
following standards shall apply to all direct use SEF, notwithstanding the
development standards for the underlying zone:
               a.   Lot coverage. Allowable lot coverage varies by the
underlying zoning district;
               b.   Setbacks. Ground mounted structures shall conform to the
setbacks as shown in division (5) above;
               c.   Height limits. Facilities shall conform to the height
limits of division (6) above; and
               d.   Floodplain. A direct use SEF shall not be located in a
floodplain.
            2.   Biological resources. The protection of high value biological
resources is an important consideration. Direct use SEF projects shall not be
located on lands that support listed, candidate or other fully protected
species; species of special concern; or species protected by local, state, or
federal agencies.
         (n)   Solar energy facilities; primary and secondary uses.
            1.   General requirements. Primary or secondary uses that provide
energy for on-site or off-site use as shown in division (4) above are subject
to a special land use permit. In addition to the general requirements in this
section, the following standards shall apply to all primary and secondary SEFs,
notwithstanding the development standards for the underlying zone:
               a.   Lot coverage. Allowable lot coverage varies by underlying
zoning district;
               b.   Setbacks. Ground mounted structures shall conform to the
setbacks as shown in division (5) and whenever an SEF abuts an agricultural
operation or agricultural zone, an agricultural buffer on the SEF parcel shall
be established at a minimum of 100 feet. The buffer may be reduced if the
decision-making body determines that there is a substantial screen such as
existing topography or landscaping vegetation and/or an operational management
plan and/or an agricultural operation easement is provided;
               c.   Height limits. Facilities shall conform to the height
limits of division (6) above;
               d.   Michigan Farmland Preservation Program. A primary or
secondary SEF may not be located on a property enrolled in the Michigan
Farmland Preservation Program. An applicant must successfully terminate their
Farmland Development Rights Agreement with the Department of Agriculture and
Rural Development to be eligible to apply for SEF approval; and
               e.   Grading. Grading within the city shall be limited to only
that necessary to construct access roads and install equipment, unless the
areas are determined to be chemically or physically impaired.
            2.   Biological resources. The protection of high value biological
resources is an important consideration. Primary or secondary use SEF projects
shall not be located on lands that support listed, candidate or other fully
protected species; species of special concern; or species protected by local,
state, or federal agencies.
            3.   Soil stabilization, erosion control and ground water
management. For primary and secondary use SEFs, the following requirements
shall apply:
               a.   To the extent feasible and compatible with the climate and
pre-project landscaping of the property, the site shall be restored with native
vegetation. The re-vegetation plans shall be reviewed and approved by the city
and the Branch County Drain Commissioner. All areas occupied by the facility
that are not utilized for access to operate and maintain the installation shall
be planted and maintained with a native shade-tolerant grass or other
vegetation for the purpose of soil stabilization or other methods approved by
the city.
               b.   A storm water management plan showing existing and proposed
grading and drainage demonstrating no net increase in runoff shall be provided,
subject to approval by the review authority.
               c.   A maintenance plan shall be submitted for the continuing
maintenance of the SEF, which may include, but not be limited to, planned
maintenance of vegetation or ground cover, equipment maintenance, and plans for
cleaning of solar panels if required.
               d.   Prior to issuing a final building permit, an as-built
grading and drainage plan, prepared by a licensed professional surveyor or
other approved qualified professional shall be submitted to the reviewing
agency's engineer for review and approval. The plan shall show that the as-
built conditions are substantially the same as those shown on the approved
grading and drainage plan.
(Ord. 225, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 154.05 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Off-street parking and loading.
      (1)   Loading and unloading spaces. Loading and unloading spaces shall be
provided in all business and industrial districts in connection with all
commercial and industrial uses, except in cases where adequate space, as
determined by the Zoning Official, is or can be provided on adjacent public
property, as follows:
         (a)   One space for 10,000 to 20,000 square feet of floor area;
         (b)   Two spaces for 20,000 to 50,000 square feet of floor area;
         (c)   Three spaces for 50,000 to 100,000 square feet of floor area;
and
         (d)   One additional space for each additional 100,000 square feet of
floor area or part thereof; provided that:
            1.   Each loading space shall be at least ten feet in width, 25
feet in length and have a clearance of 14 feet above grade;
            2.   The space may occupy all or any part of any required yard or
court space, excluding front yard; and
            3.   No such space shall be located closer than 50 feet to any lot
in any residential district, unless wholly within a completely enclosed
building or enclosed on all sides facing residential zones by a wall, uniformly
painted solid board, or masonry fence of uniform appearance which is not less
than six feet in height.
      (2)   Off-street parking.
         (a)   Parking or storage of motor vehicles shall be provided for in
all districts, except B-2 and I Districts, in accordance with the following
schedule:
Parking Requirements
Use Parking Requirement
Parking Requirements
Use                                     Parking Requirement
                                        Three parking spaces for the first
Barber and beauty shops                 chair or booth and two for each
                                        additional chair or booth
                                        Seven parking spaces for each alley. If
                                        in addition to alleys, patrons are
                                        provided with assembly halls, bars,
Bowling alleys                          restaurants or other businesses,
                                        additional off-street parking spaces
                                        will be required in accordance with
                                        regulations of this section for the
                                        uses
Churches or places of public assembly   One parking space for each three seats
Commercial amusements (outdoor)         25% of lot area, but in no case less
                                        than ten parking spaces
Commercial recreation (indoor)          One parking space for each 100 square
                                        feet of building floor space
                                        Seven parking spaces for general public
Convenience stores                      plus one per employee at the maximum
                                        employment shift
Dance hall, roller rink, assembly hall, 500% of building floor area used for
without fixed seats                     dancing or assembly
Dwellings                               Two parking spaces per dwelling unit
Fraternities and sororities             One parking space for each bed
Funeral homes and mortuaries            One parking space per 25 square feet of
                                        building floor area of assembly rooms
Furniture sales, retail                 One parking space for each 500 square
                                        feet of building floor area
                                        One parking space for each hospital bed
Hospitals and rest homes                and one parking space for each three
                                        rest home beds
                                        One parking space for every two washing
Laundromats                             machines or 200 square feet of gross
                                        building floor area, whichever is
                                        greater
Libraries; museums; art galleries;
community center buildings; municipal,  Provide adequate parking facilities as
county, state and federal               approved by the Planning Board
administrative buildings; schools and
colleges
                                        One and one-tenth parking spaces for
                                        each sleeping room. If, in addition to
                                        sleeping rooms, patrons are provided
Motels, hotels, motor courts, tourists  with assembly halls, bars, restaurants,
or lodging homes, trailer courts and    retail shops or other businesses,
clubs                                   additional off-street parking spaces
                                        shall be required for the other uses in
                                        accordance with the regulations of this
                                        section
Office buildings, including banks,      One parking space for each 200 square
business and professional offices       feet of building floor area, but in no
                                        case less than five spaces
Professional office                     One parking space for each 200 square
                                        feet of building floor area
Restaurants, taverns, bars and cocktail One parking space for each two seats
lounges and similar eating              provided for patron use
establishments
Retail sales and personal services      Parking equivalent to 150% of the
(except self-service food markets or    building floor area
supermarkets)
Self-serve food market or supermarket   Parking area equivalent to 300% of the
                                        building floor area
Theaters                                One parking space for each four seats
Vehicle sales                           One parking space per each 500 square
                                        feet of building floor area
Vehicle service garages                 One parking space for each 500 square
                                        feet of building floor area
                                        Two parking spaces for each employee.
                                        If retail sales exist, required parking
Warehouses, storage buildings, lumber   spaces shall be determined by using
and supply yards, wholesale sales       retail floor space requirements for the
                                        building floor area used for retail in
                                        conjunction with employee requirement
 
         (b)   In the case of a building, structure or premises, the use of
which is not specifically mentioned herein, the provisions for a use which is
mentioned and to which the use in question is similar shall apply.
         (c)   In case of a situation where there is more than one use in a
single structure, the following off-street parking regulations may apply:
            1.   For two uses per structure, 95% of the otherwise combined
required parking;
            2.   For three uses, 90%;
            3.   For four uses, 85%;
            4.   And for five or more, 80%; and
            5.   In no case shall less than 80% be allowed.
         (d)   Provision of paved access drives between the nearest public
street and a parking area shall be considered as an off-street parking
requirement but not as part of the required parking area.
         (e)   The required parking area for a building shall be figured on the
entire floor area of the first floor; parking for additional stories, including
any basement, shall be added to the total of the required area for the first
floor.
         (f)   The occupancy of a building or any part of a building shall not
change from one use to a use in another classification unless the minimum
parking requirements are provided for the new use.
         (g)   No building shall be enlarged if the enlargement requires
additional parking space unless the minimum requirements for off-street parking
are provided.
      (3)   Design and construction.
         (a)   Application for parking lot construction. Any person desiring to
establish or change a parking area shall submit plans to the Zoning Official
showing the location, design, size, shape, landscaping, surfacing, marking,
lighting, drainage, curb cuts, entrances, exits and any other features of the
parking lot. Any curb cuts, entrances, exits, drainage and design shall have
the written approval of the City Engineer or the Zoning Official and be
presented for site plan approval by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Off-street parking lots shall be arranged and marked with
adequate drives and aisles for safe and convenient maneuvering and giving
access to parking spaces, and in no case shall a parking space be permitted
which would necessitate the backing of a motor vehicle into a street or over a
public walk.
         (c)   Parking spaces shall be at a minimum nine feet by 18 feet in
size. This does not include access drives and aisles.
         (d)   Each nonresidential parking space shall be served by a drive or
aisle. Design and construction of drives and aisles must be approved by the
city engineer or Zoning Official.
         (e)   There shall be a curb or bumper rail provided wherever an off-
street parking and loading area adjoins a public sidewalk or right-of-way. The
bumper rail shall be designed to prevent any portion of a vehicle from
encroaching upon the sidewalk or right-of-way.
         (f)   Any lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking and
loading area shall be arranged to direct light away from adjoining premises.
         (g)   Except for single- and two-family dwellings, off- street parking
and loading areas shall be surfaced with asphalt, bituminous or concrete
pavement, and shall be graded and drained to dispose of all surface water.
         (h)   Access drives to and from a parking area shall be paved as
stated in §
154.05(A)(3)(g) above. Design and construction of access drives must be
approved by the City Engineer or Zoning Official.
         (i)   Any construction or rearrangement of existing drives which
involve the ingress and/or egress of vehicular traffic to or from a public
street shall be arranged to ensure the maximum safety and the least
interference of traffic upon the streets.
      (4)   Off-street parking regulations within a residential district.
         (a)   For all residential buildings or nonresidential buildings in a
residential district, the required parking area shall be provided on the same
lot with the buildings or on a lot immediately adjacent to the lot with the
building intended to be served.
         (b)   All parking areas, except for dwellings, shall be screened on
all sides abutting either a residential district or a street with an ornamental
fence or compact hedge, not less than four feet or more than six feet high, of
a type which will obscure vision at all seasons from adjoining premises.
         (c)   Within a residential district, parking shall be limited to
passenger vehicles, recreational vehicles and trucks with a load capacity of
214 tons or less.
         (d)   No commercial repair work, commercial servicing or selling of
any kind shall be conducted on parking areas in residential districts, and no
sign of any kind other than those indicating entrances, exits and conditions of
use shall be erected thereon.
         (e)   The Zoning Official shall require execution of a performance
agreement in the form, manner and amount he or she determines and may compel
compliance with the performance of all off-street parking requirements of this
chapter.
      (5)   Variances and exceptions.
         (a)   The parking provisions of this chapter may be met by
participation in a municipal or joint community parking program designed to
serve a larger area, provided all plans for the community parking have been
approved by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have authority to interpret
this section and may in specific cases and after public hearing grant variances
and exceptions to these requirements.
   (B)   Signs.
      (1)   Applicability. No sign shall be erected, altered, or replaced
without complying with these regulations and issuance of a permit when
applicable.
      (2)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to encourage the effective
uses of signs as a means of communication in the city; to maintain and enhance
the aesthetic environment; to augment historical preservation and the city's
ability to attract sources of economic development and growth; to improve
pedestrian and traffic safety and public health; to minimize the possible
adverse effect of sign on nearby public and private property; to keep signs
within a reasonable scale with respect to the buildings and the property to
which they relate; and to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these
sign restrictions.
      (3)   General. All signs shall comply with the following general
regulations:
         (a)   Signs shall be maintained and be legible.
         (b)   Sign supports, braces, guys and anchors shall be maintained in a
manner so as not to cause a hazard. All signs must be installed in accordance
with the most recently adopted building construction code.
         (c)   Signs may be illuminated internally or externally, unless
expressly prohibited elsewhere in this section. All lighting shall be enclosed
or directed to prevent light from shining onto traffic or neighboring property.
No sign shall be placed in, upon or over any public right-of-way, alley or
other public place, unless otherwise permitted.
         (d)   Removal of city-owned trees (trees located on city property or
in city rights-of-way) is prohibited for construction of, or visibility to, any
sign. Any tree trimming to gain visibility for advertisement, must be approved
by the city.
      (4)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited in all
districts:
         (a)   Portable and temporary signs, not including portable A-frame
signs provided for in this section;
         (b)   Billboards shall be prohibited from all districts;
         (c)   Signs attached to trees, street lights, or utility poles. Signs
may be placed on light or utility poles if approved by the owner of the light
or utility pole;
         (d)   Roof signs or signs that exceed the roof line;
         (e)   Signs that due to their position, shape, color or other
characteristics interfere with, obstruct the view of, or could be confused with
a traffic signal sign or device; and
         (f)   Signs that interfere with vision clearance triangle.
      (5)   Exempt signs. The following signs are exempt:
         (a)   Governmental signs;
         (b)   Directional signs that meet the regulations of this section;
         (c)   Portable A-frame signs that meet the regulations of this
section;
         (d)   Temporary signs that meet the regulations of this section.
Temporary signs may include real estate signs, construction signs, political
signs, and event signs;
         (e)   Holiday displays and decorations;
         (f)   Address signs less than two sq. ft;
         (g)   Signs not visible from the exterior of buildings;
         (h)   Window signs that are less than 75% of the area of the window on
which they are placed;
         (i)   Murals and public art;
         (j)   Historical markers;
         (k)   Flags of any nation-state, city, not-for-profit organization,
educational institution, or company emblems not meant for advertising; and
         (l)   Maintenance required to keep signs in good conditions.
      (6)   Removal of certain signs. Signs may be removed by the city under
the following conditions:
         (a)   In the event a sign is abandoned for a period of 90 days, the
sign owner and/or property owner shall immediately remove any sign identifying
the business announced thereby. The Zoning Administrator may grant an extension
upon good cause shown.
         (b)   Any sign that is found to be constructed, painted, installed or
maintained in a manner not consistent with this chapter, or without the proper
permit, or for which the permit has lapsed and become void, or the time for
nonconformance has expired, shall be forthwith removed.
         (c)   In the event a sign subject to removal pursuant to the preceding
division is not removed as provided therein, the Zoning Administration shall
forthwith notify the sign owner and/or the property owner in writing to remove
the sign within 14 calendar days of the date of the notice.
         (d)   Should the sign owner and/or property owner fail to remove or
cause the removal of the sign within the time established pursuant to division
(c) above, the Zoning Administrator, or designee, is hereby authorized to
remove or cause the removal of the sign. Any expense incidental to the removal
shall be charged to the owner on which the sign is located and shall constitute
a lien on the property, collectible in the same manner as taxes.
         (e)   Any sign placed within the right-of-way, except those provided
for in §
154.05(B)(5), shall be forfeited to the public and subject to immediate
confiscation and removal at the sign owner's sole expense.
         (f)   The words remove, removal, and removed as used in this section
and its divisions shall mean and include the demolition, destruction, removal
and disposal of the sign face, posts, columns, backing material and supports of
all signs. In case of painted wall signs, the words shall also include painting
over the original sign face in its entirety so as to completely cover it.
      (7)   Sign area calculations. Signs shall be measured as follows:
         (a)   The area of a sign shall be measured as the area within a
single, continuous perimeter composed of any straight line geometric figure
which encloses the extreme limits of writing, representation, emblem, logo or
graphic, together with any frame or other material or color forming an integral
part of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the background
against which it is places, excluding only the structure necessary to support
the sign.
         (b)   The area of a freestanding, projecting or monument sign that has
two or more faces shall be measured by including the area of all faces, unless
the two faces are placed back to back and are of equal size; the area of the
two back to back faces shall be counted as one face.
         (c)   The height of a sign shall be measured as the vertical distance
from the highest point of the sign to the grade of the adjacent street or the
average grade of the ground immediately beneath the sign.
         (d)   Awning signs will not include the material of fabric of the
awning itself.
      (8)   Violations. Any of the following shall be a violation of this
chapter, and shall be subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties
provided by this chapter, and by state law:
         (a)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign in violation of
any provision of this chapter;
         (b)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign requiring a
permit without the permit;
         (c)   To install, create, erect or maintain any sign requiring a
permit without the permit;
         (d)   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected
or maintained in violation of this chapter, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed; and
         (e)   Each sign installed, created, erected or maintained in violation
of this chapter shall be considered a separate violation.
         (f)   Each day on which a violation continues shall constitute a
separate violation of this chapter.
      (9)   Enforcement and remedies.
         (a)   Any violations or attempted violation of this chapter or of any
condition or requirement adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected
or abated, as the case may be, by injunction or other appropriate proceedings
pursuant to state law.
         (b)   The remedies of the city shall include the following:
            1.   Issuing a stop work order for any and all work on any sign;
            2.   Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement
that requires the removal of the sign(s) or the correction of its
nonconformity;
            3.   Imposing any penalties that can be imposed directly by the
city under this chapter;
            4.   Seeking in court the imposition of any penalties that can be
imposed by the court;
            5.   In the case of a sign that poses an immediate danger to the
public health or safety, taking measures as are available to the city under the
applicable provisions of the Municipal and Building Code for those
circumstances;
            6.   The city shall have other remedies as are and as may from time
to time be provided for or allowed by state law for the violation of a zoning
ordinance; and
            7.   All remedies provided herein shall, to the extent allowed by,
be cumulative for each violation to which they apply.
      (10)   Appeals and variances.
         (a)   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Administrator
relative to the placement, area, height or construction of a sign may appeal
the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (b)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant a variance from the
requirements of this chapter after a public hearing as follows:
            1.   On a factual proof presented by the applicant for the variance
that is found to be satisfactory and credible by the Zoning Board Appeals that:
               a.   The variance would not be contrary to the public interest
or general purpose and intent of this chapter;
               b.   The variance does not adversely affect properties in the
immediate area of the proposed sign;
               c.   The petitioner has a hardship or practical difficulty
resulting from the unusual characteristics of the property that precludes
reasonable use of the property; and
               d.   The variance sought is one for a historic sign which, if
not related to the business currently conducted on the property on which it is
located, shall not be included as part of the aggregate sign area.
            2.   All sign variances shall terminate upon alteration or
reconstruction of more than 50% of the sign, or a date set by the Zoning Board
of Appeals.
      (11)   Historic variances. Historical sign variances may be sought,
without fee, by application and request therefore directed to the Zoning
Administrator. Historic variances shall be granted upon factual proof presented
by the applicant, which is found to be satisfactory and credible to the Zoning
Board of Appeals, that one or more of the following criteria apply:
         (a)   The sign is associated with historic figures, events or places;
         (b)   The sign is significant as evidence of the history of the
product, business or service advertised;
         (c)   The sign reflects the history of the building or the development
of a historic district;
         (d)   The sign is characteristic of a specific history period, such as
old leaf neon or stainless steel lettering;
         (e)   The sign is integral to the building’s design or physical fabric
or if the removal will cause significant harm to the integrity of the building;
         (f)   The sign, by reason of craftsmanship, materials or design, is an
outstanding example of sign marker art;
         (g)   The sign is a local landmark, recognized as a popular focal
point in the community; and/or
         (h)   The sign contains elements important in defining a district,
such as marquees in a theater district.
      (12)   Permit and fee schedule. The City Council shall from time to time,
by resolution, set a schedule of permits and fees for various aspects of this
chapter.
      (13)   Penalty.
         (a)   Violation of any provision of this section shall constitute a
civil infraction. Any person who violates any provision of this section shall
upon conviction thereof, be fined not less than $100 for a first offense, not
less than $200 for a second offense and not less than $300 for a third offense.
Each day an offense continues shall constitute a separate offense at the same
level as the initial offense (on a first offense, subsequent days would each be
considered an additional first offense). The court, at its discretion, may levy
a fine of up to but not more than $500 if the court finds the offense at issue
warrants the fine.
         (b)   The owner and, if applicable, the tenant of any building,
structure, premises or part thereof who commits, participates in, or maintains
the violation may be found guilty of a separate offense and suffer the
penalties herein provided.
         (c)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking
other lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
         (d)   The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender
from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
      (14)   Monument signs. Monument signs shall be permitted according to the
following standards:
MONUMENT SIGN STANDARDS
District Maximum Number Maximum Size Maximum Height Front Setback Additional
                                                                  Standards
MONUMENT SIGN STANDARDS
District Maximum    Maximum Size Maximum Height Front Setback Additional
         Number                                               Standards
                                                              Signs are only
                                                              allowed for
                                                              nonresidential
                                                              uses and
                                                              residential
                                                              subdivisions.
R-l      1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet        Home
                                                              occupations
                                                              are permitted
                                                              a wall sign in
                                                              accordance to
                                                              those
                                                              regulations.
R-2      1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet        Signs are only
                                                              allowed for
                                                              nonresidential
                                                              uses,
                                                              apartments,
                                                              and
                                                              residential
                                                              subdivisions.
R-3      1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet        Home
                                                              occupations
                                                              are permitted
                                                              a wall sign in
                                                              accordance to
                                                              those
                                                              regulations.

                                                              Signs are only
                                                              allowed for
MH       1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet        nonresidential
                                                              uses and
                                                              residential
                                                              subdivisions.
B-l      1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet         
B-2      1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet         
B-3      1 per road 60 sq. ft.   8 feet         8 feet         
         frontage
1        1 per      60 sq. ft.   8 feet         8 feet         
         entrance
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.gif]
 
      (15)   Freestanding signs. Freestanding signs shall be permitted
according to the following standards:
FREESTANDING SIGN STANDARDS
District Maximum Number Maximum Size Maximum Height Front Setback Additional
                                                                  Standards
FREESTANDING SIGN STANDARDS
District Maximum    Maximum Size Maximum Height Front Setback Additional
         Number                                               Standards
                                                              Signs are only
                                                              allowed for
                                                              nonresidential
                                                              uses and
                                                              residential
                                                              subdivisions.
R-l      1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet        Home
                                                              occupations
                                                              are permitted
                                                              a wall sign in
                                                              accordance to
                                                              those
                                                              regulations.
R-2      1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet        Signs are only
                                                              allowed for
                                                              nonresidential
                                                              uses,
                                                              apartments,
                                                              and
                                                              residential
                                                              subdivisions.
R-3      1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet        Home
                                                              occupations
                                                              are permitted
                                                              a wall sign in
                                                              accordance to
                                                              those
                                                              regulations.

                                                              Signs are only
                                                              allowed for
MH       1          32 sq. ft.   6 feet         8 feet        nonresidential
                                                              uses and
                                                              residential
                                                              subdivisions.
B-l      1          32 sq. ft.   21 feet        8 feet         
B-2      1          32 sq. ft.   21 feet        8 feet         
B-3      1 per road 60 sq. ft.   21 feet        8 feet         
         frontage
1        1 per      60 sq. ft.   21 feet        8 feet         
         entrance
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1715.gif]
 
      (16)    Wall signs and projecting signs. Wall signs and projecting signs
shall be permitted according to the following standards:
         (a)   No wall sign shall extend beyond the edge of the wall to which
it is affixed or beyond the roof line.
         (b)   Standards table.
WALL AND PROJECTING SIGN STANDARDS
District Maximu m Number Maximum Size Wall Sign Projecting Sign Additional
                                      Permitted Permitted       Standards
WALL AND PROJECTING SIGN STANDARDS
District Maximu m     Maximum Size    Wall Sign Projecting Sign Additional
         Number                       Permitted Permitted       Standards
         1 per wall   5% of wall face                           Wall signs are
R-l      facing road  up to 28 sq.    Yes       No              permitted for
         frontage     ft.                                       nonresidential
                                                                uses.
                                                                Wall signs are
         1 per wall   5% of wall face                           permitted for
R-2      facing road  up to 28 sq.    Yes       No              nonresidential
         frontage     ft.                                       uses and
                                                                apartments.
                                                                Wall signs are
         1 per wall   5% of wall face                           permitted for
R-3      facing road  up to 28 sq.    Yes       No              nonresidential
         frontage     ft.                                       uses and
                                                                apartments.
         1 per wall   5% of wall face                           Wall signs are
MH       facing road  up to 28 sq.    Yes       No              permitted for
         frontage     ft.                                       nonresidential
                                                                uses.
                                                                Maximum size is
                                                                a measurement
         3 per wall                                             of the sum of
B-l      facing road  10% of wall     Yes       Yes             the surface
         frontage     face                                      area of all
                                                                signs affixed
                                                                to that wall
                                                                face.
                                                                Maximum size is
                                                                a measurement
                                                                of the sum of
B-2      3 per wall   10% of wall     Yes       Yes             the surface
                      face                                      area of all
                                                                signs affixed
                                                                to that wall
                                                                face.
                                                                Maximum size is
                                                                a measurement
                                                                of the sum of
                                                                the surface
                                                                area of all
                                                                signs affixed
                                                                to that wall
B-3      1 per tenant 15% of wall     Yes       Yes             face.
                      face                                      Additional
                                                                signs may be
                                                                allowed over
                                                                the 1 per
                                                                tenant up to
                                                                the maximum
                                                                allowed 15% of
                                                                wall face.
                                                                Maximum size is
                                                                a measurement
                                                                of the sum of
I        3 per wall   15% of wall     Yes       Yes             the surface
                      face                                      area of all
                                                                signs affixed
                                                                to that wall
                                                                face.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.gif]
 
      (17)   Wall signs for home occupations. Wall signs for home occupations
shall be permitted according to the following standards:
 
WALL SIGNS FOR HOME OCCUPATIONS STANDARDS
District Maximum Number Maximum Size
R-1      1              9 sq. ft.
R-2      1              9 sq. ft.
R-3      1              9 sq. ft
 
      (18)   Marquee, suspended, and awning signs. Marquee, suspended, and
awning signs shall be permitted according to the following standards:
 
MARQUEE, SUSPENDED, AND AWNING SIGN STANDARDS
District Maximum Number  Maximum Size Minimum   Maximum         Additional
                                      Clearance Projection Into Standards
B-l      1 per tenant or 32 sq. ft.   8 feet    8 feet
         business                                               Projecting into
B-2      1 per tenant or 32 sq. ft.   8 feet    8 feet          the right-of-
         business                                               way requires
                                                                approval from
B-3      1 per tenant or 32 sq. ft.   8 feet    8 feet          the Zoning
         business                                               Official.
 
      (19)   Portable A-frame signs. Portable A-frame signs shall be permitted
according to the following standards:
 
PORTABLE A-FRAME SIGN STANDARDS
District    Maximum   Maximum    Maximum   Maximum   Time Limit   Additional
            Number    Size       Height    Width                  Standards
                                                                  Portable
                                                                  signs shall
                                                     Allowed to   be non-
R-1, R-2,   1 per                                    be displayed illuminated.
R-3, MH, B- tenant or 32 sq. ft. 42 inches 24 inches during       Portable A-
1, B-2, B-  business                                 business     frame signs
3, I                                                 hours        that meet
                                                                  these
                                                                  standards
                                                                  are exempt.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1719.gif]
 
      (20)    Directional signs. Directional signs shall be permitted according
to the following standards:
 
DIRECTIONAL SIGN STANDARDS
District     Maximum     Maximum Size Maximum Front Setback Additional
             Number                   Height                Standards
                                                            Directional
                                                            signs that
                                                            meet these
                                                            standards are
                                                            exempt.
R-l, R-2, R- 2 per major                                    Directional
3, MH, B-l,  entrance    6 sq. ft.    4 feet  4 feet        signs that do
B-2, B-3                                                    not meet these
                                                            standards
                                                            shall be
                                                            permitted as
                                                            freestanding
                                                            signs.
                                                            Directional
                                                            signs 6 sq.
                                                            ft. and less
                                                            that meet
                                                            these
                                                            standards are
                                                            exempt.
                                                            Permits are
                                                            required for
I            2 per major 12 sq. ft.   6 feet  8 feet        directional
             entrance                                       signage over 6
                                                            sq. ft.
                                                            Directional
                                                            signs that do
                                                            not meet these
                                                            standards
                                                            shall be
                                                            permitted as
                                                            freestanding
                                                            signs.
 
      (21)   Temporary signs. Temporary signs shall be permitted according to
the following standards:
 
TEMPORARY SIGN STANDARDS
District     Maximum Maximum Size Maximum Front   Time Limit Additional
             Number               Height  Setback            Standards
                                                             Temporary
                                                             signs 6 sq.
                                                             ft. and less
                                                             that meet
                                                             these
                                                             standards are
                                                             exempt.
                                                             Permits are
                                                             required for
R-1, R-2, R-                                                 temporary
3, MH, B-1,  2       32 sq. ft.   5 feet  8 feet  6 months   signs over 6
B-2, B-3, I                                                  sq. ft.
                                                             Temporary
                                                             signs that do
                                                             not meet
                                                             these
                                                             standards
                                                             shall be
                                                             permitted as
                                                             freestanding
                                                             signs.
 
   (C)   Landscaping and screening.
      (1)   Applicability. Screening is required as outlined in this section
and if indicated in use-specific standards.
      (2)   Purpose. Landscaping and screening is an essential element of site
design that promotes the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, and
general welfare of the community by mitigating incompatibilities between
adjacent land uses and reduces negative impacts of higher intensity land uses
on less intense land uses by providing visual and noise buffering.
      (3)   Installation location. Required landscaping and screening shall be
installed along property lines of the parcel or external parcel lines of a
group of parcels in multi-parcel developments. The Zoning Official may permit
the redistribution of materials into other locations on the site.
      (4)   Type 1 screening. Type 1 screening is required for all commercial
uses abutting residential uses. A site designer may choose one of the following
options, or any combination thereof at the discretion of the Zoning Official.
OPTION A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1721.gif]
 
Trees         Shrubs         Barrier
4 per 100 ft. 24 per 100 ft. None
 
OPTION B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1723.gif]
 
 
Trees         Shrubs        Barrier
3 per 100 ft. 0 per 100 ft. 6 ft. opaque fence/wall
 
      (5)   Type 2 screening. Type 2 screening is required for all industrial
uses abutting other uses or districts, excluding plant agriculture. A site
designer may choose one of the following options, or any combination thereof at
the discretion of the Zoning Official.
OPTION A
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1725.gif]
 
Trees          Shrubs         Barrier
10 per 100 ft. 24 per 100 ft. None
 
OPTION B
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1727.gif]
 
Trees         Shrubs         Barrier
4 per 100 ft. 12 per 100 ft. 6 ft. to 9 ft. opaque fence/wall
 
   (D)   Fences and walls.
      (1)   Non-required fences or walls. Fences or walls that are constructed
that are not required by §
154.05(C) shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Fences or walls shall not be constructed in a way that blocks
the vision clearance on corner lots outlined in §
154.05(E) below.
         (b)   Fences or walls shall have a maximum height of six feet, but
fences may be eight feet in the I District.
         (c)   Fences or walls not more than four feet in height are permitted
in the required setbacks of all zones, provided that the fences are not more
than 25% solid.
         (d)   Solid walls not to exceed six feet in height and fences between
three and six feet in height are permitted, in back of required front yards and
in side or rear yards in a zone, provided that:
            1.   The walls or fences on corner lots must meet the side street
side yard setback requirement; and
            2.   Fences or walls exceeding three feet in height or more than
25% solid shall not be constructed within a side street yard in residential
districts.
         (e)   A hedge, row of bushes or closely planted trees may also be
construed as a fence. The "living fences" will not be subject to the six-foot
maximum height conditions set for back and side yards; they will, however, be
subject to all front yard restrictions and similar restrictions concerning
corner lots and safety limitations as far as street travel is concerned.
      (2)   Required fences or walls. Fences or walls required in §
154.05(C) shall be comply with the following standards:
         (a)   Fences or walls shall not be constructed in a way that blocks
the vision clearance on corner lots outlined in §
154.05(E) below.
         (b)   Type l screening fences or walls shall be six feet in height and
opaque and are permitted in any yard.
         (c)   Type 2 screening fences or walls shall be between six and eight
feet in height and opaque and are permitted in any yard.
      (3)   Permitted fence materials. Fences or walls are permitted if
constructed using the following materials:
         (a)   Fence materials may include treated wood, painted wood, treated
split rail, ornamental wrought iron, brick, stone, masonry block, decorative
painted or vinyl coated aluminum, chain link, or other materials as approved by
the Zoning Official.
         (b)   Scrap lumber, plywood, sheet metal, plastic or fiberglass sheets
are specifically prohibited.
         (c)   Fences including barbed wire shall be eight feet in height and
only allowed in the I District.
   (E)   Vision clearance on corner lots.
      (1)   On any corner lot in any zone other than the Central Business
District, no sign, structure, fence or planting higher than 30 inches above the
established curb grade, except trees with a minimum clearance of eight feet
from the ground to the lowest branch, shall be erected or maintained within a
line connecting points on street lot lines 20 feet distance from the corner.
      (2)   No structure or planting which is deemed a traffic hazard by the
Chief of Police shall be permitted in any zone.
   (F)   Sewage and water. See the city's water/sewer provisions in Title V.
   (G)   Storm water.
      (1)   No premises shall be filled or graded so as to discharge surface
runoff to abutting premises in such a manner to cause ponding or surface
accumulation of the runoff on those premises. This would include water runoff
from building via eaves or similar apparatus.
      (2)   Storm water plans shall be approved by the City Engineer.
   (H)   Pedestrian connections. Development abutting or providing sidewalks,
or those abutting a multi-use path, shall provide a direct, paved connection a
minimum of six feet in width to the primary entrance of the building.
(Ord. 225, passed 11-11-2024)
§ 154.06 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Site plan review.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   Before a zoning permit is issued for any use identified as such,
a site plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for review and
approval.
         (b)   Before granting approval, the Planning Commission shall
ascertain that all provisions of this chapter are complied with; that the
proposed location and arrangement of buildings, accesses, parking areas,
walkways, yards, open areas and other improvements are such as to produce no
potential health, safety or protection hazards; that the arrangement of
buildings and structures will provide convenience for the intended occupants or
utilization by the public; and that it will be harmonious with development of
adjacent properties.
      (2)   Applicability.
         (a)   Except as set forth below, the Zoning Official shall not issue a
zoning permit for construction of any buildings, structures or uses until a
site plan, submitted in accordance with this section, shall have been reviewed
and approved and signed by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The following buildings, structures or uses shall be exempt from
the site plan review and procedure:
            1.   Single or two-family homes under separate ownership on an
individual and separate lot for each home; and
            2.   Uses such as on-premises advertising signs and essential
service structures or buildings.
      (3)   Optional sketch plan review.
         (a)   Preliminary sketches of proposed site and development plans may
be submitted for review to the Planning Commission prior to final approval.
         (b)   The purpose of the procedure is to allow discussion between an
owner and the Planning Commission to better inform the owner of the
acceptability of his or her proposed plans prior to incurring extensive
engineering and other costs which might be necessary for final site plan
approval.
         (c)   The sketch plans shall include the following:
            1.   The name and address of the applicant or developer, including
the names and addresses of any officers of a corporation or partners of a
partnership;
            2.   A legal description of the property; and
            3.   Sketch drawings showing tentative site and development plans.
The Planning Commission shall not be bound by a tentative approval given at
this time.
      (4)   Application procedure. Requests for final site plan review shall be
made by filing with the Zoning Official the following:
         (a)   A review fee as determined by resolution of the City Council
based upon the cost of processing the review. The resolution shall be on file
with the City Clerk/Treasurer for public information;
         (b)   Three copies of the completed application form for site plan
review, which shall contain, as a minimum, the following:
            1.   The name and address of the applicant;
            2.   The legal description of the subject parcel of land;
            3.   The area of the subject parcel of land stated in acres, or if
less than one acre, in square feet;
            4.   The present zoning classification of the subject parcel; and
            5.   A general description of the proposed development; and
         (c)   Three copies of the proposed site plan, which shall include, as
a minimum, the following:
            1.   The plan shall be drawn to a scale of not greater than one
inch equals 20 feet for a development of not more than three acres and a scale
of not less than one inch equals 100 feet for a development in excess of three
acres;
            2.   The plan shall show an appropriate descriptive legend, north
arrow, scale, date of preparation and the name and address of the individual or
firm preparing the same;
            3.   The property shall be identified by lot lines and general
location together with dimensions, angles and size correlation with the legal
description of the property;
            4.   The topography of the site with at least two-foot contour
intervals and all natural features such as wood lots, streams, rivers, lakes,
wetlands, unstable soils or similar features shall be shown;
            5.   Existing human-made features upon the site and within 100 feet
of the same shall be disclosed;
            6.   The location, proposed finished floor and grade line
elevations, size of proposed main and accessory buildings, the relationship of
buildings to one another and to any existing structures on the site, the height
of all buildings and square footage of floor space therein shall be disclosed.
Site plans for multiple-family residential development shall also include a
density schedule showing the number of dwelling units per net acres, including
a dwelling schedule showing the unit type and number of each such units;
            7.   All proposed and existing streets, driveways, sidewalks and
other vehicle or pedestrian circulation features upon and adjacent to the site
shall be shown, together with the location, size and number of parking spaces
in off-street parking areas, service lanes thereto and service parking and
delivery or loading areas;
            8.   The location, use and size of open spaces, together with
landscaping, screening, fences, walls and proposed alterations of topography or
other natural features shall be indicated;
            9.   The proposed operations on the site shall be described in
sufficient detail to indicate the effect, if any, upon adjoining lands and
occupants, together with any special features which are proposed to relieve any
adverse effects to adjoining land and occupants. Any potential demands for
future community services will also be described, together with any special
features which will assist in satisfying the demands;
            10.   Any earth-change plans required by state law shall also be
submitted with the application;
            11.   On-site lighting, surface water drainage for the site and
proposed sanitary sewage disposal and water supply shall be included in the
plans; and
            12.   The site plan shall include other information as may be
determined to be necessary by the City Planning Commission because of any
peculiar features of the proposed development.
      (5)   Action on application and plans.
         (a)   The Zoning Official shall record the date of the receipt of the
application and plans, and applicant shall provide 15 copies (one for each
Planning Commissioner, one for the Zoning Official and two office use or for
distribution to an outside reviewer (planning consultant, engineer, lawyer and
the like).
         (b)   A hearing shall be scheduled for a review of the application and
plans as well as reviewing the recommendations of the Zoning Official. Members
of the Planning Commission shall be delivered copies of the application prior
to the hearing for their preliminary information and study. Plans should be
available at the city office for seven calendar days prior to the meeting. The
hearing shall be scheduled within not more than 30 days following the date of
the receipt of the plans and application by the Zoning Official.
         (c)   The applicant shall be notified of the date, time and place of
the hearing on his or her application not less than three days prior to that
date.
         (d)   Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall have the
authority to approve, disapprove, modify or alter the proposed plans in
accordance with the purpose of the site plan review provisions of this chapter
and the criteria contained herein.
            1.   Any required modification or alteration shall be stated in
writing, together with the reasons for the modification, and delivered to the
applicant. The Planning Commission may either approve the plans contingent upon
the required alterations or modifications, if any, or may require a further
review after the same have been included in the proposed plans for the
applicant.
            2.   The decision of the Planning Commission shall be made by the
Board within 30 days of receipt of the application by the Zoning Official.
         (e)   One copy of the approved final site plan, including any required
modifications or alterations, shall be maintained as part of the city records
for future review and enforcement.
            1.   One copy shall be returned to the applicant. Each copy shall
be signed by the Chairperson of the Planning Commission for identification of
the finally approved plans.
            2.   If any variances from the unified development ordinance have
been obtained from the Zoning Board of Appeals, the minutes concerning the
variances duly signed shall also be filed with the city records as a part of
the site plan and delivered to the applicant for his or her information and
direction.
            3.    The site plan shall become part of the record of approval,
and subsequent actions relating to the activity authorized shall be consistent
with the approved site plan, unless a change conforming to this chapter
receives the mutual agreement of the landowner and the Planning Commission.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1729.gif]
 
      (6)   Criteria for review. In reviewing the application and site plan and
approving, disapproving or modifying the same, the Planning Commission shall be
governed by the following standards:
         (a)   That there is a proper relationship between the existing streets
and highways within the vicinity and proposed deceleration lanes, service
drives, entrance and exit driveways and parking areas to ensure the safety and
convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic;
         (b)   That the buildings and structures proposed to be located upon
the premises are so situated as to minimize adverse effects upon owners and
occupants of adjacent properties;
         (c)   That as many natural features of the landscape shall be retained
as possible where they furnish a barrier or buffer between the project and
adjoining properties used for dissimilar purposes and where they assist in
preserving the general appearance of the neighborhood;
         (d)   That any adverse effects of the proposed development and
activities emanating therefrom which affect adjoining residents or owners shall
be minimized by appropriate screening, fencing, landscaping, setback and
location of buildings, structures and entryways;
         (e)   That the layout of buildings and improvements will minimize any
harmful or adverse effect which the development might otherwise have upon the
surrounding neighborhood;
         (f)   That all provisions of the unified development ordinance are
complied with. This would not preclude the applicant from applying for an
appropriate variance with the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Planning Commission
may conditionally approve a site plan subject to the granting of any
appropriate variance; and
         (g)   Plans and design of facilities to properly contain, or dispose
of, storm water shall be approved by the Planning Commission based on review
and recommendation by a licensed engineer, the cost of which will be paid by
the applicant.
      (7)   Conformity to approved site plan.
         (a)   Revocation of site plan approval.
            1.   Property which is the subject of site plan approval must be
developed in strict compliance with the approved site plan, inclusive of any
amendments, which have received the approval of the Planning Commission. If
construction and development does not conform with the approved plan, the
approval of the site plan shall be revoked by the Zoning Official by written
notice of the revocation posted upon the premises involved and mailed to the
owner at his or her last known address.
            2.   Upon revocation of the approval, all construction activities
shall cease upon the site until such time as the violation has been corrected
or the Planning Commission has, upon proper application of the owner and after
hearing, approved a modification in the site plan to coincide with the owner's
construction or altered plans for construction as being in compliance with the
criteria contained in the site plan approval provisions and with the spirit,
purpose and intent of this chapter.
         (b)   Criteria for commencing construction.
            1.   Approval of the site plan shall be valid for a period of one
year.
            2.   If a building permit has not been obtained and on-site
development actually commenced within one year, the site plan approval shall
become void and a new application for site plan approval shall be required and
new approval obtained before any construction or earth change is commenced upon
the site.
            3.   The one-year period may be extended for extenuating
circumstances.
            4.   The circumstances must be made known to the Planning
Commission and the extension approved by same.
      (8)   Amendment to site plan. A proposed amendment, modification or
alteration to a previously approved site plan may be submitted to the Planning
Commission for review in the same manner as the original application was
submitted and reviewed.
      (9)   Performance bond.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall have the right and authority to
require the developer to file with the Zoning Official at the time of
application for a zoning permit, a performance agreement in a form approved by
the Zoning Official to ensure the development of the site is in accordance with
the approved site plan, conditioned upon the proper construction and
development.
         (b)   The agreement shall continue for the duration of the
construction and development of the site.
   (B)   Zoning compliance permits.
      (1)   Applicability. No parking area, fence, building or other structure
regulated by this chapter shall be located, erected, razed, moved, extended,
enlarged, altered or changed in use until a zoning compliance permit has been
issued by the Zoning Official.
      (2)   Application procedure.
         (a)   An application for a zoning compliance permit shall be filed
with the Zoning Official by the owner of the land involved or by an authorized
agent.
         (b)   The application shall contain a written statement of the
intended use or change and shall be accompanied by a site plan showing the
location of the proposed improvements upon the lot.
         (c)   Prints of all plans shall be submitted in triplicate showing
pertinent dimensions to scale.
         (d)   The application and plans shall be signed by the property owner
or his or her agent, and by the person preparing them.
         (e)   A fee established by the city shall accompany all applications
to defray administrative and inspection costs.
         (f)   Where an application involves required site plan approval by the
Planning Commission, the Zoning Official shall refer the plan to the Planning
Commission.
      (3)   Issuance.
         (a)   No zoning compliance permit shall be issued unless the
application and plans conform in all respects to this chapter and to other
applicable city regulations and have been approved by any required review board
or person.
         (b)   The zoning compliance permit shall state any special conditions
imposed by this chapter or by any review board or person and shall be signed by
the Zoning Official and the owner.
         (c)   A copy of the signed zoning compliance permit shall be sent to
the city assessor.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1731.gif]
 
   (C)   Occupancy permit required. No new building, new portion of a building
or portion of a building vacated to permit alterations shall be occupied or re-
occupied until an occupancy permit is issued. No building declared unsafe or
unfit for human habitation shall be occupied or used.
   (D)   Nonresidential occupancy permits.
      (1)   Before any existing use of land or use of building is changed, and
before any new parking area, building or other new structure or a new part
thereof regulated by this chapter is occupied or used, an occupancy permit
shall be issued.
      (2)   The Zoning Official shall ascertain, by inspection, that the
intended use, premises, building, structure or parts thereof comply with the
provisions of this chapter, with any other pertinent city regulations, with any
special conditions imposed on the zoning compliance permit and with all aspects
of the approved site plan.
      (3)   Upon so finding, the Zoning Official shall issue an occupancy
permit which shall be acknowledged by the signature of the owner thereon. A
copy of the occupancy permit shall be sent to the City Assessor by the Zoning
Official.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1733.gif]
 
   (E)   Sign permits.
      (1)   Applications for sign permits and the appropriate non-refundable
fee shall be made upon forms provided by the city office and be completed as
specified by the Zoning Administrator, or designee. Applications must be
accompanied by a rendering of the sign, dimensions, site location and any other
criteria as required by the Zoning Administrator in order to enable him or her
to determine compliance with the applicable provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The application will be evaluated by Zoning Administrator, or his
or her designee, for compliance of municipal and other applicable law. The
application, if not denied by the Zoning Administrator, or his or her
respective designees, within three business days of the date of its receipt,
shall be deemed approved and a permit shall be issued. The applicant shall be
notified and informed of any reasons for denial along with the corresponding
section of the code.
      (3)   If construction is not complete within 12 months of the issuance
date of the permit, the permit shall lapse and become void.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1735.gif]
 
   (F)   Special uses.
      (1)   Purpose.
         (a)   The development and execution of this chapter is based upon the
division of the city into districts within which the uses of land and buildings
and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation to the land
are substantially uniform.
         (b)   It is recognized, however, that there are special uses which,
because of their unique characteristics, cannot be properly classified in any
particular district or districts without consideration, in each case, of the
impact of those uses upon neighborhood land, including the:
            1.   Uses publicly operated or traditionally affected with a public
interest; and
            2.   Uses entirely private in character, but of such an unusual
nature that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to
their impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
      (2)   General provisions.
         (a)   Initiation of special land use. Any person having a freehold
interest in land, or a possessor interest entitled to exclusive possession, or
a contractual interest which may become a freehold interest, and which is
specifically enforceable, may file an application to use the land for one or
more of the special uses provided for in this chapter in the zoning district in
which the land is located.
         (b)   Application of special land use. An application for a special
land use shall be filed with the Zoning Official on a form prescribed by the
Zoning Official. The application shall be accompanied by the plans and/or data
prescribed by the Zoning Official and shall include as a minimum the
requirements for site plan review as noted in § 154.06(A). The application
shall also include a statement in writing by the applicant and adequate
evidence showing that the proposed special land use will conform to the
standards set forth in this section. The application shall also be accompanied
by a fee to cover the expense of a public hearing.
      (3)   Receipt of application.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application for a special land use which
requires a decision on discretionary grounds, one notice that a request for
special land use approval has been received shall be published in a newspaper
of general circulation in the city and shall be sent by mail or personal
delivery to the owners of property for which approval is being considered, to
all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the boundary
of the property in question, and to the occupants of all structures within 300
feet.
         (b)   The notice shall be given not less than five and not more than
15 days before the application will be considered.
            1.   If the name of the occupant is not known, the term “occupant”
may be used in making notification.
            2.   Notification need not be given to more than one occupant of a
structure, except that if a structure contains more than one dwelling unit or
spatial area owned or leased by different individuals, partnerships, businesses
or organization, one occupant of each unit or spatial area shall receive
notice.
            3.   In the case of a single structure containing more than four
dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by different
individuals, partnerships, businesses or organizations, notice may be given to
the manager or owner of the structure who shall be requested to post the notice
at the primary entrance to the structure.
         (c)   The notice shall:
            1.   Describe the nature of the special land use request;
            2.   Indicate the property which is the subject of the special land
use request;
            3.   State when and where the special land use request will be
considered;
            4.   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request; and
            5.   Indicate that a public hearing on the special land use request
may be requested by a property owner or the occupant of a structure located
within 300 feet of the boundary of the property being considered for a special
use.
      (4)   Public hearing.
         (a)   At the initiative of the Planning Commission upon the request of
the applicant for special land use authorization, or a property owner or the
occupant of a structure located within 300 feet of the boundary of property
being considered for special land use approval as provided in division (F)(3)
above, a public hearing with notification as required for a notice of a request
for special land use approval, as provided in division (F)(3) above, shall be
held before a decision on the special land use request which is based on
discretionary grounds shall be made.
         (b)   A decision on a special land use request which is based on
discretionary grounds shall not be made unless notification of the request for
special land use request is given as required by this section.
      (5)   Authorization. For each application for a special land use, the
Zoning Official shall review the application and make a recommendation to the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may deny, approve or approve with
conditions any application for a special land use.
      (6)   Basis for decision. The Planning Commission shall incorporate their
decision in a statement of conclusions relative to the special land use under
consideration. The decision shall specify the basis for the decision and any
conditions imposed.
      (7)   Approval standards. No special land use shall be recommended by the
Zoning Official or approved by the Planning Commission unless it shall find:
         (a)   That the establishment, maintenance or operation of the special
land use will not be detrimental to or endanger the public health, safety or
general welfare or the natural environment;
         (b)   That the special land use will not be injurious to the use and
enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity for the purposes already
permitted, nor shall it substantially diminish and impair property values
within its neighborhood;
         (c)   That the establishment of the special land use will not impede
the normal and orderly development and improvement of the surrounding property
for uses permitted in the district;
         (d)   That adequate utilities, access roads, drainage and necessary
facilities have been or are being provided;
         (e)   That adequate measures have been or will be taken to provide
ingress and egress so designed as to minimize traffic congestion in the public
streets; and
         (f)   That the special land use shall, in all other respects, conform
to the applicable regulations of the district in which it is located and to any
additional conditions or procedures as specified in division (8) below.
      (8)   Conditions and guarantees.
         (a)   Prior to granting of any special land use, the Planning
Commission shall stipulate the conditions and restrictions upon the
establishment, location, construction, maintenance and operations of the
special land use as deemed necessary for the protection of the public interests
and to secure compliance with the standards and requirements specified in this
section.
         (b)   In all cases in which special land uses are granted, the
Planning Commission shall require the evidence and guarantees as it may deem
necessary as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith are
being and will be complied with. Any conditions imposed shall remain unchanged
except upon the mutual consent of the Planning Commission and the landowner.
The Planning Commission shall maintain a record of changes granted in
conditions.
      (9)   Effect of denial of a special land use. No application for a
special land use which has been denied wholly or in part by the Planning
Commission shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date of the
order of denial, except on the grounds of new evidence or proof of change or
conditions found to be valid by the Zoning Official and the Planning
Commission.
      (10)   Revocatio n. In any case where a special land use has not been
established within one year after the date of granting authorization for the
use, or if terms and conditions of permit are not met, or plans submitted are
deviated from, the special land use authorization shall automatically be null
and void without further action by the Planning Commission.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1737.gif]
 
   (G)   Subdivisions.
      (1)   Applicabili ty. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no
person shall subdivide any tract of land which is located within the city,
except in conformity with the provisions of this section.
      (2)   Purpose. In their interpretation and in application, the provisions
of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements adopted for the
protection of the public health, safety and welfare. To protect the public,
among other purposes, the provisions are intended to provide for permanent
wholesome community environment, adequate municipal services and safe streets.
      (3)   Enforcement.
         (a)   Recording of plat. No plat of any subdivision shall be entitled
to record in the Register of Deeds office or have any validity until it has
been approved in the manner specified herein. In the event any such unapproved
plat is recorded, it shall be considered invalid, and the Planning Commission
shall institute proceedings to have the plat stricken from the records of the
county.
         (b)   Sale of land in subdivision. No owner or agent of the owner of
any land located within a subdivision shall transfer, sell, agree to sell or
negotiate to sell, any land by reference to, exhibition of, or by use of a
plan, or plat of a subdivision before the plan or plat has been approved and
recorded in a manner prescribed herein. Any sale or transfer contrary to the
provisions of this section is voidable within 90 days at the option of the
buyer. The description of the lot or parcel by metes and bounds in the
instrument of transfer or other documents used in the process of selling or
transferring shall not exempt the transaction from the provisions of this
chapter.
         (c)   Permit. The Building Inspector shall not issue building or
repair permits for any structure on a lot in a subdivision for which a plat has
not been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed herein. The Building
Inspector shall not issue a permit for repair on any structure in a subdivision
for which a plat has not been approved and recorded in the manner prescribed
herein. Before any permit shall be issued, the lot shall be connected to city
water.
         (d)   Public improvements. The city hereby defines its policy to be
that the city will withhold all public improvements of whatsoever nature,
including the maintenance of streets and furnishing of sewer facilities and
water service from all subdivisions which have not been approved, and from all
areas dedicated to the public which have not been accepted by the Council in
the manner prescribed herein.
         (e)   Revision of plat after approval. No changes, erasures,
modifications or revisions shall be made in any plat or subdivision after
approval has been given by the Planning Commission and endorsed in writing on
the plat, unless the plat is first re-submitted to the Planning Commission.
         (f)   Fees. The subdivider shall pay a filing fee of $5 per lot for
every plat submitted to the Planning Commission for approval. One-half the
total fee shall be paid when the preliminary plat is presented to the Planning
Commission for approval and the other half shall be paid when the final plat is
presented to the Commission for approval.
      (4)   Design standards.
         (a)   General requirements.
            1.   The streets shall conform in effect to the Master Plan as
adopted.
            2.   If the tentative lay-out has been made by the City Engineer,
the street shall be in general conformance thereto.
            3.   In cases where variations and exceptions from the standards,
improvement requirements and open space requirements are deemed necessary, the
variations shall be recommended by the Planning Commission to the City Council.
            4.   Every subdivision shall have a dedicated means of ingress and
egress.
         (b)   Streets, alleys and walkways.
            1.   Right-of-way minimum width.
               a.   Major streets and parkways: 66 feet;
               b.   Local streets: 66 feet;
               c.   Alleys and service drives: 20 feet;
               d.   Walkways: ten feet; and
               e.   Easements: 20 feet.
            2.   Streets shall intersect one another at right angles or as near
right angles as condition permit.
            3.   Street lay-outs shall be in conformity with a plan for the
most advantageous development of adjoining unplatted or underdeveloped areas
and shall provide for access to those areas.
            4.   Dead-end streets shall be accepted and approved only if
adequate additional area be provided at the end of the dead-end street so that
a terminal-circle, equivalent to that of a cul-de-sac, be provided until a time
as a street may be extended outside the subdivision.
            5.   Wherever there exists, adjacent to the tract to be subdivided,
a dedicated or platted and recorded half-width street or alley, the other half-
width shall be platted.
            6.   Alleys shall be platted in all business districts. Alleys
shall not be accepted in residential districts, unless specifically required by
the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Blocks.
            1.   No block on any local street shall be more than 1,000 feet in
length, except where in the opinion of the Planning Commission, conditions
justify a departure from this maximum. In blocks of more than 900 feet in
length, the Planning Commission may require at or near the middle of the block,
a walkway or easement for public utilities.
            2.   The number of intersecting streets along the highways and
major streets shall be held to a minimum; wherever practicable, blocks along
the traffic-ways shall not be less than 1,320 feet in length.
         (d)   Lots.
            1.   Lots shall conform in width and area to the zoning district in
which the subdivision is located.
            2.   No lot shall have both the front and back abutting on a public
street.
            3.   Side lots shall be approximately at right angles to the right-
of-way line of the street to which the lot faces. Every lot shall abut on a
dedicated street.
         (e)   Minimum pavement width.
            1.   Highway, major streets and parkways: 42 feet, face of curb to
face of curb.
            2.   Local street and cul-de-sacs: 32 feet, face of curb to face of
curb.
      (5)   Procedure.
         (a)   Preliminary plat.
            1.   Prior to submission of a preliminary plat, subdividers shall
discuss tentative studies with the City Engineer.
            2.   To receive consideration at the next subsequent meeting of the
Planning Commission, the subdivider shall file with the City Engineer, not less
than five days prior to the meeting, five prints of the preliminary plat, along
with written application.
            3.   The preliminary plat shall indicate the following:
               a.   Proposed name of the subdivision, and description of the
land to be platted;
               b.   Scale: optional, but not to exceed 100 feet to the inch;
               c.   Date and cardinal point;
               d.   Boundary lines, accurate in scale, of the plat to be
subdivided;
               e.   Location, width and names of existing streets within or
adjacent to the tract and any other features, such as county drains, water
courses, railroads, section lines, existing buildings and the like;
               f.   Names, locations and widths of proposed streets, alleys,
easements, parks, lots and waterways;
               g.   The name and address of the subdivider and the engineer or
surveyor;
               h.   All parcels of land proposed to be dedicated to public use
and conditions of the dedication;
               i.   When only a part of a tract is proposed to be subdivided,
the lay-out of the remaining area shall be drawn in sketch form;
               j.   Boundary lines of adjacent tracts of unsubdivided and
subdivided land showing owners; and
               k.   Contours when required by the Planning Commission.
            4.   The Planning Commission shall provide for a public hearing and
shall notify by mail at least five days prior to the hearing all property
owners within 500 feet of the extreme limits of the subdivision, as their names
appear on the city tax records. The notice shall state the time and place of
the hearing, a brief description of the subdivision and that a copy of the
preliminary plat of the subdivision is on file with the City Clerk/Treasurer
for public inspection. The Commission shall also cause notice of the hearing to
be published in the official newspaper or a newspaper of general circulation in
the city at least five days prior to the hearing.
            5.   Approval of the preliminary plat by the Planning Commission
shall be indicated in writing on the preliminary plat, along with any changes
or requirements that the Commission may make, constituting of the final plat.
            6.   Approval of the preliminary plat shall be valid for the
duration of not more than two years.
         (b)   Final plat.
            1.   The subdivider shall file with the Planning Commission the
original ink tracing and eight litho-prints on cloth of the final recorded
plat, together with a certificate of title by an attorney at law. The tracing
shall be retained by the city.
            2.   Approval of the final plat is contingent upon furnishing to
the City Engineer a plan of each street on tracing cloth with the following
data: profile and cross-section notes of each street with grades; plan in
profile of proposed sanitary and storm sewers with size and grades; and a plan
of water lines, with size and appurtenances, all in accordance with standard
specifications of city.
            3.   The final plat shall be prepared and presented in accordance
with the provisions of the state plat law. Approval of the final plat is
contingent upon evidence that the improvements as required have been made or
will be made by the subdivider as provided herein.
            4.   The plat and agreements, after approval by the Planning
Commission, shall be forwarded to the City Council.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1739.gif]
 
      (6)   Improvements.
         (a)   Installation of financing. The following installations shall be
the responsibility and shall be installed or financed by the subdivider in one
of the following manners hereafter specified:
            1.   Streets. Gravel streets shall be provided by the subdivider
according to the specifications as contained in this chapter as to width and as
the grade and the like, as may be under the supervision of the city official
having jurisdiction.
            2.   Sanitary sewers. The subdivider shall pay to the city the sum
of $80 per lot per year thereafter, this sum to be applied upon the cost of
installing sanitary sewers to the subdivision.
            3.   Water. The subdividers shall be responsible for installation
of water mains throughout the platted subdivision, based upon the cost of the
installation of six-inch water main. Where the city requires larger than a six-
inch main, the subdivider shall pay only the cost of the installation of a six-
inch water main and the city shall pay the additional cost over and above the
installation of the six-inch main. In addition, the subdivider shall pay the
cost of installation of water service to the platted lots from the water mains
to the curb stop, all in accordance with the specifications and under the
supervision of the city officer having jurisdiction.
            4.   Curb and gutter. The subdivider shall pay two-thirds of the
cost of curb and gutter and the city shall pay one-third of the cost of the
curb and gutter, if curb and gutter are required and made one of the conditions
for approval of the final plat. Otherwise, the owners of the lots shall pay the
cost the subdivider would have paid at a time as the city institutes necessary
legal proceedings to construct curb and gutter.
            5.   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed and financed by the
subdivider or by the record holder of title at the time. The city may take
legal proceedings for the installation of the sidewalks at a future date.
         (b)   Required improvements; bond; petition. The subdivider shall
install all the required improvements as above set forth prior to the final
approval by the Planning Commission of the final plat in accordance with the
specifications and under the supervision of the city officials having
jurisdiction; or prior to final approval of the final plat by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider shall post a performance bond sufficient to cover
the cost as estimated by the City Engineer of the required improvements, which
bond shall provide the period of time in which the improvements shall be
completed; or prior to the final approval of the final plat by the Planning
Commission, the subdivider shall file a petition with the City Clerk/Treasurer
for the installation by the city of the required improvements at 100% special
assessment to the subdivider.
         (c)   Agreement between the subdivider and city. The subdivider shall
enter into an agreement with the city, containing a restriction upon the plat,
whereby the city's Building Inspector will not be permitted to issue a building
permit for any structure upon any lot within the subdivision until the
improvements as specified above have been completed, or satisfactory
arrangements have been made with the city, for the completion of the
improvements. These plat restrictions shall be made a part of all deeds or
contracts for any lot within the subdivision.
         (d)   Borderline streets. If a plat dedicates half of a width of a
street on a boundary line separating two or more parcels of property, the
subdivider shall enter into an agreement with the city whereby the subdivider
shall be responsible for the installation of improvements on his or her half of
the street at the time the adjacent tract is developed.
      (7)   Administration.
         (a)   These rules, regulations and standards shall be considered the
minimum requirements for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the city. Action taken by the City Council under the
terms of this chapter shall give primary consideration to the above mentioned
matters and to the welfare of the entire community. However, if the subdivider
or his or her agent can clearly demonstrate that, because of the peculiar
conditions pertaining to his or her land, the literal enforcement of one or
more these regulations is impracticable or will exact undue hardship, the
Planning Commission may recommend and the City Council may permit variance or
variances as may be reasonable and within the general purpose and intent of
these rules, regulations and standards established by this chapter.
         (b)   In making its findings as required, the Planning Commission
shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of the existing use of
land in the vicinity and the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, and the notable effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity.
         (c)   No variance shall be granted unless the city finds:
            1.   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting
the property, such that a strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
            2.   That the variances are necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right of the applicant; and
            3.   That the granting of the variance would not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to the property in the area in which the
property is situated.
      (8)   Procedure for variance. Petition for any such variance shall be
submitted in writing by the subdivider at the time when the preliminary plat is
filed for the investigation by the Planning Commission. The petition shall
state fully the grounds for the application and all the facts relied upon by
the petitioner.
      (9)   Penalty. Any person who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction, shall be
punished by a fine not to exceed $100. Each and every day that the violation
continues shall constitute a separate offense.
   (H)   City Planning Commission.
      (1)   Powers and duties. The City Planning Commission is hereby
designated the Planning Commission as specified in the Planning Enabling Act,
Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 through 125.3885, as amended,
and in § 4, Public Act 207 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 through 125.590,
as amended and shall perform the duties of the Planning Commission as provided
in these acts together with other powers and duties as are given to the
Planning Commission by the provisions of this chapter, including authority to
act on all matters requiring the approval or recommendation of the Planning
Commission and including the power to interpret this chapter.
      (2)   Authority to approve uses.
         (a)   Whenever in this chapter the lawful exercise or existence of a
use requires the approval of the Planning Commission, the Planning Commission
is hereby authorized and directed to investigate the matter requiring the
approval, to conduct a hearing thereon where required, to make a determination,
to either grant or refuse the approval and to do all things reasonably
necessary to the making of the investigation and determination, subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall determine if the requested use is
a permitted use or special use.
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall have discretionary authority to
grant special land use permits in compliance with §
154.06(F).
      (3)   Hearing notice. Prior to conducting a public hearing, as authorized
in division (A) above, a public notice, stating the time and place of the
hearing, shall be posted and served in accordance with the provisions
established in §
154.06 (I)(8).
      (4)   Rules of procedure. The Planning Commission is hereby authorized to
adopt rules of procedure consistent with the state statutes and the provisions
of this chapter.
      (5)   Surveys and plans. Where the Planning Commission is empowered to
approve certain uses of premises under the provisions of this chapter, or in
cases where the Planning Commission is required to make an investigation, the
applicant shall furnish the surveys, plans or other information as may be
reasonably required by the Planning Commission for the proper consideration of
the matter in accordance with this chapter.
      (6)   Hearings. In making any recommendations or approval authorized by
the provisions of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall consider:
         (a)   Whether there has been a compliance with the provisions of this
chapter;
         (b)   Whether there is proper yard space, parking facilities, loading
space, percentage of lot coverage, green belts, size of buildings, lot area and
other conditions required by this chapter;
         (c)   Whether the use involved is in accord with the spirit and
purposes of this chapter;
         (d)   Whether the use involved would constitute a public or private
nuisance;
         (e)   Whether the use involved would disturb or interfere with the
natural or planned development of the surrounding neighborhood; and
         (f)   Whether the use involved would affect the natural or planned
drainage system so as to deleteriously affect the surrounding neighborhood.
   (I)   Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   General grant of power.
         (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt the rules of procedure,
not inconsistent with the provisions of the state statutes and local
ordinances, as it may deem necessary to the proper performance of its duties
and the proper exercise of its powers.
         (b)   Meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at other times as the Board of Appeals may determine. The
Chairperson, or in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson, may administer
oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.
         (c)   Hearings of the Board of Appeals shall be public. The Board of
Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the action of the Board
of Appeals and the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent or
failing to vote, indicating that fact, and shall keep records of its
examination and other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed
in the office of the Board of Appeals and shall be a public record.
         (d)   The Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and
review any order, requirements, decisions or determination made by the Zoning
Official or body charged with enforcement of this chapter. The Board of Appeals
shall also hear and decide matters referred to them or upon which they are
required to pass under an ordinance of the legislative body adopted pursuant to
the Zoning Enabling Act.
         (e)   An appeal to the Board of Appeals in cases in which it has
original jurisdiction under the provisions of this chapter may be taken by any
property owner, including a tenant, or by a government office, department,
board or bureau. An application for the appeal shall be filed with the Zoning
Official, who shall transmit the same, together with all the plans,
specifications and other papers pertaining to the application, to the Board of
Appeals.
      (2)   Membership and appointment.
         (a)   Pursuant to state statutes, there is hereby created a Zoning
Board of Appeals. City Council will act as the Zoning Board of Appeals pursuant
to City Charter § 6.9.
         (b)   Voting. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse an order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Official, or to decide in favor of the applicant a
matter upon which the Board of Appeals is required to pass under the terms of
an ordinance, except that a concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the
Board of Appeals shall be necessary to grant a variance from uses of land
permitted in an ordinance.
      (3)   Appeal procedure.
         (a)   An appeal may be taken by a person aggrieved, or by an officer,
department, board or bureau of the city. The appeal shall be taken within 30
days of the date of the decision appealed, as prescribed by the rules of the
Board of Appeals, by filing with the officer or body from whom the appeal is
taken; that officer or body shall immediately transmit to the Board all the
papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed was taken.
         (b)   Stay of proceedings. An appeal stays all proceedings in
furtherance of the action appealed unless the officer or body from whom the
appeal is taken certifies to the Board of Appeals, after the notice of appeal
is filed, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in
the opinion of the officer or body cause imminent peril to life or property; in
which case proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining
order. This restraining order may be granted by the Board of Appeals or circuit
court, on application of or notice to the officer or body from whom the appeal
is taken and on due cause shown.
         (c)   Decisions on appeals and applications. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall render its decision upon any appeal or application submitted to
it within 60 days after the hearing thereon, and in any event, within 90 days
after the date of filing the appeal or application; upon failure to do so, the
appeal or application shall thereupon be deemed to be decided adversely to the
appellant or applicant in the same manner as though the Board had rendered its
decision to that effect. All decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
become final five days after the date of entry of an order, unless the Board
shall find, and so certify on the record, that it is necessary to cause the
order to have immediate effect, in order to preserve property or personal
rights.
      (4)   Appeals to circuit court.
         (a)   The decision of the Board of Appeals shall be final. However, a
person having an interest affected by this chapter may appeal to the circuit
court. Upon appeal, the circuit court shall review the record and decision of
the Board of Appeals to ensure that the decision:
            1.   Complies with the constitution and laws of the state;
            2.   Is based upon proper procedure;
            3.   Is supported by competent, material and substantial evidence
on the record; and
            4.   Represents the reasonable exercise of discretion granted by
law to the Board of Appeals.
         (b)   As a result of the court's review, the court may affirm, reverse
or modify the decision of the Board of Appeals.
      (5)   Variance procedures.
         (a)   Grant of power for variances. In addition to other duties and
powers specified herein, the Zoning Board of Appeals, after public hearing,
shall have the power to authorize a land use or structural variance from the
provisions of this chapter where it is alleged by the applicant that either:
            1.   By reason of the exceptional narrowness, shallowness or shape
of a specific piece of property on the effective date of this chapter, or by
reason of exceptional topographic conditions or other extraordinary situation
or condition of the land, building or structure or by reason of the use or
development of property immediately adjoining the property in question, the
literal enforcement of the requirements of this chapter would involve practical
difficulties or would cause undue hardship;
            2.   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship in
the way of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter relating to the
construction, structural changes in equipment or alterations of buildings or
structures or the use of the land, buildings or structures; or
            3.   The condition or situation of the specific property or the
specific intended use of the property is not of a general or recurrent nature
as to make the formulation of general regulations in this chapter practical.
         (b)   Variances prohibited. A variance may be allowed by the Zoning
Board of Appeals only in cases where there is reasonable evidence in the
official record of the hearing that:
            1.   The alleged practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
are present;
            2.   The variance will not be detrimental to adjacent property and
the surrounding neighborhood;
            3.   The variance will not impair the intent and purpose of this
chapter; and
            4.   At least two of the following conditions are found to exist:
               a.   There are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applying to the property in question or to the intended use of the
property that do not apply generally to other properties in the same zoning
district;
               b.   The conditions or situation of the specific piece of
property or the intended use of the property for which the variance is sought
is not of so general or recurrent a nature as to make reasonably practicable
the formulation of a general regulation for the conditions or situation; and/or
               c.   The variance is necessary for the preservation and
enjoyment of a substantial property right similar to that possessed by other
properties in the same zoning district and in the vicinity. The possibility of
increased financial return shall not of itself be deemed sufficient to warrant
a variance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1741.gif]
 
      (6)   Temporary uses and public utility permits.
         (a)   The temporary use of a building or premises in any district for
purposes of use that do not conform to the regulations prescribed by this
chapter for the district in which it is located is permitted upon permit
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals, provided that the use is of a true
temporary nature and does not involve the erection of substantial buildings.
The permit shall be granted in the form of a temporary and revocable permit for
not more than a 12-month period, subject to such conditions as will safeguard
the public health, safety, convenience and general welfare.
         (b)   The temporary use of a building or premises in undeveloped
sections for a purpose that does not conform to the regulations prescribed by
this chapter for the district in which it is to be located is permitted upon
permit granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals, provided that the structure or
use is of a true temporary nature, is promotive of or incidental to the
development of the undeveloped sections, and does not involve the erection of
substantial buildings. The permit shall be granted in the form of a temporary
and revocable permit for not more than a 12-month period, subject to the
conditions as will safeguard the public health, safety, convenience and general
welfare.
         (c)   Public utilities. The Board of Appeals shall have the power to
permit the erection and use of a building of a public service corporation for
public utility purposes in any permitted district to a greater height or larger
area than the district requirements herein established, and permit the location
in any use district of a public utility building, structure or use if the Board
of Appeals shall find the use, height, area, building or structure reasonably
necessary for the public convenience and service and provided the building,
structure or use is designed, erected and landscaped to conform harmoniously
with the general architecture of the district.
      (7)   Interpretation of map. Where a street or lot layout actually on the
ground, or as recorded, differs from the street and lot lines as shown on the
zoning map, the Board of Appeals, after notice to the owners of the property
and the immediate adjoining property and after public hearing, shall interpret
the map in a way so as to carry out the intent and purposes of this chapter for
the particular section or district in question.
      (8)   Public hearing.
         (a)   Upon the filing of any appeal or application as hereinafter
provided, or upon any other application in any matter or proceeding over which
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall have jurisdiction by law or ordinance, the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a public hearing on the appeal or
application.
         (b)   The hearing shall be held at the next meeting of the Board to be
held not less than 15 days after the date of the filing. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall cause notice of the time and place of the hearing to be given to
the appellant or applicant and shall also cause notice of the time, place and
purpose of the hearing to be given to all owners of property within 300 feet of
the property to be affected by the appeal or application, and to the occupants
of all single and two-family dwellings within 300 feet of the property.
         (c)   The notice shall be given by certified mail or an affidavit of
mailing, sent to the respective address of the owners and occupants as listed
in the city tax rolls, or the notice may be delivered by handing a copy thereof
to the property owners and occupants personally and obtaining their certifying
signatures evidencing the delivery.
            1.   If the name of any occupant is not known, the term "occupant"
may be used in addressing any notices sent by certified mail.
            2.   Where ownership is in more than one person, a partnership, a
corporation, an infant or a trust, service upon any one of the owners or
partners, an officer or registered agent of the corporation, the guardian or
parent of the infant or trustee of the trust, as the case may be, shall be
sufficient.
            3.   At the hearing, any party may appear in person, or represented
by an attorney or agent.
      (9)   Fees. Upon the filing of any appeal or application to the Zoning
Board of Appeals by any person other than an officer, department, board or
agency of the city, the appellant or applicant shall pay a fee set by the City
Council to defray the cost of hearing and recording the matter. In addition, if
testimony is to be taken stenographically, the cost of doing so and of
transcribing the same shall be borne and paid for by the appellant or
applicant, and the Zoning Board of Appeals may require the deposit to be made
for the purpose as shall be reasonable in the circumstances.
      (10)   Time limit for construction.
         (a)   If a variance is granted or the issuance of a permit is finally
approved or other action by the appellant or applicant is authorized, any
necessary permits shall be secured and the authorized action, construction or
use begun within three months after the date when the variance is finally
granted, or the issuance of the permit or permits is finally approved or the
other action to be taken by the appellant or applicant is authorized; and the
structure, building or alteration, as the case may be, shall be completed
within 12 months of the date.
         (b)   For good cause shown, the Zoning Board of Appeals may, upon
application in writing stating the reasons thereof, extend either the three-
month or the 12-month period for further time as the Zoning Board of Appeals
may, in its sole discretion, deem sufficient.
         (c)   Should the appellant or applicant fail to obtain any necessary
permit or permits within the three-month period, or having obtained the same,
should fail to commence work, or to take action or to exercise a use authorized
thereunder within the three-month period, it shall be conclusively presumed
that the appellant or applicant has waived, withdrawn and abandoned his or her
appeal or his or her application, and all permissions, permits and variances to
him or her granted by reason of the appeal or application shall be deemed
automatically rescinded by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (d)   Should the appellant or applicant commence any required
construction or alteration within the three-month period but fail to complete
the construction or alteration within the 12-month period, the Zoning Board of
Appeals may, upon ten days written notice, rescind or revoke the granted
variance, or the issuance of the permit or permits, or the right to take other
action as may have been authorized to the appellant or applicant, if the Board
finds that no good cause appears for the failure.
      (11)   Employees. The Zoning Board of Appeals may employ clerical or
other assistance as may be necessary, provided that it shall not at any time
incur any expense beyond the amount of the appropriation made and then
available for that purpose.
      (12)   Minutes and records. The Secretary of the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall keep minutes of the substance of all testimony and of the Board's
proceedings, showing the vote of each member upon every question, or if absent
or failing to vote, indicating that fact. The Secretary shall keep records of
the Zoning Board of Appeals’ examinations and official actions, all of which
shall be immediately filed in the office of the Zoning Board of Appeals and
shall be a public record.
   (J)   District changes and ordinance amendments.
      (1)   In accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Enabling Act,
Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 through 125.3702, as
amended, the City Council from time to time may amend, or change by ordinance,
the number, shape or area of districts established on the zoning map or the
regulations set forth in this chapter; but no amendment or change shall become
effective unless the ordinance proposing the amendment or change shall first be
submitted to the Planning Commission for approval, disapproval or suggestions
and the Planning Commission shall have been allowed a reasonable time, not less
than 30 days, for consideration and report.
      (2)   Any person or persons desiring a change in the unified development
ordinance text or zoning map shall make application to the City Council. In
case of a unified development ordinance text amendment, a letter shall be
submitted which shall contain the requested change and the reason for the
change; in case of a desired zoning map change a petition shall be submitted
which shall describe the property involved, the zone change desired and the
reason for the change. With either type of request there shall be an
accompanying fee to cover costs encountered in conducting a public hearing and
an escrow account to cover any planning reviews.
      (3)   The City Council shall refer all applications for a change in the
zoning ordinance text or map to the Planning Commission.
         (a)   Before submitting its recommendations and report to the City
Council, the Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed
amendment or change after publishing notice of hearing at least 15 days prior
to the date of hearing in an official paper or a paper of general circulation
in the municipality and by sending a copy of the notice by United States mail
to each public utility company and railroad company owning or operating any
public utility or railroad within the districts or zones affected that
registers its name and mailing address with the City Clerk/Treasurer for the
purpose of receiving the notice.
         (b)   An affidavit of mailing shall be maintained.
         (c)   A hearing shall be granted to a person interested at the time
and place specified on the notice.
         (d)   In case of a proposed zoning map change, all property owners
within 300 feet of the boundaries of the property proposed to be changed shall
be likewise notified by mail.
         (e)   All public notices (including publication in the newspaper and
letter) shall state the time and place of hearing, the proposed amendment, and
the property to be affected in case of a proposed map change.
         (f)   The omission of the name of any owner or occupant of property
who may, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, be affected by the
amendment or change shall not invalidate any ordinance passed hereunder; it
being the intention of this section to provide reasonable notice to the persons
substantially interested in the proposed change that an ordinance is pending
before the City Council proposing to make a change in the zoning map or the
regulations set forth in this chapter.
      (4)   After receiving the recommendations and report from the Planning
Commission, the City Council may deny the request or enact an amendment to the
unified development ordinance.
         (a)   However, upon presentation of a protest petition meeting the
requirements of this division, an amendment to the unified development
ordinance which is the object of the petition shall be passed only by a two-
thirds vote of the City Council.
         (b)   The protest petition shall be presented to the City Council
before final legislative action on the amendment, and shall be signed by one of
the following:
            1.   The owners of at least 20% of the area of land included in the
proposed change; or
            2.   The owners of a least 20% of the area of land included within
an area extending outward 100 feet from any point on the boundary of the land
included in the proposed change.
            3.   Publicly owned land shall be excluded in calculating the 20%
land area requirement.
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/583b13151da7233bd3ae4975f9eca4a06bb64a2b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1743.gif]
 
   (K)   Public nuisance per se. Any building or structure which is erected,
altered or converted or any use of premises or land which is begun or changed
subsequent to the time of passage of this chapter and in violation of any of
the provisions thereof is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se, and
may be abated by order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (L)   Rights and remedies are cumulative. The rights and remedies provided
herein are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (M)   Nonconforming uses and structures.
      (1)   Nonconforming uses established.
         (a)   Within the districts established by this chapter or amendments
that later may be adopted, there may exist lots, structures, uses of land and
structures, and characteristics of use which were lawful before this chapter
was passed or amended, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted
under the terms of this chapter or future amendments.
         (b)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities
to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
      (2)   Nonconforming uses of land. Where, at the time of the passage of
this chapter, a lawful use of land exists which would not be permitted by the
regulations imposed by this chapter and where the uses involve individual
structures, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
provided:
         (a)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter;
         (b)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to
any portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by the use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment to this chapter;
         (c)   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for
a period of more than 12 months, any subsequent uses of the land shall conform
with the regulations specified by the ordinance for the district in which the
land is located; and
         (d)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of
this chapter shall be erected in connection with the nonconforming use of land.
      (3)   Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists or is
lawfully under construction at the effective date of adoption or amendment of
this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this chapter by reason
of restrictions on area, height, yards, its location on the lot or other
requirements concerning the structure, the structure may be continued so long
as it remains otherwise lawful subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a
way which increases its nonconformity, but any structure or portion thereof may
be altered to decrease its nonconformity.
         (b)   Any such nonconforming structure which has been damaged or
destroyed by any means to an extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost at
the time of damage or destruction shall not be reconstructed except in case of
unusual hardship, for which the Zoning Board of Appeals may grant conditional
approval for reconstruction.
         (c)   Should the nonconforming structure be moved for any reason for
any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the
district in which it is located after it is moved.
      (4)   Nonconforming use of structure or of structures and land in
combination. If a lawful use involving individual structures or of structure
and land in combination exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment
of this chapter that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of
this chapter, the lawful use may be continued as long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
chapter in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
         (b)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for the use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this chapter but no such use shall be intended to
occupy any land outside the building.
         (c)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on
which a nonconforming use is changed to a permitted use shall thereafter
conform to the regulations for the district and nonconforming use may not
thereafter be resumed.
         (d)   When a nonconforming use of a structure or structure and land in
combination is discontinued or abandoned for 12 consecutive months or for 18
months during any three-year period (except when government action impedes
access to the premises or if it is a seasonal type use), the structure or
structure and land in combination shall not thereafter be used except in
conformity with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
         (e)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and land
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land. Destruction for the purpose of this division
is defined as damage to an extent of more than 50% of the replacement cost at
the time of destruction.
         (f)   The use of a nonconforming building may be changed to another
nonconforming use if the Zoning Board of Appeals finds that the new use would
markedly decrease the degrees of nonconformance and would enhance the value and
desirability of adjacent conforming uses.
      (5)   Repair or replacement. Repair or replacement of non-load-bearing
walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing may be performed in or on a nonconforming
structure or portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use provided:
         (a)   During any consecutive 12-month period, the extent of repair or
replacement shall not exceed 10% of the current replacement cost of the
nonconforming structure;
         (b)   Cubic contents of the structure shall not be increased; and
         (c)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof
declared to be unsafe by an official charged with protecting the public safety,
upon order of the official.
      (6)   Change of ownership. Change of ownership between private parties
does not remove the nonconformity nor extend time limits.
      (7)   Replacement cost. Replacement cost as used in the above provision
is the cost of restoring the structure to its original condition as appraised
by a qualified appraiser employed by the City Council. Persons aggrieved by the
appraisal may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (8)   Removal of nonconforming status. Any nonconforming structure or
land may be made conforming by appropriate action or modification which cause
the structure or land to fulfill the requirements of the district in which it
is located. In case of a nonconforming use which is a use designated as a
special land use by this chapter, the nonconforming status may be removed upon
issuance of a special land use permit after the appropriate action has been
taken in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. It shall be the
responsibility of the owner or person requesting the special land use permit to
initiate the request in accordance with
154.06(F).
      (9)   Elimination of nonconforming structures or land.
         (a)   The city may acquire by purchase, condemnation or otherwise,
private property for the removal of nonconforming uses and structures, provided
the property shall not be used for public housing.
         (b)   The legislative body may in its discretion provide that the cost
and expense of acquiring the private property be paid from general funds or the
cost and expense or any portion thereof may be assessed to a special district.
         (c)   The elimination of the nonconforming uses and structures in a
zoned district as herein provided is hereby declared to be for a public purpose
and for a public use.
         (d)   The legislative body shall have authority to institute and
prosecute proceedings for the condemnation of nonconforming uses and structures
under the power of eminent domain in accordance with the laws of the state or
provisions of any city charter relative to condemnation.
      (10)   Nonconforming signs, illegal signs, and signs accessory to
nonconforming uses.
         (a)   A sign which is in existence as of the effective date of this
chapter, or on a later date when the property was annexed into the city, and
that was constructed in accordance with this chapter and applicable laws in
effect as of the date of its construction, but because of its size, height,
location, design or construction is not in conformance with the requirements of
this chapter, is hereby deemed to be nonconforming.
         (b)   These signs shall be allowed to remain in place and be
maintained.
         (c)   These signs are subject to the following provisions:
            1.   Nonconforming signs or their commercial messages may not be
altered, expanded, enlarged or extended. Nonconforming signs may be maintained
so as to continue its useful life as a sign.
            2.   Any nonconforming sign destroyed or damaged by fire or other
casualty loss shall not be restored or rebuilt.
            3.   A sign, accessory to a nonconforming use, may be erected in
the city in accordance with the sign regulation for the subject zoning
district.
            4.   Any sign which for a period of 90 days or more that no longer
advertises a bona fide business conducted or product sold shall be removed by
the owner of the property on which the sign is located within 14 days of
receipt of the written notice by the Zoning Official, as provided in §
154.05(B)(6) and its divisions, the provisions of which shall apply to the
removal of the signs, the sign owners and property owners in question.
            5.   For any sign on property annexed into the city, the owner
shall submit an application within six months of the effective date of the
annexation. Applications submitted for existing signs within six months of the
effective date of this chapter shall be exempt from the initial registration
fees. Fees will be set by the City Council, for registration after the stated
date.
   (N)   Effect on nonconformities. Nonconforming uses and structures which
were in noncompliance with the unified development ordinance, as set forth
above, shall remain nonconforming unless determined by City Council, following
a recommendation from the Planning Commission to be in full compliance with
this chapter.
   (O)   Enforcement.
      (1)   This chapter shall be enforced by the Zoning Official.
      (2)   The Zoning Official shall not issue any permit which would
authorize a violation of any provision of this chapter or of any other
applicable city regulation except upon the order of the Board of Appeals or a
court.
         (a)   Inspections. The Zoning Official shall make periodic inspections
of the city to ensure that the requirements of this chapter are being complied
with.
         (b)   Violations. The Zoning Official shall investigate any alleged
violation of this chapter coming to his or her attention, whether by complaint
or from personal knowledge. If a violation is found to exist, the Zoning
Official shall serve notice upon the owner by personal service or certified
mail and order a termination of the violation. If the violation is found to
still exist 30 days after the notification and order, the Zoning Official shall
immediately prosecute a complaint to terminate the violation before the
district court.
         (c)   Records. The Zoning Official shall keep records of all
inspections, investigations, applications, fees and permits issued, with
notations of all special conditions involved. Copies of all site plans approved
by the Planning Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals shall also be kept unless
the permit or authorization has expired. The records shall be available as a
public record.
   (P)   Penalty.
      (1)   Any owner, agent, person or corporation who shall violate any
provisions or requirements of this chapter or who shall fail to comply with any
detailed statements or plan submitted hereunder, or who shall refuse reasonable
opportunity to inspect any premises, shall be liable to a fine of not more than
$500 or to imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or to both the fines and
imprisonment. Each and every day the violation continues after a termination
notice is received shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation.
      (2)   The owner of any building, structure or premises or part thereof
where any condition in violation of this chapter shall exist or shall be
created, who has assisted knowingly in the commission of the violation and any
architect, builder, contractor, agent, person or corporation employed in
connection therewith and who assists in the commission of the violation shall
be guilty of a separate offense and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to
a fine or not more than $500 and the costs of prosecution or, in default of the
payment thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for a
period not to exceed 90 days for each offense, or by both the fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court, together with the costs of the
prosecution.
(Ord. 225, passed 11-11-2024)
CHAPTER 155: RENTAL HOUSING
Section
   
155.01   Purpose and intent
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Requirements
   
155.04   Exemptions
   
155.05   Registration
   
155.06   Inspections
   
155.07   Certificate of compliance
   
155.08   Structure unfit for human occupancy
   
155.09   Final notice to repair
   
155.10   Fees
§ 155.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The City of Bronson (“City”) recognizes the need for an organized inspection
and registration program for residential rental units located within the city
in order to ensure rental units meet all applicable laws, and to provide an
efficient system for compelling both absentee and local landlords to correct
violations and maintain, in proper condition, rental property within the city.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, the following terms and words shall have the
following meanings, unless the context clearly indicates that a different
meaning is intended.
   BOARD OF APPEALS. for the purpose of this chapter, the City Council shall
act as the Board of Appeals.
   CITY/BUILDING OFFICIAL/ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS/CODE ENFORCEMENT
OFFICER. Wherever this title(s) appears within this chapter, it shall be the
person designated by the City Manager, whether a regular city employee or an
individual or business contracted by the city, who is responsible for the
inspection of rental units and the enforcement of this chapter.
   CODE. The International Property Maintenance Code, as adopted by the City of
Bronson, shall be the established standards of enforcement under this chapter.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or portion thereof, designed for occupancy for
residential purposes and having cooking facilities and sanitary facilities.
   LANDLORD. Any person who owns or controls a dwelling, dwelling unit, or
rental unit and rents such unit, either personally or through a designated
agent, to any person.
   OWNER. The legal title holder of a rental unit or premise within which the
rental unit is situated. OWNER shall also include any family member related to
the OWNER within the first degree, being a parent, spouse, or child. The
purpose of this definition is to allow family members of the legal owner to act
instead of the OWNER.
   OWNER-OCCUPIED RENTAL UNIT. A rental unit that is occupied in whole or in
part by an individual whose name specifically appears on the deed for the
property where the rental unit is located.
   PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, partnership, association, joint stock
company, joint venture, public or private corporation, limited liability
company or receiver, executor, personal representative, trust, trustee,
conservator or other representative appointed by order of any court.
   PREMISES. A lot, plot or parcel of land, including the buildings or
structures thereon, which also includes dwelling units and dwellings.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any dwelling unit or residential structure containing sleeping
units, including but not limited to hotels, motels, bed and breakfast
establishments, boarding houses, or sleeping rooms, which is leased or rented
from the owner or other person in control of such units, to any tenant, whether
by day, week, month, year or any other term.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any residential unit for which the tenant pays money or
provides services to the owner of the property. This shall not include
residences in which the owner permits an immediately family member to reside,
unless that family members provides payment or services beyond utility
payments.
   RESPONSIBLE LOCAL AGENT. A natural person having his or her place of
residence in the county and designated by the property owner as the agent
responsible for operating such property in compliance with the ordinances
adopted by the city.
   TENANT. Any individual who has the temporary use and occupation of real
property owned by another person in subordination to that other person’s title
and with that other person’s consent; for example, a person who rents or leases
a dwelling, dwelling unit, or rental unit from a landlord.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 217, passed 10-10-2022)
§ 155.03 REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall lease, rent, occupy, or otherwise allow a rental unit within
the city to be occupied, unless all of the following requirements have first
been met.
   (A)   The owner of the rental unit shall have registered the rental unit
with the city by completing and filing a current registration form with the
city, as provided in §
155.06 of this chapter.
   (B)   An inspection shall have been completed to the satisfaction of the
city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer.
   (C)   A valid certificate of compliance shall have been issued by the city.
   (D)   All fees charged by the city for the registration and inspection of
the rental unit shall be paid in full.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 207, passed 8-13-2018)
§ 155.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding any of the provisions of this section or this chapter,
government housing, which is inspected by either the Department of Housing and
Urban Development or the Department of Agriculture in the State of Michigan,
shall be exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 209, passed 10-8-2018; Ord. 217, passed 10-10-2022)
§ 155.05 REGISTRATION.
   No person shall lease, rent, occupy, or otherwise allow a rental unit within
the city to be occupied without first registering the rental unit with the city
and designating a responsible local agent. All units must be registered with
the city annually on or before September 1.
   (A)   Registration forms. Registration shall be made upon forms furnished by
the city and shall require all of the following information:
      (1)   The street address of the rental unit(s);
      (2)   The number and types of rental units within the rental property;
      (3)   Name, residence address, telephone number, and where applicable an
e-mail address, mobile telephone number, and facsimile number of all property
owners of the rental unit(s); and
      (4)   Name, residence address, telephone number, and where applicable an
e-mail address, mobile telephone number, and facsimile number of the
responsible local agent designated by the owner.
   (B)   Accurate and complete information. All information provided on the
registration form shall be accurate and complete. No person shall provide
inaccurate information for the registration of a rental unit, or fail to
provide the information required for such registration. The registration form
shall be signed by both the property owner(s) and the designated responsible
local agent. Where the owner is not a natural person, the owner information
shall be that of the president, general manager or other chief executive of the
organization. Where more than one person has an ownership interest, the
required information shall be provided for each such owner.
   (C)   Change in registration information or transfer of property. The
property owner of a rental unit registered with the city shall re-register
within 60 calendar days after any change occurs in the registration
information, including a change in ownership. If a transfer of ownership occurs
and there is a current certificate of compliance on file, then the new owner
will only have to pay the registration fee upon the expiration of the current
registration, It will still be required that the new owner fill out a new
registration form.
   (D)   Registration term and renewals. Annually on or before September 1 of
each year every owner of a rental unit shall register the same with the City of
Bronson.
   (E)   Owner(s) and responsible local agent. The owner(s) and the designated
responsible local agent shall be responsible for all of the following:
      (1)   Operating the registered rental unit in compliance with all
applicable city ordinances;
      (2)   Providing access to the rental unit for the purpose of making any
and all inspections necessary to ensure compliance with the applicable city
ordinances;
      (3)   Maintaining a list of the names and number of occupants of each
rental unit for which they are responsible; and
      (4)   Accepting all legal notices or services of process with respect to
the rental unit.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018)
§ 155.06 INSPECTIONS.
   All facilities, areas and rental units governed by this chapter shall be
inspected and shall comply with the standards and provisions of the ordinances
and codes adopted by the city.
   (A)   Biennial inspections. All rental units shall be inspected by the
city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer at least once every other year. Prior to
conducting initial inspections, the city may issue a temporary certificate of
compliance as provided in §
155.07(B). The city shall thereafter alternate inspections of rental units
every other year. The inspection shall not, however, eliminate an owner’s
responsibility to register such rental units on an annual basis.
Notwithstanding the above, rental units may be inspected at any time for any
reason the city deems appropriate, including but not limited to: investigation
of any valid complaint received by the city, structural or other damage to the
rental unit, and medical or other public health emergencies.
   (B)   Inspection procedures.
      (1)   Once the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer has determined that a
rental unit is in compliance with all laws, the inspection required for
issuance of a certificate of compliance shall be satisfied.
      (2)    If, upon completion of an inspection, the premises are found to be
in violation of the law, the city, or its representative, shall provide the
registered local agent and/or owner with written notice of such violations and
the date by which such violations shall be corrected. The local agent/owner
shall be responsible for contacting the city’s inspection services to schedule
a re-inspection of the property. If such violations are not corrected within
the time period indicated or at the time of the re-inspection, the city shall
not issue the certificate of compliance and may take any action necessary to
enforce compliance with applicable laws.
      (3)   If there is a complaint filed on a rental unit with the city, the
owner and/or responsible local agent will be notified in writing. In the event
that the complaint is an emergency, as determined by the city, it will require
immediate compliance. If the complaint is not an emergency, the owner will have
14 calendar days to correct such violation, after which a re-inspection or
written verification from owner and/or responsible local agent and complaining
party that the violation has been corrected will be required.
      (4)   If an inspection is initiated by a complaint and no violation is
found to exist, no inspection fee will be assessed against the owner of the
inspected rental unit.
      (5)   Where a re-inspection must be made to ensure conformity with this
chapter or before a certificate of compliance is issued for those rental units
that have been issued violation notices, the city will charge a separate
inspection fee for every inspection.
      (6)   If an inspection is scheduled and the owner or responsible local
agent fails to appear, an inspection fee shall be assessed against the owner
and/or the responsible local agent, and no inspection shall be completed until
the inspection fee is paid in full.
      (7)   Administrative search warrant. The city’s Building Official
assigned to inspect a particular rental unit shall give confirmation notice, by
first class mail, to the local agent and the tenant within seven days of the
scheduled inspection. The landlord, the tenant and the agent shall permit the
inspection by the city’s Building Official. The City Building Official shall
advise the landlord, tenant and/or agent, at the time of the inspection, that
the landlord, tenant and/or agent shall have the right to refuse entry if the
inspector does not have a search warrant. The City Inspector shall also advise
the landlord, tenant and/or agent that, if the inspection is refused, an
administrative search warrant will be sought. If the landlord, tenant and/or
agent refuses to permit a scheduled inspection, the inspector may, through the
City Attorney, seek an administrative search warrant to conduct the inspection.
   (C)   Transfer of ownership inspections.
      (1)   When there is a transfer of ownership of any rental unit, including
an owner-occupied rental unit, and a current certificate of compliance exists
for the unit, then the city shall waive the inspection. The new owner shall
comply with the requirements of §
155.05(C) of this chapter by re-registering the rental unit within 60 calendar
days following the transfer of the property.
      (2)   When there is a transfer of ownership of any rental unit, including
an owner-occupied rental unit, and a current certificate of compliance does not
exist for the unit, then an inspection shall be conducted within 30 calendar
days following the notification of the transfer of ownership as required by §
155.05(C). If violations are found, a notice of violation shall be issued to
the owner.
      (3)   If ownership of any rental unit is transferred contrary to division
(C) (1) or (2) of this section, or if the new owner fails to re-register a
rental unit as required by §
155.05(C), the certificate of compliance and rental unit registration shall be
deemed to expire within 60 days of the transfer unless appropriate steps are
taken to obtain a rental unit registration and certificate of compliance.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 207, passed 8-13-2018; Ord. 217, passed 10-10-
2022)
§ 155.07 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall own, operate, lease, rent, occupy, or otherwise allow a
rental unit within the city to be occupied unless there is a valid certificate
of compliance issued by the city for the rental unit.
   (A)   Requirements. A certificate of compliance shall be issued only after
all of the following requirements have been satisfactorily completed.
      (1)   Registration of the rental unit with the city;
      (2)   Designation of the responsible local agent;
      (3)   Payment in full of any and all required fees for registration, plus
any penalties that may have been imposed on the property; and
      (4)   Inspection by the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer resulting in
a determination that the rental unit and the property complies with all laws.
   (B)   Temporary certificates. Temporary certificates of compliance may be
issued without prior inspection by the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer for
those occupied rental units existing as of the effective date of this chapter.
Such temporary certificates of compliance may be issued as of the effective
date of the initial registration following the effective date of this chapter
to allow property owners to operate such rental units until such time as an
inspection may be made by the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer. At such
time as an inspection is made and the city has determined that provisions of
this chapter have been complied with the temporary certificate shall expire.
   (C)   Posting of the certificate of compliance. The certificate of
compliance shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in each rental unit at all
times, along with the name, address and telephone number of the responsible
local agent.
   (D)   Permanent certificate of compliance. The permanent certificate of
compliance shall not be issued until all fines, costs, or inspection fees
incurred under this chapter shall be paid in full.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 207, passed 8-13-2018; Ord. 217, passed 10-10-
2022)
§ 155.08 STRUCTURE UNFIT FOR HUMAN OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Declaration.
      (1)   Whenever the city’s Building Official finds any rental unit or
rental unit structure to be:
         (a)   A hazard to the safety, health or welfare of the occupants or to
the public because it lacks maintenance;
         (b)   In disrepair, unsanitary, vermin-infested or rodent-infested;
         (c)   In violation of the minimum requirements of this chapter, but
has not reached the state of complete disrepair as to be subject to
condemnation as a dangerous building;
         (d)   Is occupied by more occupants than permitted under this chapter;
or
         (e)   Erected, altered or occupied contrary to law.
      (2)   The city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer may cause it to be posted
as unfit for human habitation and order it vacated. It shall be unlawful to
again occupy such rental unit or structure until it or its occupation, as the
case may be, has been made to conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Order to vacate. Any rental unit or rental structure found to be unfit
for human habitation by the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall be
ordered repaired or rehabilitated to correct the conditions rendering the same
unfit for human habitation. An order to vacate shall be in writing and include:
      (1)   The street number or other description of the real estate and
rental unit(s) sufficient for identification.
      (2)   A description of the defects, conditions and/or violations of this
chapter.
      (3)   A directive that the rental unit or rental structure when vacated
must remain vacant until the provisions of the order to vacate have been met,
and the order to vacate has been withdrawn in writing.
      (4)   A reasonable time limit for making the repairs, rehabilitation or
correcting violations of this chapter.
      (5)   State the time period in which occupants must vacate the structure.
      (6)    State that the order to vacate may be appealed to the Board of
Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and the procedure and
rules promulgated by the Board of Appeals. Rules of procedures for the Board of
Appeals shall be adopted by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   Posting of notice. Any rental unit or structure declared unfit for
human habitation shall be posted in a conspicuous place or places with a
placard bearing the words: “CONDEMNED AS UNFIT FOR HUMAN HABITATION”.
   (D)   Service of notices or orders. A person shall be deemed to be served
with a violation notice, final notice to repair or any other official notice or
order of the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer if a copy is served upon him
or her personally; or if a copy is sent by regular mail to his or her last
known address, and a copy is posted in a conspicuous place in or on the rental
unit or structure containing the rental unit affected by such notice or order;
or if he or she is served with a copy by any other method authorized by the
laws of this State. The time of performance shall commence on the date of
personal service or the date of posting or mailing, whichever is later.
   (E)   Emergencies.
      (1)   Emergency orders. If the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer
determines that a condition exists or is likely to exist which is an emergency,
the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall immediately attempt to verbally
notify the owner or owner’s agent, and all occupants of the rental unit(s) of
the nature of the emergency and verbally order the responsible party to
immediately correct the condition(s) causing the emergency. The city’s
Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall prepare and serve a violation notice on the
responsible party as soon as practicable after the verbal order has been given
or attempted. Failure to comply with an emergency order is a violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   Abatement of emergency. If the responsible party cannot be
contracted by the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer or if following a verbal
order to correct an emergency condition, a responsible party fails to correct
an emergency condition within the time allotted; the city’s Ordinance
Enforcement Officer may take all necessary and appropriate action to abate an
emergency condition upon prior written approval of the City Manager.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 207, passed 8-13-2018; Ord. 217, passed 10-10-
2022)
§ 155.09 FINAL NOTICE TO REPAIR.
   (A)   Notice. Upon observing the continued existence of a violation of this
chapter as stated in a violation notice, the city’s Ordinance Enforcement
Officer shall serve a final notice to repair on the responsible party. The
notice shall:
      (1)   Specify the date of inspection and the address where the violation
was found;
      (2)   Have attached a true copy of the violation notice;
      (3)   Include a description and location of each violation observed by
the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer;
      (4)   Order the responsible party to correct all listed violations by a
specified date;
      (5)   State that each violation is a separate punishable offense;
      (6)   State that a re-inspection will be made to determine whether all
violations have been corrected by the specified date;
      (7)   Advise the responsible party of applicable re-inspection fees
charged by the city;
      (8)   State that failure to comply with the final notice to repair will
result in prosecution; and
      (9)   Inform the responsible party of the right of appeal before the
Board of Appeals (City Council).
   (B)   Change of ownership. The city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall
immediately issue a new violation notice or a final notice to repair, as the
case may be, to any new person or persons assuming occupancy, ownership or the
status of agent for any rental unit which has been cited for violations. The
responsible party who has failed to comply with a violation notice and/or final
notice to repair shall not be relieved of the responsibility of having violated
any provision of this chapter by transferring ownership or occupancy.
   (C)   Time to correct violations. All violation notices shall provide a
specified time period to correct the violation(s) in relation to the
seriousness of the violation(s). The following time limits shall apply:
      (1)   Not more than 24 hours for an emergency violation.
      (2)   Not more than ten days for removing domestic refuse; to provide
adequate heat or water; or to correct hazardous conditions.
      (3)   Not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days for all other
violations.
      (4)   Violation notices issued between October 31 and April 1 for
exterior painting, or for any other exterior work adversely affected by cold or
snow, shall provide additional time for completion of such work, but in no case
longer than June 30.
      (5)   The city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer may extend the time period
for correction of violations if:
         (a)   There are extending circumstances.
         (b)   The responsible party has made a substantial and documented
effort to correct violations within the time allotted. In no event shall the
city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer grant an extension for more than double
the time period allowed in the original violation notice. All extensions shall
be in writing and served on the responsible party in the same manner as the
violation notice.
      (6)   Not more than one extension shall be granted by the city’s
Ordinance Enforcement Officer. Further extensions, if any, may be granted only
by the City Council/Board of Appeals for good cause shown.
   (D)   Recurrent violations. A responsible party who violates any provision
of this chapter in or about the same rental unit(s) in the same structure three
or more times in any consecutive 12 month period, or who does not correct a
cited violation within 30 days after being convicted of or found responsible
for violating a provision of this chapter, shall be presumed to be a willful
violator of the provisions of this chapter and to be causing undue expense to
the city in the administration of this chapter. In such cases:
      (1)   The city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall issue a final notice
to repair after determining that a violation still or again exists.
      (2)   The city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall specify the shortest
time period permitted by this chapter for the correction of any existing or
further violation.
      (3)   All inspections and/or re-inspection fees then in effect shall be
doubled.
      (4)   The city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer may revoke the responsible
owner’s license to maintain a rental unit(s) and/or order all occupants of such
rental unit(s) to vacate the premises.
   (E)   Prosecution. Upon failure of a responsible party to comply with a
final notice to repair, the city’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer may refer the
matter to the City Attorney for prosecution, or the city’s Ordinance
Enforcement Officer may issue a court appearance ticket for such violation(s).
   (F)   Prosecution not delayed. Nothing in this section shall delay or be a
cause of terminating the prosecution of a defendant for failure to correct
violations of this chapter noted in a final notice to repair or an emergency.
   (G)   Court orders, penalties and fees.
      (1)   Violations. A person maintaining a structure, contrary to this
chapter, shall be charged with maintaining a structure in violation of this
chapter. The complaint or appearance ticket may include one or more violations
any of which may individually constitute the maintenance of a nuisance.
      (2)   Penalties and sentencing. The penalty for violation of this chapter
shall be as indicated in this subsection. Any fine or jail sentence imposed by
the court shall reflect the seriousness of each offense as well as the
violator’s previous history of recurrent violations of the provisions of this
chapter. Each day shall be deemed a separate offense. The city’s Ordinance
Enforcement Officer may issue a separate appearance for violation of any
provision of this chapter; the court shall sentence the defendant to pay a fine
of up to $500 or up to 90 days in jail or both. The court may, in addition to
such fine and/or such imprisonment, place the defendant on probation for any
period of time and subject to any conditions permitted by state law. The court
may also, in appropriate causes, suspend all or part of any fine or term of
imprisonment imposed on such terms and conditions as the court deems
appropriate. The court shall exercise its authority to sentence the defendant
to a term or probation and to prescribe the conditions therefore and shall
exercise its power to suspend all or part of any fine or term of imprisonment
so as to bring about compliance with the terms of the chapter and to prevent
further violations.
      (3)   City costs. Upon conviction for violations of any provisions of
this chapter, the court may, as a condition of probation if a term of probation
is all or a part of the defendant’s sentence, order the defendant to reimburse
the city for all of the costs of enforcement of this chapter attributable to
the violations for which the defendant was convicted, including, but not
limited to, the costs of inspection, prosecution and administration. If such a
condition is not imposed, the city many file a civil action against the
defendant and may upon proof of the defendant’s conviction recover all of the
costs referred to above. If the defendant is the owner of rental property in
the city, such costs may also be assessed by lien against the property of the
defendant until paid.
      (4)   Taxation of costs. The city may, upon application to the court and
the granting of an order from the court, tax all penalties, costs, fees, and
fines to the tax rolls, to be collected with the real estate property taxes for
the parcel in question. Such assessments shall be reviewed and approved by the
court before being added to the tax rolls.
   (H)   Civil remedies for violation.
      (1)   Action in District Court.
         (a)   In case any dwelling or rental unit is maintained in violation
of any provision of this chapter or of any order or notice given, or in case a
nuisance exists in any dwelling or upon the lot on which it is situated, or
within an accessory structure, the city, by and through the city’s Ordinance
Enforcement Officer, may institute an action in the Branch County District
Court to prevent such unlawful maintenance; to restrain, correct or abate such
violation or nuisance; to prevent the occupant of such dwelling, building, or
structure; or to prevent any illegal act of conduct from existing in such
dwelling or lot.
         (b)   The procedure for such action shall be the same as for an
injunction or abatement of a nuisance under District Court rules, the statutes
as provided for in common law.
         (c)   The judgment of the court in such cause may direct the
correction, repair or rehabilitation of the dwelling or building, or the
abatement of the nuisance; may authorize a reasonable time within which the
defendant may make such correction or abatement; and may authorize the city to
execute and carry out the provisions of the judgment in case of default of the
defendant.
         (d)   Whenever the city has incurred any expense in the enforcement of
this chapter or the judgment of the court, the city may institute and maintain
a suit against the owner of the premises in respect to which such expense that
have been incurred and may recover the amount of such expense in addition to
the costs of suit.
         (e)   The judgment of the court may order the vacation of the premises
until the corrections, rehabilitations, or abatements are completed.
      (2)   Lien on premises. In appropriate cases, the city shall have lien
upon the premises for the expenses necessarily incurred in the execution of
such judgment, which lien shall have priority over all other liens or
encumbrances except taxes, assessments or mortgages recorded previous to the
existence of such lien. Such lien may be foreclosed, as in the case of
foreclosure of mortgages by court action, as established by the District Court
rules and the statutes of the state in such cases made and provided.
      (3)   Lis pendens notice. In any action instituted by the city under this
subsection, the City Attorney shall file in the Office of the Register of Deeds
of the County a notice of the pendency of the action or proceedings, A notice
may be filed at the time of the commencement of the action or proceeding, or at
any time before final judgment or order, or at any time after the service of
any notice or order issued by the city. The notice shall have the same force
and effect as a lis pendens, as provided for in the statutes of the state. The
Register of Deeds shall record it and shall index it to the name of each person
specified in directions prescribed by the City Attorney. Any notice may be
vacated upon the order of the judge of the court in which the action or
proceeding was instituted or is pending, or upon consent in writing of the City
Attorney. The Register of Deeds for the County shall mark the notice and any
record as canceled of record upon the presentation for filing of consent or of
a certified copy of the order.
      (4)   Municipal civil infraction. In addition to any other penalty for
violation of this chapter, a person who violates any provision of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to the payment of a
civil fine of not less than $50 plus costs and other sanctions for each
infraction. Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased
fines as provided in this Code, as amended.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018; Ord. 207, passed 8-13-2018; Ord. 217, passed 10-10-
2022)
§ 155.10 FEES.
   The City Council shall establish by resolution fees to be charged pursuant
to this chapter, including a registration fee, re-registration fee, inspection
fees, and late fees. Late fees shall be imposed when registration (including
re-registration) does not occur within the time limits set in this chapter.
(Ord. 206, passed 7-9-2018)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
102      - -         Grants a cablevision permit
126      - -         Grants to Coldwater Cablevision Incorporated a non-
                     exclusive permit to maintain a CATV system
64       9-2-1954    Grants to Michigan Gas Utilities Company a gas franchise
140      5-10-1993   Grants a franchise to Michigan Gas Utilities
                     Amends Ord. 102; granting to Coldwater Cablevision
147      2-13-1995   Incorporated a non-exclusive permit to maintain a CATV
                     system
148      4-8-1996    Grants to Consumer Power Company the right to maintain and
                     use electric lines
159      6-12-2000   Grants permission to DTE Energy Marketing the right to
                     conduct an electric power business
163      2-10-2003   Grants to Aquila, Inc., a natural gas franchise
218      3-13-2023   Grants to Michigan Gas Utilities Corporation, a natural
                     gas franchise
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
129      1-21-1985   Amends Ord. 84; as amended by Ord. 118; includes two
                     parcels of land in the R-2 Multiple Family District
132      6-10-1985   Includes 15 parcels in the R-2 District
220      11-13-2023  Rezones one parcel from the R-3 District to the B-
                     3 District
226      11-11-2024  Rezones one parcel from the B-3 District to the R-
                     2 District
227      11-11-2024  Rezones two parcels from the I District to the B-
                     1 District
228      11-11-2024  Includes two parcels in the R-3 District
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
 
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Reference Code Section
M.C.L.A. Reference Code Section
15.231—15.246    30.01;
                   113.03
15.246             113.16
15.261—15.275    30.01
15.342 et seq.     37.03
24.201—24.328    70.04
28.457             97.16
28.601—28.616    32.25
44.2251            113.03
117.5c             Charter, §
                   4.9
125.31—125.45    30.03
125.581—125.590  154.06
125.651 et seq.    30.02
                   35.21;
125.1401 et seq.   35.22;
                   35.46
125.1415a          35.25
125.1657           30.05
125.2301—125.2350154.03
125.3101—125.3702154.06
125.3206           154.04
125.3801—125.388530.03;
                   154.06
141.435            Charter, §
                   7.3
168.561            Charter, §
                   3.8
211.1 et seq.      35.51
257.1—257.923    70.05
257.625            70.03;
                   70.05
257.625(1)(c)      70.05
257.625m           70.03
257.648            72.10
257.685            72.10
257.697            72.10
257.697(b)         72.10
257.704            72.10
257.706            72.10
257.708(a)         72.10
257.710(a)         72.10
257.710(e)         72.10
259.185            70.03
324.3101 et seq.   52.02
324.80176          70.03
324.81134          70.03
324.81135          70.03
324.82127          70.03
333.7104           70.03
333.26421 et seq.  91.04
333.26421          91.01;
                   91.05
333.26423          91.02;
                   154.02
333.26425          154.02
333.7101 et seq.   133.10
400.703 3(4)(k)    154.04
462.353            70.03
462.355            70.03
484.2102           113.02
484.2251           113.03
500.3101           70.02
500.3101—500.317970.02
500.3102           70.02
560.101—560.293  52.07;
                   150.01
600.2950           70.03
600.2950a          70.03
600.2950i          70.03
600.8396 et seq.   36.01
600.8396           36.04
657.686            72.10
750.81 et seq.     133.07
750.103            133.01;
                   133.09
750.167            133.09
750.167(i-k)       133.09
750.167(1)(c)      133.08
750.167(1)(f)      133.10
750.167(1)(h)      133.03
750.170            133.09;
                   133.12
750.200—750.212a 70.03
750.224 et seq.    133.11
750.243            133.11
750.327            70.03
750.327a           70.03
750.328            70.03
750.335a           133.10
750.337            133.01;
                   133.09
750.377 et seq.    133.08;
                   133.12
750.411a           70.03
750.479            133.07
750.493d           133.11
750.552            133.08
767.39             133.02
                   
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Code Section
Prior Code Code Section
12.201     92.20
12.251     30.04
12.252     30.04
14.001     30.03
14.002     30.03
14.003     30.03
14.004     30.03
14.005     30.03
14.006     30.03
14.007     30.03
14.008     30.03
18.001     30.02
18.002     30.02
18.003     30.02
18.004     30.02
18.005     30.02
19.351     70.01
20.101     131.01
20.102     131.02
20.201     110.01
20.202     110.02
20.203     110.99
20.351     95.01
20.352     95.02
20.353     95.03
20.354     95.04
20.355     95.05
20.356     95.99
30.001     94.01
30.003     94.02
30.005     94.03
30.006     94.99
30.051     94.15
30.052     94.16
30.053     94.17
30.054     94.18
30.055     94.19
30.056     94.20
30.057     94.21
30.058     94.22
30.059     94.23
30.060     94.24
30.061     94.25
30.062     94.99
30.101     94.35
30.102     94.36
30.103     94.37
30.104     94.38
30.105     94.39
30.106     94.40
30.107     94.41
35.051     93.01
35.052     93.01
35.053     93.99
35.101     50.01
35.102     50.02
35.103     50.03
35.104     50.04
35.105     50.05
35.106     50.06
35.107     50.07
35.108     50.08
35.109     50.09
35.110     50.10
35.251     96.01
35.252     96.02
35.253     96.03
35.254     96.04
35.255     96.05
35.256     96.99
40.001     31.01
40.002     31.02
40.003     31.03
40.004     31.04
40.005     31.05
40.009     31.06
40.010     31.07
40.011     31.08
40.012     31.09
40.013     31.10
40.014     31.11
40.051     31.25
40.052     31.26
40.053     31.27
40.054     31.28
40.055     31.29
40.056     31.30
40.057     31.99
40.101     32.01
40.102     32.02
40.103     32.03
40.104     32.04
40.105     32.05
40.106     32.06
40.107     32.07
40.108     32.08
40.111     32.09
40.112     32.99
40.113     32.10
40.114     32.11
40.151     32.25
40.152     32.26
40.153     32.27
           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
68       - -         30.04
102      - -         TSO, Table I
104      - -         150.01
126      - -         TSO, Table I
166      - -         33.01—
                     33.05
                     93.15—
170      - -         93.21;
                     93.99
                     72.01;
172      - -         72.02;
                     72.99
                     90.01—
173      - -         90.20;
                     90.99
                     96.01—
6        6-6-1935    96.05;
                     96.99
9        6-6-1935    110.45—110.50;
                     110.99
                     94.15—
10       6-6-1935    94.25;
                     94.99
12       6-6-1935    94.35—
                     94.41
16       6-6-1935    95.01—95.95;
                     95.99
19       6-6-1935    31.01—
                     31.11
                     32.01—
21       6-6-1935    32.11;
                     32.99
                     94.01—
23       6-6-1935    94.03;
                     94.99
                     31.25—
25       6-6-1935    31.30;
                     31.99
26       6-6-1935    93.01;
                     93.99
27       6-6-1935    110.01;
                     110.02; 110.99
35       9-5-1940    92.20—92.25
                     131.01;
43       2-3-1949    131.02;
                     131.99
46       6-1-1950    30.02
54       12-3-1953   34.01—
                     34.10
64       9-2-1954    TSO, Table I
75       12-9-1957   70.01
81       10-12-1959  30.03
87       3-8-1965    50.01—
                     50.10
99       3-8-1971    131.15;
                     131.16
94       11-11-1974  32.25—
                     32.27
                     93.35—
106      11-14-1977  93.44;
                     93.99
                     51.01—
128      12-20-1984  51.13;
                     51.99
129      1-21-1985   TSO, Table II
132      6-10-1985   TSO, Table II
134      8-11-1986   150.02;
                     150.99
139      4-12-1993   Ch. 74, Sch. I
140      5-10-1993   TSO, Table I
                     133.01—
142      9-20-1993   133.12;
                     133.99
143      9-20-1993   112.01—
                     112.17
144      12-13-1993  30.01
146      4-11-1994   71.99
147      2-13-1995   TSO, Table I
148      4-8-1996    TSO, Table I
150      5-13-1996   70.02;
                     70.99
151      5-13-1996   Ch. 73, Sch. I
                     35.01—
153      7-12-1999   35.09;
                     35.99
158      2-14-2000   Ch. 73, Sch. III
159      6-12-2000   TSO, Table I
                     92.01—
160      12-11-2000  92.07;
                     92.99
                     52.01—
                     52.14;
                     52.25—
162      8-12-2002   52.37;
                     52.50—
                     52.55;
                     52.99
163      2-10-2003   TSO, Table I
                     113.01—
165      5-12-2003   113.18;
                     113.99
168      5-8-2006    Ch. 73, Sch. II
174      4-11-2011   35.20—
                     35.31
                     91.01—
175      5-9-2011    91.05;
                     91.99
177      6-13-2011   50.25—
                     50.31
–      8-8-2011    70.04
178      8-8-2011    150.03
179      8-8-2011    70.05
                     30.03;
                     30.04;
                     32.02—
                     32.04;
                     32.09;
                     34.01—
                     34.06;
                     34.09;
182, §1 2-13-2012   50.10;
                     51.02;
                     51.03;
                     94.02;
                     94.35;
                     94.37—
                     94.41;
                     96.02;
                     96.04
                     30.01;
                     30.03;
                     35.22;
                     35.25;
                     52.07;
                     52.10;
                     91.02;
182, §2 2-13-2012   113.01—
                     113.04;
                     113.06—
                     113.17;
                     133.01;
                     133.02;
                     133.06—
                     133.11
                     Charter, §
                     3.1; Charter, §
182, §3 2-13-2012   7.7; Charter, §
                     8.8; Charter, §
                     10.4; Charter, §
                     10.9
                     32.03;
182, §5 2-13-2012   32.04;
                     32.08—
                     32.10; 32.13
182, §6 2-13-2012   50.99
182, §7 2-13-2012   51.11
182, §8 2-13-2012   52.12
182, §9 2-13-2012   Ch. 74, Sch. I
182, §112-13-2012   92.20
                     113.05;
182, §132-13-2012   113.13;
                     113.99
182, §142-13-2012   132.99
182, §152-13-2012   133.99
182, §172-13-2012   133.03
183      2-13-2012   36.01—
                     36.12
184      2-13-2012   110.99
185      3-12-2012   111.01—
                     111.14
186      3-12-2012   130.01
187      3-12-2012   95.01
188      3-12-2012   131.99
189      3-12-2012   132.01;
                     132.99
190      4-9-2012    70.05
191      4-9-2012    93.55—
                     93.57
192      6-4-2012    Front
193      7-9-2012    30.05
                     97.01—
194      7-9-2012    97.05;
                     97.99
                     37.01—
195      12-10-2012  37.05;
                     37.99
196      12-10-2012  93.37
197      6-10-2013   133.10
198      7-1-2015    50.11
199      7-1-2015    50.32
201      4-11-2016   30.03
202      1-9-2017    96.06
203      11-13-2017  70.03
204      2-12-2018   35.45—
                     35.52
                     155.01—
206      7-9-2018    155.03;
                     155.05—
                     155.10
                     155.03;
207      8-13-2018   155.06—
                     155.09
208      9-10-2018   150.03
209      10-8-2018   155.04
                     71.01—
210      1-14-2019   71.07;
                     71.99
211      1-14-2019   134.01;
                     134.02
213      8-12-2019   Adopting Ordinance
                     98.01—
214      9-14-2020   98.03;
                     98.99
215      11-9-2020   51.14;
                     51.99
                     97.15—
216      - -         97.19;
                     97.99
                     155.02;
                     155.04;
217      10-10-2022  155.06—
                     155.08;
                     155.09
218      3-13-2023   TSO, Table I
219      9-11-2023   150.03
220      11-13-2023  TSO, Table II
222      11-13-2023  72.10;
                     72.99
224      10-14-2024  71.08;
                     71.99
225      11-11-2024  154.01—
                     154.06
226      11-11-2024  TSO, Table II
227      11-11-2024  TSO, Table II
228      11-11-2024  TSO, Table II
                    
 
