BURTCHVILLE TOWNSHIP, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. passed 7-15-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL CODE CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.16   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.17   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Township of Burtchville
Michigan, shall be designated as the “Burtchville Township Code”, and may be so
cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BOARD or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of the Township of
Burtchville, Michigan.
      CODE, THIS CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES, TOWNSHIP CODE or BURTCHVILLE
TOWNSHIP CODE. This municipal code as modified by amendment, revision and
adoption of new titles, chapters or sections.
      COUNTY. St. Clair County, Michigan.
      MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath; and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN shall
be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission or department of the municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee or receiver.
         (b)   Whenever used in any clause prescribing and imposing a penalty,
the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to any unincorporated entity, shall
mean the partners or members thereof, and, as applied to corporations, the
officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE. The State of Michigan.
      SUBCHAPTER. A subsection of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading. Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      TOWNSHIP. The Township of Burtchville, Michigan.
      WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR. A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or”, if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in a section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified or renumbered unless the subject matter is changed
or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the ordinance repealing or
modifying it takes effect.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.16 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.17 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (M.C.L.A. § 15.231)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 15.231 et seq.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which the
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
31.   TAX AND FINANCE
      
32.   MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
33.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
34.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 30: OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
30.01   Zoning Administrator
   
30.02   Plumbing Official
   
30.03   Mechanical Official
§ 30.01 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   Establishment. The Office of the Zoning Administrator is hereby
established. The Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by the Township Board
and shall serve at its pleasure. He or she shall receive compensation as the
Township Board may, from time to time, determine. The Zoning Administrator may
also serve in some other capacity as an employee, contractual or appointed
officer of the township.
   (B)   Duties. The Zoning Administrator shall administer the provisions of
this section, and shall have all administrative powers in connection therewith
which are not specifically assigned to some other officer or body. He or she
shall have no power to vary or waive ordinance requirements, except as provided
for in the Zoning Ordinance. Further, the Zoning Administrator shall not
authorize the issuance of a building permit until the applicant has provided
all required permits authorizing the subject activity from the applicable
regulating agency.
(Ord. 09-02, passed - -)
§ 30.02 PLUMBING OFFICIAL.
   Pursuant to the provision of the Michigan Plumbing Code, in accordance with
§ 9 of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as
amended, the Plumbing Official of the township is hereby designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the township under Public
Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended by the
state. The township assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of the Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 99-02, passed 5-17-1999)
§ 30.03 MECHANICAL OFFICIAL.
   Pursuant to the provision of the Michigan Mechanical Code, in accordance
with § 9 of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, as amended, the Mechanical Official of the township is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the
township, under Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531 as amended, state. The township assumes responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of the Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 99-03, passed 5-17-1999)
CHAPTER 31: TAX AND FINANCE
Section
Fire and Emergency Reimbursement
   
31.01   Purpose of subchapter
   
31.02   Charges to responsible and benefitted parties
   
31.03   Services giving rise to assessable costs
   
31.04   Payment of assessable costs
   
31.05   Interpretation
   
31.06   Applicability of charges regardless of outcome
   
31.07   Additional remedies
   
31.08   Right to appeal
   
31.09   Exemptions
   
31.10   Collection of charges
   
31.11   Non-exclusive charges
   
31.12   Schedule of assessable costs
FIRE AND EMERGENCY REIMBURSEMENT
§ 31.01 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to allow the township to recover from
responsible and/or benefitted parties those costs incurred in connection with
providing fire protection and other emergency services and to provide for the
enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.02 CHARGES TO RESPONSIBLE AND BENEFITTED PARTIES.
   (A)   The township shall bill responsible and benefitted parties, including,
but not limited to, all persons, estates, entities or corporations or other
parties determined by Township Fire Chief to be responsible for or benefitted
by services provided by or through the township which give rise to assessable
costs, as set forth in the Schedule of Assessable Costs (found in §
31.12) adopted by the Township Board of Trustees. Any party determined by the
Fire Chief to be responsible for and/or benefitting from the services shall be
liable for the full payment of the services rendered.
   (B)   When a particular service rendered by or through the Fire Department
directly benefits more than one person or property, the owner of each property
so benefitted and/or each person so benefitted, shall each be liable for the
payment of the full charge for services. However, the township shall not pursue
nor be entitled to recover more than 100% of assessable costs.
   (C)   Parents and or guardians shall be responsible for payment of
assessable services incurred by minors and, parents and or guardians, shall
also be responsible for payment of assessable services required by the action
of a minor.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.03 SERVICES GIVING RISE TO ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   (A)   Costs associated with the actions or services described in divisions
(B)(1) through (12) below, also referred to as assessable services in this
subchapter, shall be jointly and severally assessed to any and all responsible
and benefitted parties. Costs incurred by the township include, but are not
limited to, materials, equipment, manpower, administration and assistance
within the Fire Department from other departments of the township or outside
sources or contractors, injuries or damages to people or property which result
from the situation which caused the township to provide fire protection and
other emergency services, and any other factors deemed relevant by the Township
Board.
   (B)   Services giving rise to assessable costs include:
      (1)   Costs incurred to halt, abate or remedy any spill, containment or
release of any hazardous materials and any liabilities resulting from such;
      (2)   Extraordinary costs incurred to extinguish or fight a fire,
including, but not limited to, overhauling equipment, fire extinguishers and
foam;
      (3)   Any demolition costs if a structure must be demolished to protect
the public safety following a fire, and any liabilities resulting from such;
      (4)   Costs incurred in connection with a utility line or facility
failure or problem and any liabilities resulting from such;
      (5)   Costs incurred in connection with any water, ice, confined space,
trench, high angle or technical rescue or recovery;
      (6)   Costs associated with any motor vehicle accident, extrication of
individuals from a vehicle or motor vehicle fire, including, but not limited
to, spill clean up; foam; fire extinguishers; and any liabilities resulting
from such;
      (7)   Costs associated with fraudulent requests for emergency assistance,
including, but not limited to, intentionally dishonest and/or prank calls and
requests for response made under false pretenses;
      (8)   Costs associated with false alarms in excess of two to three times
in any 365-day period;
      (9)   Any assessable costs, including litigation expenses, which become
known to the township following the transmittal of a statement to the
responsible party pursuant to this subchapter, which shall be billed in the
same manner on a subsequent statement to the responsible party;
      (10)   Costs associated with department response and operations at scene
resulting from activities that violate state, federal or local laws or
ordinances including but not limited to: illegal dumping of waste, arson, use
of illegal fireworks, response required because of conduct or activities of a
responsible party who is under the influence of intoxicating substances, such
as operating a motor vehicle while under the influence of intoxicants and/or
illegal drugs;
      (11)   Costs associated with use of departmental equipment and personnel
for the furtherance of private enterprise, a private business or for-profit
corporation; and
      (12)   Other services and responses by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.04 PAYMENT OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   Rates and guidelines for charges and assessable costs shall be set by
resolution of the Township Board. All costs assessed pursuant to this
subchapter shall become due within 30 calendar days of the date of the
statement, unless an appeal is pending.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.05 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The Fire Chief shall have the right to render formal interpretations
of provisions of this subchapter, including what constitutes “extraordinary
costs”.
   (B)   Any like interpretation shall be binding unless the interpretation is
overturned or modified by a timely appeal to the Township Board pursuant to §
31.08.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.06 APPLICABILITY OF CHARGES REGARDLESS OF OUTCOME.
   The assessable costs and charges under this subchapter shall be applicable
regardless of the result or outcome of services provided by or through the
township with regard to the particular fire, rescue services or other emergency
involved.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.07 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   The assessable costs and charges specified by this subchapter are intended
to reimburse the township for its reasonable costs and expenses incurred, and
are not penal in nature.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.08 RIGHT TO APPEAL.
   Any responsible and/or benefitted party who receives a statement of costs
assessed pursuant to this subchapter shall have the opportunity to appeal the
assessment of costs to the Township Board. The responsible party who wishes to
appeal any assessable costs shall file a written appeal with reasons for
assessed costs. The appeal will stay all payments due until the appeal is
decided by the Township Board. The appeal will be placed on the agenda of the
next regularly scheduled or special Township Board meeting. The Township Board
will consider the request, and make a determination regarding the assessable
costs in the case appealed. The Township Board will also determine the date
that any or all assessable costs involved in the appeal will become due. Any
appeal must be submitted within 30 days of the date of invoice.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.09 EXEMPTIONS.
   No assessable emergency service costs shall be charged to a resident,
business or entity that contributes directly to the township fire millage in
the township. However, there shall be no exemption for services under §
31.03(B)(3), (7), (8), (10) and (11).
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.10 COLLECTION OF CHARGES.
   The township may proceed in district court by suit to collect any monies
remaining unpaid and shall have any and all other remedies provided by law for
the collection of the charges.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.11 NON-EXCLUSIVE CHARGES.
   The foregoing rates and charges shall not be exclusive of the charges that
may be made by the township for the costs and expenses of maintaining a fire
department, but shall only be supplemental thereto. Charges may additionally be
collected by the township through general taxation after a vote of the
electorate approving same or by a special assessment established under state
statutes pertinent thereto. General Fund appropriations may also be made to
cover the additional costs and expenses.
(Ord. 06-03, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 31.12 SCHEDULE OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
 
Vehicles and Equipment
Fire engine                $380 per unit per hour
Firefighting chemicals     List price for replacement
Medical/rescue unit        $250 per unit per hour
Quint unit or aerial tower $500 per unit per hour
Spill control materials    List price for replacement
 
Personnel and Contract Resources
ALS ambulance standby    $200 each per hour
Dispatcher(s) at station $15 per hour
Fire officer(s) on scene $20 each per hour
Firefighter(s) on scene  $15 each per hour
Law enforcement services $50 per hour
 
Administrative fees 10% of the total amount for service
 
(Res. passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
32.01   Title
   
32.02   Bureau establishment, location and personnel
   
32.03   Bureau authority
   
32.04   Violation notification
   
32.05   Notice requirements
   
32.06   Admission or denial of responsibility
   
32.07   Schedule of civil fines/costs
   
32.08   Records and accounting
   
32.09   Other enforcement options
§ 32.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Burtchville Township “Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau” Ordinance.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 32.02 BUREAU ESTABLISHMENT, LOCATION AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Establishment. The Burtchville Township Municipal Ordinance Violations
Bureau (hereafter “Bureau”) is hereby established pursuant to Public Act 236 of
1961 as amended by Public Act 12 of 1994, including M.C.L.A. § 600.8396, as it
may be amended from time to time, for the purpose of accepting admissions of
responsibility for ordinance violations designed as municipal civil
infractions, and to collect and retain civil fines/costs for such violations as
prescribed herein.
   (B)   Location. The Bureau shall be located at the Township Hall at 4000
Burtch Road, Lakeport, Michigan, or such other location in the township as may
be designated by the Township Board.
   (C)   Personnel. The Bureau shall be under the supervision and control of
the Township Supervisor, and the Township Board of Trustees shall adopt rules
and regulations for the operation of the Bureau and appoint as necessary
qualified personnel to administer the Bureau.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 32.03 BUREAU AUTHORITY.
   The Bureau shall only have authority to accept admissions of responsibility
(without explanation) for municipal civil infractions for which a municipal
ordinance violations notice (as compared to a citation) has been issued and
served, and to collect and retain the schedule of civil fines/costs for such
violations specified pursuant to this chapter or as determined by resolution of
the Township Board. The Bureau shall not accept payment of fines/costs from any
person who denies having committed the alleged violation or who admits
responsibility with explanation. The Bureau shall not determine or attempt to
determine the truth or falsity of any fact, or matter, relating to an alleged
ordinance violation.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 32.04 VIOLATION NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   An authorized local official who witnesses a person violate an
ordinance, a violation of which is a municipal civil infraction, may prepare
and subscribe, as soon as possible after the event and as completely as
possible, an original and three copies of a municipal civil infraction notice.
   (B)   An authorized local official may also issue a municipal civil
infraction notice to a person if, based upon investigation, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction. An authorized local official may issue a notice to a person
if, based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly witnessed
the person violate an ordinance a violation of which is a municipal civil
infraction, the official has reasonable cause to believe that the person is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 32.05 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Ordinance violation notice requirements. Municipal civil infraction
violation notices shall be issued and served by authorized township officials
as provided by law and township ordinances. A copy of a notice of a municipal
civil infraction action involving the use or occupancy of land, or a building,
or other structure, may be served upon an owner or occupant of the land,
building or structure by posting the copy on the land, or attaching the copy to
the building or structure. In addition, a copy of the notice shall be sent by
first class mail to the owner of the land, building, or structure at the
owner’s last known address. All other notices of municipal civil infractions
shall require the authorized local official to personally serve the copy of the
notice upon the alleged violator.
   (B)   Contents. A municipal civil infraction notice shall include, as a
minimum, all of the following:
      (1)   A description of the alleged violation(s) including the ordinance
alleged to have been violated;
      (2)   That the alleged violator may do one of the following:
         (a)   Admit responsibility for the civil infraction,
         (b)   Admit responsibility for the civil infraction with explanation,
or
         (c)   Deny responsibility for the civil infraction.
      (3)   The time within which the person must contact the Bureau for
purpose of admitting or denying responsibility for the violations;
      (4)   The amount of the scheduled fines/costs for the alleged violation;
      (5)   The violations may be admitted or denied by mail or in person;
      (6)   The consequences of failing to pay the required fines/costs or
contact the Bureau within the required time;
      (7)   The address and telephone number of the Bureau;
      (8)   The days and hours that the Bureau is open.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-23-2015)
§ 32.06 ADMISSION OR DENIAL OF RESPONSIBILITY.
   Where a person fails to admit responsibility without explanation for a
violation within the jurisdiction of the Bureau and pay the required civil
fines/costs within the designated time period, the Bureau Clerk or other
designated township employee(s) shall advise the complainant the township may
issue and file a municipal civil infraction citation for such violation with
the court having jurisdiction of the matter. The citation filed with the court
shall consist of a sworn complaint containing, at a minimum, the allegations
stated in the municipal civil infraction notice and shall fairly inform the
alleged violator how to respond to the citation. A copy of the citation may be
served in person or by first class mail upon the alleged violator at the
alleged violator’s last known address. The citation shall thereafter be
processed in the manner required by law.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-23-2015)
§ 32.07 SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES/COSTS.
   (A)   The civil fines/costs payable to the Bureau upon admissions of
responsibility by persons served with municipal ordinance violation notices
shall be determined pursuant to the following schedule:
 
First violation within three-year period*                $250
Second violation within three-year period*               $500
Third violation within three-year period*                $1,000
Fourth or subsequent violation within three-year period* $1,500
* Determined on the basis of the date(s) of the violation(s).
 
   (B)   The schedule of civil fines/costs may be revised from time to time by
resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-5-2013; Res. 2014-12-15.1, passed 12-15-2014)
§ 32.08 RECORDS AND ACCOUNTING.
   The Bureau Clerk or other designated township official/employee shall retain
a copy of all municipal ordinance violation notices, and shall account to the
Township Board as the Township Board may require concerning the number of
admissions and denials of responsibility for ordinance violations within the
jurisdiction of the Bureau and the amount of fines/costs collected with respect
to such violations.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-5-2013)
§ 32.09 OTHER ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require the township to initiate
its municipal civil infraction ordinance enforcement activity through the
issuance of an ordinance violation notice. As to each ordinance violation
designated as a municipal civil infraction the township may, at its sole
discretion, proceed directly with the issuance of a municipal civil infraction
citation or take such other enforcement action as is authorized by law.
(Ord. 08-05-2013.1, passed 8-5-2013)
CHAPTER 33: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
33.01   Adoption of Electrical Code
   
33.02   Adoption of Building Code
 
   
33.99   Penalty
§ 33.01 ADOPTION OF ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   This section will be known as the “Burtchville Township Electrical
Code”.
   (B)   The 1996 Edition of the National Electrical Code (NFPA-70), as
promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association, with Technical
Amendments approved and recommended by the Reciprocal Electrical Council Inc.,
and approved by the Bureau of Construction Codes, are hereby adopted as part of
this section, as if fully set forth herein, and shall govern and be observed
and followed in all installations of electrical wiring, equipment, apparatus
and fixtures of any voltage. Notice is hereby given that complete copies of the
Code and Technical Amendments are available for public inspection at the office
of the Township Clerk.
   (C)   Fees to provide for the administration and enforcement of this section
shall be established, and may from time to time be amended, by resolution of
the Township Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 98-8, passed 7-19-1999)
§ 33.02 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   Ordinance 98-9 regarding the Building Code of the township, as amended on
June 18, 2012, is hereby adopted by reference and made a part hereof as if
appearing in full.
(Ord. passed 6-18-2012)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violation of any provisions of §
33.01 herein adopted shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not in excess
of $500, or by imprisonment for no more than 90 days, or both, with the fine
and/or imprisonment together with the cost of prosecution, at the discretion of
the court. A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during
which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 98-8, passed 7-19-1999)
CHAPTER 34: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
34.01   Agency designated
   
34.02   Code appendix enforced
   
34.03   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
§ 34.01 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, as amended, the Building Official of the township is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the
township under Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531 as amended. The township assumes responsibility for the administration
and enforcement of the Act throughout the corporate limits of the community
adopting this chapter.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 34.02 CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, as amended, Appendix G of the State Building Code shall be enforced
by the enforcing agency within the township.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 4-19-2010)
§ 34.03 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) flood insurance study (FIS)
entitled “St. Clair County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions)” and dated 5-3-2010
and the flood insurance rate map(s) (FIRMS) panel number(s) of 26147C; 0100D,
0125D, 0225D, 0230D and dated 5-3-2010, are adopted by reference for the
purposes of administration of the State Construction Code, and declared to be a
part of § 1612.3 of the State Building Code, and to provide the content of the
“Flood Hazards” section of Table R301.2(l) of the State Residential Code.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 4-19-2010)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
51.   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
      
52.   LIGHT DISTRICT
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Cross-connections
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The township adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross-Connection
Rules of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, being R 325.11401 to
R 325.11407 of the Michigan Administrative Code, and the Cross-Connection
Control Program for the township, as incorporated by reference herein, and made
part of hereof by reference thereto.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Township Department of Public Works (DPW)
to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water
supply where cross-connections with the public water supply is deemed possible.
The frequency of inspections and re-inspections based on potential health
hazards involved shall be established by the Township DPW and as approved by
the State Department of Environmental Quality.
   (C)   Representatives of the Township DPW shall have the right to enter, at
any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to the public water
supply system of the township for the purpose of inspecting the piping system
or systems thereof, for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such property.
The refusal of the information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
   (D)   The Township DPW is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this section exists, and to take other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to the property shall not be restored until the
cross-connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of
this section.
   (E)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this section and by the State and Township Plumbing Codes. Any
water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is
not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
“Water Unsafe For Drinking”.
   (F)   This section does not supercede the State Plumbing Code or the
Township Plumbing Ordinance No. 98-11, but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §
50.01, or any written order of the Township DPW, in pursuance thereof, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished
by a fine of not less than $100, nor more than $1,000 for each violation. Each
day upon which a violation of the provisions of §
50.01 shall occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the
purpose of §
50.01.
(Ord. 99-01, passed 5-17-1999)
CHAPTER 51: WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM
Section
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Municipal system
   
51.03   Basis of charges; free service prohibited
   
51.04   Charges for service to township
   
51.05   Water rates; charges for users
   
51.06   Fee in lieu of special water assessment
   
51.07   Estimated charges in case of meter failure
   
51.08   Testing meter and adjustment of charges in case of inaccuracy
   
51.09   Billing; penalty for late payment
   
51.10   Collection and enforcement
   
51.11   Accounts
   
51.12   Additional authority
   
51.13   Quarterly water consumption charges for metered users
   
51.14   Equivalent resident units
   
51.15   Water system extension policy
   
51.16   Rules and regulations of the water supply
   
51.17   General construction provisions
 
   
51.99   Penalty
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. The Township Board.
   BONDS. The issues of county bonds issued or to be issued referred to in the
preamble of the ordinance from which this chapter is derived.
   CONTRACTUAL PAYMENTS. The installment payments required to be made by the
township to the Board of Public Works of the county.
   PREMISES. A parcel of land or structure having any connection to the
township water supply system.
   SYSTEM. The water distribution system.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Burtchville, St. Clair County, Michigan.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Township Board of Burtchville, Michigan.
   USER or USERS. Any premise or premises connecting, or connected with, and
using any of the facilities of the water distribution system for the supply of
water.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The water distribution facilities acquired and
constructed pursuant to the provisions of contracts with the county and any
extensions, improvements or additions thereto; and any additional facilities
whether owned and/or operated by the township or the county within the limits
of the township used or useful in the distribution of water to residents of the
township.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -)
§ 51.02 MUNICIPAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known and referred to as the “Ordinance to
Create a Water Distribution System in the Township of Burtchville”.
   (B)   From and after the date of adoption of this chapter the township
hereby establishes the water distribution system as one system to be known and
designed as the “water distribution system” on a public utility rate basis,
pursuant to and in accordance with the authorization provided in Act 94 of
2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1771 through 125.1794.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -)
§ 51.03 BASIS OF CHARGES; FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   (1)   Water service shall be charged for on the basis of water
consumed, as measured by the water meter installed on the premises for water
service customers of the township.
      (2)    Where water is furnished to un-metered premises, the service shall
be charged until the time as a meter can be installed on the basis of water
consumed as estimated by the township employee charged with the responsibility
for the system at the water consumption charge for non-metered water uses as
set by resolution of the Township Board.
   (B)   Each user shall pay a ready-to-serve charge to help defray the fixed
costs of the burtchville township water system regardless of usage by users.
   (C)   No free water service shall be furnished to any person or entity or
premises.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 6-10-2019)
§ 51.04 CHARGES FOR SERVICE TO TOWNSHIP.
   The township shall pay the same water rate for service to it as would be
payable by a private customer for the same service. All the charges for service
shall be payable quarterly from the current funds of the township, or from the
proceeds from taxes.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -)
§ 51.05 WATER RATES; CHARGES FOR USERS.
   (A)   The rates to be charged for water consumption and ready to serve fee
by the water system commencing with all billings on or after January 1,1996,
shall be set by resolution of the Township Board. The charges for consumption
for water shall be payable quarterly.
   (B)   Each premises connecting to any water line of the system shall pay in
cash or certified check at the time application for a connection to the water
line a connection fee as follows.
      (1)   Direct connections. For each direct connection to lines of the
system, there shall be charged a fee per single-family residence equivalent as
hereinafter set forth; provided, however, that credit against such charge shall
be given for each unit of benefit specially assessed.
         (a)   1996 District: $4,300 per single-family residence equivalent.
         (b)   1999 District: $4,300 per single-family residence equivalent.
         (c)   2001 District: $7,100 per single-family residence equivalent.
         (d)   2024 District: $10,000 per single-family residence equivalent.
      (2)   In order to defray the proportional share of the cost of
transmission mains and meter pits for each indirect connection to the system,
there shall be charged a fee as set forth below; provided, however, that credit
against those charges shall be given per unit or portion of benefit specially
assessed. An indirect connection shall be defined as one made to water main(s)
added to the system after the original construction of the system, the cost of
which is paid from special assessments or private funds.
         (a)   1996 District: $2,150 per single-family residence equivalent.
         (b)   1999 District: $3,550 per single-family residence equivalent.
         (c)   2024 District: $5,000 per single-family residence equivalent.
      (3)   Connection charges as set forth above shall be due and payable in
cash or certified check upon application for connection to the system, except
that existing premises connecting to the system during the original
construction project shall be payable over ten years in equal annual
installments. The first installment shall be due February 14, 1996. The
remaining installments shall be payable annually commencing December 1, 1996,
and shall include interest from March 1, 1996 at the rate equal to 1% above the
rate borne by the bonds sold.
      (4)   Each premises, other than a single-family residence, shall be the
above connection fees, multiplied by a factor representing a ratio of water use
by the class of premises to normal single-family residential use, as reflected
in § 51.14.
      (5)   Subject to the provisions of division (B)(1) above, those parcels
located in the Special Assessment District and subject to a full special
assessment on the special assessment roll shall be deemed to have paid the
connection fee and, if applicable, the cost of acquiring and installing the
service connection; provided, however, that the credit shall not result in a
full or partial refund of the special assessment paid or payable pursuant to
the special assessment roll, unless specifically established by the township at
the time the special assessment roll was confirmed by the township; provided
further that a partial special assessment (levied for example, on a vacant lot)
shall be offset against the connection fee and, if applicable, the cost of
acquiring a service connection.
      (6)   Multiple unit users:
         (a)   A single-family residential building which constitutes a
dwelling unit will be charged a connection fee based on one unit. Other
premises shall pay a connection fee based upon the number of units assigned to
the premises by the table of unit factors, in § 51.14; and
         (b)   Upon connection to the system, a nonresidential user assigned
more than a single unit shall have a water meter of the size and type approved
by the township installed on the user’s water supply. The cost of both the
meter and the installation shall be paid for by the user with the installation
to be made or approved by the township. The meter shall be read on a quarterly
basis by the township.
      (7)   Single-family residential users with a service line provided in the
original 1996 construction project financed with the bonds that wish to have a
service line over one inch shall receive a credit in the amount of $400 toward
the cost of over one inch service line.
      (8)   Users who have not been furnished with a water service line with
the original 1996 project shall pay a service line installation charge to pay
the cost of installing a water line from the water main to the property line in
the following amounts:
         (a)   One-inch service line: $800; and
         (b)   Over one-inch service line: cost to be determined to township
based on a time and material basis.
      (9)   Meter charge changed to cover the cost and installation of water
meter that is not installed as part of the original 1996 project shall be paid
in the following amounts:
Meter New Installation Fees
Size Fixture Fee
Meter New Installation Fees
Size     Fixture           Fee
5/8 inch Meter             $294.25
5/8 inch Ball Valve        $13.20
5/8 inch Nipple/coupling   $15.82
5/8 inch Angle meter valve $172.73
                           Total: $496.00
3/4 inch Meter             $338.45
3/4 inch Ball Valve        $13.20
3/4 inch Nipple/coupling   $18.52
3/4 inch Angle meter valve $172.73
                           Total: $542.90
1 inch   Meter             $430.77
1 inch   Ball Valve        $24.20
1 inch   Nipple/coupling   $37.57
1 inch   Angle meter valve $94.83
                           Total: $587.37
 
Stop Pricing
Stop Pricing
Curb stop box                    $118.80
1-inch corp valve                $110.10
Stationary rod                   $24.20
Poly 1-inch pipe                 $1.10 per foot
Brass bushing                    $34.46
Steel insert (2)                 $5.25
1-1/2-inch meter as of 5-18-2022 $858.11
1-1/2-inch right-angle valve     $400.18
 
      (10)   Single-family residential users with a meter provided in the
original 1996 construction project that wish to have a meter larger than one
shall receive a credit in the amount of $50 toward the cost of the meter in
excess of one inch.
      (11)   Service lines from the water main the property line will be
maintained without charge to the user. It will be the property owner’s
obligation to install and maintain the service from the property line to the
premises connected.
   (C)   All connections to the system shall be inspected by the township. A
fee of $75 per connection shall be charged for inspection of water service from
the property line to the meter location, but it will be included in the
connection fee. Refer to division (B)(8) above.
   (D)   Turn-off and meter reading charges.
      (1)   A request for turn-on or turn-off of water shall be made by the
property owner in writing and the fees required as determined by resolution of
the Township Board shall be paid at the time of the request or billed to the
customer account for payment.
      (2)   A request for seasonal turn-off and turn-on shall be made by the
property owner in writing. A fee of $100 will be charged for seasonal turn-off
which will be paid at the time of the request or billed to the customer account
for payment. No charge will be made for turning the service on.
      (3)   If a turn-on or turn-off is made at the request of the customer,
except for water line emergencies, at any time other than during regular
working hours, the charge shall be the actual cost to the township for the
employee’s time, but in no case less than $250.
      (4)   Any fee required under this division (D) may be amended by
resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - - ; Ord. passed 8-5-2013; Am. Ord. passed 6-10-2019; Ord.
passed 7-15-2024)
§ 51.06 FEE IN LIEU OF SPECIAL WATER ASSESSMENT.
   (A)   A fee in lieu of special water assessment is for the purpose of
allocating costs of the water system construction to all the users within the
township. Payment of the fee in lieu of special water assessment does not
entitle the user to any additional construction or installment of water lines
by the township.
   (B)   A fee in lieu of special water assessment shall be levied on those
premises created as a result of the division of parcel and/or parcels, on those
premises requesting water service and not on a special water assessment roll.
   (C)   The fee in lieu of special water assessment shall be levied in those
amounts as specified by resolution of the Township Board.
   (D)   Fees in lieu of special water assessment are as follows:
      (1)   1996 Water District: $4,300.
      (2)   1999 Water District: $7,100.
      (3)   2024 Water District: $10,000
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-15-2024)
§ 51.07 ESTIMATED CHARGES IN CASE OF METER FAILURE.
   (A)   If any water meter shall fail to register properly, the township shall
estimate the consumption on the basis of former consumption and bill
accordingly.
   (B)   In the event of meter failure due to freezing or a break, the township
shall estimate water consumption based on the time and size of the break at the
meter.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - - ; Ord. passed 8-5-2013)
§ 51.08 TESTING METER AND ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES IN CASE OF INACCURACY.
   (A)   A user may request that his or her water meter be tested. If the meter
is found accurate, a charge of $150 will be made. If the meter is found
defective, it shall be repaired or an accurate meter installed and no charge
shall be made.
   (B)   A meter shall be considered accurate if, when tested, it registers not
to exceed 5% more or 5% less than the actual quantity of water passing through
it. If a meter registers in excess of 5% more than the actual quantity of water
passing through it, it shall be considered “fast” to that extent. If a meter
registers in excess of 5% less than the actual quantity of water passing
through it, it shall be considered “slow” to that extent.
   (C)   If a meter has been tested at the request of a user, and is determined
to register “fast”, the township shall credit the user with a sum equal to the
percent “fast” multiplied by the amount of all bills incurred by the user
within the three months prior to the test. If a meter so tested is determined
to register “slow”, the township may collect from the user a sum equal to the
percent “slow” multiplied by the amount of all the bills incurred by the user
for the prior three months. When the township, on its own initiative, makes a
test of water meter, it shall be done without cost to the user, other than his
or her paying the amount due the township for water used by him or her as above
provided, if the meter is found to be “slow”.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -)
§ 51.09 BILLING; PENALTY FOR LATE PAYMENT.
   (A)   General billing. Billing for water charges shall be made quarterly and
shall be due and payable on the date specified in the bill. If not paid within
30 days after the due date, a 10% penalty shall be added to the unpaid balance
of each account.
   (B)   Assistance to senior citizens with respect to charges.
      (1)   The purpose of this division (B) is to assist and encourage senior
citizens to maintain their independence and self-reliance, so as to continue as
viable members of this community, by annually appropriating from the General
Fund the necessary money to supplement the payment of water charges to senior
citizens, and not to reduce nor effect any changes in the revenue levels of the
water utility funds.
      (2)   Quarterly charges for water services may be supplemented by
appropriation from the General Fund of an amount equal to 30% per billing,
provided the senior citizen meets all of the following requirements.
         (a)   The senior citizen shall own, occupy and reside upon the served
premise. To qualify as a senior citizen, the owner or spouse must be 65 years
of age, or older. The un-remarried surviving spouse of a senior citizen also
qualifies.
         (b)   The senior citizen’s adjusted household income shall not exceed
$13,500; the amount to be adjusted from time to time by resolution of the
Township Board; and that adjusted household income is defined by the State
Income Tax Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 206.1 et seq., as amended, except that gross
rents rather than net rents shall be included.
         (c)   The senior citizens shall not utilize the property for rental
purposes.
         (d)   The senior citizens’ property shall be 1ocated within the
township.
         (e)   Qualifications listed above shall be subject to verification
annually by the Township Clerk.
      (3)   Quarterly charges for water service may be supplemented by
appropriation from the General Fund of an amount up to 30% billing, provided
the senior citizen meets all requirements in division (B)(2) above, except that
where the property service is being partially utilized for rental purposes, the
following assistance shall apply:
         (a)   Where a dwelling is being billed separately for each unit, a 30%
assistance will be granted to the senior citizen unit; and
         (b)   Where the dwelling is being billed one water charge, the
assistance to the senior citizen will be prorated, based upon the number of
units within the dwelling. For example: two units a 15% assistance; three units
a 10% assistance; four units a 7.5% assistance.
         (c)   Qualifications listed above shall be subject to verification
annually by the Township Clerk.
      (4)   The assistance provided senior citizens under this section shall be
annually appropriated and paid from the General Fund of the township to the
Water Fund of the township.
   (C)   Hardship exemption of assessed charges. The owner of any premises
which has been assessed any charges under this division (C) with regard to the
water system, may submit a hardship application to the township seeking a
deferment in the partial or total payments of the charges based upon a showing
of financial hardship subject to and in accordance with the following.
      (1)   The legal owner of the premises shall complete a hardship
application provided by the Township Board, and file the application together
with all other information and documentation required by the township with the
Township Board not less than 60 days prior to the date of the installment due.
      (2)   The legal owner must also occupy the premises to be eligible for
any partial or total deferment.
      (3)   Hardship applications shall be reviewed by the Township Board and
after due deliberation the Township Board shall determine in each case whether
there has been an adequate showing of financial hardship and shall notify the
applicant of the determination; in no case shall a hardship application be
approved that does not meet the federal poverty income standards as defined and
determined annually by the United States Office of Management and Budget.
      (4)   An applicant aggrieved by the determination of the Township Board
may request the opportunity to appear before the Township Board in person for
the purpose of arguing hardship and presenting any additional evidence. Denial
of hardship following a personal appearance before the Township Board shall be
final and conclusive.
      (5)   In the event the Township Board makes a finding of hardship, the
Township Board shall fix the amount of deferment of partial or total charges.
The Township Board can only determine a partial or total hardship for the
particular year in which the application was submitted. Any deferment sought
for any succeeding year(s) require(s) the submission of the necessary
application for each succeeding year.
      (6)   Upon receiving a determination of the Township Board deferring
partial to total charges imposed, the owners of the premises shall, within one
month, execute a recordable security interest on the premises, with the
township as the secured party, payable on or before the death of any of the
applicants, or in any event, upon any transfer of the premises. The security
interest shall be in an amount necessary to cover all fees and charges required
under this division (C). The consideration for the security interest is the
grant of a deferment pursuant of this division (C).
      (7)   Any deferment granted shall terminate upon the occurrence of any
one of the following events:
         (a)   Change of the applicant’s financial status which removes the
basis for financial hardship;
         (b)   Any conveyance of any interest in the premises, including the
execution of a new security interest in the premises of extension thereof; and/
or
         (c)   The death of any of the applicants.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -; Ord. passed 11-19-1996; Ord. passed 11-19-1996)
§ 51.10 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Township Board is hereby authorized to enforce the payment of
charges for water service to any premises by discontinuing the water service to
the premises and an action for collection may be instituted by the township
against the user in a court of competent jurisdiction. Notice of intent lo
discontinue service shall be given personally or by first-class mail to the
user at the address served.
   (B)   It is the policy of the township to discontinue utility service to
customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a meaningful
opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The township’s form for application
for utility service and all bills shall contain, in addition to the title,
address, room number, and telephone number of the official in charge of
billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
ten days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill
shall have a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in
person and by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may
present orally or in writing his or her complaint and contentions to the city
official in charge of utility billing. This official shall be authorized to
order that the customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the
authority to make a final determination of the customer's complaint.
         (a)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing
procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified,
but in no event until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30
days.
         (b)   When it becomes necessary for the township to discontinue
utility service to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be
reinstated only after all bills for service then due have been paid, along with
a turn-on charge in the sum of $100.
   (C)   The charges for water service, which, under the provisions of Act 94
of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1771 through 125.1794, are made a lien on the
premises to which furnished, are hereby recognized to constitute the lien, and
the Township Treasurer shall, annually, on the first day of the second month
preceding the date of levy of the township’s taxes, certify all unpaid charges
for those services furnished to any premises which, on the day preceding, have
remained unpaid for a period of six months, to the Township Board, which may
require the Township Assessor to place the same on the next tax roll of the
township. Those charges so assessed shall be collected in the same manner as
general township taxes.
   (D)   Where the water service to any premises is turned off to enforce the
payment of water service charges, the water service shall not be recommenced
until all delinquent charges, plus a turn-on charge of $100, have been paid.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -)
§ 51.11 ACCOUNTS.
   (A)   All monies from the collection of, on hand or in the process of
collection derived from the following water charges shall be deposited into a
bank or banks to be designated by the township in a special depository account
designated “Water Receiving Fund:”
      (1)   Connection fees;
      (2)   Water consumption charge;
      (3)   Ready-to-serve fees;
      (4)   Water service line installation charge;
      (5)   Meter charge;
      (6)   Turn-on, turn-off and meter charge;
      (7)   Connection inspection charge; and
      (8)   Fee in lieu of special assessment.
   (B)   All monies from the fees, charges and rates set forth in division (A)
above shall be used and allocated periodically as follows:
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. There shall first be set aside
quarterly into a separate account designated “Operation and Maintenance Fund”,
a sum sufficient to provide for the payment of current expenses of
administration and operation for the system and the current expenses for the
maintenance thereof as may be necessary to preserve the same in good repair and
working order.
      (2)   Contractual Installment Payments Fund. Any balance remaining in the
Water Receiving Fund on December 31 after the foregoing provisions have been
made for the Operation and Maintenance Fund, may be set aside on or before
March 30, of each year into a separate depository account designated
“Contractual Installment Payment Fund”, and used and applied to the payment of
the contractual installment payment due on the next succeeding April 1 and
October 1.
   (C)   All monies from the collection of, on hand or in the process of
collection derived from the following water charges shall be designated and
deposited in the Contractual Installment Payments Fund to be used and applied
to contractual installment payments as they come due:
      (1)   The portion of the water debt consumption charge designated for
payment of debt service;
      (2)   Fee in lieu of special water assessment; and
      (3)   Connection fees.
   (D)   The amounts so on hand in the Contractual Installment Payment Fund on
March 30 of each year are hereby pledged solely and only for the payment of the
contractual installment payments pursuant to the authorization provided in
M.C.L.A. § 123.742(2).
   (E)   The township shall cause to be maintained and kept proper books of
record and account, in which shall be made in full and correct entries of all
transactions relating to the water system.
   (F)   Not later than two months after the close of each fiscal year, the
township shall cause to be prepared a statement in reasonable detail, showing
the cash income and disbursements of the system at the beginning and close of
the fiscal year and other information as may be necessary to enable any
taxpayer of the township, user or beneficiary of the services furnished, to be
fully informed as to all matters pertaining to the fiscal operation of the
system during that year. The annual statement shall be filed in the office of
the Township Clerk, where it will be open to public inspection.
   (G)   The books of record and account shall be audited annually by a
certified public accountant to be designated by the Township Board and a
certified copy of the audit shall be filed with the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed 6-10-2019)
§ 51.12 ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Rates revision. The rates and charges specified in this chapter shall
be subject to revision from time to time by the Township Board, it being the
intent that the rates and charges shall, as far as is reasonably possible,
provide sufficient funds to enable the township to efficiently operate and
maintain the system in accordance with its duties and obligations therefor, and
to provide additional funds to enable it to pay all its contractual installment
payments.
   (B)   Additional contracts. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be
construed in any way to prevent the township from entering into additional
contracts with the county under the provisions of Act 185 of 1957, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 123.731 et seq., for the acquisition, construction and financing of
additions, extensions and improvements to the system, and the use of revenues
of the system for the payment of additional obligations incurred thereby.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -)
§ 51.13 QUARTERLY WATER CONSUMPTION CHARGES FOR METERED USERS.
   (A)   Quarterly water consumption charges for metered users:
      (1)   Minimum charge is quarterly ready to serve charge.
      (2)   Current cost per 100 cubic feet is $5.85 plus ready to serve charge
(as of June 1, 2024).
      (3)   Ready to serve charge is by valve size:
 
Valve Size      Charge per Quarter
5/8 to 3/4 inch $30
1 inch          $84
1-1/2 inches    $189
2 inches        $336
4 inches        $1,344
 
   (B)   There shall be an annual rental charge of $4 per hydrant applicable to
Burtchville Township Fire Department only.
(Ord. passed 7-15-2024)
§ 51.14 EQUIVALENT RESIDENT UNITS.
Equivalent Resident Units
Occupational Use Unit Use Unit Factor
Equivalent Resident Units
Occupational Use                   Unit Use Unit Factor
Single-family residence            1.000    Per residence
Auto dealers - new and/or used     1.000    Per premises, plus 0.3 per 1,000
                                            sq. ft.
Auto repair/collision              1.000    Per premise
Auto wash (coin-operated do-it-
yourself 10 gallons or less per    1.000    Per stall
car)
Auto wash (mechanical - over 10    10.000   Per stall or production line
gallons per car - not recycled)             including approach and drying area
Auto wash (mechanical - over 10    5.000    Per stall or production line
gallons per car - recycled)                 including approach and drying area
Barber shop                        1.000
Bar                                2.000    Per 1,000 sq. ft. with minimum of
                                            1.0
Beauty shops                       1.000    Per shop and 0.1 per booth
Bowling alleys (no bar)            1.000    Per premise plus 0.2 per alley
Churches                           1.000
Cleaners (pick-up only)            1.000    Per shop
Cleaners (cleaning and pressing    1.000    Per premise plus 0.5 per 500 sq.
facilities)                                 ft.
Clinics (medical and dental)       1.000    Per premise plus 0.5 per exam room
Convenience store                  1.000
Convalescent or boarding homes     1.000    Per premise plus 0.25 per bedroom
Convents                           1.000
County or athletic clubs           1.500    Per 1,000 sq. ft. clubhouse plus
                                            restaurant and bar
Drug stores                        1.000    Per premise plus snack bar
Factories (office and production)  0.750    Per 1,000 sq. ft. with minimum of
wet process                                 1.0
Funeral home                       1.500    Per 1,000 sq. ft. plus residence to
                                            be computed separately
Grocery stores and supermarkets    1.500
Hospitals                          1.100    Per bed
Hotels and motels                  0.400    Per bedroom plus restaurant and bar
Laundry (self-service)             l.000    Per premise plus 0.5 per washer
Two-family residence               1.000    Per dwelling unit
Mobile homes (free standing)       1.000    Per dwelling unit
                                            Per pad or site at indirect
Mobile homes (parks or             0.750    connection rate plus laundry,
subdivision)                                community bldgs. and office to be
                                            computed separately per schedule
Marinas - per boat docking space   0.060    Per space under 25 ft. in length
                                   0.100    Per space over 25 ft. in length
Multiple-family residence
Duplex, row houses or townhouses   0.500    Per dwelling unit at direct
                                            connection rate
Apartment residence - self                  Per dwelling unit at direct
contained unit including laundry   0.500    connection rate
facilities in apartment
Apartment residence - other than            Per dwelling unit at direct
self-contained unit - not having   0.500    connection rate
laundry facilities in apartment
Fraternity or sorority houses      0.500    Per dwelling unit at direct
                                            connection rate
Parks, recreation facilities,
campgrounds
Picnic facilities - no bathing or  0.200    Per parking space
overnight accommodations
Picnic facilities - with bathing   0.250    Per parking space
privileges or swimming pool
Campground facilities - recreation          Per pad or site plus picnic
vehicles, tents, trailers under 12 0.250    facilities
feet
Campground facilities - trailer             Per pad or site plus picnic
parks or trailers in excess of 12  0.500    facilities
feet
Post office                        1.000    Per 1,000 sq. ft.
Professional office                0.250    Per 1,000 sq. ft. with minimum of
                                            1.0
Public institutions                0.750    Per 1,000 sq. ft. with minimum of
                                            1.0
Restaurants (dinner only)          2.000
Restaurants (dinner and drinks)    2.000
 
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -)
§ 51.15 WATER SYSTEM EXTENSION POLICY.
   (A)   Objectives. It is intended, in the development and implementation of
this water system extension policy, to provide the framework for the uniform
and feasible extension to the system in accordance with the township's Water
Master Plan. The extensions will serve areas not currently being served, giving
consideration to the needs and desires of the affected proper owners. This
policy is a guide to the method of requesting, administrating, constructing,
and financing a water main extension and is in accordance with the ordinances
concerning the systems.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CONSTRUCTION COST. That part of the project cost paid to a construction
contractor for constructing a water main.
      EXISTING SYSTEM. A public water main that is in place and in use at the
time of a proposed extension to such system.
      FEE IN LIEU OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT. A fee to be paid by a property owner
in direct proximity to a water main who did not participate in the cost of
construction of the water main either through an owner or by special
assessment.
      OWNER. A property owner, or his or her authorized agent or legal
representative who intends to improve land by extending the water main to serve
that land.
      OWNER FEE REBATE. A rebate paid to an owner by the township for each
connection to a system extension which was originally financed by the owner.
Fee rebates, if any, may be paid during a specified period of time in an amount
approved by the township.
      PER LOT ASSESSMENT. A special assessment levied against a benefitted
property that is based on each parcel of land paying the same assessment.
      PRIVILEGE CHARGE. A charge for the privilege to connect to the water
main.
      PROJECT COST. Cost of a project including construction, engineering,
inspection, administration, financing and any other costs.
      PROPOSED SYSTEM. A water main that is being planned to be constructed.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. A public water main.
      SERVICE CONNECTION. The water line that connects a building to a public
utility.
      SPECIAL ASSESSMENT. A charge against a property for providing water
service benefit to the property. The special assessment is administered by the
township with payments spread over a number of years. Non-payment causes the
unpaid balance of the special assessment to become a lien on the property in
the same way that general and valorem taxes are liened.
      SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT. The property that will benefit from the
system extension.
   (C)   General. Water systems may be extended in accord with the township’s
Water Master Plan when requested by an owner, petition or when deemed necessary
by the Township Board.
   (D)   General requirements.
      (1)   All water main extensions shall be constructed in the public road
right-of-way or in an easement dedicated to the township for such purpose.
      (2)   The entire water service shall be constructed under established
township policy at time of building construction.
      (3)   In newly platted areas, the water service to the property line
shall be constructed and paid for by the owner during the construction of the
water main extensions.
      (4)   All public water mains shall be owned, operated and maintained by
the township upon completion and acceptance by the township.
      (5)   An owner may become eligible to receive an owner fee rebate when he
or she extends a water main, past property owned by others at his or her
expense to serve his or her property. The water serviced need not be extended
to the right-of-way line at buildings. All property owners along the public
utility required to connect shall pay the fee in lieu of special assessment and
other related fees to the township.
      (6)   Prior to commencement of a public utility project, the township may
contract with the owner, who finances a public utility project, to reimburse to
the owner a specified sum from fees collected from other owners who connect to
that public.
      (7)   In newly developed subdivision, the water service connection shall
be installed to the property line by the contractor at the time of construction
of the public water main. Owners of new buildings within the subdivision shall
not be required to pay an indirect connection fee and the other fees set forth
in §§
51.05 and
51.13.
   (E)   Extension by township. Notwithstanding the provisions above for
extension by special assessment and extension by an owner, the water
distribution system may also be extended by the township through a resolution
of the Township Board of Trustees upon a finding of necessity and feasibility
for such extension. In such case, the construction cost shall be initially
borne by the township and paid for by the benefitted owners through the payment
of a fee in lieu of assessment as set forth in this chapter.
   (F)   Implementation. Unless otherwise determined by the township, all the
special assessed water main extensions shall be administered in an annual
program. Requests by property owner petition shall be received throughout the
year until July 1, and then the township will combine them into an annual
special assessment district for water main extension. The plans and
specifications will be prepared and bids received for all of the water main
extensions.
   (G)   Extensions by special assessment.
      (1)   Water extensions financed by special assessment require a request
for the utility extension by a property owner's petition or a Township Board
resolution declaring the necessity of the extensions pursuant to Public Act 188
of 1954, known as the Township Public Improvement Act. Water extensions may
also be financed by special assessment in accordance with Public Act 185 of
1957, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.731 through 123.786, as amended, known as the
County Department and Board of Public Works Public Improvement Act.
      (2)   The property owner petition form is obtainable at the township
offices. The petition must be signed by property owners of more than 50% of the
land area to be assessed in a proposed special assessment district for water.
      (3)   The township may participate in the cost of constructing water
mains that are sized larger to save areas beyond the area being served by the
extension. In addition, the township may participate in corner lot relief,
utilities through intersection, and legally exempt properties.
      (4)   When special assessment is by the front foot, the entire width of
the property will be assessed even though the water main may not traverse the
entire width. In areas where there is reason to believe the water main will be
extended in the future, the utility shall traverse the entire frontage of the
property.
   (H)   Extension by an owner.
      (1)   The minimum assessable frontage for parcels and lots shall be the
maximum width of the parcel or the minimum width as recommended by the township
financial consultation and adopted by the Board of Trustees of the township for
the special assessment district.
      (2)   Water mains may be extended by an owner. The owner shall make
application in writing to the Township Board, requesting authorization to
proceed with the construction of the extension. Upon the Board approval, the
owner will submit detailed construction drawings which comply with the township
Master Plan, specifications, and cost estimates. The plans shall be prepared by
a Michigan registered professional engineer in accordance with the code and
design and construction standards of the township and shall meet the approval
of the township. Upon township approval, the owner shall obtain other necessary
permits and approvals. The township can then obtain an approved underground
contractor to install the water main extension in accordance with the approved
plans and specifications.
      (3)   All extensions of public utilities on private property serving more
than one property shall become a public utility and be within an easement
provided by the property owner and dedicated to the township.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-15-2024)
§ 51.16 RULES AND REGULATIONS OF THE WATER SUPPLY.
   (A)   All applications for water service into any premises must be made in
writing and filed in the Township of Burtchville. No tap-in permit will be
issued until payment of the inspection charge and service line installation
charge of this chapter, as amended. The necessary inspection charges and
service line installation charges shall be paid in full upon obtaining a
building permit for the premises. All new premises shall connect to the water
system if available.
   (B)   There shall be no concealment of the real purpose and intent for which
the water is to be used. When such concealment is ascertained, the water will
be turned off until the application is refiled and made satisfactory to the
Water Department.
   (C)   Applicants will be held responsible for the proper execution of the
applications for the water services connections. All expenses incurred by
reason of incorrect installation shall be charged to and paid for by the
applicant.
   (D)   The Department may refuse to accept applications for installation of
service connection from any person whose existing work has not been installed
according to the rules and regulations of the Board.
   (E)   A supply of water may be withheld from the premises when the
ordinances of the Township of Burtchville applying water supply or rules and
regulations of the Board have, in any manner, been violated.
   (F)   No person, firm or corporation shall install or cause to be installed,
in any building or structure located within the limits of Burtchville Township,
any plumbing required to be tested with water supplied by Burtchville Township,
unless a permit for water connection has been issued by the Township Board.
   (G)   All service connections and pipes from the water main to the lot line
shall consist of tapping the main, inserting the corporation cock with the
proper couplings, laying of the service pipe and providing a curb stop with the
approved type of [missing] box and cover marked “water.”
   (H)   All underground service piping must be inspected by the Department
before it is covered. Twenty-four hours notice is required for such inspection.
Any part of the work which does not comply with the regulations and
requierments of the Township Board will be rejected and must be changed to meet
these requirements.
   (I)   Water lines will not be allowed to cross public streets or alleys
without permission of the township and the municipal agency governing the road
or alleys.
   (J)   All new public water main pipes connecting with the township water
distribution system shall be Ductile Iron AWWA C151 Class 52, Polyvinyl
Chloride AWWA C900 Class 200, or High- Density Polyethylene AWWA C906 DR 11.
Pipe shall have a minimum nominal diameter of eight inches, unless otherwise
approved by the township.
   (K)   (1)   All new service pipes connecting with the water distribution
system shall be of size, material type and pipe classification as provided in
the table below.
 
Pipe diameter        Pipe material type               Pipe specification/ class
1 to 3 inches        Copper tube                      Type “K”
3 inches and greater Ductile iron                     AWWA C151, Class 52
1 to 3 inches        Polyvinyl chloride (PVC)         ASTM D1785, ASTM D2241
4 inches and greater Polyvinyl chloride (PVC)         AWWA C900, DR 14
1 to 3 inches        High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE) ASTM D2737, DR 9
4 inches and greater High-Density Polyethylene (HDPE) AWWA C906, DR 11
 
      (2)   All high-density polyethylene chloride water service lines shall be
installed with a #12 AWG coated copper tracer wire. The use of galvanized pipe,
lead pipe or wrought iron pipe is not permitted between the water main and the
water meter.
   (L)   No plumber or consumer shall turn on water to any premises, whether
new or old supply, but shall notify the office of the Water Department when
they are ready for the water to be turned on. The Water Department will inspect
the work and, provided the work is acceptable, will turn on the water.
   (M)   All work done in connection with the water service shall meet the
requirements of the state plumbing code and the Michigan Department of Health.
   (N)   On all installations where a service line is less than 300 feet
between the lot line nearest the street water main and the meter, there shall
be individual services. Where a service line is over 300 feet, this shall be
regarded as an unusual circumstance and division (K) will apply; each separate
dwelling or building unit must have a separate connection with the street main,
except in cases where there is more than one building located on a single lot
or registered unit of land or on a group of adjacent land units used as a
single piece of property, such as a factory site, provided such lot or lots or
parcels of land are held in undivided ownership. In such cases, the several
buildings located may be served by one connection with the main, provided the
service is of sufficient size to meet all requirements. Where two or more
buildings are on one service line and ownership is subsequently divided,
individual service must then be installed. Unusual conditions, not specifically
contemplated here, shall be reported to the township for disposition and the
ruling of the township, thereon, shall be final.
   (O)   No persons shall tap or connect any water main or insert a service
cock, therein, except the employee of the Board duly authorized to do so.
Applications for temporary taps must state the length of time for which the
connection is to be used. If a temporary tap is to be used for a longer period
than originally requested, an extension of time must be obtained.
   (P)   Curb valves shall be used on all connections up to and including two
inches in diameter and must be of the inverted key type, round way, T-handles
stopcock. All control valves on ductile iron service connections, three inches
or larger in diameter, shall be of the left-hand key type, non-rising stem,
with a two-inch square head to be constructed with a cast iron body or of all
brass.
   (Q)   The top of all water service pipes shall be, at least, five feet below
the pavement grade and on streets where the final grades are not known, six
feet below the surface of the earth. The five- foot depth applies to services
extending into a building where there is no basement. All service connections
must be installed at least three feet from the existing gas or sanitary sewer
or septic line service. Before installing water connection, the plumber must
check the location of the gas and sanitary sewer service.
   (R)   When premises have a cellar or basement, service pipes must be
extended into the same and no branches taken, therefrom, except in the cellar
or basement and on the outlet side of the meter.
   (S)   It is expressly forbidden for anyone to lay a service pipe inside of a
building along the outside wall, or in any position where there is danger of
frost; also, to make new connections, or to install any new attachments or
fixtures to old connections, or to install any new attachments or fixtures to
old connections that shall require a running stream to prevent freezing.
   (T)   The owner or occupant of the premises where a water meter is installed
will be held responsible for its care and protection from freezing or other
injury or interference by any person or persons. A fair and just charge shall
be made of the consumer, by the Water Department, for all necessary repairs and
for any meter damaged when repair and/or replacement is necessary.
   (U)   Where properties are supplied by more than one service from different
mains and connected inside the property, all services so connected must be
provided with a meter and check valve, properly maintained to prevent cross
feeds, with waste cock on the bottom of the pipe, and on each side of the check
valve so as to drain the pipes and meters.
   (V)   When a new service line is required, the owner of the property must
have all unused service connections entering the property disconnected at the
street main. When a new building is erected upon a property and the existing
service line is used, all unused lines entering said property must be
disconnected at the street main. The applicant will; therefore, acquaint
himself as to the existence of old service lines, which information can be
obtained from the records of the township Water Department. Charges for
disconnecting all service, except those in the same trench as the new service,
shall be borne by the parties applying for the disconnection.
   (W)   Any connections between water pipes receiving their supply from the
township mains and pipes carrying water from underground storage tanks or other
sources is expressly forbidden. When properties with water from other sources
than township mains is used, township water service must be equipped with an
RPZ or APPBP installed, in accordance with the state and local Health
Department regulations. Systems using water from any other sources than the
township's mains must paint or color code all pipes carrying township water in
light blue and all the lines carrying water from the other sources shall be
painted brown, except in plants where color codes have already been adopted,
and these codes provide different colors for township water and other water.
Such codes will be accepted providing charts depicting the various colors are
prominently displayed in the plant. Failure to comply with this division shall
deem to be sufficient cause to discontinue the water supply to any plant or
district where the violation occurs.
   (X)   Meters. All connections with the water mains must be prepared for the
use of water through a meter.
   (Y)   The installation of the water meter will be under the supervision of
the Township Board and the ownership and control of the meter shall remain with
the township.
   (Z)   A block of store buildings, a terrace building, or apartment house may
have a single meter for all, or separate meters for each unit, depending upon
the arrangement of the service line.
   (AA)   (1)   The township will furnish meters and the user will pay for the
meter in accordance with § 5.2.i as follows:
         (a)   Single dwellings: 5/8 to 3/4 inch
         (b)   Two-family apartments: 5/8 to 3/4 inch or 1 inch
         (c)   Four-family or larger apartments: 1-1/2 inches or 5/8- to 3/4-
inch individual meter
         (d)   Commercial properties: Up to and including 2 inches
         (e)   Industrial properties: Up to and including 2 inches
      (2)   Where larger meters are needed, the applicant will be required to
pay for the required meter.
      (3)   All properties, under a combination of residential and commercial,
shall be classified as commercial. In all residential, combination residential-
commercial properties and apartments hotels, where meter requires three 3
inches or larger, it must be of the compound type. Meter to be supplied by the
township at customer's expense.
      (4)   The township will furnish only one meter for a service. Should more
than one meter be placed in a single line, the property owner shall sign an
agreement permitting the township to treat the entire system as one system for
the purposes of rule enforcement, including shut off.
   (BB)   Meter couplings, up to and including one inch, will be furnished on
receipt of the Department at the Department's office if an application blank is
properly filled out by the owner. The meter must be set before the property
becomes occupied. Failure to comply with this rule will entail a penalty of
$75.
   (CC)   When, due to faulty work, it is necessary to make more than one trip
to set a meter, a charge of $100 will be made for each additional trip.
   (DD)   All persons are forbidden to interfere with or remove a water meter
from any service connection.
   (EE)   Meters and their valves will not be allowed in closets or
compartments that are kept locked, in coal bins, under buildings or any
location where there is difficulty of access. Preferred meter locations are as
follows: utility room, basement or meter pit. Alternate locations: crawl space
or pump house with following conditions: dependable source of light and heat,
dry; crawl space must be 40 inches or more in height with meter three feet or
less from access door. Pump house must have access door at least four feet
square and meet crawl space requirements.
   (FF)   All meters shall be set horizontally and dry, clean sanitary,
perfectly accessible with approved valves on both sides and where a small leak
in the flowage of water will do no damage.
   (GG)   All meters, two inches or larger, must have a “T” between the meter
and the outlet valves to be used for testing the meter without its removal. The
size of the “T” shall be one and one-half inches for all service pipe up to
four inches and three inches for larger service pipe, according to plans which
may be had upon application to the Board.
   (HH)   In private houses or buildings used for residence purposes only, it
shall be the option and risk of the owner whether he or she shall use a check
valve or not on feed pipes entering range boilers. A safety valve must be used
wherever a check valve is set.
   (II)   The Water Department reserves the right, at any and all times, to
shut off water in their mains for the purpose of making repairs, extensions,
additions, maintenance or for other purposes and no liability shall attach to
the township by virtue of such shut off or diminishment of water supply.
   (JJ)   Consumers vacating premises must notify the office of the Water
Department that the water may be shut off and they will be held responsible for
water rent until such notice is given.
   (KK)   The consumer shall not, by any method, bypass the water around the
meter, nor shall the water meter be moved, disassembled, worked on, or in any
way, tampered with by any person not authorized by the township.
   (LL)   Once a premises is connected to the system, the premises may not be
disconnected from the system except when the structure or structures located on
the premises are demolished.
   (MM)   The office of the township shall be notified immediately if, for any
reason, the water meter fails to function properly.
   (NN)   In the event of non-payment of water bills or violation of these
rules and regulations, the water will be shut off until the obligation is
satisfactorily settled or the violation discontinued and a fee of $100 will be
collected for turning on such water.
   (OO)   The inspector, or other authorized agent of the township, shall have
access at all reasonable hours to the premises taking water to see that these
rules and regulations are observed and to read the water meter and no other
person shall have control of the corporation cock at the main and the curb stop
at the property line.
   (PP)   No free service shall be furnished by said township or the
Burtchville Township water supply system to any person, firm or corporation,
public or private or to any public agency or entity.
   (QQ)   These rules and regulations shall be effective on the August 19, 2024
or as soon thereafter as publication occurs.
   (RR)   All applications for water service into any premises must be
submitted, in writing, and filed in the Township of Burtchville. No tap-in
permit will be issued until payment of the privilege charge and service line
installation charge of this chapter, as amended. The necessary privilege
charges and service line installation charges shall be paid, in full, upon
obtaining a building permit for the premises. All new premises shall connect to
the water system, if available.
   (SS)   Any damage to a water meter or other property of the township, other
than normal deterioration, shall be paid for by the property owner and shall be
added as additional charges in the next regular billing. The owner or occupant
shall be responsible for and pay the cost of repair or replacement as outlined
in this chapter.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-15-2024)
§ 51.17 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS.
   (A)   All construction and materials shall conform to the contract documents
and specifications, and these construction plans. Where applicable, the 2020
Michigan Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Construction
shall supplement the project specifications.
   (B)   For protection of underground utilities and in conformance with Public
Act 53, 1974, the contractor shall dial 811 or 1-800-482-7171 a minimum of
three full working days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays prior to
beginning each excavation in areas where public utilities have not been
previously located. Members will thus be routinely notified. This does not
relieve the contractor of the responsibility of notifying utility owners who
may not be part of the “Miss Dig” alert system.
   (C)   The contractor shall assume responsibility for protection of all
existing utilities during construction. All costs for locating, removing and
replacing or relocating these utilities shall be incidental to construction.
All public-owned utilities damaged during construction shall be repaired with
like material.
   (D)   Contractor shall verify the depth and horizontal location of all
existing utilities before any work is initiated. The exact location of existing
utilities shall be determined by hand digging.
   (E)   Contractor shall maintain all existing sanitary sewer, water or storm
sewer service connections during construction. Any adjustments or repairs
required to these services shall be made by the contractor and the cost shall
be incidental to construction.
   (F)   Contractor shall notify the proper governmental inspection agency 72
hours prior to starting construction.
   (G)   A Michigan Department of Transportation permit is required for all
construction within the state highway road right-of-way. It is the contractors’
responsibility to secure all permits and bonds prior to construction or ensure
that all required permits and bonds have been obtained prior to construction.
   (H)   A St. Clair County Road Commission permit is required for all
construction within the county road right-of-way. It is the contractors’
responsibility to secure all permits and bonds prior to construction or ensure
that all required permits and bonds have been obtained prior to construction.
   (I)   The contractor shall abide by all the requirements of the St. Clair
County Road Commission regarding construction of water and sewer mains,
maintaining traffic, barricading, boring, backfill and restoration. There will
be no additional compensation due to the contractor for complying with these
requirements.
   (J)   Inspection fees, where required, shall be paid to the township prior
to beginning the projects (escrow account).
   (K)   Contractor shall obtain a soil erosion control permit under Act 347,
prior to making any earth changes, as applicable to this project.
   (L)   Prior to the start of construction, the contractor shall furnish
material certificates to the Engineer verifying that all materials used on the
project are in accordance with the standard specifications.
   (M)   Compacted sand backfill is to be used exclusively at all road
crossings, driveways, and sidewalks throughout the course of the project. In
roadways and driveways, the top 12 inches of the excavation shall be filled
with 22A road gravel.
   (N)   Contractor shall secure permission of the adjacent property owner
prior to the removal of trees on public right-of-way. Additional cost of boring
where the permission to remove trees is not secured shall be incidental to
construction or included in the bid price.
   (O)   All major construction changes must have written approval of the
consulting design engineer.
   (P)   The contractor shall be required to complete all work in an
expeditious manner and shall not stop construction for extended periods once
construction has begun.
   (Q)   Contractor shall provide a one-year maintenance and guarantee bond to
the Township of Burtchville, dated from the time of final acceptance by the
township.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -; Ord. passed 7-15-2024)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, nor more than 90-
days’ imprisonment in the county jail, or both fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 96-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 52: LIGHT DISTRICT
Section
   
52.01   Title
   
52.02   Purpose
   
52.03   Applicability
   
52.04   Administration
   
52.05   Definitions
   
52.06   Fees
   
52.07   Assessment
   
52.08   Collection
§ 52.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Amended and Consolidated Burtchville
Township Light District Ordinance”.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 52.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to make a consolidated ordinance map of Light
Districts created at various times in the township and to provide for the
current and future administration of the Light Districts.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 52.03 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all districts located in the township for the
purpose of installing, funding and maintaining street lights in the township,
whether previously existing or created after the date hereof.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 52.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Light District shall be administered by the Township Board of Trustees
who by resolution may designate individuals or officials other than the
Township Board to administer and enforce this chapter.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 52.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISTRICT. The District shall be comprised of those parcels of property
located on the same street as an existing street light which were created by
the Township Board upon the request and petition of the residents located
within that District, and as shown on the tax identification numbers attached
to Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006, as Exhibit A.
   PARCEL. A piece of real property located within the District which is
assigned a tax identification number and treated as an individual lot for the
purpose of assessing real property taxes, including those identified on Exhibit
A to Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006. The term PARCEL shall also included any
separately taxed real property which is created by split, land division,
condomization of real property or otherwise created from a parcel within the
District which exists on the date of the adoption of this chapter.
   STREET LIGHT. A free standing pole and light located within the public
right-of-way which was installed by and paid for at township expense for the
purpose of illuminating a street within the District including all of the
foundation and wiring necessary for the operation of the STREET LIGHT.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 52.06 FEES.
   (A)   The township hereby ratifies and confirms the existing Light District
as shown on Exhibit A.
   (B)   The creation of the new District or expansion of the existing District
shall be financed by a special assessment levied against all parcels located
within the District as reflected on a confirmed special assessment roll. The
special assessment shall be in an amount necessary to pay all of the expenses
associated with the creation of the District and installation of the street
lights.
   (C)   For the existing District and after the special assessment District is
created and the street lights are installed and operable for any expansion
thereof, the Township Board shall establish a fee to be assessed against the
parcels within the Light District for the service provided. The Township Board
shall establish the fee in an amount to defer the costs of the operation of the
Light District, including a reasonable reserve for maintenance, repair and
replacement.
   (D)   The annual assessment for maintenance and operation of the Light
District shall be assessed against all parcels within the Light District which
have frontage on the streets or the parts thereof which are serviced by a
street light.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 52.07 ASSESSMENT.
   Assessment against the parcels:
   (A)   Pursuant to state law the fee established by the Township Board shall
be determined annually and added to the regular tax roll for the parcels and
shown in a separate column provided on the tax roll in tax bills sent to the
parcel owners; and
   (B)   If the township owns or shall own in the future a property located
within the Light District, the township shall pay the same costs assessed
against the parcel if the parcel were owned by a private person or entity.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006)
§ 52.08 COLLECTION.
   The annual assessment shall be spread and become due and collected at the
same time as the other township taxes are assessed, levied and collected and
shall be returned in the same manner for non-payment.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 2-20-2006)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   PARKING SCHEDULES
CHAPTER 70: PARKING SCHEDULES
Schedule
      
I.   No parking
SCHEDULE I. NO PARKING.
   (A)   (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this division (A) is to prohibit the
parking of motor vehicles on Jeddo Road between the shore of Lake Huron and M-
25 between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. to preserve the peaceful
enjoyment of the community, and for the health, welfare and safety of the
township residents.
      (2)   Parking prohibited.
         (a)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., no person shall
park a vehicle within the public right-of-way, including boulevards, on Jeddo
Road, between the shore of Lake Huron and M-25.
         (b)   In any proceeding for the violation of the parking provisions of
this division (A), the registration plate displayed on the motor vehicle
unlawfully parked shall constitute in evidence a prima facie presumption that
the owner of the vehicle was the person who parked or placed the vehicle at the
point where the violation occurred.
         (c)   Any motor vehicle parked in violation of this division (A) may
be removed at the expense of the owner or operator of the motor vehicle, and
the expense shall constitute a lien upon the motor vehicle, which the township
may foreclose in a manner as is provided by Public Act 174 of 1962, as amended.
         (d)   The removal of the motor vehicle under division (A)(2)(c) above
shall not preclude or affect the ability of the township to prosecute for
violation of this division (A).
      (3)   Enforcement. This division (A) shall be enforced by duly authorized
law enforcement officers of the county and the state.
      (4)   Penalty. Any person violating or failing to comply with the
conditions of this division (A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by fines not exceeding $500, nor more than 90-
days’ imprisonment in the county jail, or both fine and imprisonment, at the
discretion of the court.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any motor vehicle, as
defined in the State Motor Vehicle Code, M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., within
the right-of-way of Lakeshore Road north from the point of intersection of the
north right-of-way line of Jeddo Road and the right-of-way lines of Lakeshore
Road for a distance of 400 feet.
      (2)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any motor vehicle, as
defined in the State Motor Vehicle Code, M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., within
the right-of-way of Lakeshore Road south from the point of intersection of the
south right-of-way line of Jeddo Road and the right-of-way lines of Lakeshore
Road for a distance of 400 feet.
      (3)   Any person who shall violate this division shall, upon conviction
thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
In the absence of an offense committed in the presence of a police officer, it
shall be conclusively presumed that the owner of any motor vehicle as shown by
certified copy of the records of the Secretary of State, or the keeper of motor
vehicle license records in another state, is the person who parked the vehicle
in violation of this division (B).
(Ord. 84-1, passed 9-18-1984; Ord. 84-3, passed 8-19-1986; Ord. 92-2, passed 8-
18-1992)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   PUBLIC GATHERINGS
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   [RESERVED]
      
93.   ANTI-BLIGHT; NUISANCES
CHAPTER 90: PUBLIC GATHERINGS
Section
   
90.01   Preamble
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Application; requirements
   
90.04   Denial of license
   
90.05   Posting of license
   
90.06   Revocation of license
   
90.07   Violations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 PREAMBLE.
   The Township Board finds and declares that the interests of the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the township require the
regulation, licensing and control of assemblages of large numbers of people in
excess of those normally drawing upon the health, sanitation, fire, police,
transportation, utility and other public services regularly provided in the
township.
(Ord. 80-1, passed - -)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTENDANT. Any person who obtains admission to an outdoor assembly by the
payment of money or by the rendering of services in lieu of the payment of
money for admission.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter.
   OUTDOOR ASSEMBLY or ASSEMBLY. Any event, attended by more than 250
attendants, all or any part of which includes a theatrical exhibition, public
show, display, entertainment, amusement or other exhibition, including, but not
limited to, musical festivals, rock festivals, peace festivals or similar
gatherings, but does not mean:
      (1)   An event which is conducted or sponsored by a governmental unit or
agency on publicly owned land or property;
      (2)   An event which is conducted or sponsored by any entity qualifying
for tax-exempt status under I.R.C. § 501(c)(3) of 1954, being 26 U.S.C. § 501
(c)(3), as incorporated by reference in § 201 of the Michigan Income Tax Act of
1967, Public Act 281 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. § 206.201 of 1948; or
      (3)   An event held entirely within the confines of a permanently
enclosed and covered structure.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, corporation, association or
organization.
   SPONSOR. Any person who organizes, promotes, conducts or causes to be
conducted an outdoor assembly.
(Ord. 80-1, passed - -)
§ 90.03 APPLICATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person shall not sponsor, operate, maintain, conduct or promote an
outdoor assembly in the township unless he or she shall have first made
application for, and obtained, as hereinafter prescribed, a license for each
assembly.
   (B)   Application for a license to conduct an outdoor assembly must be made
in writing on forms and in a manner as prescribed by the Township Clerk and
shall be made at least 60 days prior to date of the proposed assembly. Each
application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee of $150, and shall
include the following:
      (1)   The name, age, residence and mailing address of the person making
the application;
      (2)   A statement of the kind, character and type of proposed assembly;
      (3)   The address, legal description and proof of ownership of the site
at which the proposed assembly is to be conducted. Where ownership is not
vested in the prospective licensee, evidence satisfactory to the Clerk shall be
submitted evidencing the consent of the owners to the proposed use of the site;
      (4)   The date or dates and hours during which the proposed assembly is
to be conducted; and
      (5)   An estimate of the maximum number of attendants expected at the
assembly for each date it is conducted, and a detailed explanation of the
evidence of admission which will be used and of the sequential numbering or
other method which will be used for accounting purposes.
   (C)   (1)   Each application shall be accompanied by a detailed explanation,
including drawings and diagrams where applicable, of the prospective licensee’s
plans to provide for the following:
         (a)   Police and fire protection;
         (b)   Food and water supply and facilities;
         (c)   Health and sanitation facilities;
         (d)   Medical facilities and services including emergency vehicles and
equipment;
         (e)   Vehicle access and parking facilities;
         (f)   Camping and trailer facilities;
         (g)   Illumination facilities;
         (h)   Communication facilities;
         (i)   Noise control and abatement;
         (j)   Facilities for clean up and waste disposal; and
         (k)   Insurance and bonding arrangements.
      (2)   In addition, the application shall be accompanied by a map or maps
of the overall site of the proposed assembly.
   (D)   On receipt by the Clerk, copies of the application shall be forwarded
to the chief law enforcement and health officers for the township, and to the
County Sheriff and County Health Department. The officers and officials shall
review and investigate matters relevant to the application and, within 20 days
of receipt thereof, shall report their findings and recommendations to the
Township Board.
   (E)   Within 30 days of the filing of the application, the Township Board
shall issue or deny a license. Notice of this action of the Board shall be
given to the applicant by certified mail within five days after that date.
   (F)   In passing upon an application, the Township Board shall be satisfied
that the following minimum standards are and will be observed by the applicant.
      (1)   Security personnel. The licensee shall employ, at his, her or its
own expense, security personnel as are necessary and sufficient to provide for
the adequate security and protection of the maximum number of attendants at the
assembly and for the preservation of order and protection of property in and
around the site of the assembly. Not less than one security guard for each 50
prospective attendees shall be provided.
      (2)   Restroom and water facilities.
         (a)   The licensee shall provide lavatory and drinking water
facilities installed and maintained in accordance with applicable state and
local law.
         (b)   The source of drinking water shall be approved in accordance
with M.C.L.A. § 333.12701 and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto.
         (c)   Restroom facilities shall be in compliance with M.C.L.A. §
333.12771 and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and the
regulations of the County Health Department. Lavatories shall be provided with
hot and cold water, soap and paper towels.
         (d)   The number and type of facilities required shall be determined
on the basis of attendants in the following manner:
 
Facilities         Male  Female
Toilets            1:300 1:200
Urinals            1:100 -
Lavatories         1:200 1:200
Drinking fountains 1:500
Taps or faucets    1:500
 
      (3)   Food service. If food service is made available on the premises, it
shall be delivered only through concessions licensed and operated in accordance
with the provisions of M.C.L.A. § 333.12901, and the rules and regulations
adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any other applicable state of
local law.
      (4)   Liquid waste disposal. The licensee shall provide for liquid waste
disposal in accordance with all rules and regulations pertaining thereto
established by the County Health Department.
      (5)   Solid waste disposal. The licensee shall provide for solid waste
storage on, and removal from, the premises. Storage shall be in approved,
covered, fly-tight and rodent-proof containers, in number as shall be required
by the County Health Department.
      (6)   Access and traffic control.
         (a)   The licensee shall provide for ingress to and egress from the
premises so as to ensure the orderly flow of traffic onto and off of the
premises.
         (b)   Access shall be from a highway or road which is part of the
county system of highways or which is a highway maintained by the state.
         (c)   Traffic lanes and other space shall be provided, designated and
kept open for access by ambulance, fire equipment and other emergency vehicles.
      (7)   Parking. The licensee shall provide a parking area sufficient to
accommodate all motor vehicles, but in no case shall provide less than one
automobile space for every two attendees.
      (8)   Illumination. The licensee shall provide electrical illumination of
all occupied areas sufficient to ensure the safety and comfort of all
attendants. The licensee’s lighting plan shall be approved by the Township
Building Inspector.
      (9)   Insurance. Before the issuance of a license, the licensee shall
obtain public liability insurance issued by a company satisfactory to it in the
amount not less than $300,000 and property damage insurance of not less than
$25,000, naming the township as a party insured.
      (10)   Bonding. Before the issuance of license, the licensee shall obtain
surety bond issued by a company satisfactory to it in the amount of $50,000
conditioned upon the licensee’s faithful compliance with all of the provisions
of this chapter and applicable state and local law, and which shall indemnify
the township, its agents, officers and employees against any loss, injury or
damage whatever arising out of the assembly and which shall indemnify the
owners of property adjoining the assembly site for any costs attributable to
cleaning up and/or removing debris, trash or other waste resultant from the
assembly.
      (11)   Fire protection. The licensee shall, at his or her own expense,
take adequate steps as determined by the Fire Chief to ensure adequate fire
protection.
      (12)   Sound producing equipment. Sound producing equipment, including,
but not limited to, public address systems, radio, phonographs, musical
instruments and similar devices, shall not be operated on the premises of the
assembly so as to be audible more than 500 feet beyond the boundaries of the
premises.
      (13)   Program at outdoor assembly; end time. Any program at an outdoor
assembly shall terminate no later than 2:00 a.m.
(Ord. 80-1, passed - -)
§ 90.04 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   A license may be denied if:
   (A)   The applicant fails to comply with any or all requirements of this
chapter, or with any or all conditions imposed pursuant hereto, or with any
other applicable provision of state of local law; or
   (B)   The applicant has knowingly made a false, misleading or fraudulent
statement in the application or in any supporting document.
(Ord. 80-1, passed - -)
§ 90.05 POSTING OF LICENSE.
   (A)   A license shall specify the name and address of the licensee, the kind
and location of the assembly, the maximum number of attendants permissible, the
duration of the license and any other conditions imposed pursuant to this
chapter.
   (B)   It shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises of the
assembly, and shall not be transferred to any other person or location.
(Ord. 80-1, passed - -)
§ 90.06 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Township Board may revoke a license whenever the licensee, his or her
employees or agents fail, neglect or refuse to fully comply with any and all
provisions and requirements herein set forth.
(Ord. 80-1, passed - -)
§ 90.07 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for a licensee, his or her employees or agents to
knowingly:
   (A)   Advertise, promote or sell tickets to, conduct or operate an assembly
without first obtaining a license as herein provided;
   (B)   Conduct or operate an assembly in a manner so as to create a public or
private nuisance;
   (C)   Conduct or permit, within the assembly, any obscene display,
exhibition, show, play, entertainment or amusement;
   (D)   Permit any person on the premises to cause or create a disturbance in,
around or near the assembly by obscene or disorderly conduct;
   (E)   Permit any person to unlawfully consume, sell or possess intoxicating
liquor while on the premises; and/or
   (F)   Permit any person to unlawfully, use, sell or possess any narcotics,
narcotic drugs, drugs or other substances as defined in M.C.L.A. § 333.7104.
(Ord. 80-1, passed - -) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any of the above enumerated violations is a separate offense, is a
nuisance per se immediately enjoinable in the circuit courts, and is punishable
by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days or by a fine of
not more than $100, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   It is further provided that any of the above violations is a
sufficient basis for revocation of the license and for the immediate enjoining
in the circuit court of the assembly.
(Ord. 80-1, passed - -)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Cemetery lots, burial spaces and leases
   
91.03   Lease of lots or burial spaces
   
91.04   Lease prices and transfer fees
   
91.05   Monuments and marker
   
91.06   Interment, disinterment and reinterment regulations
   
91.07   Cemetery maintenance and care
   
91.08   Chapel
   
91.09   Repurchase of burial spaces
   
91.10   Records
   
91.11   Township Clerk and Sexton
   
91.12   General regulations
   
91.13   Applicability of this chapter
Columbarium Rules and Regulations
   
91.25   General information
   
91.26   Niches
   
91.27   Niche reservations
   
91.28   Interment
   
91.29   Engraving of niche cover
   
91.30   Flowers and wreaths
   
91.31   Removal of the interred cremains
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Burtchville Township Cemetery
Ordinance”.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 91.02 CEMETERY LOTS, BURIAL SPACES AND LEASES.
   A cemetery lot, or burial space, shall consist of a lease for a land area
three and one-half to four feet wide and ten feet in length. No lease will be
issued until payment is made in full. Leases include perpetual care which will
come from funds set aside in the Township Cemetery Perpetual Care Fund.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 91.03 LEASE OF LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   (A)   Hereafter, cemetery lots or burial spaces shall be leased only for the
purpose of the burial of the purchaser, his or her heirs at law, parents,
siblings or spouse. Lots shall not be purchased for speculation purposes. Lots
shall be designated for burial of an individual person at the time of leasing.
The lessee may provide that if the burial space is not used for the final
burial of the designated person, within one year of the designated person’s
death, the rights under the lease shall be transferred to an identified person.
Any subsequent designee may also designate a transferee for the burial space in
the event the burial space is not used for his or her final burial. If at any
time the original designee or subsequent designee is not buried in the burial
space within one year of the death of that person and no court order designates
the leased burial space as being transferred to any heir, the lease shall
terminate and all right, title and interest in the burial space shall vest with
Burtchville Township.
   (B)   All leases shall be recorded on a form approved by the Township Board.
The form grants only the right of burial and does not convey any other right to
the lot or burial space lease. The Township Clerk shall complete and, along
with the Supervisor, sign the form. The lease shall be subject to the rules and
regulations set forth herein and as may be adopted or amended by the
Burtchville Township Board from time to time.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 02-01, passed 4-16-2012)
§ 91.04 LEASE PRICES AND TRANSFER FEES.
   The Township Board, by resolution, may periodically set and adjust any fees
related to burial spaces and have that information available in the office of
the Township Clerk, which may include lease price and fees for transfer.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 02-01, passed 4-16-2012)
§ 91.05 MONUMENTS AND MARKER.
   (A)   All monument bases (foundations) upon which any monument, marker or
other approved memorial must be placed shall be constructed by the township.
      (1)   Foundations shall be of sufficient depth to support the headstone,
and in all cases must extend three inches beyond the monument on all four
sides.
      (2)   Costs are to be borne by the owner of the burial right, with
payment in advance, unless paid by the monument company before placement.
      (3)   The township shall establish and maintain a schedule of foundation
fees calculated on a per square inch basis.
      (4)   All markers or monuments, installed after the effective date of
this chapter, shall be made of memorial grade granite, marble or bronze.
   (B)   Markers and/or monuments shall not be smaller than 16 inches by eight
inches in base size nor shall they exceed 36 inches in length for a single
burial space, 72 inches in length for a double space, and in all cases shall
not exceed a maximum of 18 inches in width. Only one monument, marker or other
above ground memorial shall be permitted per burial space.
   (C)   A monument or marker located at the head of the burial space shall be
parallel to the head of the burial space line, facing east with the exception
of sections of the cemetery where monuments placed facing west prior to the
ordinance codified herein. New monuments placed in these sections of the
cemetery will face west to remain consistent with other monuments in the
section. Engraving is allowed on both sides of a monument. A monument or marker
may be placed at the foot of a grave, provided it is flush with the surface of
the ground.
   (D)   A monument or marker shall not be delivered or installed upon burial
spaces until foundations have been installed and paid for. Orders for
foundations shall be placed a minimum of three weeks in advance. Foundations
will not be poured during winter months, unless weather permits, and only at
the discretion of the township.
   (E)   The Township Board has the authority to deem a monument, marker or
other memorial to be inconsistent with the existing markers, or contrary to the
standards in the community or similar cemeteries in the area and thus prohibit
it from being placed in the cemetery. Approval of the location of a monument
must be obtained from the Sexton and/or the Township Clerk before a monument is
set.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 02-01, passed 4-16-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 INTERMENT, DISINTERMENT AND REINTERMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All interments shall be arranged with the Township Clerk and performed
by the Sexton or a contractor designated by the township.
   (B)   Appropriate notice shall be given to the Township Clerk in advance of
any burial, to allow sufficient time for the Clerk to procure the Sexton and
for opening of the burial space.
   (C)   Only one person may be buried in a burial space, except in the case of
one adult and an infant, or one adult and two cremains, or four cremains.
   (D)   The appropriate permit for the burial space and appropriate
identification of the person to be buried, when necessary, shall be presented
to either the Sexton or the Township Clerk prior to interment. If a permit has
been lost or destroyed, the Township Clerk shall be satisfied, from his or her
records, that the person to be buried in the space is an authorized and
appropriate one before starting any interment.
   (E)   All burials, except those of cremains, shall be within a standard
vault made of concrete, copper, bronze or other similar materials. Wooden or
steel boxes are prohibited. Cremains shall be in a container the type of which
has been approved by the Township Board or Sexton.
   (F)   No burial shall take place unless the burial space fee, the fee for
services required to open and close the grave, and all other fees have been
paid in full to the township. Funeral directors as agents of the funeral home
making arrangements for burials, will be responsible for all financial
interment charges if not paid by the owner or his or her agent.
   (G)   No burial spaces shall be opened or closed except under the direction
and control of the Sexton. This provision shall not apply to proceedings for
the removal and reinterment of bodies and remains; as the matter is subject to
the control of the local Health Department.
   (H)   The township assumes no responsibility for errors in opening graves
when those errors are caused by others.
   (I)   All refuse of any kind or nature including, among others, dried
flowers, wreaths, papers and flower containers shall be removed or deposited in
refuse containers located within the cemetery.
   (J)   Scattering cremains over a family lot or anywhere in the cemetery is
prohibited.
   (K)   No lot shall be used for any purpose other than burial of human
remains.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 02-01, passed 4-16-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 CEMETERY MAINTENANCE AND CARE.
   (A)   All improvement hereafter made shall be made with the view of making
all lots correspond with the uniform grade of the surrounding land.
   (B)   No grading, leveling or excavating upon a burial space shall be
allowed. Mounds that hinder the free use of a lawn mower or other lawn-care
device are prohibited. Surfaces other than earth or sod are prohibited; this
includes stone, limestone, wood chips and the like.
   (C)   No lot or part thereof shall be enclosed by a fence, railing, coping,
hedge, ditch, post and chain or other similar device.
   (D)   No shrub or tree shall be planted on any lot. Cut flowers may be
placed on burial spaces at any time and the township shall remove same when
they become unsightly. Between May 1 and October 1 of each year, one hanging
basket, flower stand or eight-inch in-ground container per burial space shall
be permitted. Any receptacles that are not filled with plants by July 1 in any
year shall be removed from the burial space, as shall any in which plants have
died from neglect or natural causes. Artificial flowers shall not be placed in
the ground. Plantings must be no more than 12 inches from the headstone.
   (E)   Between November 1 and April 1 of each year, one decoration per grave,
in addition to an American flag, will be permitted (example: grave blanket or
wreath).
   (F)   Board of Trustees and/or the Sexton shall have the right and authority
to remove and dispose of any and all growth, emblems, displays or containers
therefore that through decay, deterioration, damage or otherwise become
unsightly, a source of litter, maintenance problem or are otherwise a violation
of this section. This provision shall not apply to monuments or markers. Except
where the violation or item must be immediately removed for necessary
maintenance or to perform a burial, the Sexton or Township Clerk shall provide
notice to the contact person entitled to notice with regard to the burial space
at least 14 days prior to removing any item from or altering the items on the
burial space.
   (G)   Cemetery care includes only seeding and top dressing; cutting and
trimming grass, shrubs and trees; and general upkeep of the cemetery. Cemetery
care does not include the maintenance of monuments, markers and other
memorials.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 02-01, passed 4-16-2012) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08 CHAPEL.
   The chapel shall be available for interment services in lieu of a grave side
service.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 91.09 REPURCHASE OF BURIAL SPACES.
   The township shall repurchase any burial space from the owner for the
original price paid upon written request of the owner or his or her legal heirs
or representatives.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 91.10 RECORDS.
   The Township Clerk shall maintain records concerning all burials, burial
permits and any perpetual care fund, separate and apart from any other records
of the township and the same shall be open to public inspection during all
reasonable business hours.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 91.11 TOWNSHIP CLERK AND SEXTON.
   (A)   All sales of burial spaces shall be handled by the Township Clerk or a
duly authorized member of the township office staff.
   (B)   The Township Clerk shall be responsible for maintaining records of
ownership of all burial spaces sold.
   (C)   Monument base (foundation) orders and funeral burial space opening
notices are to be given to the Township Clerk who will notify the Sexton and/or
Township Board approved contractor.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002)
§ 91.12 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The cemetery shall be open to the general public during daylight hours
only.
   (B)   Use of profane or boisterous language is prohibited.
   (C)   Alcohol is not permitted in the cemetery.
   (D)   Animals, except leader dogs, are not permitted in the cemetery.
   (E)   Driving off the established roads is prohibited.
   (F)   No firearms are allowed in the cemetery, except in the case of
military funerals or ceremonies performed by official veterans’ organizations
on federal holidays.
   (G)   No person shall injure, deface or destroy any burial space, marker
monument, memorial, tree, shrub or other item in the cemetery.
   (H)   Use of recreational vehicles (ATVs) within the cemetery is prohibited.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.13 APPLICABILITY OF THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply only to cemeteries owned, controlled or
operated by the township.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to township officials or
their agents or designees involved with the upgrading, maintenance,
administration or care of a township cemetery.
   (C)   The provisions if this chapter shall not apply to police officers or
firefighting officials or officers involved in carrying out their official
duties.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 4-16-2012)
COLUMBARIUM RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 91.25 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   The township is responsible for the reservation and maintenance of
columbarium niches. The township will establish records regarding the
columbarium. These records will include the names of those who have reserved a
niche, copies of Columbarium Right Agreements, copies of Certificates of
Cremation, Columbarium Rules and Regulations and Niche Maintenance Reports.
   (B)   A columbarium niche is for the internment of human remains only.
Deceased pets, valuables, flowers, mementoes, etc. will not be allowed in a
niche.
   (C)   Niche openings can only be performed by township employees. Anyone,
other than a township employee, who attempts to open a niche, will be
prosecuted under state and local laws. Any acts of vandalism will also be
prosecuted under state and local laws.
   (D)   The township will be responsible for repairs to the columbarium. The
township will take all reasonable care to ensure the safety of interred
remains. However, the township will not be held responsible for the loss or
destruction of interred remains due to vandalism, acts of nature or any
unforeseen circumstances.
(Res. 2020-08-17.0, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 91.26 NICHES.
   (A)   A single niche is 12"x12"x12". The township will allow two cremains
urn per niche as long as the total dimensions of the urn does not exceed
10"x10"x10".
   (B)   The urn must be of a material suitable for interment (no cardboard).
The township shall have full authority to refuse to accept for interment any
receptable deemed unsuitable. Leaving the cremains in the urn sent by
crematorium is allowed as long as it meets the above requirements.
   (C)   Please be aware that these containers are considered temporary and the
township will not be responsible for damage or loss of any cremains that are
left in temporary containers.
(Res. 2020-08-17.0, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 91.27 NICHE RESERVATIONS.
   (A)   Upon payment in full, a Columbarium Right Agreement will be given to
the person or persons who purchased the rights to the niche (hereby known as
the lessee(s)). This is their proof of payment and should be kept in a safe
place that is known to family members or friends. The lessee(s) will receive a
copy of the Columbarium Rules and Regulations.
   (B)   The holder of the Agreement acquires no property rights in the
columbarium or any of its niches. Legal title to the columbarium and niches
remains with the township at all times. The Agreement attests only to the right
to inter cremains of the person(s) named on the Agreement in the specific
niche, also stated on the Agreement, pursuant to the Columbarium Rules and
Regulations, as amended from time to time. In the event of a discrepancy
between the Agreement and the administrative records, the latter shall take
preference.
   (C)   Columbarium Right Agreements for a niche can only be made through the
township. A niche must be paid in full before internment. There will be no
exceptions to this rule. The township will buy back a niche from the owner for
the original price paid upon written request of said owner or his/her legal
heirs or representatives.
   (D)   A niche reservation cannot be transferred or sold without first
notifying the township. A new Columbarium Right Agreement in the name of the
new lessee(s) must be written before any niche transfer is considered legal.
(Res. 2020-08-17.0, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 91.28 INTERMENT.
   (A)   Interment arrangements must be made by the lessee or the lessee's
family; this can be done through a funeral home or by contracting the township
directly.
   (B)   A copy of the Certificate of Cremation must accompany the cremains.
Any orders from the funeral home are considered orders from a family.
   (C)   Any funeral home costs are the responsibility of the lessee or the
lessee's family. An opening and closing fee will be assessed at the time of the
opening at the current rate.
(Res. 2020-08-17.0, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 91.29 ENGRAVING OF NICHE COVER.
   (A)   To maintain the columbarium in a uniform manner, the township will
arrange for the engraving of the niche plaque and/or scroll. Only first and
last name, date of birth, and death date will be allowed.
   (B)   Only one front scroll will be allowed on all niche plaques.
   (C)   An engraving fee will be assessed at the time of the engraving at the
current rate. Niche plaques are required to be engraved. Engraving of the niche
plaques are allowed before interment of the cremains.
(Res. 2020-08-17.0, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 91.30 FLOWERS AND WREATHS.
   No flower arrangements, plants, wreaths, toys, or mementoes will be allowed
to be placed near the Columbarium at any time, except at the time of interment.
(Res. 2020-08-17.0, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 91.31 REMOVAL OF THE INTERRED CREMAINS.
   (A)   In the event that the columbarium requires repairs in order to
maintain its integrity, the lessee(s) agrees to permit the temporary removal of
any cremains until those repairs are completed. The cremains will be returned
to the proper niche by the township.
   (B)   If cremains must be removed from the columbarium by the family or an
authorized person, a written request must be made to the township. This request
must explain the reason for the removal, who is making the request, their
relationship to the deceased, the day and time requested for the removal, and
who will take possession of the cremains. Additional information or
documentation may be required.
   (C)   An opening and closing fee will be assessed at the time of the opening
at the current rate. The township will exercise reasonable care in making a
removal, but it assumes no liability for damage to any urn in the process of
making a removal.
   (D)   The cost of a vacated niche will be refunded to the lessee or the
lessee's family.
   (E)   If a niche's cover has already been engraved, the cost of replacement
cover is not the responsibility of the township. Replacement covers can be
obtained from the township at the current rate.
(Res. 2020-08-17.0, passed 8-17-2020)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions within §§
91.06 or
91.12 of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be subject to
a fine of up to $500 and/or imprisonment for up to 90 days in jail, as may be
determined by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 5-20-2002; Ord. 02-01, passed 4-16-2012)
CHAPTER 92: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 93: ANTI-BLIGHT; NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Restriction
   
93.04   Enforcement authority
   
93.05   Abatement of blight by township
   
93.06   Violations
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   Blight, potential blight, certain environmental causes of blight, or
blighting factors which exist or may in the future exist shall be prevented,
reduced or eliminated, consistent with the letter and spirit of Public Act 344
of 1945, as amended.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Includes, but shall not be limited to, lumber, bricks,
concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electrical wiring or equipment,
heating ducts or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws
or any other materials used in constructing any structures.
   JUNK. Includes, but shall not be limited to, parts of motor vehicles, unused
household appliances, scrap metal or any other used materials of any kind.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES. For use upon the highways of the State of Michigan, or
which is inoperative.
   STRUCTURE. Includes house trailers, any mobile living unit in the conditions
described below in §
93.03(E).
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. passed 4-16-2012; Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 93.03 RESTRICTION.
   On and after the effective date of this chapter, no persons, firm or
corporation of any kind shall maintain or permit to be maintained the following
uses, structures, conditions or activities upon any leased, owned or occupied
property, since they are causes of blight or blighting factors which if allowed
to exist will tend to result in blighted and undesirable properties, unless the
uses, structures and activities are otherwise allowed by township ordinance:
   (A)   Junk motor vehicles. The storage upon any property of junk motor
vehicle, which is not in a completely enclosed building, is prohibited;
   (B)   Junk. The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish or refuse of
any kind without a landfill permit is illegal, except that domestic refuse
stored for a period not to exceed 15 days in an enclosed container, building or
structure in a manner so as not to create a nuisance;
   (C)   Machinery and/or equipment. Machinery and/or equipment for outdoor
use, which is in good working order, must be housed or stored in an orderly
manner that is out of public view, if possible, and does not violate any other
township ordinance or state law. Notwithstanding the above, however, operative
machinery that is in current use on the premises in relationship to a farming
or construction activity, is exempt from the provisions of this section;
   (D)   Vacant building. The existence of a vacant dwelling, garage or other
out building, unless the buildings are kept securely locked, windows kept
glazed or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent casual entry
thereto by unauthorized persons;
   (E)   Uninhabitable structures. The existence of any structure or part of
any structure which, because of fire, wind or other natural disaster, or
physical deterioration is no longer habitable or is a dangerous structure or
building as defined under Public Act 61 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. § 125.539, as
amended, the purpose thereby being to avoid injury to children and others
attracted to the structures or mobile living units, the devaluation of property
values, and the psychological ill effect of the presence of such upon adjoining
residents and property owners; or
   (F)   Partially completed structures. The existence of any partially
completed structure unless the structure is in the course of construction in
accordance with a valid and existing building permit issued by the township and
unless the construction is completed within a reasonable time; or
   (G)   Overgrown lawns or grass. The existence of any grass, weeds or similar
plant not of an ornamental nature in excess of eight inches in height in the
area of a property historically maintained as a yard on that property.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. passed 4-16-2012; Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.04 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   This chapter shall be enforced by persons who shall be so designated by the
Township Board.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-16-2003)
§ 93.05 ABATEMENT OF BLIGHT BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   If the Township Board shall, after a public hearing preceded by not
less than ten-days’ notice to the owner and/or occupant, determine that blight
exists upon any premises in the township, it may direct the owner and occupant
to abate the same by taking actions within a time as the Board may determine to
be reasonable under these circumstances.
   (B)   Upon the failure of the owner or occupant of the premises to abate the
blight in accordance with the order of the Board, the Board may take such steps
as may be necessary to abate the blight, including entering upon the property
to correct the prohibited condition and cause the cost thereof to be assessed
against the subject premises as a special assessment on the next tax roll.
   (C)   For violations under §
93.03(G) above, the Board may adopt a schedule of costs per mowing a property,
and further may schedule subsequent cuttings of a property in a calender year
without repeating the procedure set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this
section.
   (D)   Such action by the Township Board shall be in addition and not in
derogation of prosecution for violations of this chapter under §
93.99 below.
   (E)   Notices required hereunder may be given by delivering the same to the
owner and/or occupant personally, by certified mail directed to the last known
address of the owner and occupant, and, in the event the certified mail notice
shall, for any reason, not be received by the addressee, by posting the same in
a conspicuous place upon the premises.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. passed 4-16-2012; Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
§ 93.06 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Notification.
      (1)   The owner, if possible, and the occupant of any property upon which
any of the causes of blight or blighting factors set forth in this chapter is
found to exist shall be notified in writing to remove or eliminate those causes
of blight or blighting factors from the property within ten days after service
of the notice upon him or her.
      (2)   The notice may be personally delivered or by certified mail, to the
last known address of the owner and occupant. If the notice shall not be
received by addressee for any reason, the notice may be posted in a conspicuous
place upon the premises.
   (B)   Granting of additional time. Additional time may be granted by the
enforcement officer where bona fide efforts to remove or eliminate the causes
of blight or blighting factors are in progress.
   (C)   Failure to comply. Failure to comply with the notice within time
allowed by the owner and/or occupant shall constitute a violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-16-2003; Ord. passed 4-16-2012; Ord. passed 5-21-2012)
Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or persons, firm or corporation violating or failing to comply
with the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding $500, nor more than 90-
days’ imprisonment in the county jail or both fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 94-2, passed 6-16-2003)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GAME DEVICES; ARCADES
      
111.   ADULT PRODUCTS/SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: GAME DEVICES; ARCADES
Section
   
110.01   Determination of necessity
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License required for arcade
   
110.04   Fees
   
110.05   Physical standards for arcades
   
110.06   Operational standards for arcades
   
110.07   Issuance of licenses
   
110.08   Registration of game devices
   
110.09   Revocation of license
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
   The Township Board hereby determines that the business of operating game
devices and arcades has such an effect on the health, safety and welfare of the
inhabitants of the township as to require the licensing and regulation thereof.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCADE. Any place open to the public in which four or more game devices are
located for public use.
   GAME DEVICES. Any machine or device, including, but not limited to, pinball
machines, video and electronic games, operated by means of insertion of a
token, coin or similar object, or for a consideration paid to the owner or
custodian thereof for the purpose of a game or contest of skill or amusement.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR ARCADE.
   No person shall establish or operate an arcade in the township unless the
license required by this chapter has been issued and is conspicuously displayed
at all times on the premises, and unless a valid registration seal required by
this chapter is conspicuously attached to each game device.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 FEES.
   The fee for each license for an arcade shall be $75 annually. The fee for
each game device registration seal shall be $5.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982)
§ 110.05 PHYSICAL STANDARDS FOR ARCADES.
   All arcades located in the township shall conform to the following
standards:
   (A)   Shall not be located within 500 feet in any direction from the
boundaries of any public, private or parochial school building and/or school
grounds;
   (B)   Shall have at least two on-premises and separate public restrooms, one
for female patrons and one for male patrons; be equipped with safety and
convenience facilities to accommodate disabled persons, consistent with
applicable state and federal requirements;
   (C)   Shall have fire exits as required by applicable township and/or state
codes; and
   (D)   Shall conform in all respects to the requirements of the applicable
Township Building, Plumbing, Electrical and Zoning Codes.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 OPERATIONAL STANDARDS FOR ARCADES.
   No licensee or person in charge of an arcade or connected with the
management thereof, or his or her servants or agents, shall:
   (A)   Permit the operation of any game device by any person under the age of
18 years of age between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m., excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and days when school is not in session;
   (B)   Allow persons under the age of 15 years of age to operate any game
device at any time, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (C)   Operate the arcade between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (D)   Permit gambling in any form on the premises;
   (E)   Permit any persons under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
controlled substances to be on the premises;
   (F)   Permit any intoxicating liquor or controlled substances to be brought
into, sold, given away or consumed on the premises;
   (G)   Permit disorderly or offensive conduct thereon, as defined under the
ordinances of the township;
   (H)   Permit any conduct or condition to exist contributing to juvenile
delinquency;
   (I)   Permit loitering on the sidewalk in front of the arcade so as to
obstruct the free and uninterrupted passage of the public; and
   (J)   Operate the arcade unless the owner, operator or an employee or agent
of the owner is present on the premises.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.07 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Application for arcade license shall be made to the Township Clerk
upon forms provided by the Clerk, which shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant. If the
applicant is a corporation, partnership or other organization, the names,
address and telephone numbers of the officers and the owners of more than a 10%
interest therein shall be given; and
      (2)   Whether any person named or required to be named on the application
has ever been convicted of a crime and, if so, the nature of the offense.
   (B)   Upon receipt of the completed application and the license fee, the
Clerk shall cause an inspection of the premises to be made by the Township
Building Official to ensure that it conforms to all applicable township codes
and the standards herein set forth.
   (C)   No license shall be issued to any applicant when a person named or
required to be named on the application is under the age of 18, or has ever
been convicted of an offense involving gambling, controlled substances,
criminal sexual conduct involving a minor, accosting or soliciting or
contributing to the delinquency of a minor.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a satisfactory report from the Township Building
Official, and upon the determination that the applicant is eligible for a
license, the Clerk shall issue the license, which shall expire on the following
December 31, regardless of the date the license was issued.
   (E)   Licenses shall be renewed on December 31 of each year upon payment of
the annual license fee.
   (F)   Each applicant for a license shall file with the Township Clerk a
public liability and property damage insurance policy in the amount of $100,000
for injury to or death of any one person and in the amount of $300,000 for
injury to or death of more than one person, and in the amount of $50,000 for
damages to property. The insurance shall be written by an insurance carrier
duly licensed to conduct business in the state, and shall be kept and
maintained in continuous force and effect as long as the applicant shall be
licensed under this chapter. The policy shall contain an endorsement that any
cancellation shall not take effect until ten days’ notice in writing has been
given to the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982)
§ 110.08 REGISTRATION OF GAME DEVICES.
   No game device shall be operated in the township in any location open to the
public, unless the owner, licensee or custodian thereof shall have registered
the same with the Township Clerk, and obtained the registration seal required
by this chapter. The Clerk shall maintain a record of registered game devices,
which shall include the name and address of the owner or lessee, the
manufacturer of the device and its serial number. Registration seals shall
expire on December 31 of each year.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982)
§ 110.09 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The Township Board may, after notice to licensee and an opportunity to be
heard before the Township Board, revoke any license issued hereunder in the
event it shall determine the licensee to be in violation of any of the
requirements or prohibitions of this chapter.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, corporation or association who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a
fine of $500, or imprisonment in the county jail for 90 days, or both the fine
and imprisonment.
(Ord. 82-1, passed 4-1-1982)
CHAPTER 111: ADULT PRODUCTS/SERVICES
Section
   
111.01   Purpose
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Requirement established
   
111.04   Filing deadline
   
111.05   Information changes
   
111.06   Restrictions
   
111.07   Recommendation concerning issuance
§ 111.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   All goods and services which are restricted to persons over the age of
18 years shall be regulated by the township for the preservation of public
peace, health, safety and welfare of the youth and people of the township.
   (B)   Goods and services which are restricted to persons over the age of 18
years shall include, but are not limited to, massage parlors, adult bookstores,
adult motion picture theaters, premises for nude entertainment, and nude
modeling studios.
(Ord. 98-06.3, passed - -1998)
§ 111.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK STORE. An establishment having as a substantial portion of its
stock in trade, books, magazines and other periodicals, printed or computer
generated images, videocassettes, video disks, and the like which are
restricted to persons over the age of 18 years and which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to
specific sexual activities, or specific anatomical areas, (as defined below),
or an establishment with a substantial segment or section devoted to the sale,
rental or display of like material.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment used for presenting material
restricted to persons over the age of 18 years and distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specific sexual activities, or specific anatomical areas, (as defined below),
for observation by patrons therein.
   CLERK, SUPERVISOR or ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Includes the duly
authorized officials of the township.
   MASSAGE PARLORS. An establishment, unless otherwise licensed by the state,
restricted to persons over the age of 18 years and used for housing equipment
and employing persons who give massages, body rubs or muscle-relaxing exercises
to other persons, necessitating human contact between the employee and another
person.
   NUDE MODELING STUDIO. An establishment restricted to persons over the age of
18 years and used for housing and exhibiting persons in the nude acting as
models for other persons to paint, photograph, or draw or sketch.
   PERSONS. Every natural person, firm, partnership, association, co-operative
or corporation and their legal successors.
   PREMISES FOR NUDE ENTERTAINMENT. An establishment which is restricted to
persons over the age of 18 years and used for housing and exhibiting persons in
the nude or specific anatomical areas (as defined below) of the human body.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely covered:
      (1)   Genitals and pubic human region;
      (2)   Buttocks;
      (3)   Post-pubertal female breast below a point immediately above the top
of the areola; and
      (4)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIC SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, fellatio,
cunnilingus, sodomy, bestiality or flagellation; and/or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genital pubic region,
buttocks or post-pubertal female breast.
(Ord. 98-06.3, passed - -1998)
§ 111.03 REQUIREMENT ESTABLISHED.
   No person shall operate or cause to be open or opened, or conduct, or
maintain any establishment which restricts its products or services to person
over the age of 18 years and including, but not limited to, any massage parlor,
adult bookstore, adult motion picture theater, premises for nude entertainment,
or nude modeling studio within the township without first having obtained a
license from the township to do so.
   (A)   Application. Each person desiring to open, conduct or maintain a
massage parlor, adult book store, adult motion picture theater, premises for
nude entertainment, or nude modeling studio shall first make application to the
Township Clerk for a license therefor.
   (B)   Content. The application shall contain:
      (1)   The name, address, including street and number of the applicant, or
if more than one person, or if an association or a firm, the full names and
addresses, including street and number, of the partners, principals or majority
stockholders;
      (2)   If a corporation, a list of the officers and the manager;
      (3)   The applicant’s business for the past three years, and the last
place or places in which he has conducted a business during the past three
years;
      (4)   Satisfactory proof of the required age;
      (5)   The proposed location;
      (6)   The proposed hours of operation; and
      (7)   Proof of compliance with all other applicable state and federal
licensing requirements.
(Ord. 98-06.3, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 FILING DEADLINE.
   The application shall be filed at least 30 days prior to the time desired
for granting of the license.
(Ord. 98-06.3, passed - -1998)
§ 111.05 INFORMATION CHANGES.
   If, while the application is pending, or during the term of any permit
granted thereunder, there is any change in fact, policy or method which would
alter the information provided in the application, applicant/licensee shall
notify the Township Clerk in writing thereof within 72 hours after the change.
(Ord. 98-06.3, passed - -1998)
§ 111.06 RESTRICTIONS.
   Any person performing any service relative to the operation of the business
establishment herein regulated shall be at least 18 years of age.
(Ord. 98-06.3, passed - -1998)
§ 111.07 RECOMMENDATION CONCERNING ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Previous to issuance or renewal of any license under this chapter, a
recommendation concerning the issuance of the license shall be obtained from
the Supervisor, a Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer and Fire Chief.
   (B)   The Township Supervisor and Ordinance Enforcement Officer shall base
their recommendation upon:
      (1)   Whether persons under the age of 18 years are to be excluded from
the establishment;
      (2)   The proposed location, considering:
         (a)   The traffic pattern for safety purposes for proper ingress and
egress to the site;
         (b)   The proximity of the site to other regulated businesses;
         (c)   The proximity of the site to residential, schools, playground or
other areas which have high concentration or attraction to minors; and
         (d)   If site is properly zoned for the use, and if all approvals and
permits required under the Zoning Ordinance for the establishment have been
obtained.
      (3)   Hours of operation;
      (4)   Compliance with all other applicable state and federal regulations;
and
      (5)   Compliance with applicable township codes.
(Ord. 98-06.3, passed - -1998)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC DECENCY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Public beach
   
130.02   Jeddo Road east of Old Lakeshore Road
   
130.03   Beach-road area
Obscenity Provisions
   
130.15   Purpose
   
130.16   Definitions
   
130.17   Unlawful conduct
   
130.18   Actual notice
   
130.19   Types of proceedings
 
   
130.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 PUBLIC BEACH.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate the use of the
public beach at Lake Huron located within the right-of-way of Jeddo Road, a
county road in the township, in order to preserve the peaceful enjoyment of the
community, and for the health, welfare and safety of the township residents.
   (B)   Use prohibited. No person shall use, occupy or enter on the public
beach of Lake Huron located within the public right-of-way limits of Jeddo
Road, in the township, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
   (C)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by duly authorized law
enforcement officers of the county and the state.
(Ord. 84-2, passed 9-18-1984; Ord. 84-3, passed 8-19-1986) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 JEDDO ROAD EAST OF OLD LAKESHORE ROAD.
   No person shall, on that portion of the Jeddo Road right-of-way lying east
of the center line of Old Lakeshore Road, do any of the following:
   (A)   Urinate or defecate;
   (B)   Have in his or her custody or control a pet or farm animal;
   (C)   Litter;
   (D)   Erect a tent or camp;
   (E)   Possess or control a glass container or receptacle of any kind;
   (F)   Possess or control alcoholic beverages of any kind;
   (G)   Cause any bonfire or other fire;
   (H)   Cook food;
   (I)   Possess or control a firearm of any kind;
   (J)   Possess or control a BB gun or pellet gun;
   (K)   Create any disturbance by loud and boisterous behavior or utter
profanity;
   (L)   Cause any object to be thrown or in some manner or by some other means
projected onto any adjoining premises; or
   (M)   Park a motor vehicle therein or cause a motor vehicle to stand thereon
for a period of time in excess of ten minutes.
(Ord. 93-1, passed 2-16-1993) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 BEACH-ROAD AREA.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BEACH-ROAD AREA. The right-of-way of a public road that ends at Lake
Huron from that point west to the right-of way line of the first intersecting
roadway. This definition encompasses at least the following:
         (a)   Jeddo Road from Lake Huron to Old Lakeshore Road;
         (b)   Harris Road from Lake Huron to Old Lakeshore Road;
         (c)   Washington Street from Lake Huron to Lakeport Drive; and
         (d)   Metcalf Road from Lake Huron to Wildrose Lane.
   (B)   No person shall, on any beach-road area, as defined herein, do any of
the following:
      (1)   Urinate or defecate;
      (2)   Litter;
      (3)   Erect a tent or camp;
      (4)   Possess or control a glass container or receptacle of any kind;
      (5)   Possess or control alcoholic beverages of any kind;
      (6)   Possess or control a firearm of any kind;
      (7)   Possess or control a BB gun or pellet gun;
      (8)   Create any disturbance by loud and boisterous behavior;
      (9)   Cause any object to be thrown or in some manner or by some other
means projected onto any adjoining premises; or
      (10)   Park a motor vehicle therein or cause a motor vehicle to stand
thereon for a period of time in excess of ten minutes.
(Ord. 02-02, passed 5-20-2002) Penalty, see §
130.99
OBSCENITY PROVISIONS
§ 130.15 PURPOSE.
   A subchapter prohibiting obscene conduct, distribution, obscene material and
promoting the same; providing notice of obscene material or action; providing
standards for evidence and defenses; and providing penalties for violation of
that subchapter.
(Ord. 98-06.1, passed - -1998)
§ 130.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE TO THE PUBLIC. The matter of performance may be purchased or
attended on a subscription basis, on a membership fee arrangement, or for a
separate fee for each item or performance or any combination of items or
performances, or provided without charge in conjunction with any item or
performance or combination thereof which may be purchased for a fee.
   DISSEMINATE. To transfer possession of, with or without consideration.
   KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character and the content of the material,
conduct or performance.
   MATERIAL. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written material
or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment or machines.
   NUDITY. The showing of the human male or female genitals or pubic area with
less than a fully opaque covering, or the depiction of covered male genitals in
a discernibly turgid state.
   OBSCENE. To the average person applying contemporary community standards:
      (1)   The predominate appeal of the material or performance taken as a
whole is to the prurient interest. That is, a shameful or morbid interest in
sexual conduct, nudity, excretion or sadomasochistic abuse;
      (2)   The material or performance which taken as a whole portrays sexual
conduct or nudity in a patently offensive way; and
      (3)   The material or performance, taken as a whole lacks serious
literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   PERFORMANCE. Any preview, play, show, skit, film, dance or other exhibition
performed before an audience.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, firm, association, corporation or other
legal entity.
   PROMOTE. To cause, permit, procure, counsel or assist.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person as an act
of sexual stimulation or gratification.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. Acts of masturbation (actual or simulated), homosexuality,
sexual intercourse (normal and perverted), fellatio, cunnilingus, acts of
excretory function or physical contact with a person’s clothed or unclothed
genitals, pubic area, buttocks or the breast or breasts of a female for the
purpose of sexual stimulation, gratification or perversion.
(Ord. 98-06.1, passed - -1998)
§ 130.17 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   (A)   Knowingly disseminate, distribute or make available to the public any
obscene material;
   (B)   Knowingly engage or participate in any obscene performance made
available to the public;
   (C)   Knowingly engage in commerce for commercial gain with materials
depicting and describing explicit sexual conduct, nudity or excretion utilizing
displays, circulars, advertisements and other public sales efforts that promote
the commerce primarily on the basis of their prurient appeal; or
   (D)   Provide service to patrons in a manner so as to expose to public view:
      (1)   His or her genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or
public hair region;
      (2)   Any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates the genitals, pubic hair, buttocks, perineum, anal region or pubic
hair region;
      (3)   Any portion of the female breast at or below the areola thereof; or
      (4)   Knowingly promote the commission of any of the above-listed
unlawful acts.
(Ord. 98-06.1, passed - -1998) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.18 ACTUAL NOTICE.
   (A)   Actual notice of the obscene nature of the material, performance or
activity may be given to a person involved in or responsible for such from the
township attorney on the basis of information lawfully gathered and supplied to
him or her by the state police, the County Sheriff’s Department, other official
police agency or citizens.
   (B)   The notice shall be in writing and delivered by mail or in person to
the alleged offender.
   (C)   The notice shall state that:
      (1)   In the opinion of the township attorney, the activity engaged in
falls within the prohibitions of §
130.17;
      (2)   If the activity has not ceased within seven judicial days the
township will take appropriate legal action; and
      (3)   A declaratory judgment proceeding as described in §
130.19 is available if a person engaged in the challenged activity wishes to
initiate the legal determination of whether the activity is in fact obscene.
   (D)   The foregoing division (C) is permissive only and the failure to give
the notice shall in no way affect the right to pursue any other remedy provided
by law.
(Ord. 98-06.1, passed - -1998)
§ 130.19 TYPES OF PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   In rem proceedings.
      (1)   Upon filing of an application for attachment authorized in this
division (A), the applicable police agency shall immediately cause notice
thereof to be served either personally or by mail upon any person residing or
doing business in the township who is known or believed by the police agency to
have any of the following interests in material named in the complaint:
         (a)   The publisher;
         (b)   The wholesaler, distributor, circulator; and
         (c)   Every retailer or dealer who has, or may have possession of any
material identical to material named in the complaint.
      (2)   The owner of the property shall be entitled to a prompt trial of
the issue and shall be entitled to a jury trial upon request.
      (3)   The attachment proceedings shall comply with all requirements of
law including but not limited to the seizure of materials alleged to be
obscene.
   (B)   Declaratory judgment.
      (1)   Any person receiving notice in writing from the township attorney
under §
130.18 that a specified activity is obscene may bring action against the
township in the Circuit Court for the county for a declaratory judgment to
determine whether the activity is obscene.
      (2)   If it is adjudged and declared by the court that the activity is
obscene, then the township attorney may cause the publication of the judgment
in a newspaper of general circulation in the township, and upon the
publication, all persons residing or doing business in the township will be
presumed to have actual notice of the nature of the activity.
   (C)   Criminal charges; violation of §
130.17. The township attorney may cause criminal charges to be brought against
any person engaging in or who has engaged in any prohibited activity in
violation of §
130.17.
   (D)   Injunction.
      (1)   The township attorney may seek a restraining order in the circuit
court for the county in order to enjoin any prohibited activity in violation of
§
130.17.
      (2)   If the township attorney has given written notice pursuant to §
130.18, he or she may after the passage of seven judicial days seek a temporary
restraining order.
      (3)   A judicial hearing on a request for the order shall be promptly
held.
   (E)   Proceedings in addition. Proceedings authorized by this section shall
be in addition to any others provided by law.
(Ord. 98-06.1, passed - -1998)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is provided shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating or failing to comply with the conditions of §
130.01 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished
by fines not exceeding $500, nor more than 90 days imprisonment in the county
jail, or both fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court.
   (C)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of those prohibitions set forth
in §
130.02(A) through (L) shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and fined in an amount not to exceed $500, or confined in the
county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both the fine and
imprisonment.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate §
130.02(M) hereof shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
      (3)   In the absence of an arrest for an offense committed in the
presence of a police officer, it shall be conclusively presumed that the owner
of any motor vehicle as shown by certified copy of the record of the Secretary
of State or the keeper of motor vehicle license records of another state if the
offending vehicle is licensed in another state is the person who parked the
vehicle found in violation of §
130.02(L).
      (4)   In addition to the penalty set forth herein, the motor vehicle may
be towed away and stored in a storage area. The owner of a vehicle that has
been so towed and stored shall have no claim for damages caused to the vehicle
during the towing and/or storage and shall be required to pay all towing and
storage fees prior to having the vehicle returned to him or her.
   (D)   (1)   Any person who shall violate any of those prohibitions set forth
in §
130.03(B)(1) through (9) inclusive, shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty
of a misdemeanor, and fined in an amount not to exceed $500, or confined in the
county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both the fine and
imprisonment.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate §
130.03(B)(10) shall upon conviction thereof be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by a fine not to exceed $100.
      (3)   In the absence of an arrest for an offense committed in the
presence of a police officer, it shall be conclusively presumed that the owner
of any motor vehicle as shown by certified copy of the record of the Secretary
of State or the keeper of motor vehicle license records of any other state is
the person who parked the vehicle found in violation of §
130.03(B)(10).
      (4)   In addition to the penalty set forth herein the motor vehicle may
be towed away and stored in a storage area. The owner of a vehicle that has
been so towed and stored shall have no claim for damages caused to the vehicle
during the towing and/or storage and shall be required to pay all towing and
storage fees prior to having the vehicle returned to him or her.
   (E)   In an in rem proceeding against sexually explicit material under §
130.19, the court shall, upon a determination by the trier of fact that the
material is obscene, make an order confiscating the obscene material and
authorize and direct the applicable police agency to, pending the exhaustion of
all appeals, destroy the same.
(Ord. 84-2, passed 9-18-1984; Ord. 93-1, passed 2-16-1993; Ord. 98-06.1, passed
- -1998; Ord. 02-02, passed 5-20-2002)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   [RESERVED]
      
151.   [RESERVED]
      
152.   [RESERVED]
      
153.   LAND DIVISION
      
154.   ZONING CODE
      
155.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
156.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 150: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 151: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 152: [RESERVED]
CHAPTER 153: LAND DIVISION
Section
   
153.01   Title
   
153.02   Purpose
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Prior approval requirement
   
153.05   Application for land division approval
   
153.06   Procedure for review of applications
   
153.07   Standards for approval of land divisions
   
153.08   Consequences of noncompliance with approval requirement
§ 153.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Burtchville Township Land
Division Ordinance”.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-19-1998)
§ 153.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the State Land
Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293
as amended, formerly known as the Subdivision Control Act), to prevent the
creation of parcels of property which do not comply with applicable ordinances
and the Act, to minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly
development of the community, and otherwise provide for the health, safety and
welfare of the residents and property owners of the township by establishing
reasonable standards for prior review and approval of land divisions within the
township.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-19-1998)
§ 153.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination of any of them that holds an ownership interest in land whether
recorded or not.
   DIVIDE or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, for the purpose
of sale or lease of more than one year, or of building development that results
in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that
satisfies the requirements of §§ 108 and 109 of the State Land Division Act,
Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.108 and 560.109. DIVIDE and
DIVISION does not include a property transfer between two or more adjacent
parcels, if the property taken from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel;
and any resulting parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the
parcel conforms to the requirements of the State Land Division Act, or the
requirements of other applicable local ordinances.
   EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Burtchville Township Board.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-19-1998)
§ 153.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   Land in the township shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the township assessor, or other official designated by the
governing body, in accordance with this chapter and the State Land Division
Act; provided that the following shall be exempted from this requirement:
   (A)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant to
the State Land Division Act;
   (B)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
State Land Division Act; and
   (C)   An exempt split as defined in this chapter, or other partitioning or
splitting that results in parcels of 20 acres or more if each is not accessible
and the parcel was in existence on March 31, 1997 or resulted from exempt
splitting under the State Act.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-19-1998)
§ 153.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Township Assessor or
other official designated by the governing body for review and approval of a
proposed land division before making any division either by deed, land
contract, lease for more than one year, or for building development:
   (A)   Four copies of the completed application form;
   (B)   Four copies of a survey of the proposed division prepared by a
registered surveyor in the state, except that, in cases where all of the
parcels to be created are greater than ten acres each, a tentative parcel map
drawn to scale may be submitted in lieu of a survey. The survey or tentative
parcel map shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant and surveyor (if applicable);
      (2)   The date of the survey or date that the tentative parcel map was
prepared, north arrow and scale;
      (3)   Boundary lines and acreage of the parcel or parcels to be divided,
including boundary lines and acreage of entire parent parcel;
      (4)   Names of all streets, rights-of-way and roadway widths of all
existing and proposed streets within the parcel or parcels proposed to be
divided;
      (5)   All existing structures (including their distance from existing and
proposed property lines sufficient to demonstrate compliance with zoning
setback requirements) and physical features which would influence the layout
and design of the proposed division; and
      (6)   The location, width and purpose of any and all easements.
   (C)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided;
   (D)   An accurate legal description of each proposed division;
   (E)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act and this
chapter have been met;
   (F)   If transfer of division rights is proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer; and
   (G)   A reasonable fee, as may be established from time to time by
resolution of the Township Board, to cover the costs of review of the
application and administration of this chapter and the State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-19-1998)
§ 153.06 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The township shall approve or disapprove the land division applied for
within 45 days after receipt of a complete application conforming to this
chapter’s requirements and the State Land Division Act, and shall promptly
notify the applicant of the decision, and if denied, the reasons for the
denial.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the assessor or
designee may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the Land
Division Appeals Board which is hereby created. The Board shall consist of
three members appointed by the Township Supervisor and confirmed by the
Township Board. The term of office shall be three years, except that for the
members first appointed, one shall serve for one year, one for two years, and
one for three years. One member shall be a member of the Township Board. The
second member shall be a member of the Planning Commission. The third member
shall be the Zoning Administrator. Members may be compensated for their
services as provided by the Township Board. Business shall be conducted at a
public meeting with public notice of the time, date, and place of a regular or
special meeting as required by Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261
through 15.275, as amended. An affirmative vote of not less than two members
shall be necessary to reverse a decision of the assessor or designee. The Board
shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary from among its
members. The Board shall adopt rules of procedure for the transaction of its
business and shall keep a written record of its proceedings, transactions,
resolutions, findings and determinations. The Land Division Appeals Board shall
consider and resolve the appeal at its next regular meeting or session
affording sufficient time for a 20-day written notice to the applicant (and
appellant where other than the applicant) of the time and date of the meeting
and appellate hearing.
   (C)   The Township Assessor or designee shall maintain an official record of
all approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (D)   Approval of a division is not a determination that the resulting
parcels comply with other ordinances or regulations.
   (E)   The township and its officers and employees shall not be liable for
approving a land division if building permits for construction on the parcels
are subsequently denied because of inadequate water supply, sewage disposal
facilities or otherwise, and any notice of approval shall include a statement
to this effect.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-19-1998)
§ 153.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS.
   A proposed land division reviewable by the township shall be approved if the
following criteria are met:
   (A)   All the parcels to be created by the proposed land division(s) have
not less than the minimum width set forth in the Township Zoning Ordinance
Schedule of District Regulations for the applicable zoning district, and in no
instance have less than 65 feet of width where connection to a public water and
a public sewer system is not available or not accessible;
   (B)   All the parcels contain not less than the minimum area set forth in
the Township Zoning Ordinance Schedule of District Regulations for the
applicable zoning district and in no instance contain less than 12,000 square
feet of area where connection to a public water and a public sewer system is
not available or not accessible;
   (C)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the division does
not exceed an eight to one ratio exclusive of access roads, easements or non-
development sites. The depth of a parcel created by a land division shall be
measured within the boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road right of
way to the most remote boundary line point of the parcel from the point of
commencement of the measurement. The ratio does not apply to parcels larger
than ten acres and does not apply to the remainder of the parent parcel or
parent tract retained by the proprietor;
   (D)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all requirements of this
chapter and the State Land Division Act. Land divisions shall not be allowed
upon a private road or shared driveway until the private road or shared
driveway meets the requirements of the Township Private Road Ordinance,
codified as §§
156.01 through
156.10, and
156.99; and
   (E)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate accessibility
or an area available therefor, for public utilities and emergency and other
vehicles.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-19-1998; Ord. 02-05, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 153.08 CONSEQUENCES OF NONCOMPLIANCE WITH APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall not be recognized as a land division on the township tax roll and no
construction thereon which requires the prior issuance of a construction or
building permit shall be allowed. The township shall further have the authority
to initiate injunctive or other relief to prevent any violation or continuance
of any violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An unlawful division or split shall also be voidable at the option of
the purchaser and shall subject the seller to the forfeiture of all
consideration received or pledged therefor, together with any damages sustained
by the purchaser, recoverable in an action at law.
(Ord. 98-1, passed 1-19-1998)
CHAPTER 154: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Title; preamble
   
154.002   Construction of language
   
154.003   Definitions
   
154.004   Scope
   
154.005   Permitted uses
   
154.006   Permitted area and placement
   
154.007   Required street access
   
154.008   Lots with frontage on Lake Huron
   
154.009   Accessory buildings in residential districts
   
154.010   Appearance of industrial buildings
   
154.011   Establishing grades
   
154.012   Drainage of property and development in flood-prone areas
   
154.013   Corner clearance
   
154.014   Corner lots
   
154.015   Excavation or holes
   
154.016   Exterior lighting
   
154.017   Fences, walls and other protective barriers
   
154.018   Greenbelts, obscuring walls, berms
   
154.019   Plant materials
   
154.020   Lot and subdivision limitations
   
154.021   Lots, yards and open spaces
   
154.022   Provisions applicable to nonconforming lots, uses, structures and
characteristics
   
154.023   Off-street parking
   
154.024   Residential entranceway structure
   
154.025   Signs
   
154.026   Streets, alleys and railroad rights-of-way
   
154.027   Swimming pools
   
154.028   Boats, RVs and hobby vehicles in the yard
   
154.029   Manufactured housing outside of manufactured housing communities
   
154.030   Home occupations
   
154.031   Regulation of condominium developments
   
154.032   Open space preservation development
   
154.033   Review and preliminary approval of manufactured housing community
plans
   
154.034   Manufactured housing community requirements
   
154.035   Manufactured homes within manufactured housing communities/operation
of communities
   
154.036   Community sewer system
   
154.037   Medical marijuana caregivers
   
154.038   Solar energy systems
Zoning Districts and Map
   
154.050   Districts established
   
154.051   Boundaries shown on official zoning map
   
154.052   District boundaries interpreted
   
154.053   District requirements
   
154.054   RCC Recreation, Conservation and Cemetery District
   
154.055   A/R Agricultural/Residential District
   
154.056   R-1A, R-1B and R-1C Single-Family Residential Districts
   
154.057   R-2 Two-Family Residential District
   
154.058   MHR Manufactured Home Residential District
   
154.059   RM Residential Multiple-Family District
   
154.060   O Office District
   
154.061   GB General Business District
   
154.062   I Industrial District
   
154.063   District regulations
General Exceptions
   
154.075   Access through yards
   
154.076   Dwelling in a nonresidential district
   
154.077   Essential services
   
154.078   Projections into yards
   
154.079   Voting place
Special Land Use Approval Requirements
   
154.090   Special land use approval requirements
   
154.091   Authority to grant permits
   
154.092   Application and fee
   
154.093   Data, exhibits and information required in application
   
154.094   Public hearing and notices
   
154.095   Required standards and findings for making determinations
   
154.096   Determination and imposition of conditions
   
154.097   Approval and appeal procedures
   
154.098   Voiding of special approval land use permit
   
154.099   High-pressure gas, high-voltage electrical transmission lines
   
154.100   Outdoor theaters
   
154.101   Motorized vehicle racetracks
   
154.102   Horse and dog racetracks
   
154.103   Lumber and building material dealers
   
154.104   Quarries
   
154.105   Junk yards, automobile salvage or wrecking yards, waste or scrap
recycling operations and refuse transfer facilities
   
154.106   Telephone exchange and static transformer stations, gas regulator
stations and other public utility buildings
   
154.107   Bed and breakfast establishments
   
154.108   Hotels and motels
   
154.109   Feedlots and raising of fur-bearing animals
   
154.110   Churches
   
154.111   Government buildings
   
154.112   Golf courses
   
154.113   Private recreational areas
   
154.114   Large-scale outdoor recreational uses
   
154.115   Open-to-the-public public or commercial stables, kennels and
veterinary clinics
   
154.116   Group day care home
   
154.117   Nursery school day nursery and childcare centers
   
154.118   Orphanage, foster home, home for the aged, indigent or physically or
mentally disabled
   
154.119   Boarding and rooming houses
   
154.120   Amusement and recreation services
   
154.121   Motor vehicle washing
   
154.122   Gasoline stations
   
154.123   Motor vehicle repair and service facilities
   
154.124   New automobile and truck sales and showrooms
   
154.125   Used automobile and truck sales
   
154.126   Open-air display and sale of recreational vehicles, motorcycles or
other motor vehicle sales areas other than trucks, automobiles and home owners’
gardening equipment and the like
   
154.127   Drive-in, fast food, drive-through or carry-out restaurants
   
154.128   Combat game areas
   
154.129   Gun and hunt clubs, shooting and archery ranges
   
154.130   Cemeteries
   
154.131   Mini-warehouses
   
154.132   Wind energy conversion systems
   
154.133   Personal use aircraft landing fields
   
154.134   Communication towers
   
154.135   Short term rental of residential property
   
154.136   List of special approval land uses by district
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.145   Zoning Administrator
   
154.146   Zoning compliance permits
   
154.147   Certificate of occupancy
   
154.148   Reserved
   
154.149   Permit fees
   
154.150   Site plan review
   
154.151   Requirements for single-family and two-family dwellings and farm
buildings and accessory buildings
   
154.152   Performance guarantees
   
154.153   Tents, temporary mobile home or construction office and portable on-
demand storage devices
   
154.154   Changes and amendments
   
154.155   Interpretation
   
154.156   Vested right
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
154.170   Creation and membership
   
154.171   Meetings
   
154.172   Appeal
   
154.173   Fees
   
154.174   Jurisdiction
   
154.175   Orders
   
154.176   Notice
   
154.177   Lapse of approval
   
154.178   Appeal to circuit court
 
   
154.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Burtchville Township Zoning Map
   
Appendix B: Burtchville Township Zoning Detail
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 TITLE; PREAMBLE.
   (A)   Title. An ordinance enacted under Act 110, Michigan Public Acts of
2006, as amended, known as the “Michigan Zoning Enabling Act”, governing the
unincorporated portions of the Township of Burtchville, St. Clair County,
Michigan, to provide for the establishment of zoning districts within which the
proper use of land and natural resources is encouraged and regulated, and the
improper use of same is prohibited; to regulate and restrict the location and
use of buildings, structures and land for agriculture, forestry, recreation,
trade, industry, residence and for public and semi-public or other specified
uses; to regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings and other
structures; to regulate and determine the size of yards, courts and open
spaces; to provide safety, sanitary, and other protective measures that shall
be required in dwellings, buildings and structures that may be hereafter
erected or altered; to provide for the uniformity of such provisions for each
class of land or buildings, dwellings and structures throughout each district;
to provide for administering of this chapter; to provide for conflicts in other
ordinances or regulations; to provide penalties for violations; to provide for
the collection of fees for permits and processing of plan approvals; to provide
for petitions and hearings; to provide for appeals; to provide for changes in
the regulations; to define certain terms used herein; to provide for repeals of
ordinances in conflict herewith; and to provide for any other matters
authorized by the above-mentioned Michigan Zoning Act.
   (B)   Preamble. In accordance with the authority and intent of 2006 PA 110
(M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.), Burtchville Township desires to provide for
orderly development, which is essential to the well-being of the community and
which will place no undue burden upon industry, commerce, residents, food
producers, natural resources, or energy conservation. The township further
desires to assure adequate sites for industry, commerce, food production,
recreation, and residences; to provide for the free movement of vehicles upon
the streets and highways of the township; to protect industry, commerce, food
producers, natural resources, energy consumption and residences against
incongruous and incompatible uses of land; to promote the proper use of land
and natural resources for the economic well-being of the township as a whole;
to assure adequate space for the parking of vehicles for customers and
employees using commercial, retail, and industrial areas; to assure that all
uses of land and buildings within the township are so related as to provide for
economy in government and mutual support; and to promote and protect the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of all persons and
property owners within the township.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 154.002 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The following rules of construction apply to the text of this chapter.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
“may” is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   A “building” or “structure” includes any part thereof.
   (F)   The phrase “used for” includes “arranged for”, “designed for”,
“intended for”, “maintained for” or “occupied for”.
   (G)   The word “person” includes an individual, corporation, partnership,
incorporated association or any other similar entity.
   (H)   Where a regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions
or events, the lead-in sentence often makes clear that all the connected items,
conditions, provisions or events equally apply. In some instances, use of the
conjunction “and” conveys the same meaning.
      (1)   “And” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.
      (2)   When “or” is used, it indicates that the connected items,
conditions, provisions or events may apply singly or in any combination.
      (3)   When “either...or” is used, it indicates that the connected items,
conditions, provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
   (I)   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned
to them.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (1)   ACCESSORY RESIDENTIAL ANIMAL HOBBY. The keeping of hobby animal(s) is
an incidental accessory use, including horses, cattle, dairy cattle, goats,
sheep, swine, turkeys, chickens, ducks, ostrich and other non-traditional pets.
These animals are kept in low enough numbers on sufficient land and in
appropriate conditions in residential settings, so that the residential use of
the subject property and occupancy of neighboring residential properties are
maintained. The animals may or may not be consumed by the occupants. This use
as defined herein is intended to allow the keeping of the animals while
providing for the health, safety and welfare of the neighborhood as a clearly
residential environment.
   (2)   ACCESSORY BUILDING, ACCESSORY USE or ACCESSORY.
      (a)   ACCESSORY USE. A use that is clearly incidental to, customarily
found in connection with, and (except in the case of accessory off-street
parking spaces or loading) located on the same zoning lot as the principal use
to which it is related. When ACCESSORY is used in the text, it shall have the
same meaning as ACCESSORY USE.
      (b)   An ACCESSORY USE includes, but is not limited to, the following:
         1.   Domestic or agricultural storage in a shed, tool room, garage or
similar accessory building or other structure;
         2.   Barn (livestock building);
         3.   Swimming pools for the use of the occupants of a residence or
their guests;
         4.   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock in connection
with a business or industrial use, unless the storage is excluded in the
applicable district regulations;
         5.   Storage of goods used in or produced by industrial uses or
related activities, unless the storage is excluded in the applicable district
regulations;
         6.   Accessory off-street parking spaces, open or enclosed, subject to
the accessory off-street parking regulations for the district in which the
zoning lot is located;
         7.   Accessory off-street loading, subject to the off-street loading
regulations for the district in which the zoning lot is located;
         8.   Accessory signs, subject to the sign regulations for the district
in which the zoning lot is located; and
         9.   For related sections, see §§
154.008,
154.017,
154.018,
154.023,
154.024,
154.025,
154.027,
154.028 and
154.030.
   (3)   ADULT BOOKSTORE. An establishment having as a substantial portion of
its stock in trade books, magazines and other periodicals, printed or computer-
generated images, videocassettes, video disks and the like which are restricted
to persons over the age of 18 and which is distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to “specified sexual
activities” (as defined below) or “specified anatomical areas” (as defined
below) or an establishment with a substantial segment or section devoted to the
sale, rental or display of the material.
   (4)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment used for presenting
material restricted to persons over the age of 18 distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
“specific sexual activities” (as defined below) or “specific anatomical areas”
(as defined below) for observation by patrons therein.
   (5)   AGRICULTURAL. Farms and farming in general (see definition of FARM).
   (6)   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of access
to abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   (7)   ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification in construction or
type of occupancy, or in the structural members of a building, such as walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as “altered” or “reconstructed”.
   (8)   ANIMAL NUISANCE. Any nuisance such as odor, noise, destruction, which
is caused by any animal is considered to be ANIMAL NUISANCE.
   (9)   ANIMAL PEN. Any open or partly open structure or enclosure holding
four or more dogs or two or more of any other kind of animal.
   (10)   APARTMENTS. A suite of rooms or a room in a multiple-family building
arranged and intended for a place of residence of a single family or a group of
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   (11)   APARTMENT HOUSE. A residential structure containing three or more
apartments.
   (12)   ARCADES. Any place, premises, room or establishment in which a
substantial or significant portion of the business carried on involves the
operation of any machine or device including, but not limited to, pinball
machines, video and electronic games operated by means of insertion of a token,
coin  or similar object or for a consideration paid to the owner or custodian
thereof for the purpose of a game of skill or amusement. The terms shall also
include any place, premises, room or establishment in which three or more
machines or devices including but not limited to pinball machines, video and
electronic games, operated by means of insertion of token, coin or similar
object or for a consideration paid to the owner or custodian thereof for the
purpose of a game or contest of skill or amusement are located.
   (13)   ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES. Architectural features of a building shall
include such integral features as cornices, eaves, gutters, sills, lintels, bay
windows, chimneys and decorative ornaments.
   (14)   ATTIC. The space between the ceiling beams of top habitable floor and
roof. See the illustration under the definition for BASEMENT.
   (15)   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding or
re-conditioning of motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame or
fender straightening and repair; overall painting and vehicle rust proofing.
   (16)   AUTO REPAIR STATION. A place where, along with the sale of engine
fuels, the following services may be carried out: general repairs; engine
rebuilding; rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service,
the body, frame or fender straightening and repair; overall painting, and
undercoating of automobiles.
   (17)   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
      (a)   Buildings and premises where gasoline, oil, grease, batteries,
tires and automobile accessories may be supplied and dispensed at retail, and
where in addition the following services may be rendered and sales made, and no
other:
         1.   Sale and servicing of spark plugs, batteries and distributors and
distributor parts;
         2.   Tire servicing and repair, but not recapping or regrooving;
         3.   Replacement of mufflers and tail pipes, water hose, fan belts,
brake fluid, light bulbs, fuses, floor mats, seat covers, windshield wipers and
wiper blades, grease retainers, wheel bearings, mirrors and the like;
         4.   Radiator cleaning and flushing;
         5.   Washing and polishing, and sale of automotive washing and
polishing materials when accessory and incidental to the principal operation;
         6.   Greasing and lubrication;
         7.   Providing and repairing fuel pumps, oil pumps and lines;
         8.   Minor servicing and repair of carburetors;
         9.   Emergency wiring repairs;
         10.   Adjusting and repairing brakes;
         11.   Minor motor adjustments not involving removal of the head or
crankcase or racing the motor;
         12.   Sales of hot or cold non alcoholic beverages, packaged foods,
tobacco and similar convenience goods for filling station customers, as
accessory and incidental to the principal operation;
         13.   Provision of road maps and other informational material to
customers; provision of restroom facilities.
      (b)   Uses permissible at an AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION do not include
major mechanical and body work, straightening of body parts, painting, rust
proofing, welding, storage of automobiles not in operating condition, or other
work involving noise, glare, fumes, smoke or other characteristics to an extent
greater than normally found in automobile service stations. An AUTOMOBILE
SERVICE STATION is not a repair station or garage nor a body shop.
   (18)   AUTOMOBILE WASH ESTABLISHMENT. A building, or portion thereof, the
primary purpose of which is the washing of motor vehicles.
   (19)   BARN (LIVESTOCK BUILDING). Any building or buildings, which have the
primary purpose of housing livestock. This would include any building, which in
fact does house livestock.
   (20)   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or wholly below
grade, but so located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the
floor is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the
ceiling. A BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-19.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-21.jpg]
 
   (21)   BED AND BREAK FAST ESTABL ISHMENT. A private residence that offers
sleeping accommodations to lodgers for not more than 30 consecuti ve days in
fewer than 14 rooms for rent; is the innkeepe r’s residence in which the
innkeeper resides while renting rooms to others.
   (22)   BLOCK. The property abutting one side of a street and lying between
the two nearest intersecting streets, (crossing or terminating) or between the
nearest through street and railroad right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, lake,
river or live stream; or between any of the foregoing and any other barrier to
the continuity of development, or corporate boundary lines of the municipality.
   (23)   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. The Zoning Board of Appeals of the Township
of Burtchville.
   (24)   BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling where meals, or lodging and meals, are
provided for compensation for three or more persons by pre-arrangement for
definite periods of not less than five days. A BOARDING HOUSE shall be
distinguished from a bed and breakfast establishment, motel or hotel.
   (25)   BUILDING. A structure erected on-site, a mobile home or mobile
structure, a pre-manufactured or pre-cut structure, above or below ground,
designed primarily for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or
property of any kind.
   (26)   BUILDING AREA. The space remaining after the minimum open space
requirements of this chapter have been met.
   (27)     BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the
established grade to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to
the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and
ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs. Where a building is located on sloping
terrain, the HEIGHT may be measured from the average ground level of the grade
at the building wall.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-23.jpg]
 
   BUILDING LINE. A line formed by a wall of the building, and for the purposes
of this chapter, a minimum BUILDING LINE is the same as a setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-25.jpg]
 
   (28)    BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Building Inspector under the
terms of the State Building Code; it is not the same as a zoning compliance
permit, an occupancy permit, nor a special or temporary use permit.
   (29)   BUILDING PERMIT. A permit issued by the Building Inspector under the
terms of the State Building Code; it is not the same as a zoning compliance
permit, an occupancy permit, nor a special or temporary use permit.
   (30)   CAMPGROUND. Any parcel of land wherein sites are offered for the use
of the public or members of any organization, either free of charge, or for a
fee, for the establishment of temporary living quarters for the occupation of
five or more tents, travel trailers, truck campers or other similar
recreational units.
   (31)   CELLAR. See the definition of BASEMENT.
   (32)   CHILDCARE CENTER (DAY CARE CENTER). A facility other than a private
residence that receives one or more preschool or school-age children for care
for periods of less than 24 hours a day, and where parents or guardians are not
immediately available to the child. CHILDCARE CENTER or DAY CARE CENTER
includes a facility that provides care for not less than two consecutive weeks,
regardless of the number of hours of care per day. The facility is generally
described as a childcare center, day care center, day nursery, nursery school,
parent cooperative preschool, play group or drop-in center. CHILDCARE CENTERS
are licensed by the state under Public Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 through 722.128, as amended. CHILDCARE CENTER or DAY CARE CENTER does
not include:
         (a)   A Sunday school, a vacation bible school or a religious
instruction class that is conducted by a religious organization where children
are in attendance for not more than three hours per day for an indefinite
period, or not more than eight hours per day for a period not to exceed four
weeks during any 12-month period; or
         (b)   A facility operated by a religious organization where children
are cared for not more than three hours while parents or guardians attend
religious worship services.
   (33)   (CHILD) FAMILY DAY CARE HOME (LICENSED). A private home (dwelling) in
which one but fewer than seven children are received for care and supervision
for periods of less than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal
guardian, except children related to an adult member of the family by blood,
marriage or adoption. FAMILY DAY CARE HOME includes a home that gives care to
an unrelated minor child for more than four weeks during a calendar year.
FAMILY DAY CARE HOMES are licensed by the state under Public Act 116 of 1973,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through 722.128, as amended.
   (34)   CLINIC. An establishment where physicians, dentists or similar
professionals examine or treat human patients who are not lodged overnight.
   (35)   CLUB. An organization of persons for special purposes for the
promulgation of agriculture, sports, arts, science, literature, politics or the
like, but not for profit.
   (36)   COMMON ELEMENTS. The portions of the condominium other than the
condominium units.
   (37)   COMMUNICATION TOWER. A monopole-type structure with antennae or other
devices used for the transmission or reception of radio, telephone, cellular
telephone, television, microwave or any other form of telecommunication signal.
A COMMUNICATION TOWER shall not be included under the existing definition of
essential services.
   (38)   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
through 559.272, as amended.
   (39)   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. Equivalent to the term SUBDIVISION as used
in this zoning ordinance and the township subdivision control ordinance. If no
township subdivision control ordinance is in effect, the term shall be
equivalent to the term SUBDIVISION as used in the Subdivision Control Act
(Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as
amended).
   (40)   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN. The site, survey and utility plans;
floor plans and sections, as appropriate (if buildings are proposed), showing
the existing and proposed structures and improvements including the location
thereof on the land. The CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN shall show the size,
location, area and vertical boundaries and volume for each unit comprised of
enclosed air space. A number shall be assigned to each condominium unit. The
CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN shall include the nature, location and approximate
size of common elements.
   (41)   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of the condominium project designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
   (42)   CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any
portion of the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn pursuant to express
provisions in the condominium documents and in accordance with this chapter and
the Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 et seq.
   (43)   CONVALESCENT HOME, HOME FOR THE AGED or NURSING HOME. A home for the
care of children, or the aged, or infirm, or a place of rest for those
suffering bodily disorders, and licensed or required to be licensed by the
state, but not including housing for the elderly where the persons live
independently in individual apartment units.
   (44)   CONVERTIBLE AREA. A unit or a portion of the common elements of the
condominium project referred to in the condominium documents within which
additional condominium units or general or limited common elements may be
created pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
et seq.
   (45)   COURT. An open, uncovered, unoccupied space other than a yard
partially or wholly surrounded on at least two sides of a building. A COURT
having at least one side thereof opening onto a public or private street, alley
or yard or other permanent open space is an OUTER COURT. Any other court is an
ENCLOSED or an INNER COURT.
   (46)   DENSITY. The term refers to the number of families residing on, or
dwelling units developed on, an acre of land.
   (47)   DEVELOPMENT. The construction of a new building or other structure on
a zoning lot, the relocation of an existing building on another zoning lot or
the use of open land for a new use.
   (48)   DISTRICT. A portion of the unincorporated area of the municipality
within which certain regulations and requirements of various combinations
thereof apply under the provisions of this chapter.
   (49)   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or
service character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking
spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle
rather than within a building or structure.
   (50)   DRIVEWAY. A driveway which provides access to a parcel or premises
having the required frontage on a public or private road which is built to
generally accepted construction practices sufficient to provide passage for
emergency vehicles and fire trucks. This passageway being of definite width,
primarily for use by motor vehicles, over private property, loading from a
street, other public way or private road to a garage or parking area. A
horseshoe-shaped drive or a “T”-shaped drive located within a front yard is
included within this definition.
   (51)   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion thereof, designed for occupancy
by one family for residential purposes and having cooking facilities.
   (52)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof, containing
three or more dwelling units designed exclusively for occupancy by three or
more families, living independently of each other and conforming in all other
respects to the standards set forth in the definition of DWELLING, SINGLE-
FAMILY, below.
   (53)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing not more than one
dwelling unit designed exclusively for and occupied exclusively by one family,
complying with the following standards.
      (a)   It complies with the minimum square footage requirement: 840 square
feet.
      (b)   It has a minimum width across any front, side or rear elevation of
24 feet and complies in all respects with the State Building Code, including
minimum heights for habitable rooms. Where a dwelling is required by law to
comply with any federal or state standards or regulations for construction and
where the standards or regulations for construction are different than those
imposed by the State Building Code, then and in that event the federal or state
standard or regulation shall apply.
      (c)   It is firmly attached to a permanent foundation constructed on the
site in accordance with the State Building Code and shall have a wall of the
same perimeter dimensions of the dwelling and constructed of a materials and
type as required in the State Building Code for single-family dwellings. In the
event that the dwelling is a mobile home, as defined herein, the dwelling
shall, in addition thereto, be installed pursuant to the manufacturer’s setup
instructions and shall be secured to the premises by an anchoring system or
device complying with the rules and regulations of the State Mobile Home
Commission and shall have a perimeter wall as required above.
      (d)   In the event that a dwelling is a mobile home as defined herein,
each mobile home shall be installed with the wheels removed. Additionally, no
dwelling shall have any exposed towing mechanism, undercarriage or chassis.
      (e)   The dwelling is connected to a public sewer and water supply or to
the private facilities approved by the County Health Department.
      (f)   The dwelling contains a storage capability area in a basement
located under the dwelling, in an attic area, in closet areas, or in a separate
structure of standard construction similar to or of better quality than the
principal dwelling, which storage area shall be equal to 10% of the square
footage of the dwelling or 100 square feet, whichever shall be less.
      (g)   The dwelling is aesthetically compatible in design and appearance
with other residences in the vicinity, with a minimum roof pitch of four-
twelfths and with either a roof overhang of not less than six inches to eave
ends on any eave side, or alternatively with window sills or roof drainage
systems concentrating roof drainage at collection points along the sides of the
dwelling; has not less than two exterior doors with the second one being on a
side different from the first door and the second one being in either the rear
or side of the dwelling; and contains steps connected to the exterior door
areas or to porches connected to the door areas where a difference in elevation
requires the same.
         1.   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined in
the first instance by the Township Zoning Administrator upon review of the
plans submitted for a particular dwelling subject to appeal by an aggrieved
party to the Zoning Board of Appeals within a period of 15 days from the
receipt of notice of the Zoning Administrator’s decision. Any determination of
compatibility shall be based upon the standards set forth in this definition of
DWELLING as well as the character, design and appearance of one or more
residential dwellings located outside of mobile home parks within 2,000 feet of
the subject dwelling where the area is developed with dwellings to the extent
of not less than 20% of the lots situated within the area; or, where the area
is not so developed, by the character, design and appearance of one or more
residential dwellings located outside of mobile home parks throughout the
township.
         2.   The foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit innovative
design concepts involving such matters as solar energy, view, unique land
contour or relief from the common or standard designed home.
      (h)   The dwelling contains no additions or rooms or other areas that are
not constructed with similar quality workmanship as the original structure,
including permanent attachment to the principal structure and construction of a
foundation as required herein.
      (i)   The dwelling complies with all pertinent building and fire codes.
In the case of a mobile home, all construction and all plumbing, or electrical
apparatus and insulation within and connected to the mobile home shall be of a
type and quality conforming to the Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards as promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, being 24 C.F.R. part 3280, and as from time to time the standards
may be amended. Additionally, all dwellings shall meet or exceed all applicable
roof snow load and strength requirements.
      (j)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home located in
a licensed mobile home park except to the extent required by state or federal
law.
      (k)   All construction required herein shall be commenced only after a
building permit has been obtained in accordance with the applicable State
Building Code provisions and requirements.
   (54)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing not more than two
separate dwelling units designed exclusively for occupancy by two families
living independently of each other and conforming in all other aspects to the
standards set forth in the definition directly above.
   (55)   ERECTED. Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon or
any physical operations on the premises which are required for construction,
excavation, fill, drainage and the like, shall be considered a part of
ERECTION.
   (56)   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance by public utilities or municipal departments of underground,
surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam, fuel or water transmission or
distribution system, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables,
fire alarm and police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and similar
equipment in connection herewith, but not including buildings which are
necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by the utility or municipal
departments for the general health, safety or welfare.
   (57)   EXCAVATION. Any breaking of ground, except common household gardening
and working of ground for agricultural purposes.
   (58)   EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project to which additional
land may be added pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents
and in accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
559.101 et seq.
   (59)   FAMILY.
      (a)   One or more persons related by blood, marriage or adoption, with
their direct lineal descendants and including the domestic employees thereof
living as a single, nonprofit housekeeping unit; or
      (b)   A collective number of individuals living together in one house
under one head, whose relationship is of a permanent and distinct domestic
character, and cooking as a single housekeeping unit. This definition shall not
include any society, club, fraternity, sorority, association, lodge, combine,
federation, group, coterie or organization, which is not a recognized religious
order, nor include a group of individuals whose association is temporary and
resort-seasonal in character or nature.
   (60)   FARM. An establishment engaged in growing crops, sod, plants, trees,
shrubs, nursery stock; an establishment engaged in dairying, the maintaining or
the raising of livestock and poultry, the keeping of horses, small animals, as
well as other similar enterprises or uses. A FARM includes farm buildings such
as barns, greenhouses, apiaries and other similar structures. A FARM’S land
area includes all of the contiguous neighboring or associated land operated as
a single unit on which bona fide farming is carried on directly by the owner-
operator, manager or tenant farmer, by his or her own labor or with the
assistance of members of his or her household or hired employees. Requirements
for a FARM by this zoning ordinance are given under §§
154.055. Additional requirements for feedlots, chicken hatcheries, poultry
farms and swineries are found under §
154.109. Additional requirements for commercial/public  stables, kennels and
veterinary clinics are found under §
154.115. Requirements for quarries and mining (which include the commercial
removal of soil, sand, gravel, stone and other earth materials) are found under
§
154.104.
   (61)   FEEDLOT.
      (a)   An animal feeding operation is a concentrated animal feeding
operation for the purposes of § 122.23 (under 40 C.F.R. part 122, Appendix B)
and for the purpose of defining a FEEDLOT under this zoning ordinance, if
either of the following criteria is met:
SCHEDULE A
SCHEDULE A
More than the numbers of animals specified in any of the following categories
are confined:
(1)  1,000 slaughter and feeder cattle
(2)  700 mature dairy cattle (whether milked or dry cows)
(3)  2,500 swine each weighing over 25 kilograms (approximately 55 pounds)
(4)  500 horses
(5)  10,000 sheep or lambs
(6)  55,000 turkeys
(7)  100,000 laying hens or broilers (if the facility has continuous overflow
     watering)
(8)  30,000 laying hens or broilers (if the facility has a liquid manure
     system)
(9)  5,000 ducks
     1,000 animal units (all other animal types not in schedules A and B are to
(10) be calculated as 1,000 pounds live weight equals one animal unit) as a
     result of any combination
 
      (b)   Not withstanding the above schedule, the following schedule shall
apply in cases where one of the following conditions are met:
         1.   Pollutants are discharged into navigable waters through a human-
made ditch, flushing system or other similar human-made device (the term HUMAN-
MADE DITCH OR DEVICE means constructed by humans, and used for the purpose of
transporting wastes);
         2.   Pollutants are discharged directly into waters of the United
States which originate outside of and pass over, across or through the
facility; or
         3.   Pollutants otherwise come into direct contact with the animals
confined in the operation.
SCHEDULE B
SCHEDULE B
Or, more than the following number and types of animals are confined:
(1)  300 slaughter or feeder cattle
(2)  200 mature dairy cattle (whether milked or dry cows)
(3)  750 swine each weighing over 25 kilograms (approximately 55 pounds)
(4)  150 horses
(5)  3,000 sheep or lambs
(6)  16,500 turkeys
(7)  30,000 laying hens or broilers (if the facility has continuous overflow
     watering)
(8)  9,000 laying hens or broilers (if the facility has a liquid manure
     handling system)
(9)  1,500 ducks
(10) 300 animal units as a result of any combination
 
      (c)   Provided, however, that no animal feeding operation is a
concentrated animal feeding operation (feedlot) as defined above under schedule
B if the animal feeding operation discharges only in the event of a 25-year,
24-hour storm event.
      (d)   The term ANIMAL UNIT means a unit of measurement for any animal
feeding operation calculated by adding the following numbers: the number of
slaughter and feeder cattle multiplied by one, plus the number of mature dairy
cattle multiplied by 1.4, plus the number of swine weighing over 25 kilograms
(approximately 55 pounds) multiplied by 0.4, plus the number of sheep
multiplied by 0.1, plus the number of horses multiplied by two.
   (62)   FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or
combination of materials erected to enclose or screen areas of land.
   (63)   FLEA MARKET. A site where numerous small sellers congregate to offer
a wide variety of new and previously owned things for sale at retail. A FLEA
MARKET operates on an intermittent basis, such as weekends during warm weather.
A FLEA MARKET is distinguished from a roadside stand (defined below), roadside
sales and garage sales as to the number of sellers, the kinds of merchandise
sold, the magnitude of traffic and customers generated, and days and hours of
operation. A FLEA MARKET is distinguished from temporary outdoor sales (see §
154.061) and open-air businesses (see definition below, §§
154.061 and
154.126); these two uses are separately and specifically defined for the
purposes of this chapter. In this chapter flea markets are a permitted use in
the GB, General Business District (see §
154.061).
   (64)   FLOODPLAIN. Those areas of land adjacent to the rivers, and other
watercourses of the township, subject to seasonal or periodic flooding.
   (65)   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building or buildings, measured from the exterior walls or from the
centerline of walls separating two buildings. In particular, gross floor area
includes: basement space; elevator shafts or stairwells; floor space for
mechanical equipment, penthouses, balconies, mezzanines, enclosed porches and
accessory buildings; attic floor space (whether or not floors have been laid)
providing structural headroom of seven feet six inches. Gross FLOOR AREA shall
not include: elevator or stair bulkheads, accessory water tanks or cooling
towers; uncovered steps, attic space less than seven feet six inches in height,
and open porches, terraces or breezeways, provided that not more than 50% of
the perimeter of the terrace, breezeway or open porch is enclosed.
   (66)   FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL. For the purpose of computing the minimum
allowable floor area in a residential dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal
areas of each story of the building shall be measured from the exterior faces
of the exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating two buildings.
The floor area measurement is exclusive of areas of basements, unfinished
attics, attached garages, breezeways and enclosed and unenclosed porches.
   (67)   FRONTAGES. The portion of any property abutting a public street; a
corner lot and a through lot having frontage on both abutting streets.
   (68)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME (PRIVATE HOME). A private residence (dwelling) in
which the licensee or registrant permanently resides as a member of the
household, which residency is not contingent upon caring for children or
employment by a licensed or approved child-placing agency. PRIVATE HOME
includes a full-time foster family home, a full-time foster family group home
or a family day care home, as follows.
      (a)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A private home (dwelling) in which one but not
more than four minor children, who are not related to an adult member of the
household by blood, marriage or who are not placed in the household pursuant to
the adoption code (M.C.L.A. §§ 710.21 through 710.70) are given care and
supervision for 24 hours a day, for four or more days a week, for two or more
consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
      (b)   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A private home in which more than four
but fewer than seven minor children, who are not related to an adult member of
the household by blood, marriage or who are not placed in the household
pursuant to the adoption code (M.C.L.A. §§ 710.21 through 710.70) are provided
care for 24 hours a day, for four or more days a week, for two or more
consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
   (69)   GARAGE, COMMERCIAL. Any premise used for the storage, care, repair or
refinishing of motor vehicles, but not including a place where the vehicles are
for hire or sale.
   (70)   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the
storage of motor vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to
which it is necessary.
   (71)   GARAGE, SERVICE. Any premises used for the storage or care of motor-
driven vehicles, or where the vehicles are equipped for operation, repaired or
kept for remuneration, hire or sale.
   (72)   GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS. The common elements other than the limited
common elements.
   (73)   GRADE. The ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating
the number of stories and the height of buildings. The building GRADE shall be
the level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished
ground is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the GRADE shall be
determined by averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the
building.
   (74)   GREENBELT. A long strip of land of varying width and shape which, to
major degree, is left in its natural state or which is landscaped to provide a
protective screening with natural vegetation. Within this area private
construction is prohibited. The purpose for the GREENBELTS is to provide for
permanent open space between two or more urban areas, to retain some of the
natural beauty of the region, and/or to provide protective screening.
   (75)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. A private home (dwelling) in which more than six
but not more than 12 minor children are given care and supervision for periods
of less than 24 hours a day unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except
children related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or
adoption. GROUP DAY CARE HOME includes a home that gives care to an unrelated
minor child for more than four weeks during a calendar year. GROUP DAY CARE
HOMES are licensed by the state under Public Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 through 722.128, as amended.
   (76)   HEALTH AUTHORITY. The authority and its designated agents, being
full-time administrative officers of an approved township, county or district
board or department of health, delegated this authority by the state.
   (77)   HOBBY ANIMAL PADDOCK (RESIDENTIAL). An open area confined within a
fence and/or other physical barriers for keeping of hobby animals, which is
well covered with grasses, clover and other vegetation useful for fodder,
preventing erosion and runoff. The hobby animals must be kept at a low density,
sufficient that at least 90% ground cover is maintained and there are no piles
or concentrated areas of animal waste and there is no runoff of animal waste.
   (78)   HOME OCCUPATIONS. Any for-profit or not-for-profit accessory use
customarily conducted within a residential dwelling, attached building or
accessory building that meets the requirements of §
154.030.
   (79)   HOSPITAL. A building, structure or institution in which sick or
injured persons are given medical or surgical treatment and operating under
license by the state, and is used primarily for in-patient  services, and
including related facilities as laboratories, out-patient departments, central
service facilities and staff offices.
   (80)   HOTEL. A series of attached, semi-detached or detached rental units
which provides overnight lodging, toilet and bath facilities, and which offers
meals, linen and maid service to the public for compensation. A HOTEL shall be
distinguished from a motel, boarding house or bed and breakfast establishment.
   (81)   JUNK. Any motor vehicles, machinery, appliances, product or
merchandise with parts missing, or scrap metals, or other scrap materials that
are damaged, deteriorated or are in a condition which prevents their use for
the purpose for which the product was manufactured. Specifically included are
motor vehicles not movable under their own power.
   (82)   JUNK YARD. An open space where waste, used or secondhand materials
are bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled
including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes automobile wrecking yards and includes
any area of more than 200 square feet for the storage, keeping or abandonment
of junk, but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed
buildings.
   (83)   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premise on which dogs, cats or other
household pets are either permanently or temporarily boarded, kept or bred for
commercial purposes.
   (84)   LABORATORY. A laboratory is a place devoted to experimental, routine
study or basic study such as testing and analytical operations and in which
manufacturing of product or products, except prototypes, is not performed.
   (85)   LANDFILL, SANITARY. A tract of land developed, designed and operated
for the disposal of solid waste in a manner consistent with the following:
      (a)   Criteria established by Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.11503, as amended, and any rules or regulations established based on this
Act;
      (b)   The county’s adopted Solid Waste Management Plan; and
      (c)   Applicable township ordinances.
   (86)   LANDOWNER. The legal or beneficial owner or owners of all the land
proposed to be used or developed. The holder of an option or contract to
purchase, or other persons having an enforceable proprietary interest in the
land, shall be deemed to be LANDOWNER for the purpose of this chapter.
   (87)   LANDSCAPING. The treatment of the ground surface with live or
synthetic materials such as, but not limited to, grass, ground cover, crushed
stone, trees, shrubs, vines and other growing or synthetic horticultural
material. Structural features such as fountains, shadow pools, statues, garden
walls, pathways, benches and the like shall also be considered elements of
LANDSCAPING, but the structural features alone shall not meet the spirit and
intent of landscaping requirements.
   (88)   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS. A portion of the common elements reserved in
the master deed for the exclusive use of less than all of the co-owners.
   (89)   LIVESTOCK BUILDING. See the definition of BARN.
   (90)   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building,
or group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while
loading and unloading merchandise or materials.
   (91)   LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or intended to be occupied by a main
building or a group of the buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for
the principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with the yards and open
spaces as are required under the provisions of this chapter. A LOT may or may
not be specifically designated as such on public records.
   (92)   LOT, CORNER. A lot where the interior angle or two adjacent sides at
the intersection of two streets is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a
curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT for the purposes of
this chapter if the arc is of less than 150 feet and the tangents to the curve,
at the two points where the lot lines meet the curve or the straight street
line extended, form an interior angle of less than 135 degrees. (See
illustration, next page.)
   (93)   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot. (See illustration,
next page.)
   (94)   LOT, THROUGH. Any interior lot having frontage on two more or less
parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
double frontage lots, all yards of the lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and front yard setbacks shall be provided as required.
   (95)   LOT, ZONING. A single tract of land, located within a single block,
which at the time of filing for a building permit is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed, or built upon as a unit, under
single ownership or control. A ZONING LOT shall satisfy this chapter with
respect to area, size, dimensions and frontage as required in the district in
which the zoning lot is located. A ZONING LOT therefore, may not coincide with
a lot of record as filed with the County Register of Deeds, but may include one
or more lots of record.
   (96)   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
(See illustration, next page.)
   (97)   LOT COVERAGE. The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings,
including accessory buildings.
   (98)   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot
lines, measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   (99)   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein.
   (100)   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land that was lawfully created prior to
the existence of any zoning districts in the township or that has been lawfully
created since, the dimensions of which are shown on a document or map on file
with the County Register of Deeds and which actually exists as so shown, or any
part of the parcel held in a recorded ownership separate from the remainder
thereof.
   (101)    LOT WIDTH. The straight line horizontal distance between the side
lot lines measured at the two points where the minimum required front setback
line intersects with the side lot lines. If the side lot lines are not
parallel, the WIDTH of the lot shall be the straight line horizontal distance
between the side lot lines measured along a line intersecting the axis of the
lot at a right angle at a distance equal to the minimum required front setback.
The axis of a lot shall be a line joining the midpoint of the front and rear
lot lines. (See illustration below.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-29.jpg]
 
      LOTS: CORNER, THROUGH AND INTERIOR.
         (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, is that line
separating the lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot, or double
frontage lot, is that line separating the lot from either street (see
definition of STREET).
         (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
         (3)    SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line other than the front lot line or
rear lot line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a side street
lot line. A SIDE LOT LINE separati ng a lot from another lot or lots is an
INTERIOR SIDE LOT LINE.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-27.jpg]
 
   (102)   MAIN BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot upon which it is situated.
   (103)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. A hard surfaced, arterial road or street which
is intended to serve as a large-volume traffic-way for both the immediate
municipal area and the region beyond, and is designated as a MAJOR
THOROUGHFARE, state highway, county primary road or equivalent term on the
Township Thoroughfare Plan (as prepared by the County Road Commission) and has
a planned right-of-way of at least 120 feet.
   (104)   MANUFACTURED HOME. A dwelling unit that is designed for long-term
residential occupancy and is wholly or largely fabricated at an off-site
location.
   (105)   MANUFACTURED HOME CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS. A parcel of land under joint
ownership that has been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured
(sometimes called “mobile”) homes for non-transient use, upon individual,
separate condominium unit envelopes.
   (106)   MANUFACTURED HOME LOT OR SITE. A parcel of land for the placement of
a single manufactured (sometimes called “mobile”) home and exclusive use of its
occupants within a licensed manufactured or mobile home community (previous
known as “park”), a condominium project or subdivision project or development.
   (107)   MANUFACTURED HOME STAND. The part of an individual lot that has been
reserved for the placement of the manufactured (sometimes called “mobile”)
home, appurtenant structures or additions.
   (108)   MANUFACTURED HOME SUBDIVISION.  A parcel of land under single
ownership that has been planned and improved for the placement of manufactured
(sometimes called “mobile”) homes for non-transient use on individual lots and
for the purpose of selling the lots.
   (109)   MANUFACTURED HOUSING. A structure, transportable in one or more
sections, that is built on a chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation as a dwelling unit when connected to required utilities,
and the plumbing, heating air conditioning and electrical systems contained
within the structure.
   (110)   MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY.  A parcel or tract of land under the
control of a person upon which three or more manufactured homes are located on
a continual non-recreational basis and which are offered to the public for that
purpose. A recreational vehicle park or campground is not a manufactured home
park. The older term MANUFACTURED HOME PARK may appear in portions of this
chapter.
   (111)   MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY LICENSE. A written license issued by
the Manufactured Housing Commission allowing a person to operate and maintain a
manufactured housing community under the provisions of Public Acts 96 of 1987,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, as amended, and this chapter and
regulations issued hereunder. The older term MOBILE HOME PARK may appear in
portions of this chapter.
   (112)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A service street or roadway parallel to a
major thoroughfare or arterial street and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
   (113)   MASSAGE PARLORS. An establishment, unless otherwise licensed by the
state, restricted to persons over the age of 18 and used for housing equipment
and employing persons who give massages, body rubs or muscle-relaxing exercises
to other persons, necessitating human contact between the employee and another
person.
   (114)   MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium
project as approved by the township, to which is attached as exhibits and
incorporated by reference the approved bylaws for the project and the approved
condominium subdivision plan.
   (115)   MASTER PLAN.
      (a)   The Comprehensive Master Plan for the township, including graphic
and written proposals indicating the general location for streets, parks,
schools, public buildings and all physical development of the municipality, and
includes any unit or part of the plan, and any amendment to the plan or parts
thereof.
      (b)   The PLAN may or may not be adopted by the Planning Commission and/
or the Township Board.
   (116)   MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS.
      (a)   Includes community service clubs, lodges, church halls, catering or
renting halls, fraternal organizations and the like.
      (b)   In this chapter, MEMBERSHIP ORGANIZATIONS are a permitted use in
the General Business District.
   (117)   MEZZANINE. An intermediate floor in any story occupying not more
than one-third of the floor area of the story. (See illustrations with the
definition of BASEMENT.)
   (118)   MINI-WAREHOUSE. A building or group of buildings in a controlled-
access and fenced compound that contains varying sizes of individual,
compartmentalized and controlled-access stalls or lockers for the dead storage
of customer’s goods or wares.
   (119)   MOBILE HOME.
      (a)   A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is built
on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without permanent
foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes the
plumbing, heating, air conditioning and electrical systems contained in the
structure.
      (b)   MOBILE HOME does not include a recreational vehicle (e.g., a
vehicle designed and used as temporary living quarters for recreational,
camping or travel purposes, or a vehicle having its own motor power, or a
vehicle moved on or drawn by another vehicle). Also referred to as a
MANUFACTURED HOME in this chapter.
   (120)   MOBILE HOME COMMUNITY. A parcel or tract of land under the control
of a person upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a continual
non-recreational basis and which is offered to the public for that purpose
regardless of whether a charge is made therefor, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended for use
incident to the occupancy of a mobile home and which is not intended for use as
a temporary trailer park. The older term MOBILE HOME PARK may also be used in
portions of this chapter.
   (121)   MOBILE HOME DEVELOPMENT. A parcel of land under single ownership
which has been planned and improved for the placement of a mobile home for non-
transient use, for the exclusive use of the owner, with other similar parcels
of land in the adjoining properties.
   (122)   MODULAR HOME. A dwelling built to meet the State Building Code that
consists of prefabricated sections transported to the site on a removable
undercarriage or flat bed and assembled for permanent location on the lot or
parcel.
   (123)   MOTEL OR MOTOR COURT.
      (a)   A series of attached, semi-detached or detached rental units which
provide overnight lodging and are offered to the public for compensation and
shall cater primarily to the public traveling by motor vehicle as a facility
for temporary residence.
      (b)   A MOTEL OR MOTOR COURT shall be distinguished from a boarding
house, bed and breakfast establishment or hotel.
   (124)   MOTOR HOME. A self-propelled, licensed vehicle on a chassis,
intended for recreation activities and temporary occupancy.
   (125)   MUNICIPALITY. The Township of Burtchville.
   (126)   NOISE. Sound vibrations that annoy, injure or endanger the comfort,
repose, health or safety of another person(s), unless the making and continuing
of the noise is necessary for the protection or preservation of property or the
health, safety, life or limb of a person(s).
   (127)   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot that exists as a legal lot of record and
that existed as a legal lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter and that does not conform to the lot requirements of
this chapter.
   (128 )    NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A lawful structure that existed at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter and that could not be
built under the terms of this chapter by means of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards or other dimensional requirements.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-31.jpg]
 
   (129 )   NONCONFORMING USE. A use that lawfully occupied a building or land
at the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (130)   NUDE MODELING STUDIO. An establishment restricted to persons over
the age 18 used for housing and exhibiting persons in the nude acting as models
for other persons to paint, photograph, videotape, draw, sketch or the like.
   (131)   NUISANCE FACTORS. An offensive, annoying, unpleasant or obnoxious
thing or practice, a cause or source of annoyance, especially a continuing or
repeating invasion of any physical characteristics of activity or use across a
property line which can be perceived by or affects a human being, or the
generation of an excessive or concentrated movement of people or things, such
as, but not limited to, noise, dust, smoke, odor, glare, fumes, flashes,
vibration, shock waves, heat, electronic or atomic radiation, objectionable
effluent, noise of congregation of people, particularly at night, passenger
traffic, invasion of non-abutting street frontage.
   (132)   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS. A space, building or structure, or
combination thereof, for the growing and storage of live trees, shrubs or
plants offered for sale on the premises including products used for gardening
or landscaping. The definition of NURSERY within the meaning of this chapter
does not include any space, building or structure used for the sale of fruits,
vegetables or Christmas trees.
   (133)   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT. A facility providing vehicular parking
spaces along with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering, so as to provide
access for entrance and exit for the parking of vehicles.
   (134)   OPEN AIR BUSINESS USES. Open air business uses shall be interpreted
to include the following uses:
      (a)   Retail sale of trees, shrubbery, plants, flowers, seed, topsoil,
humus, fertilizer, trellises, lawn furniture, playground equipment and other
home garden supplies, and home improvement equipment such as lawn mowers,
fertilizer spreaders, lawn rollers and the like;
      (b)   Retail sale of fruits and vegetables;
      (c)   Rental or sale of bicycles, recreational vehicles, mobile homes,
trailers, motor vehicles, boats or small hand equipment; and
      (d)   Outdoor display and sale of garages, swimming pools and similar
uses.
   (135)   OPEN FRONT STORE. A business establishment so developed that service
to the patron may be extended beyond the walls of the structure, not requiring
the patron to enter it. The term OPEN FRONT STORE shall not include automobile
repair stations or automobile service stations.
   (136)   PARKING SPACE. An area of defined length and width that is fully
accessible for the parking of permitted vehicles. The area shall be exclusive
of drives, aisles or entrances giving access thereto.
   (137)   PERSONAL USE LANDING FIELD. Any location, either on land or water,
which shall be used for the landing or take-off of aircraft with safety, solely
for the use of the owner of the property, and which is not equipped with
commercial facilities for the shelter, supply or repair of aircraft.
   (138)   PLANNING COMMISSION. The “Burtchville Township Planning Commission”.
   (139)   POND. A body of water usually smaller than a lake, artificially
created by embankment or excavation.
   (140)   PORCH, OPEN. A covered entrance to a building or structure which is
unenclosed except for columns supporting the porch roof, and projects out from
the main wall of the building or structure and has a separate roof or an
integral roof with the principal building or structure to which it is attached.
   (141)   PRE-MANUFACTURED UNIT. An assembly of materials or products intended
to comprise all, or part of, a building or structure, and which is assembled at
other than the final location of the unit by a repetitive process under
circumstances intended to ensure uniformity of quality and material content.
   (142)   PREMISES FOR NUDE ENTERTAINMENT. An establishment that is restricted
to persons over the age of 18 and used for housing and exhibiting persons in
the nude or “specific anatomical areas” (as defined below) of the human body.
   (143)   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and
the principal purpose for which the premises exist.
   (144)   PRIVATE ROAD. A privately owned and maintained road or road easement
(excluding a shared driveway) allowing access to more than one parcel or
premises complying with the requirements of the private road provisions of the
township, codified herein as §§
156.01 through
156.10, and
156.99 (including a privately owned and maintained easement for ingress and
egress, whether pre-existing or not).
   (145)   PUBLIC USE AIRPORT. Any location, either on land or water, which is
used for the landing or take-off of aircraft, which provides facilities for the
shelter, supply or care of aircraft, or for receiving or discharging passengers
or cargo, and all appurtenant areas, used or suitable for airport buildings or
other airport facilities, and all appurtenant rights-of-way, whether heretofore
or hereafter established. AIRPORTS may include commercial activities or
operations such as the sale of gasoline or oil, the soliciting or engaging in
charter flying or student instruction, the provision of shelter or the tie-down
of an aircraft, the overhaul or repair of an aircraft or engines, or otherwise
offering aeronautic facilities or services to the public. A PUBLIC USE AIRPORT
shall be distinguished from personal use landing fields.
   (146)   PUBLIC UTILITY. A person, firm or corporation, municipal department,
board of commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal,
state or municipal regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity, sewage
disposal, communication, telegraph, transportation or water.
   (147)   QUARRY. Any pit, excavation or mining operation for the purpose of
searching for, or removing for commercial purposes, any earth, sand, gravel,
clay, stone or other mineral in excess of 200 cubic yards in any calendar year,
but shall not include an oil well or excavation in preparation for construction
of a building, structure or roadway.
   (148)   RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT. A carry-out restaurant is any establishment
whose principal business is the sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to
the customer in a ready-to-consume state and whose design or method of
operation includes both of the following characteristics:
      (a)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are usually served in edible
containers or paper, plastic or other disposable containers; and
      (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts or beverages within the
restaurant building, within a motor vehicle parked upon the premises, or at
other facilities on the premises outside the restaurant building, is posted as
being prohibited and the prohibition is strictly enforced by the restaurateur.
   (149)   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN. Any establishment whose principal business is
the sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state, and whose design, method of operation or any portion of whose
business includes one or both of the following characteristics:
      (a)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are served directly to the
customer in a motor vehicle either by a carhop or by other means that eliminate
the need for the customer to exit the motor vehicle; and/or
      (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts or beverages within motor
vehicle parked upon the premises, or at other facilities on the premises
outside the restaurant building is allowed, encouraged or permitted.
   (150)   RESTAURANT, FAST-FOOD. Any establishment whose principal business is
the sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state for consumption either within the restaurant building or for
carry-out consumption off the premises, and whose design or principal method of
operation includes both of the following characteristics:
      (a)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are usually served in edible
containers or in paper, plastic or other disposable containers; and
      (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts or beverages within a
motor vehicle parked upon the premises, or at other facilities on the premises
outside the restaurant building, is posted as being prohibited and the
prohibition is strictly enforced by the restaurateur.
   (151)   RESTAURANT, STANDARD. Any establishment whose principal business is
the sale of foods, frozen deserts or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state, and whose design or principal method of operation includes one
or both of the following characteristics:
      (a)   Customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are served
their foods, frozen desserts or beverages by a restaurant employee at the same
table or counter at which those items are consumed; and/or
      (b)   A cafeteria-type operation where foods, frozen desserts or
beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant building.
   (152)   ROADSIDE STAND. A temporary open front stand so designed that
service to the patron does not require entering the building, and used solely
for the sale of farm products and for sale of the by-products of agricultural
produce.
   (153)   ROOM. For the purpose of determining the lot area requirements and
density in a multiple-family district, a room is a living room, dining room or
bedroom equal to at least 80 square feet in area. A ROOM shall not include the
area in kitchen, sanitary facilities, utility provisions, corridors, hallways
and storage. Plans presented having one, two or three bedroom units and
including a “den,” “library” or other extra room shall count the extra room as
a bedroom for the purpose of computing density.
   (154)   ROOMING HOUSE. A building or part thereof, other than a hotel, where
sleeping accommodations are provided for hire and where meals may be regularly
furnished.
   (155)   RUBBISH. The miscellaneous waste materials resulting from
housekeeping, mercantile enterprise, trades, manufacturing and offices,
including other waste matter such as slag, stone, broken concrete, fly ash,
ashes, tin cans, glass, scrap metal, rubber, paper, rags, chemicals or any
similar or related combinations thereof.
   (156)   SATELLITE DISH ANTENNA. A device incorporating a reflective surface
that is solid, open mesh or bar configuration and is in the shape of a shallow
dish, parabola, cone or horn. The device shall be used to transmit and/or
receive radio or electromagnetic waves between terrestrially and/or orbitally
based uses. This definition is meant to include, but not be limited to, what
are commonly referred to as satellite earth stations, TVROs (television
reception only satellite dish antennas), and satellite microwave antennas which
have a dimension greater than one meter (3.3 feet) in residential districts or
greater than two meters (6.6 feet) in nonresidential districts.
   (157)   SAUNA or OPEN BATH HOUSE. An establishment open to the public used
for equipment and housing of apparatus wherein members of the public may have a
steam bath or hot water bath.
   (158)   SETBACK. The distance required to obtain front, side or rear yard
open space provisions of this chapter.
   (159)   SHARED DRIVEWAY. A driveway that provides access from a public or a
private road to two or three parcels or premises for single-family residential
use. The SHARED DRIVEWAY(S) must comply with the requirements of §§
156.01 through
156.10, and
156.99.
   (160)   SHORT TERM RENTAL. The rental of a single-family residential home
for a period of at least seven but less than 30 days.
   (161)   SIGN. See §
154.025’s definitions.
   (162)   SITE CONDOMINIUM. For the purposes of this chapter, a site
condominium is a subdivision of land created and recorded pursuant to the
Condominium Act (Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A.  §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended), and the provisions of this chapter, containing two or
more units of land designed and intended for separate ownership and use, and
which may or may not contain general and limited common elements. Except as
otherwise specifically provided, a condominium unit is not a “lot” or “parcel”
as those terms are used in this chapter.
   (163)   SOIL REMOVAL. The removal of any kind of soil or earth matter that
includes topsoil, sand, gravel, clay or similar materials or any combination
thereof, except common household gardening and general farm care.
   (164)   SPECIAL APPROVAL LAND USES. This definition is based upon the
division of the township into districts, in each of which are permitted
specified uses that are mutually compatible. In addition to the permitted
compatible uses, however, certain other uses may be necessary or desirable to
allow in certain locations in certain districts, but because of their actual or
potential impact on neighboring uses or public facilities, there is a need to
carefully regulate them with respect to their location for the protection of
the community. These USES, due to their particular location needs or the nature
of the service offered, may have to be established in a district in which they
cannot be reasonably allowed as a permitted use.
   (165)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Less than completely and opaquely
covered human genitals, pubic region, buttocks, post-pubertal female breast
below a point immediately above the top of the areola; human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state, even if completely and opaquely covered.
   (166)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in a state of sexual
stimulation or arousal; acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse,
fellatio, cunnilingus, sodomy, bestiality or flagellation; fondling or other
erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttocks or post-pubertal
female breast.
   (167)   STABLE, COMMERCIAL. A stable other than a private stable, where
horses are boarded or are for hire or sale.
   (168)   STABLE, PRIVATE. A structure or shelter where horses that are owned
by the immediate family are kept, where the horses are not boarded and are not
maintained for the purpose of hire or sale.
   (169)   STORY. The part of a building, except a mezzanine as defined herein,
included between the surface of one floor and the surface of the next floor, or
if there is no floor above, then the ceiling next above. A STORY thus defined
shall not be counted as a story when more than 50%, by cubic content, is below
the height level of the adjoining ground. See illustrations under the
definition for BASEMENT.
   (170)   STORY, HALF. An uppermost story lying under a sloping roof having an
area of at least 200 square feet with a clear height of seven feet, six inches.
For the purposes of this chapter, the USABLE FLOOR AREA is only that area
having at least four feet clear height between floor and ceiling.
   (171)   STREET. A public thoroughfare, other than an alley, which affords
the principal means of access to abutting property and which has been
officially accepted as a public street or thoroughfare. Except that, in the
case of a “site condominium”, as defined and as regulated by this chapter, the
principal means of access to abutting “units of ownership” shall be considered
a STREET, provided it is constructed and maintained to meet the same standard
for public streets within the township, as established by the County Road
Commission or by the township, whichever standard shall be higher. The STREETS
within a “site condominium” may be dedicated to the public or may be owned and
maintained by the association of co-owners.
   (172)   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed, placed or erected, to include, but
not limited to, all buildings, and including satellite dish antennae in excess
of three feet in diameter. Excluded are fences, sidewalks, paving on streets,
driveways, parking areas and patios.
   (173)   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a
building or structure, such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any
substantial change in the roof, or any additional floor space added to the
building.
   (174)   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS. The regulations governing the subdivision
of land, providing the procedure for the preparation and filing of plats,
tentative approval of preliminary plats, submission of record of final plats,
approval of the plat by the Township Board, providing for platting regulations
and requirements in regard to conformity to the township’s Master Plan.
   (175)   TEMPORARY USE OF BUILDING. A use or building permitted by the Zoning
Administrator to exist during periods of construction of the main building or
use, or for special events.
   (176)   TENTS. A shelter of canvas, fiberglass, aluminum or the like,
including those shelters used for temporary garages, supported by poles and
fastened by cords or pegs driven into the ground, and shall not include those
types of tents used solely for recreational purposes.
   (177)   TOURIST HOME. A dwelling in which overnight accommodations are
provided or offered for transient guests.
   (178)   USE. The principal purpose for which land or a building is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
   (179)   USE, CHANGE OF. A modification or deviation from the original
purpose, occupancy, utilization or classification of a building, structure or
parcel or tract of land. The term is inclusive of: a discernible increase in
the intensity of use, which by ordinance imposes more restrictive parking
requirements or other more restrictive characteristics of use; or an alteration
by change of use in a building heretofore existing to a new use group, as
defined in the State Building Code, which imposes other special provisions of
law governing building construction equipment or means of ingress/egress.
   (180)   USE, INCREASE IN THE INTENSITY OF. A discernible increase in the
level or volume of activity generated by a change in use or an increase in
floor area or an increase in land area configurations.
   (181)   UTILITY STRUCTURE. Facilities related to and necessary for the
operation of: oil, gas, water pipelines, sewer pipelines, electrical
transmission lines, telephone and telegraph lines, oil and gas wells and
underground storage fields. Included are such facilities as pumping stations,
compressor stations, transformer stations and switching stations.
   (182)   VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter,
granted when strict enforcement of this chapter would cause undue hardship,
owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on which the variance
is granted.
   (183)   YARDS. The unoccupied and unobstructed open spaces from the ground
upward on the same lot with a main building except as otherwise provided in
this chapter (§
154.078), and as defined herein.
      (a)   FRONT YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the nearest point of the wall of the building.
      (b)   REAR YARD. An open space extended the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the nearest point of the wall of the building. In the case of a corner lot, the
REAR YARD may be opposite either street frontage.
      (c)   SIDE YARD. An open space between a main building shall include
appliances or fixtures attached or closely associated with the main building
including air conditioning units, porches, chimneys and the like, and the side
lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is
the horizontal distance from the nearest point on the side lot line to the
nearest point of the wall of the building.
      (d)    REQUIRED YARD. The portion of a front, side or rear yard lying
between the front, side or rear lot line and the corresponding front, side or
rear minimum setback line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-33.jpg]
 
   (184)   ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMIT. A document signed by the Zoning
Administrator, as required in this chapter, as a condition precedent to the
commencement of a use or the erection, construction, reconstruction,
restoration, alteration, conversion or installation of a structure or building,
which acknowledges that the use, structure or building complies with the
provisions of this chapter, or authorized variance therefrom.
   (185)   A/C UNIT AND GENERATOR LOCATIONS. All permanently mounted A/C unit
and generators are to abide by side yard setbacks, the same as the main
structure.
   (186)   DECK. An unenclosed platform structure above the mean yard grade.
   (187)   PATIO. An unenclosed platform structure at mean yard grade.
   (188)   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. Determined by the state or federal
government as applicable and as may be amended by the state or federal
government from time to time.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 7-6-2008; Ord. passed 10-20-2008; Ord.
passed 1-22-2009; Ord. passed 7-6-2010; Ord. passed 4-17-2017)
§ 154.004 SCOPE.
   (A)   Any building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereinafter be
erected, constructed, reconstructed or be altered and maintained in conformity
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Any new use, or change in use, of any building, structure or land, or
part thereof, shall hereinafter be in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   A violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor in accordance with
§
154.999.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 1-22-2009)
§ 154.005 PERMITTED USES.
   Any building that is erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered, and any building or land that is used, designed or
arranged, shall be done only for a purpose that is permitted in the district in
which the building or land is located, except as otherwise provided herein. A
violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor in accordance with §
154.999.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 1-22-2009)
§ 154.006 PERMITTED AREA AND PLACEMENT.
   Any building that is erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed or
structurally altered shall only be done in conformity with the area and
placement regulations of the district in which the building is located. A
violation of this section shall be a misdemeanor in accordance with §
154.999.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 1-22-2009)
§ 154.007 REQUIRED STREET ACCESS.
   (A)   Every dwelling or principal building shall be located upon a lot
having the minimum required lot width, or a lot of record, or an individual
condominium “unit of ownership”, with the required frontage upon a public
street, approved private road or approved shared driveway. Lot width shall be
measured as defined in the definition of lot width in §
154.003. The Zoning Board of Appeals, pursuant to §
154.174, may permit modification of this requirement in cases where unusual
topographic or geographic conditions exist.
   (B)   In the A/R, Agricultural/Residential Districts and the R-1C, Single-
Family Residential Districts the Zoning Administrator, with the concurrence of
the Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA), may approve up to a 10%
reduction in the minimum required lot width where the reduction would
facilitate reasonable and equitable division of land (creation of a parcel(s)).
This may be needed, for example, in a fractional section where the county
(mile) road has less than a full mile length (5,280 feet). A record of the
approval of lot width reduction, including the width in feet, shall be signed
by both the Zoning Administrator and Chairperson of the ZBA. This record shall
be filed with the township’s property records for the subject property(ies).
   (C)   Corner lots shall maintain not less than the minimum required front
yard on all road frontages.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.008 LOTS WITH FRONTAGE ON LAKE HURON.
   (A)   For the purposes of setback measurement and the location of accessory
structures, those lots or parcels with frontage on Lake Huron and abutting a
street are considered to have a front yard abutting Lake Huron and a rear yard
abutting the street.
   (B)   The building setback as it relates to the yard along Lake Huron shall
conform to the setbacks established by existing structures and shall in no
instance be less than the setback otherwise required in the schedule of
regulations for the concerned district, as measured from the property boundary
or from the ordinary high water mark established by the Army Corps of
Engineers.
      (1)   In establishing the front yard setback based on existing structures
on adjacent parcels, a straight line shall be drawn from the southernmost
corner nearest the lake on the building on the north to the northernmost corner
nearest to the lake on the building on the south. Any new structures shall be
built behind this imaginary line (see illustration).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-699.png]
      (2)   If no principal structure exists on one or more of the parcels
adjacent to the subject lot, the average front yard setback shall be equal to
the average front yard setbacks of principal structures on the same block. In
instances where an adjacent property has not built as close to the required
setback line as permitted, the Township Zoning Administrator may utilize nearby
properties in the same area to establish a setback line that is consistent with
the majority of the surrounding properties of the area.
      (3)   This measurement method shall be used for lakefront yards instead
of the method set forth in §
154.063, “average yard setbacks” provisions. However, provisions of that
section may be applicable to side and rear yard setbacks, which shall otherwise
conform to the schedule of regulations for the concerned district.
   (C)   Rebuilding of principal structure:
      (1)   A principal structure lawfully situated closer to the lake than
permissible in division (B) above may be re-built to the same footprint of the
prior structure on the lot, provided that the structure was occupied within the
two-year period prior to the time it was damaged or demolished and may be
expanded into the rear yard by up to 20% of its footprint, provided that the
expansion complies with other provisions of this chapter. The proposed addition
in the rear yard of an attached accessory use such as a garage shall not be
included in calculating the 20%; and
      (2)   A principal structure re-built subsequent to damage or demolition
shall comply with the setback requirements of division (B) above if the
structure had not been occupied during the two years prior to the time of the
damage or demolition or if the lot area is expanded, either through property
acquisition, lot line adjustment or any other means.
   (D)   Accessory structures, patios, decks, railings and fences: the front
yard (waterside yard) shall be maintained as an open unobstructed yard (no
accessory buildings), except as may be permitted below:
      (1)   In front yard: Lakeside of home is the front yard. Rear yard is
street side of property. Side yard plantings, fencing or accessory structures
may not block the view of adjacent property owners of the lake.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-856.png]
 
         (a)   A patio or deck adjacent to the principal structure and on the
lowest level from which it is possible to walk out of the structure may be
added without regard to the setback provisions of this section once the setback
of the principal structure is established. However, notwithstanding exceptions
permitted under division (D)(1)(b) below:
            1.   Any railing shall be non-obscuring in nature and of no greater
height than required by the Building Code; and
            2.   No roof, canopy, pergola or similar shelter shall be
permitted.
         (b)   In-ground pools and pool fences required by the Building Code
are permitted and shall be non-obscuring in nature. Pool fences shall comply
with the section of this chapter pertaining to pools.
      (2)   In rear yard: accessory buildings fronting on the street shall
follow the requirements of §
154.009(C).
   (E)   Fences that are not permitted by §
154.017 may nonetheless be permitted if by reason of below grade, contours of
land or construction and use of the surrounding properties, the structure will
not impair the view or line of sight of surrounding properties as so determined
by the Planning Commission using the following procedure:
      (1)   The applicant shall submit a plot plan conforming with §
154.151. The plot plan shall include the location of all existing structures
and fencing on the subject property and adjacent properties;
      (2)   The applicant shall provide photographs or computer-generated
illustrations of the current lakefront views from both the subject property and
neighboring properties, if permitted;
      (3)   The applicant shall provide photographs, drawings or other similar
depiction of the proposed fence, shrubs, trees, plantings or accessory
building, including its height;
      (4)   The applicant shall pay a fee to the township for the purpose of
providing notice to all property owners within 300 feet of the subject parcel;
and
      (5)   At a public hearing called for the purpose, the Planning Commission
shall determine whether or not because of grade, contour or other construction
or feature of the surrounding properties, the proposed fence or accessory
building will have no significant impact on the line of sight from the
neighboring properties.
   (F)   The township may, at the property owners’ request, consider a
lakefront single-family dwelling as a “temporary” structure if the structure is
built in accordance with the State Building Code and otherwise meets the
definition of “single-family dwelling”, and the dwelling is built in accordance
with MDEQ rules that allow it to be classified as a “temporary” and “movable”
structure (for purposes of qualifying it to be built closer to the water).
However, the dwelling may not be located closer to the water than is otherwise
provided by this section.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 5-18-2009; Ord. passed 7-6-2010; Ord.
passed 7-15-2024)
§ 154.009 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   In A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR and RM Residential Districts, accessory
buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, shall be subject to
the following regulations.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Timing of construction. No accessory structure or use shall be
constructed or established on a parcel, unless a principal building or use is
already established on the same parcel of land or a building permit has been
issued for a principal building and rough framing of same has been completed.
However, in the A/R District, accessory buildings may be constructed at any
time on a farm, as defined by §
154.003, and on a non-farm parcel, a personal storage building is permitted, as
defined and regulated by §
154.055.
      (2)   Site plan approval. If a site plan for review and approval is
required under §
154.150, the plan shall indicate the location and dimensions of accessory
structures.
      (3)   Conformance with lot coverage standards. Accessory buildings and
structures shall be included in computations to determine compliance with
maximum lot coverage standards, where required.
      (4)   Limited to lawful uses. An accessory building shall be used solely
for lawful accessory uses as defined and permitted in the district in which it
is located.
      (5)   Permit required. A certificate of zoning compliance shall be
required for any accessory structure that exceeds 120 square feet in size. In
addition, a building permit shall be required for an accessory structure that
is at least 200 square feet in size.
   (B)   Attached accessory structures. Where the accessory building is
structurally attached to a main building, it shall be subject to and must
conform to all regulations of this chapter applicable to main buildings.
   (C)   Detached accessory structures.
      (1)   Setbacks.
         (a)   Accessory structures (including garages) that are not
structurally attached shall meet the same setback and coverage requirements as
set forth for the principal structure, except as otherwise specified for
accessory structures.
         (b)   Detached accessory structures shall maintain a minimum rear yard
setback of:
            1.   Three feet in the R-1A and R-1B Districts;
            2.   Twenty feet in the A/R, R-1C and R-2 Districts, with the
exception noted for farming operations; or
            3.   Twenty-five feet in the RM District.
         (c)   However, in the A/R District on parcels used in farming
operations as defined in §
154.003, accessory farm buildings shall be located not less than 100 feet from
any dwelling and not less than 25 feet from any lot line or property boundary,
with the exception that the main farm building shall not be less than 150 feet
from the front property line state’s “generally accepted agricultural and
management practices” (GAAMPS) may require a greater setback.
         (d)   This requirement does not apply to the alteration or addition to
an accessory farm building which existed prior to the adoption of this chapter
and which is closer to the road. Also, the setbacks for an accessory building
usually incidental to a dwelling, such as a garage, shall be the same as
specified for residential districts.
      (2)   Number. In the R-1A, R-1B and R-2 Districts, one detached private
garage and one additional accessory structure shall be permitted per lot. In
the R-1C District and on lots less than three acres in the A/R District, a
total of three accessory structures are permitted. In the RM and MHR Districts,
the number of accessory buildings shall be established in a site plan review.
      (3)   Size. In addition to conforming to the lot coverage standards of §
154.063, the combined floor area of accessory buildings in the rear yard shall
not cover more than 30% of the rear yard, and the combined floor area of
accessory buildings in a side yard shall not cover more than 30% of a side
yard. In addition, in Districts R-1A, R-1B and R-2, the footprint of an
accessory building shall not exceed the footprint of the dwelling.
      (4)   Heights. Heights for detached accessory buildings shall be
calculated in accordance with the building height definition in §
154.003, subject to the following.
         (a)   In the R-1A, R-2, RM and MHR Districts, detached accessory
structures shall not exceed the smaller of the following: the height of the
principal structure, or the maximum height permitted for dwelling units in the
district where the lot is located.
         (b)   In the A/R, R-1B and R-1C Districts, a detached accessory
building shall not exceed 20 feet in height. This does not apply to accessory
farm buildings and structures in the A/R District.
      (5)   Permitted location. An accessory building, except as otherwise
provided herein, shall be located only in a side or rear yard. In no instance
shall an accessory building be located within a public or private dedicated
easement or right-of-way.
      (6)   Corner lot provisions.
         (a)   When an accessory building is located on a corner lot, the side
lot line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the
lot to its rear, the building shall not project beyond the front yard line
required on the lot in rear of the corner lot.
         (b)   When an accessory building is located on a corner lot, the side
lot line of which is substantially a continuation of the side lot line of the
lot to its rear, the building shall not project beyond the side yard line of
the lot in the rear of the corner lot.
      (7)   Double frontage lot provisions. When a lot has frontage on two
streets, the location of an accessory building must observe the front yard
setbacks for both streets. This does not apply to accessory buildings located
in a rear yard fronting on a street where there are no primary dwellings
fronting on the street in the same block.
      (8)   Placement in front yard, special provisions. The Zoning
Administrator may grant approval for a detached accessory structure in a front
yard upon being satisfied that the following standards will be met and may
request the drawings and written materials as necessary to make a
determination:
         (a)   The accessory structure shall be set back from the side lot
lines by a distance of not less than the minimum side yard setback required for
the main building;
         (b)   The front yard setback of the accessory structure shall be equal
to, or exceed, that required for the main building;
         (c)   The color, style and proportions of the accessory structure
shall be identical to, or shall closely match, or shall complement the front
exterior of the main building as to at least two of these four categories: roof
pitch and materials, finish materials and color, window style or architectural
details such as overhangs, brackets or gables;
         (d)   The structure shall not cover more than 10% of the front yard;
         (e)   The height of the accessory structure shall not exceed that of
the main building, except as provided below; and
         (f)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, in areas of the R-1A District
with established dwellings and accessory structures predating the adoption of
this chapter, the Zoning Administrator may allow a proposed detached accessory
structure to have a size and setback equal to the average of similar structures
within four adjacent addresses on both sides.
      (9)   Guest quarters, home offices or similar uses. Guest quarters, home
offices or similar uses may be permitted in any residential district as part of
a detached accessory structure subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   The guest quarters, home office or similar use shall not be
utilized as a permanent dwelling unit. As part of the application for the
construction of the accessory structure, the applicant shall sign an affidavit
stating their intention for the proposed use. The signed affidavit shall also
state that the building will not be utilized as a permanent dwelling unit;
         (b)   The portion of the accessory structure utilized for a guest
quarters, home office or studio shall not exceed 1,000 square feet in area;
         (c)   A plot plan and building plan shall be submitted to the Building
Official and Planning Commission, if applicable, showing the location, size,
floor plan and building elevations of the proposed structure; and
         (d)   The square footage of the guest quarters shall not be permitted
to exceed the square footage of the principal building on site.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 154.010 APPEARANCE OF INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS.
   In any case where a building or accessory building in the Industrial
District is erected or placed within 200 feet of the front lot line of any
parcel of land fronting upon any public street, the front walls of the building
or accessory building within the distance of 200 feet shall be constructed of
stone, face brick or approved ornamental material, and no building so situated
shall be constructed of tarred paper, tin, corrugated iron or any form of
pressed board or felt or similar material within the limits herein specified.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.011 ESTABLISHING GRADES.
   In establishing the grade on a lot or parcel for the purpose of any
construction thereon, the following conditions shall control.
   (A)   No person may alter, divert or block, hinder the water flow of, or
cause to be altered, diverted, blocked or hindered the water flow of, any
drain, drainage course, ditch, watercourse or body of water whether natural or
artificial, public or private, which causes an increase in the runoff of water
onto adjacent properties, except as may be regulated and conditioned under §
154.012.
   (B)   Where there is existing development in the area or where the adjacent
lands are subdivided, the grades of the new development or construction shall
be set to conform to the grades of existing development or subdivision.
   (C)   All new development shall be accomplished as to contain all runoff on
the site or direct runoff to storm facilities without crossing abutting
developed or platted lands.
   (D)   Except as provided by divisions (E) and (F) below, the finish grades
of any site may be raised a maximum of 18 inches above the crown of an abutting
public road if the increase in grade does not cause runoff onto abutting
property.
   (E)   When a new building is constructed on a vacant parcel between two
existing developed properties, the finish grades about the new development
shall be set to conform to the average of the finish grades of the existing
developed properties on both sides.
   (F)   In special cases where unusual topographic or natural features exist,
or where existing soil conditions or other constraints requires the County
Health Department to establish a finish grade in excess of the above
requirements, it shall be the responsibility of the property owner to utilize
whatever means are necessary to contain all storm water on the premises, or to
direct the storm water to an outlet approved by the Zoning Administrator. The
containment and/or disposal mechanisms may include, but are not limited to, the
following: earth berms, containment and redirection of roof conductors through
perimeter drains, retention ponds, swales, open drains, enclosed drains or
artificial lift and discharge means. All costs associated with providing these
required improvements are the responsibility of the landowner implementing the
grade alteration. The proposed method of drainage is subject to the review and
written approval of the Zoning Administrator specifying the specifics of his or
her approval. The method of drainage selected shall not be less than that which
is required to direct runoff away from adjacent properties, and which is
necessary to protect the public health, safety and welfare of the township.
   (G)   Documentation required:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and farm buildings.
Owners of proposed single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and farm
buildings shall submit the documentation as the Zoning Administrator determines
necessary to determine adequate compliance with divisions (A) through (F)
above. The Zoning Administrator may waive provisions of this section where he
or she determines them unnecessary.
      (2)   All other uses. For all uses, except single-family dwellings, two-
family dwellings and farm buildings, where the grade on a site is in any way to
be increased above existing grade, the owner of the property shall, upon
application for a building permit, submit a certification signed and sealed by
a registered land surveyor or a civil engineer licensed to practice in the
state, stating the existing and proposed grades and that conditions set forth
in divisions (A) through (F) above are met; and
      (3)   Certification. This certification shall be accompanied by a
drawing, which contains at least the following information:
         (a)   A property line survey showing lot shape and dimension, drawn to
a scale of at least one inch equals ten feet on lots 85 feet in width or less,
and one inch equals 30 feet on lots greater than 85 feet;
         (b)   A topographic map shall be drawn (may be superimposed on the
item in division (G)(3)(a) above) at a contour interval of not greater than one
foot. Elevations of abutting properties and the crown of abutting road pavement
shall be shown;
         (c)   Proposed changes in grade shall be shown through the use of
proposed contour lines; and
         (d)   The first-floor elevation of the proposed construction shall be
shown.
   (H)   The provisions of this chapter are in addition to, and not in lieu of,
state common law, statutes and/or administrative regulations regarding the
regulation of ground water runoff. The township does not regulate or enforce
those other provisions of the state, nor does it insure, guarantee or otherwise
prevent the diversion of ground or surface waters or the actions of third
parties regarding the waters or actions.
   (I)   Fees for inspection of the new grade shall be paid at the time of
application for a permit. Fees shall be established by a resolution of the
Township Board and shall cover the cost of the inspection.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.012 DRAINAGE OF PROPERTY AND DEVELOPMENT IN FLOOD-PRONE AREAS.
   (A)   Lots, parcels or condominium sites proposed to be created under the
Township Land Division Ordinance (Chapter 153), the Township Subdivision
Regulations Ordinance, or under the condominium provisions of this chapter
shall not be certified for zoning compliance and a zoning compliance permit
issued if the lot, parcel or condominium site is located within a flood-prone
area as identified on the flood insurance rate map (FIRM) issued by the Federal
Insurance Administration, or the lot, parcel or condominium within an area not
so identified but otherwise known by the Zoning Administrator to be a flood-
prone area, unless:
      (1)   All the proposals shall be consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage within the flood-prone area;
      (2)   Adequate drainage is provided to reduce exposure to flood hazards;
and
      (3)   All utilities and facilities, whether public or private, such as
sewer, gas, electrical and water systems are located and constructed to
minimize or eliminate flood damage and infiltration of flood water into the
systems.
   (B)   When buildings or structures are to be located upon lots, parcels or
condominium sites identified as flood-prone as indicated above, whether the
flood-prone areas are mapped or unmapped, all new construction and substantial
improvements (including the placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile
homes) shall:
      (1)   Be established at an elevation to minimize or prevent flood damage
and for dwelling units the lowest floor used for living purposes (including all
normal and necessary mechanical equipment) shall be established at an elevation
one foot above the 100-year flood elevation;
      (2)   Be designed (or modified) and adequately anchored to prevent
flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the structure;
      (3)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and
      (4)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (C)   All plans submitted, except those in connection with single-family
dwellings, two-family dwellings or farm buildings, shall be prepared by a
registered professional engineer.
   (D)   All applications for permits under this section shall be accompanied
by a written description of the proposed action, the reason for the proposed
action, a plan drawn to scale prepared by a registered professional engineer
showing the existing and proposed drainage patterns, and payment of the
required inspection fee.
   (E)   Prior to the issuance of a permit, the Zoning Administrator shall
examine the application and plan, make a site inspection of the property
involved and make a determination that the proposed action will not cause an
increase in the runoff or flow of water onto adjacent properties beyond that
which would occur without the proposed action. (Also see §
154.011.) In making his or her determination, the Zoning Administrator shall
refer to the county drain map for the township as prepared by the County Drain
Commissioner, the USGS quadrangle maps covering the township, official flood
hazard boundary and flood insurance rate maps as prepared by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), and other applicable sources of information
regarding drainage patterns. In cases where an engineered plan would not
normally be required, the Zoning Administrator may nevertheless require a plan,
prepared by a registered professional engineer, to be submitted if the Zoning
Administrator deems the information essential in making a determination.
   (F)   Upon completion of the proposed action, the Zoning Administrator shall
make an additional visit to the site and make a determination that the proposed
action was completed in accordance with the terms of the permit and, if
satisfactory, shall issue a certificate of completion.
   (G)   In no case shall a zoning compliance permit or certificate of
completion be issued when, in the determination of the Zoning Administrator,
the proposed action is likely to cause, or the completed action causes, an
increase in the runoff or flow of water onto adjacent properties beyond that
which would occur without the proposed or completed action.
   (H)   In cases involving official county drains, sole jurisdiction shall
rest with the County Drain Commissioner.
   (I)   In cases involving county road ditches, sole jurisdiction shall rest
with the Board of County Road Commissioners.
   (J)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prohibit or interfere
with the installation or alteration of normal, proper and generally accepted
agricultural drainage methods and systems when part of a bona fide farm.
   (K)   Fee for applications made pursuant to this section shall be paid at
the time of application for a permit. The amount of the fees shall be
established by the Township Board and shall cover the cost necessary to conduct
and complete the reviews.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.013 CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   So as not to obstruct the view of a driver of a vehicle approaching an
intersection, no fence, structure, wall, shrubbery, sign or other obstruction
to vision above a height of 30 inches from the established street grades shall
be permitted within the triangular area formed at the intersection of any
street right-of-way lines by a straight line drawn between the right-of-way
lines at a distance along each line 25 feet from their point of intersection.
   (B)   In the case of a rounded property corner, no fence, structure, wall,
shrubbery, sign or other obstruction to vision above a height of 30 inches from
the established street grades shall be permitted within the triangular area
formed at the intersection of any extended street right-of-way lines by a
straight line drawn between the extended right-of-way lines at a distance along
each line 25 feet from their point of intersection.
   (C)   In the case of a triangular area formed at the intersection of any
street right-of-way line and the edge line of any alley or driveway (public or
private) by a straight line drawn between the lines at a distance along each
line 15 feet from their point of intersection. (See illustration below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-701.png]
 
   (D)   Shade trees shall be permitted where all branches are not less than
eight feet above the road level.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.014 CORNER LOTS.
   (A)   The following shall apply to the A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR and
RM Residential Districts. Where a side yard abuts upon a street on which other
residential lots front, the side yard width shall not be less than the required
front yard setback.
   (B)   This shall apply whether the side yard is on the same side of the
street or across the street from other fronting residential lots.
   (C)   All buildings, structures and accessory uses shall maintain the
required yard space. See §
154.063(B)(1), (4), (12) and (14).
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.015 EXCAVATION OR HOLES.
   The construction, maintenance or existence within the township of any
unprotected, un-barricaded, open or dangerous excavations, holes, pits or
wells, which constitute or are reasonably likely to constitute a danger or
menace to the public health, safety or welfare, are hereby prohibited; provided
however, this section shall not prevent any excavation under a permit issued,
pursuant to this chapter, where the excavations are properly protected and
warning signs posted in a manner as may be approved by the Building Inspector;
and, provided further, that this section shall not apply to streams, natural
bodies of water or to ditches, streams, reservoirs or other major bodies of
water created or existing by authority of the state, the county, the township
or other governmental agency.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.016 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   All outdoor lighting in all use districts used to light the general
area of a specific site shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so
arranged as to reflect lights away from all adjacent residential districts or
adjacent residences.
   (B)   All outdoor lighting in all use districts shall be directed toward and
confined to the ground areas of lawns or parking lots, except as noted in
division (C) below.
   (C)   All lighting in nonresidential districts used for the external
illumination of buildings, so as to feature the building, shall be placed and
shielded so as not to interfere with the vision of persons on adjacent highways
or adjacent property.
   (D)   Illumination of signs shall be directed or shaded downward so as not
to interfere with the vision of persons on the adjacent highways or adjacent
property.
   (E)   Artificial light shall be maintained stationary and constant in
intensity and color at all times when in use.
      (1)   There shall be no flashing, oscillating, moving or intermittent
type of lighting or illumination.
      (2)   In addition, there shall be no bare bulb illumination of any kind
exposed to public view, except for one-family residences, seasonally
appropriate and except neon light bulbs or tubing as may be approved as a sign
feature.
   (F)   The intensity of lighting in all use districts shall be limited to the
following maximum amounts:
Schedule of Maximum Illumination
(In foot-candles measured at the surface of the object)
Illumination Residential Office and Public Buildings Commercial Industrial
Schedule of Maximum Illumination
(In foot-candles measured at the surface of the object)
Illumination  Residential Office and Public Buildings Commercial Industrial
General       0.5         0.5                         0.5        0.5
Driveway      1.0         1.0                         1.0        1.0
Parking       1.0         1.0                         1.0        1.0
Walks         0.5         0.5                         1.0        1.0
Protective    0.5         1.0                         1.0        1.0
Building      0.5         3.0                         5.0        5.0
Loading areas N/A         1.0                         1.0        1.0
 
   (G)   No light measured (at five feet above the ground) at the property line
between nonresidential and any residential district or use shall be greater
than one-quarter foot-candle at the side and rear property line, nor greater
than one-half foot-candle or the intensity of the available street lighting at
the front property line, whichever is greater.
   (H)   Maximum permitted height: within all developments, the height of light
standards shall not exceed 20 feet for parking lots and private roadways, or 15
feet for pedestrian ways. These restrictions shall not apply in the industrial
district where, except as otherwise permitted, the height of light standards
shall be limited to the height limit for structures in the district.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.017 FENCES, WALLS AND OTHER PROTECTIVE BARRIERS.
   All fences of any nature, type or description including walls, hedges and
other protective barriers shall conform to the following regulations.
   (A)   Agricultural uses in any district. Fences for bona fide agricultural
uses such as enclosure of crop and pasture land in any zoning district are
permitted and may be located on road right-of-way lines of a parcel of land,
provided the fences are maintained in good condition.
      (1)   Barbed wire and electric fences are permitted provided that they do
not result in an unreasonable hazard to persons who might come near them.
      (2)   No permits shall be required for fencing for bona fide agricultural
uses such as enclosure of crop and pasture land.
   (B)   Single-family and two-family residential uses in any district
(including Agricultural/Residential District).
      (1)   Fences may be erected along the line dividing lots or parcels of
land or may be located within any required side or rear yard provided they are
not more than six feet or less than three feet in height above the grade of the
surrounding land.
      (2)   Except for properties abutting Lake Huron, fences may be erected in
a required or non-required front yard or within any yard adjacent to the street
of the lots or parcels in question provided they are not more than 42 inches in
height, unless the fence is a pool fence in which case the fence height shall
be regulated by the section applicable to pools in this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-703.png]
 
      (3)   All fences shall be of a type, material and finish that are
customary for the type of development in question and that are aesthetically
compatible with development in the surrounding vicinity, as determined by the
Zoning Administrator. Barbed wire, spikes, nails or any other sharp point or
instrument of any kind on top or on the sides of the fence, or any electric
current or charge in the fences is prohibited.
      (4)   When permitted, all exposed horizontal and vertical structural
members of a fence shall be located facing the inside of the property they are
intended to fence.
   (C)   Multiple-family residential, office, commercial, industrial, utility
provider, institutional and public uses in any district.
      (1)   All fences in connection with multiple-family residential,
commercial, industrial, utility provider and public uses shall require approval
by the Planning Commission as part of a site plan review. The fences shall not
be located in the required front yard, nor enclose a required parking area,
unless otherwise required by the Planning Commission under §
154.018.
      (2)   All fences shall be of an enclosure type. All fences shall be of a
type, material and finish that is customary for the type of development to be
enclosed and that is aesthetically compatible in the surrounding vicinity.
Fence height shall be consistent with divisions (B)(1) and (2) above, unless
the Planning Commission approves a different height that meets the particular
needs of the development, while remaining aesthetically consistent with the
surrounding vicinity.
      (3)   Barbed wire cradles may be placed on top of fences enclosing:
         (a)   Permitted rear yard storage in the GB General Business District;
         (b)   Permitted rear and side yard storage in the I Industrial
District; or
         (c)   Municipal or utility provider buildings when deemed necessary in
the interests of public safety by the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Recreational and miscellaneous uses. The type and location of fencing
for recreational uses such as, but not limited to, gun clubs, hunt clubs, golf
courses, campgrounds, public and private parks, other similar uses and
miscellaneous uses not otherwise provided for herein shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Permit required. Prior to erection of a fence permitted under
divisions (B) through (D) above, a permit shall first be obtained from the
Zoning Administrator. The Township Board shall establish permit fees.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 7-6-2010)
§ 154.018 GREENBELTS, OBSCURING WALLS, BERMS.
   Greenbelts, obscuring walls and berms are methods of creating a buffer
between more intensive land uses and less intensive residential districts. This
section addresses requirements primarily for the RM, O, GB and I Districts.
(Several other sections also set forth buffering, screening or landscaping
requirements, including, but not limited to: §§
154.031,
154.032 and
154.034.)
   (A)   Where a development in the RM, O, GB or I District shares a property
line with a residential district, or when the location and configuration of an
off-street parking area would permit vehicle headlights to shine on a
residential district across a street other than a major thoroughfare, an
obscuring masonry wall or alternative screening as provided in division (B)
below, is required. The wall shall meet construction standards set forth in
division (F) below. A detailed drawing of the wall shall be submitted as part
of a site plan. The height of the wall (or alternative screening) shall be
measured from the surface of the parking area or land on the nonresidential (or
lower density residential) side of the wall. Where the required wall heights
are variable (e.g., four feet, six inches to six feet), the Planning Commission
shall determine the specific height necessary to provide effective screening.
      (1)   In the case of a proposed multiple-family development, no wall is
required when adjacent property is also multiple-family or a manufactured
housing community. Where a proposed multiple-family development is adjacent to
A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C and R-2 Districts, a four-foot-six-inch to six-foot-high
wall shall be provided.
      (2)   In the case of an off-street parking area (except one- and two-
family developments), a four-foot-six-inch-high wall shall be provided.
      (3)   In the O and GB Districts, a four-foot-six-inch to six-foot-high
wall shall be provided.
      (4)   In the I District, a six-foot to eight-foot-high wall shall be
provided.
      (5)   In the case of a proposed manufactured housing community see §
154.034(J) for general screening/landscaping requirements. Community or service
buildings and RV storage within a manufactured housing community shall provide
a six-foot-high obscuring masonry wall when adjacent to a single-family
residential district.
   (B)   In lieu of an obscuring masonry wall the Planning Commission may
permit an obscuring landscaped earth berm or landscaped greenbelt at least 15
feet in width. An earth berm shall be landscaped and maintained in a clean and
growing condition and shall meet the following minimum design standards
regarding slope, crest, exterior and interior faces.
      (1)   Continuous earth berms shall be provided with undulating horizontal
and vertical tops and sides, the height of which shall be no less than required
for a wall in the district. Earth berms may consist of opaque screen plantings
within the horizontal berm depressions or masonry walls or a combination of
both as long as the minimum required height of the earth berm, plantings, wall
or combinations thereof are provided.
      (2)   Berms shall be landscaped earth mounds possessing a maximum slope
ratio of three to one (e.g., three feet of horizontal plane for each one foot
of vertical height). Side slopes shall be designed and planted to prevent
erosion. The berms shall have a nearly flat horizontal area at their crests of
at least two feet in width.
      (3)   Berm or earth mounds shall be protected from erosion by sodding or
seeding. If slopes are seeded, they shall be protected with straw mulch held in
place by jute netting until the seed germinates and a permanent lawn is
established. The straw mulch is not required if the seeded slope is protected
by a net which is specifically designed to control erosion. The berm area shall
be kept perpetually free of weeds, refuse, debris and general clutter and shall
be planted with shrubs, trees or lawn and shall be continuously maintained in a
healthy growing condition. Failure to maintain the earth berm in accordance
with these requirements shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
      (4)   If an earth berm or greenbelt is proposed in lieu of a wall, a
detailed drawing of the proposed berm or greenbelt shall be submitted in
addition to the site plan.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-705.png]
   (C)   Required walls, earth berm or greenbelt shall be located as near as
possible to the lot lines, except where underground utilities interfere and
except in instances where this chapter requires conformance with front yard
setback lines in abutting residential districts.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-707.png]
   (D)   When vehicles or open air display generally exceed a five-foot height,
the wall shall be increased to a height not exceeding ten feet, as determined
by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   The walls, earth berm and/or greenbelt shall have no openings for
vehicular traffic or other purposes except as otherwise provided below. The
buffer, whether by wall, earth berm and/or greenbelt or any combination of
these, shall be constructed and/or planted in a manner so as to provide a
minimum opacity of 80% in summer and 60% in winter.
   (F)   All masonry walls herein required shall be constructed of face brick
or other approved materials as shown in the illustrations accompanying this
section. The Planning Commission shall approve only materials that are durable,
weather-resistant, rustproof and easily maintained; wood or wood products shall
be specifically excluded.
   (G)   Where masonry walls or earth berms are pierced, the openings shall be
so spaced as to maintain the overall obscuring character required and shall not
have the effect of reducing the minimum height required. In any square yard
(three feet by three feet) area of wall or berm, an opening(s) shall not exceed
20%. The arrangement of openings shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-709.png]
   (H)   Upon review of the site plan, the Planning Commission may waive any
part or all of the wall, earth berm or greenbelt requirements, if it is
determined that the intended screening effect of the wall, earth berm or
greenbelt would serve no useful purpose. The Planning Commission may also
consider and incorporate the preferences of the residential district property
owners whose interests this section is designed to protect if the preferences
do not have the effect of increasing its standards.
   (I)   If the Planning Commission should determine that a residential
district may be a future nonresidential area, temporary waiver of the
requirements of §
154.018, for an initial period not to exceed one year may be granted, provided
that escrow money or surety bond in the amount of the estimated cost for
erection of the wall or earth berm is filed with the township for a period not
to exceed five years. Granting of waivers subsequent to the first waiver may be
permitted.
   (J)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain in
good condition the masonry wall, earth berm, landscaping and/or greenbelt to
maintain its original intent and purpose. Buffering landscaping and/or
greenbelt vegetation shall be planted to achieve the minimum required obscuring
effect within four years.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.019 PLANT MATERIALS.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter a landscaped greenbelt or earth berm is
required, it shall be planted prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy. If the development is not completed within a growing season, a
temporary certificate of occupancy shall be issued for a one-year period and a
bond posted of sufficient amount to ensure that the earth berm or greenbelt
will be completed in accordance with ordinance provisions.
   (B)   Plant material and grasses shall be of generally acceptable varieties
and species, free of insects and diseases, hardy to the county, conform to the
current minimum standards of the American Nursery and Landscape Association and
shall have proof of any required governmental regulations and/or inspections.
   (C)   Suitable plant materials as listed below, or equal in characteristics
to these materials, with the spacing as required shall be provided.
      (1)   Plant material spacing:
         (a)   Plant materials shall not be placed closer than four feet from
the fence line or property line;
         (b)   Where plant materials are planted in two or more rows, planting
shall be staggered in rows;
         (c)   Evergreen trees when planted in informal groupings, they shall
be spaced not more than 20 feet on center. When planted in rows, they shall be
spaced not more than 12 feet on center;
         (d)   Narrow evergreens when planted in informal groupings, they shall
be spaced not more than ten feet on center. When planted in rows, they shall be
spaced not more than five feet on center;
         (e)   Large deciduous trees shall be planted not more than 30 feet on
center when placed in informal groupings;
         (f)   Tree-like shrubs (small trees) shall not be spaced more than 15
feet on center when placed in informal groupings;
         (g)   Large deciduous shrubs shall be placed not more than six feet on
center when placed in informal groupings and not more than four feet on center
when planted in rows; and
         (h)   Small shrubs shall be planted not more than four feet on center.
      (2)   Minimum spacing for mature plants. Plants shall be spaced a minimum
distance apart to accommodate the normally anticipated full plant size when
fully grown.
      (3)   Species within plantings shall be varied, not all the same type.
   (D)   Approved plant materials:
Approved Plant Materials Minimum Height
Approved Plant Materials                            Minimum Height
Evergreen trees                                     Six feet
Juniper
Hemlock
Fir
Pine
Spruce
Douglas Fir
Narrow evergreens                                   Five feet
Column Hinoki Cypress
Blue Columnar Chinese Juniper
Irish Yew
Pyramidal Red-Cedar
Swiss Stone Pine
Douglas Arbor-Vitae
Pyramidal White Pine
Hicks Yew
Pyramidal Japanese
Tree-like shrubs (or small trees)                   Six feet
Flowering Crabapple
Mountain Ash
Flowering Dogwood (disease-resistant)
Redbud
Rose of Sharon
Hornbeam
Hawthorn (thornless)
Magnolia
Russian Olive
Serviceberry
Flowering Cherry, Plum and Pear (including Bradford
Pear)
Large Deciduous Shrubs                              Six feet
Honeysuckle
Viburnum
Mock Orange
Forsythia
Lilac
Ninebark
Cotoneaster (Peking and Spreading)
Hazelnut
Euonymus
Border Privet (hedge planting)
Buckthorn
Sumac
Pyracantha
Mugo Pine
Barberry
Savin Juniper
Dogwood (Red Osier and Grey)
Weigela
Sargent Crabapple
Flowering Quince
Pfitser Juniper
Yew
Tall Hedge (hedge planting)
Large Deciduous Trees                               Three- to four-inch caliper
Oaks
Hard Maples
Ash (seedless)
Hackberry
Sycamore
Birch
Beech
Ginkgo (male)
Honey Locust (seedless, thornless)
Sweet Gum
Hop Hornbeam
Linden
Small Shrubs
Regal Privet
Potentilla
Dwarf Mugo Pine
Low Spreading Junipers (Hughes, Tamarix and the
like)
Cotoneaster (Cranberry, Rockspray)
Fragrant Sumac
Compact Burning Bush
Spreading Yews
Japanese Quince
Big Leaf Winter Creeper
Euonymus varieties
Brown’s, Ward’s, Sebion Yews
Dwarf Winged
Ground Cover
Periwinkle
Baltic Ivy
Euonymus varieties
Hall Honeysuckle
Pachysandra
Vines
Euonymus varieties
Virginia Creeper
Baltic Ivy
Wisteria
 
   (E)   Trees not permitted:
      (1)   Box Elder;
      (2)   Soft Maples (Red-Silver);
      (3)   Elms (American);
      (4)   Poplars;
      (5)   Ailanthus (Tree of Heaven);
      (6)   Catalpa;
      (7)   Horse Chestnut (nut-bearing); and
      (8)   Willows.
   (F)   Additional regulations:
      (1)   The remainder of the landscaped area that is not planted with the
aforementioned stock shall be in well-kept lawn or other materials acceptable
to the Planning Commission. All landscaping shall be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition, neat and orderly in appearance;
      (2)   Whenever a greenbelt or earth berm is required under the provisions
of this chapter, or when the Planning Commission allows the substitution of
same in lieu of a wall, a detailed planting plan shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for approval prior to the issuance of a zoning compliance
permit (§
154.146). The planting plan shall indicate, to scale, the location, spacing,
starting size and description for each unit of plant material proposed for use
within the required greenbelt or bermed area, together with the finished grade
elevations proposed therein.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the planting plan relative to:
         (a)   The proper spacing, placement and location of plant materials
relative to the length and width of greenbelt so as to ensure that the required
horizontal and vertical obscuring effect of proposed land uses will be
achieved. See §
154.018(E);
         (b)   The choice and selection of plant materials so as to ensure that
root system will not interfere with public utilities and that fruit and other
debris (other than leaves) will not constitute a nuisance within the public
right-of-way, or to abutting property owners;
         (c)   The proposed relationship between deciduous and evergreen plant
materials so as to ensure that a maximum obscuring effect will be maintained
throughout the various seasonal periods; and
         (d)   The size of plant material (both starting and ultimate) to
ensure adequate maturity and optimum screening effect of proposed plant
materials.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.020 LOT AND SUBDIVISION LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   In the A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR and RM Residential Districts,
only one principal building, single-family dwelling or two-family dwelling
(where permitted) shall be placed on a lot of record, except as may be
otherwise provided herein.
   (B)   Where no “subdivision” of land under Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293 (the Subdivision Control Act”), as amended,
has taken place, and where the land therefore remains as one “lot or parcel”,
as in the following cases:
      (1)   In the case of a licensed manufactured housing community; or
      (2)   In the case of a “site condominium”.
   (C)   In this instance, not more than one single-family dwelling, or two-
family dwelling shall be constructed upon an individual “unit of ownership”
within a site condominium development.
   (D)   No building shall be erected on land subdivided in violation of the
State Land Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, as amended, formerly known as the Subdivision Control Act).
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.021 LOTS, YARDS AND OPEN SPACES.
   No space which for the purpose of a building has been counted or calculated
as part of a side yard, rear yard, front yard or other open space, including
required lot area per dwelling unit, required by this chapter, may by reason of
change in ownership or otherwise, be counted or calculated to satisfy or comply
with a yard or other open space or lot area requirements for any other
building.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.022 PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES, STRUCTURES AND
CHARACTERISTICS.
   It is the intent to recognize that the elimination, as expeditiously as is
reasonable, of existing structures and uses that are not in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter, is as much a subject of health, safety and welfare
as is the prevention of the establishment of new structures and uses that would
violate the provisions of this chapter. It is, therefore, the intent to
administer the elimination of nonconforming structures and uses, recognizing
established private property rights, and avoiding any undue hardship. The
following regulations shall apply to all nonconforming buildings and
structures, or parts thereof, and nonconforming uses existing at the effective
date of this chapter.
   (A)   Continuance of nonconforming building. Any nonconforming building or
structure may be continued and maintained, provided there is no physical change
other than necessary maintenance and repair in the building or structure,
except as permitted hereinafter in divisions (F), (G) and (H).
   (B)   Continuance of nonconforming use. Any nonconforming use may be
continued and maintained, provided there is no increase or enlargement of the
area, space or volume occupied by, or devoted to, the nonconforming use within
a building or on site.
   (C)   Change of use.
      (1)   The nonconforming use of a building, structure or land may not be
changed to a different use, unless one of the following conditions has been
met:
         (a)   The different use is permitted in the zoning district under
which the property is currently zoned, subject to site plan review and approval
as required in this chapter; or
         (b)   The proposed use, while still nonconforming, is considered less
intense than the previous nonconforming use as determined by the Planning
Commission, and would bring the site closer into conformance with existing
ordinance standards. A use may be deemed more intense if the Planning
Commission determines that the proposed use meets any of the following
criteria:
            1.   The proposed use generates more light, noise, air or other
pollution than the current use;
            2.   The proposed use generates more traffic and/or turning
movements, or negatively alters the traffic circulation pattern on or off the
site;
            3.   The use generates a greater need for parking on site; and/or
            4.   The proposed use causes greater negative economic impacts on
adjacent properties than the current use.
      (2)   Where a use change requires submission of a site plan, the
applicant shall be required to comply with all applicable zoning provisions as
is deemed reasonably feasible by the Township Planning Commission. Site plan
compliance shall include, but not be limited to, such items as parking,
landscaping and signage.
   (D)   Abandonment; termination of nonconforming use. Any part of a building,
structure or land occupied by a nonconforming use which hereafter is abandoned
and remains unoccupied for a continuous period of 12 months shall not
thereafter be occupied, except by a use that conforms to the use regulations of
the district in which it is located. This shall not apply to a seasonal
nonconforming use of land. However, upon discontinuation for a full season with
no active attempt to sell or market the property, it shall be considered
abandoned and any future use shall conform to this chapter.
   (E)   Change of tenancy or ownership. There may be a change of tenancy,
ownership or management of an existing nonconforming use, provided there is no
change in the nature or character of the nonconforming use.
   (F)   Maintenance permitted.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a nonconforming
building or structure may be maintained. The maintenance of the building or
structure shall include necessary repairs and incidental alterations.
      (2)   The alterations, however, shall not increase the extent or degree
of nonconformity of the building or structure.
      (3)   In a building that is nonconforming as to use regulations, no
structural alterations shall be made, except those required by law or
ordinance.
      (4)   It is further provided that the cost of the work shall not exceed
50% of the assessed valuation of the building or structure at the time the work
is done.
      (5)   This requirement shall not be considered as prohibiting the
bringing of a structure into conformity with the regulations of the district in
which it is located.
   (G)   Restoration of damaged building. A lawful nonconforming building or
structure, or nonconforming use occurring on a premises with a building or
structure that has been damaged or partially destroyed by fire or other
calamity may be restored, and its immediately previous occupancy or use
existing at the time of such damage or partial destruction may be continued or
be resumed; provided the restoration is commenced within one year of the date
of the partial destruction and is diligently carried on to completion.
   (H)   Additions, enlargements, moving.
      (1)   A building or structure that is nonconforming in regard to issues
such as setback or height may be added to or enlarged if the addition or
enlargement conforms to the regulations of the district in which it is located.
In that case, the addition or enlargement shall be treated as a separate
building or structure in determining conformity to all of the requirements of
this chapter.
      (2)   When a building or structure, or portion thereof, is moved from one
district to another or to another location within the same district, it must
conform or be made to conform to all of the regulations, ordinances and codes
of the district to which it is moved.
   (I)   Expansion prohibited. A nonconforming use of a portion of a building
or structure, which building or structure otherwise conforms to the provisions
of this chapter, shall not be expanded or extended into any other portion of
the conforming building or structure, nor changed, except to a conforming use.
If the nonconforming use, or portion thereof, is discontinued or changed to a
conforming use, any future use of the building, structure or portion thereof,
shall be in conformity to the regulations of the district in which the building
or structure is located.
   (J)   Nonconforming use of land; continuation of use. The nonconforming use
of land (where no building is involved) existing at the date this chapter
becomes effective, may be continued, provided that:
      (1)   No nonconforming use of land shall in any way be expanded or
extended either on the same or adjoining property; and
      (2)   If the nonconforming use of land or any portion thereof is
discontinued or changed, any future use of the land shall be in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (K)   Compliance with regulations for nonconforming buildings or uses.
      (1)   Whenever the owner shall fail to comply with the provisions of this
chapter relating to removal or discontinuance of a nonconforming use, the
Zoning Administrator shall serve notice in writing on the owner or his or her
agent requiring him or her to comply therewith within a reasonable time after
the notice.
      (2)   If, after the notice, the owner fails to comply therewith, the
Zoning Administrator shall take action as may be necessary, including civil
action, to cause compliance with the provisions hereof.
   (L)   Nonconforming lot of record; division of nonconforming lot. Parcels
shall not be divided in a manner that increases nonconformity, causes an
existing structure or site improvement to become nonconforming, or creates one
or more nonconforming lots.
   (M)   Use of a nonconforming lot of record.
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory building(s) may be erected on
any nonconforming lot of record. This provision shall apply even though the lot
fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are applicable
in the district; provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not
involving area or width or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations
for the district in which the lot is located.
      (2)   Potential administrative yard reductions (without ZBA approval
necessary): with regard to required minimum setbacks, an applicant must first
attempt to comply with the maximum extent feasible. Then, in the case where it
is determined by the Zoning Administrator that it is not practically feasible
to fully comply, the Zoning Administrator may allow setbacks to be reduced as
follows:
         (a)   Front. The minimum required front setback may be reduced to 20%
of the average depth of the lot, provided that:
            1.   It shall not be less than the average of the front setbacks of
principal structures on adjacent lots fronting on the same street (or the
average front setbacks of principal structures in the block fronting on the
same street); and
            2.   In no instance shall it be less than 30 feet.
         (b)   Rear. The minimum required rear setback may be reduced to 20% of
the average depth of the lot provided that in no instance shall it be less than
20 feet.
         (c)   Side. The minimum side yard setback requirement for
nonconforming lots of record in any zoning district may be reduced to not less
than 10% of the lot width, but in no case shall the side yard be less than four
feet for 40-foot lots and five feet for 50-foot lots.
         (d)   Reduction/variance grant noted. The Zoning Administrator shall
note on the final plot plan or site plan any reduction granted under this
division (M)(2) or any ZBA requirements imposed or variances granted on the
nonconforming lot or parcel of record before issuing a zoning compliance permit
under §
154.146.
   (N)   Contiguous nonconforming lots under the same ownership.
      (1)   Two or more contiguous, nonconforming lots under the same ownership
shall be considered one parcel.
      (2)   The applicant shall not be permitted to make improvements to the
parcel prior to combining the lots to create one conforming lot of record
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 1-22-2009; Ord. 06-08, passed 4-23-2012)
§ 154.023 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   The off-street parking and loading requirements of this chapter are
established to prevent congestion on the public streets, remove the hazard to
all beings of emerging from between parked vehicles onto a public street, to
facilitate proper storm water runoff, prevent the generation of dust into the
air and make clear the availability and arrangement of spaces to all users.
   (A)   Off-street parking facilities. It shall be the duty of both the owner
and occupant of any premises to provide off-street parking space as required in
this section. Off-street parking lots shall comply with the following standards
and regulations.
      (1)   Any existing off-street parking facilities being used upon the
effective date of this chapter shall not hereafter be reduced below the
requirements hereof for the use or a similar structure or land use. Whenever a
use or an activity requiring off-street parking is created or increased in
floor area, intensity of activity in some other manner, the number of off-
street parking spaces shall be provided and maintained as required in this
chapter.
      (2)   When units or measurements determining the number of required
parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space, any fraction shall
require one parking space.
      (3)   All spaces shall be laid out in accordance with the following
schedule. Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities must be
approved by the Planning Commission and shall be in accordance with the
following minimum requirements, except that the dimension of spaces for the
disabled shall be as set forth by the State Building Code:
 
                       Total Width                 Total Width
                                                   ...of One Tier ...of Two
Parking    Maneuvering Parking Space Parking Space of Spaces Plus Tiers of
Pattern    Lane Width  Width         Length        Maneuvering    Spaces Plus
                                                   Lane           Maneuvering
                                                                  Lane
0 degrees  12 feet     8 feet        23 feet       20 feet        28 feet
(parallel)
30 to 53   12 feet     8.5 feet      20 feet       32 feet        52 feet
degrees
54 to 74   15 feet     8.5 feet      20 feet       37 feet        58 feet
degrees
75 to 90   25 feet     9 feet        19 feet       44 feet        63 feet
degrees
 
         (a)   All parking spaces shall be clearly striped to facilitate
movement and to help maintain an orderly parking arrangement.
         (b)   Parallel parking spaces shall be 23 feet in length with a six-
foot maneuvering space between every group of two parking spaces. (See
illustration below.)
         (c)   All parking lots shall have access from a clearly limited and
defined driveway not less than 15 feet in width for one-way traffic and 24 feet
in width for two-way traffic. A driveway shall not exceed 30 feet in width.
         (d)   All parking spaces shall have access from an aisle on the site
to minimize backing onto a street and having a potential traffic hazard.
         (e)   Vehicular access to a parking lot shall not be across any zoning
district that would not permit the principal use or parking lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-711.png]
 
      (4)   For the purpose of meeting off-street parking requirements for
offices, merchandising, service or industrial uses, FLOOR AREA shall mean the
gross floor area of the entire building.
      (5)   In the case of hospitals, bassinets shall not be counted as beds.
In the case of stadia, sports arenas, churches and other uses where spectators
occupy benches, pews or other similar seating facilities, each 20 inches of the
seating shall be considered as one seat for the purpose of determining off-
street parking requirements.
      (6)   Parking plans shall be submitted for review and approval of layout
and points of access by the Planning Commission.
      (7)   In the case of a use not specifically mentioned, the requirement
for off-street parking facilities for the use shall be that for a listed use
which is most similar as determined by the Planning Commission.
      (8)   Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent collective
provisions of off-street parking facilities for two or more buildings or uses,
provided collectively the facilities shall not be less than the sum of the
requirements for the various individual uses computed separately. Any such
provisions or agreements for collective parking shall be set forth in a
recordable instrument and recorded in the Register of Deeds, describing the
lands affected by this agreement or easement.
      (9)   The amount of required off-street parking space for new uses of
buildings, additions thereto and additions to existing buildings as specified
above shall be determined in accordance with this chapter, and the space so
required shall be stated in the application for a building permit and shown on
the plot plan or site plan and shall be irrevocably reserved for the use.
      (10)   The off-street parking facilities required for all uses shall be
located on the lot or on property within 300 feet of the permitted use
requiring the off-street parking, the distance to be measured along lines of
public access to the property between the nearest point of the parking facility
and the building to be served, provided that the off-street parking facility
shall not be separated from the building to be served by a major thoroughfare
as may be designated in the Township Master Plan.
      (11)   In the GB Business Districts within the plat of the Village of
Lakeport, the required number of on-site parking spaces for a subject use may
be reduced by the Planning Commission, if adequate parking lanes and/or
sufficient parking areas are available to the public in the business district
(s) within 300 feet of the permitted use.
      (12)   Except for single-family detached dwelling units or farm uses
located in the residential or agricultural districts, all parking areas
required shall be paved with concrete or plant mixed bituminous material in
accordance with plans approved by the Building Inspector. Pavement design shall
meet or exceed the following standards.
         (a)   The compressive strength of concrete at 28 days after pouring
shall be at least 3,500 pounds per square inch.
         (b)   Asphalt pavement shall consist of MDOT Specifications Series
1100 bituminous mixture or approved equal (260 pounds per square yard)
surfacing over an approved sub-base adequately designed for sufficient
thickness (minimum of six inches) and type to be compatible with expected
loading and subsoil conditions.
         (c)   All parking areas (other than driving lanes described below)
shall be paved with either six inches minimum thickness of concrete or six
inches minimum thickness of stone aggregate, topped with 260 pounds per square
yard of bituminous aggregate surface course.
         (d)   All driving lanes (not including parking lot aisles) in parking
lots and multiple-family housing sites shall be constructed of either:
            1.   Concrete pavement of six-inch minimum thickness; or
            2.   “Deep strength” asphalt pavement nine inches thick with the
bottom five and one-half inches constructed of bituminous base mixture material
and the top three and one-half inches constructed of bituminous surface mixture
material.
            3.   A combination asphalt pavement and aggregate base, with the
bottom aggregate base constructed of a minimum of nine inches deep, 21A or 22A
aggregate, with a two and one-half-inch minimum layer of 1100L 2AA (275 pounds
per square yard) asphalt and a one and one-half- inch minimum layer of 1100T 20
AA (165 pounds per square yard) asphalt.
         (e)   Culverts and bridges shall have a minimum design loading
capacity (American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials,
AASHTO, standard HS20 or greater) to provide for safe passage of emergency
vehicles.
         (e)   In medium- to high-traffic volume settings, the Planning
Commission may require that a six-inch high concrete curb be placed around the
entire perimeter of the paved parking area where adjacent to grass or sidewalk
areas.
         (f)   Alternate materials: the Planning Commission, after review and
approval of design plans, may permit the use of brick, paving blocks or other
similar material of adequate load-bearing nature if, in the determination of
the Planning Commission, the use is appropriate in the setting proposed.
         (g)   Possible exception; seasonal use: for uses located in the RCC,
A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR and RM Residential Districts that in the
opinion of the Planning Commission are primarily of a seasonal nature or are
likely to have very low volumes of traffic, the Planning Commission may permit
gravel parking and maneuvering areas to be installed, upon a determination by
the Commission that waiver of hard surfacing requirements would not be contrary
to the public interest, subject to review and approval of a site plan and
construction design details. The Planning Commission may impose conditions of
approval requiring installation of hard-surfaced paving if traffic volumes
increase beyond a suitable level or if the use no longer operates primarily on
a seasonal basis.
      (13)   All spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of paved
maneuvering lanes.
      (14)   The Planning Commission may require an access easement to provide
for vehicle access to adjacent parking lots to minimize the need for driveways
to each facility and thereby decreasing hazards to vehicular traffic.
      (15)   Parking may be permitted in a required front yard except as
provided in division (B)(5) below provided that a landscaped area ten feet in
width extending the full width of the lot shall be provided between the parking
lot and any lot line abutting a public street. The landscaped area shall be
continuous except where pierced by approved access drives. The landscaped area
shall be continuously maintained in good condition. The Planning Commission
shall approve the design and plant materials to be utilized.
   (B)   Off-street parking development regulations. An approved off-street
parking area as permitted under this section shall be subject to the following
regulations.
      (1)   No repairs or service to vehicles and no display of vehicles for
purpose of sale shall be carried on or permitted upon the premises.
      (2)   All land between the lot boundaries of the lot on which is located
a parking area and the barriers hereinafter referred to, as well as the surface
of the parking area, shall be kept free from tall grass, weeds, rubbish, refuse
and debris, and shall be landscaped to conform with the general character of
the district.
      (3)   When lighting facilities are used, reflectors shall be installed to
reflect the light away from residential areas and uses and the public right-of-
way.
      (4)   Side yards shall be maintained for a space of not less than ten
feet between the side lot lines adjoining residential lots and the parking
area.
      (5)   Whenever the parking area adjoins residential property and/or
residential street or alley, a protective wall or greenbelt shall be erected
and maintained between the required yard space and area to be used for parking.
On other locations where a protective barrier is required, there shall be no
advertising whatsoever. Bumper guards, comprising either a curb at least six
inches high or steel posts 24 to 30 inches high and not more than five feet
apart, set three feet in concrete, shall be provided to prevent vehicles
striking the wall or shrubbery.
      (6)   Entrance to the parking areas shall be only from adjoining
principal use or adjoining street as approved by the Planning Commission.
      (7)   A site plan review (except in the case of a single-family or two-
family dwelling or farm uses) shall be required for the construction of any
parking area whether or not the parking area is in conjunction with the
construction of a structure or is a separate land use not connected with any
structure. The applicant shall submit a written plan to the Planning Commission
along with application for a site plan review. The plan shall show in detail at
a scale of not more than 50 feet to the inch, the boundary lines of the
property involved, the location and size of any structures or proposed
structures thereon, parking spaces, entrances and exits, drainage structures,
if any required, boundary wall; and landscaping, if required, and the proposed
use of the property.
      (8)   Except for vehicles accessory to the principal use, it shall be
unlawful to park or store a vehicle in a parking lot as permitted in this
division for longer than 18 hours and it shall be unlawful to permit a person
to do so.
      (9)   All parking areas shall offer side-by-side parking, except for
individual driveways serving residential dwelling. Tandem parking, meaning
vehicles parked bumper to bumper, shall be prohibited.
   (C)   Paving schedule.
      (1)   All paving required by this chapter shall be completely installed
prior to the issuance of an occupancy permit for the use of the premises,
except as provided hereinafter.
      (2)   In any case where the development of the land and/or buildings has
been fully completed and an occupancy permit would otherwise be issued, and the
complete installation of the paving required is prevented by inclement weather
or acts of nature beyond the control of the owner, then, in that event the
owner may obtain a temporary occupancy permit for a period not exceeding six
months from the Building Inspector upon written request therefor, provided the
owner shall:
         (a)   Deposit an adequate performance guarantee in accordance with §
154.152;
         (b)   Complete the installation of the required paving in the time
required by the terms of the temporary occupancy. Upon complete installation in
that event, the security deposit required hereunder shall be canceled and
returned to the depositor upon demand. Upon failure to completely install the
paving as required herein, the security deposit required above shall be
forfeited as liquidated damages, the same hereby being declared to be
reasonable in view of the difficulty of more exact ascertainment of the damage
incurred as a result of the failure; and
         (c)   If the security deposit is forfeited as provided in division (C)
(2)(b) above:
            1.   The Township Engineer, after specific authorization by the
Township Board, shall expend such amount as has been authorized by the Township
Board not exceeding the total amount of the security deposit to cause the
required paving installation to be made;
            2.   The Building Inspector shall not issue a regular occupancy
permit until the paving required is completely installed; and
            3.   Use or occupancy of the premises after the expiration of the
temporary occupancy permit and before the issuance of a regular occupancy
permit shall be unlawful and a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Location and design of driveways.
      (1)   All parking areas shall be provided with a safe entrance and exit
from an abutting major thoroughfare. The proposed entrance and exit shall be in
accordance with the installation specifications and procedures of the County
Road Commission or State Department of Transportation, whichever has
jurisdiction.
      (2)   In the cases of multiple-family, office, commercial or industrial
uses accessing a private road(s), the entrance and exit for a one-way traffic
flow system shall be at least 15 feet in width, and may in the case of a two-
way traffic flow system be combined as one, which shall in no event be less
than 30 feet in width.
      (3)   Any single-family or two-family residential use or farm use
accessing a private road shall meet standards equivalent to those of the County
Road Commission. Provided, however, in no case shall there be more than one
separate exit and one separate entrance to and from a single street. The
location of each entrance and exit shall be submitted for approval of the
County Road Commission or the State Department of Transportation, as the case
may be, and the Township Planning Commission.
   (E)   Off-street waiting area for drive-through facilities. On the same
premises with every building, structure or part thereof, erected and occupied
for the purpose of serving customers in their automobiles by means of a service
window, washing bay or similar arrangement, there shall be provided six off-
street waiting spaces for each service window or service bay not blocking
parking spaces, in addition to the use requirement. A waiting space shall be 23
feet long by ten feet wide.
   (F)   Minimum number of off-street parking spaces. The minimum number of
off-street parking spaces by type of use for the storage or parking of motor
vehicles for the use of owners, occupants, employees, customers or visitors of
buildings or uses shall be irrevocably provided and maintained on the premises
occupied by the structure of the basis of the following schedule.
      (1)   Residential use.
         (a)   The off-street parking facilities required for one- and two-
family dwellings shall be located on the same lot or plot of ground of the
building they are intended to serve and shall consist of a driveway, parking
apron, carport and/or garage on the basis of two parking spaces for each
dwelling unit.
         (b)   Multiple-family residential dwellings shall have two paved off-
street parking spaces for each one bedroom dwelling unit. For each additional
bedroom over two per unit, one-half additional parking space shall be provided.
         (c)   Housing for the elderly: two for each three units, and one for
each employee. Should units revert to general occupancy, then two spaces per
unit shall be provided and space shown on the site plan to accommodate the
requirement.
         (d)   Manufactured housing: see §§
154.034 and
154.035.
      (2)   Institutional uses.
Institutional Uses Number of Spaces
Institutional Uses                                                     Number of
                                                                       Spaces
                                                                       1 for each 3
Churches or temples                                                    seats in the
                                                                       main unit of
                                                                       worship
                                                                       6 for each 1
Golf courses open to the general public, except miniature or “par 3" golf hole and
courses                                                                1 for each 1
                                                                       employee
                                                                       1 for each 600
                                                                       square feet of
Hospitals                                                              gross floor
                                                                       area, plus 1
                                                                       for each 2
                                                                       employees
                                                                       2 for each 3
                                                                       beds or
Homes for the aged and convalescent homes                              occupants and
                                                                       each 2 staff
                                                                       members
                                                                       1 for each 1
                                                                       teacher,
                                                                       employee and
                                                                       administrator,
Elementary and junior high schools                                     in addition to
                                                                       the
                                                                       requirements
                                                                       of the
                                                                       auditorium
                                                                       1 for each 3
                                                                       persons
                                                                       allowed within
                                                                       the maximum
                                                                       occupancy load
Private clubs or lodge halls                                           as established
                                                                       by Township,
                                                                       County or
                                                                       State Fire,
                                                                       Building or
                                                                       Health Codes
                                                                       1 for each 2
Private golf clubs, tennis clubs or other similar uses                 member
                                                                       families or
                                                                       individuals
                                                                       1 for each 2
Private parks                                                          individual
                                                                       members
                                                                       1 for every 2
                                                                       users at
Public recreation                                                      maximum
                                                                       capacity, plus
                                                                       1 space for
                                                                       each employee
                                                                       1 for each 1
                                                                       teacher,
                                                                       employee and
                                                                       administrator,
                                                                       plus 1 for
Senior high schools                                                    each 10
                                                                       students in
                                                                       addition to
                                                                       the
                                                                       requirement of
                                                                       the auditorium
                                                                       1 for each 3
Stadium, sports arena or similar places of outdoor assembly            seats or 60
                                                                       inches or
                                                                       benches
                                                                       1 for each 3
                                                                       seats, plus 1
                                                                       for each 2
Theaters and auditoriums (includes commercial theaters and movie       employees. If
houses)                                                                no seats, one
                                                                       for each 50
                                                                       square feet of
                                                                       floor area
 
      (3)   Business/commercial.
Business/Commercial Uses Number of Spaces
Business/Commercial Uses                Number of Spaces
                                        1 for each 1 employee, plus 1 for each
                                        100 square feet of actual permanent or
Agricultural sales, greenhouses and     temporary area devoted primarily to
nurseries, fish farm operations         sales, plus 1 for each 1,500 square
                                        feet devoted primarily to indoor plant
                                        growing areas which are also used for
                                        display
Airports, runways and the like          1 for every 3 airplanes to be stored on
                                        the site, plus 1 for each employee
                                        1 for each 100 square feet of floor
                                        area. Wrecked vehicles shall not occupy
Automobile repair                       spaces reserved for the purpose of
                                        meeting the off-street parking
                                        requirement
Automobile service stations             2 for each lubrication stall, rack or
                                        pit, and 1 for each gasoline pump
Auto wash; self-service                 4 spaces for each establishment, plus 4
                                        waiting spaces for each washing stall
                                        4 spaces for each establishment, plus
                                        20 waiting spaces for each washing
                                        stall or line. A properly drained
                                        drying lane 50 feet long shall also be
Auto wash; other than self-service      provided at the exit of each washing
                                        stall or line in order to prevent undue
                                        amount of water from collecting on the
                                        public street and thereby creating a
                                        traffic hazard
                                        3 spaces for each of the first 2 beauty
Beauty parlor or barber shop            or barber chairs, and 1-1/2 spaces for
                                        each additional chair
                                        1 space for every 2 boat berths and 1
                                        off-street parking space for each boat
                                        available for rent. Where launching
                                        from a boat trailer is permitted,
Boat berthing, in-and-out storage and   adequate space shall also be provided
in-water storage                        for the storage of boat trailers as
                                        part of any parking plan. Launching
                                        shall be limited to the number of
                                        parking spaces available to the general
                                        public for the parking of vehicles and
                                        boat carriers at that location
Bowling alleys                          6 for each 1 bowling lane
Dance halls, arcades, pool or billiard  1 for each 2 persons allowed within the
parlors, roller or ice skating rinks,   maximum occupancy load as established
indoor tennis facilities, exhibition    by the Township, County or State Fire,
halls and assembly halls without fixed  Building or Health Codes
seats
Dry cleaners                            1 parking space for each 2 employees,
                                        with a minimum of 3 spaces
Establishments for sale and consumption 1 for each 100 square feet of floor
on the premises of beverage, food or    area or 1 for each 2 persons allowed
refreshments                            within maximum occupancy, whichever is
                                        greater
                                        1 space for each 2 employees, plus 1
                                        parking space for each 2 seats intended
Fast food, drive-in and carry-out       for patrons within the restaurant
restaurants                             building, and 1 space for each 20
                                        square feet of building floor area
                                        available in the order-waiting area
Furniture and appliance, household      1 for each 500 square feet of floor
equipment, repair shops, showroom of a  area. For that floor area used in
plumber, decorator, electrician or      processing or storage, 1 additional
similar trade, shoe repair and other    space shall be provided for each 1,000
similar uses                            square feet, whichever is greater
Laundromats and coin operated dry       1 for each 2 machines
cleaners
Miniature, “par 3" golf courses       3 for each 1 hole, plus 1 for each 1
                                        employee
                                        1 for each 50 square feet of assembly
Mortuary establishment                  room floor space, parlors and slumber
                                        rooms
                                        One for each occupancy unit, plus 1 for
Motel, hotel or other commercial        each 1 employee, in addition to the
lodging establishments                  requirements for ancillary facilities
                                        such as restaurants, ballrooms and the
                                        like
Motor vehicle sales and service         1 for each 300 square feet of floor
establishment                           space of sales room, and 1 for each 1
                                        auto service stall in the service room
Museum or art gallery                   1 for each 400 square feet of floor
                                        space
Open air businesses                     1 for each 500 square feet of lot area
                                        for retail sales, uses and services
Retail stores except as otherwise       1 for each 250 square feet of floor
specified herein                        space
Specialty shops                         1 for each 300 square feet of floor
                                        space specified herein
 
      (4)   Offices.
 
Office Uses                          Number of Spaces
Banks and post offices               1 for each 200 square feet of floor
                                     space, plus 1 space for each 2 employees
Business offices or administrative   1 for each 200 square feet of floor space
offices except as indicated below
Clinics, medical, dental, veterinary 1 space for each employee, plus 1 space
                                     for each 150 square feet of floor space
                                     1 for each 100 square feet of floor area
Professional offices or doctors,     or 1 for each 25 square feet in waiting
dentists or similar professions      rooms, and 1 for each examining room
                                     dental chair, or similar use area,
                                     whichever is greater
 
      (5)   Industrial.
 
Industrial Uses                                  Number of Spaces
                                                 5, plus 1 for every 1-1/
                                                 2 employees in the largest
                                                 working shift, or 1 for every
Industrial, wholesale or warehouse               400 square feet of floor
establishments (except for “mini-warehouses” space, whichever is determined
below)                                           to be the greater. Space on
                                                 site shall also be provided
                                                 for all construction workers
                                                 during periods of plant
                                                 construction
                                                 Unobstructed parking area
Mini-warehouses                                  equal to 1 space for every 10
                                                 door openings
 
   (G)   Off-street loading requirements.
      (1)   On the same premises with every building, structure or part
thereof, erected and occupied for manufacturing, storage, warehouse, goods
display, department store, wholesale store, market, hotel, hospital, mortuary,
laundry, dry cleaning or other uses similarly involving the receipt or
distribution of vehicles, materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and
maintained on the lot adequate space for standing, loading and unloading
services in order to avoid undue interference with public use of the streets
and alleys.
      (2)   The loading and unloading space, unless otherwise adequately
provided for, shall be an area ten feet by 50 feet, with 15-foot height
clearance, and shall be provided according to the following schedule.
 
Gross Floor Area in Square Feet Spaces Required
0 to 1,400                      None
1,401 to 20,000                 1 space
20,001 to 100,000               1 space plus 1 space for each 20,000 square
                                feet
100,000 to 500,000              5 spaces plus 1 space for each 40,000 square
                                feet in excess of 100,000 square feet
Over 500,000                    Fifteen spaces plus 1 space for each 80,000
                                square feet in excess of 500,000 square feet
 
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 1-22-2009) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.024 RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCEWAY STRUCTURE.
   (A)   In A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR and RM Residential Districts,
entrance-way structures including, but not limited to, walls, columns and gates
marking entrances to one-family residential or multiple-family residential
developments may be permitted and be located in a required yard, except as
provided in §
154.013, containing corner clearance provisions, provided that entranceway
structures shall comply with all codes and ordinances of the township with
proper permits issued.
   (B)   Entranceway structures shall refer only to the development on the land
upon which it is located.
   (C)   If located within the road right-of-way, the developer shall apply for
a permit from the County Road Commission or the State Department of
Transportation (whichever has jurisdiction) and shall, when approved, provide
the Zoning Administrator with a copy.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.025 SIGNS.
   The primary function of signage, as it relates to this chapter, is to
identify a particular use of a parcel of property. It is not the intent of this
chapter that the open spaces and lines of vision created by public rights-of-
way be used for unrestricted advertising through the use of signage. Signs will
be allowed in a manner so as to provide those similar uses in similar zones the
opportunity for identification exposure regardless of parcel size, although the
location and size of buildings will influence the amount of signage permitted.
This consistent approach is necessary to remove the need for the types of signs
that compete for attention of the motorist, thereby creating traffic hazards as
well as creating visual blight. It is, therefore, within the health, safety and
welfare responsibility of the township that this section is promulgated.
   (A)   Sign definitions. The following definitions (see also “Sign Types
Illustrated”) are related to signs. For the purpose of this section, the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
      DECORATIVE DISPLAY. A decorative, temporary display designed for the
entertainment or cultural enrichment of the public and having no direct or
indirect sales or advertising content.
      DIRECTIONAL SIGNS. See division (B)(3) below.
      ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, affix or paint.
      FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign, other than a ground sign or portable sign,
which is not attached to a building and is capable of being moved from one
location to another on the site on which it is located.
      GROUND SIGN. A permanent display sign supported by one or more columns,
uprights or braces or mounted directly in and upon the ground surface and
having a height not in excess of six feet. Also included within this definition
is a mounted corporate or business flag.
      MARQUEE SIGN. A sign on or attached to a permanent overhanging shelter
that projects from the face of the building and is supported entirely by the
building.
      NAMEPLATE. A wall sign stating the name of a person, firm or name or
description of a certain permitted use.
      POLE SIGN. A display sign supported by one or more columns, uprights or
braces in the ground surface and having a height in excess of seven feet. Also
included within this definition is a corporate or business flag(s) on a pole.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-713.png]
 
      PORTABLE SIGN. A sign and sign structure that is designed to facilitate
the movement of the sign from one zoning lot to another. The sign may or may
not have wheels, changeable lettering and/or hitches for towing. A sign shall
be considered PORTABLE only if the sign is manifestly designed to be portable
to facilitate its movement from one zoning lot to another. Signs capable of
being moved, other than from one zoning lot to another, shall be considered
freestanding signs under this chapter.
      PROJECTING SIGN. A sign that is affixed to any building or structure,
other than a marquee, and any part of which extends beyond the building wall or
structure more than 15 inches.
      SIGN. Any announcement, declaration, display, billboard, illustration and
insignia when designed and placed so as to attract general public attention.
SIGN shall include any banner, bulbs or other lighting devices, streamer,
pennant, inflated or deflated membrane device, propeller, flag (other than the
official flag of any nation or state) and any similar device of any type or
kind whether bearing lettering or not.
      SIGN, ACCESSORY. A sign whose content has relevance to the principal use
of the premises. (See also the definition of “directional sign”.)
      SIGN ALTERATION. The changing, enlarging or relocating of any sign,
excluding routine maintenance and also excluding the changing of movable parts
of an approved sign that is designed for such changes or the repainting or
reposting of original display matter, shall be deemed an ALTERATION.
      SIGN AREA. The entire area included within the single continuous
perimeter of a regular geometric form or combination of forms which encloses
the extreme limits of the writing, representation, emblem or other display,
together with any material or color forming an integral part of the background
of the display or used to differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure
against which it is placed, and including the area within any illuminated
border. An AREA so created shall include all solid surfaces as well as
openings. Supporting framework, bracing, structural members or decorative fence
or wall that is clearly incidental to the display itself and not bearing copy
or display material shall not be included in computation of SIGN AREA. If the
sign consists of more than one section or module, all of the area, including
that between sections or modules shall be included in the computation of SIGN
AREA. Where a sign has two or more faces, the area of all faces shall be
included in determining the area of the sign, except that where the two faces
are placed back to back, parallel to one another, and not more than 18 inches
apart, the area of the sign shall be taken as the area of one face if the two
faces are of equal area, or as the area of the larger face if the two faces are
of unequal area. For internally illuminated awnings or canopies, the entire
surface of the canopy is included in the calculation.
      SIGN, NON-ACCESSORY. A sign whose content does not have relevance to the
principal use of the premises. (An example is shown in the illustration of sign
types above.)
      TEMPORARY SIGN. A display sign, banner or other advertising device
constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, plastic or other light temporary material
(including pennants, streamers and flags other than the official flag of any
nation, state or organization respectfully displayed), inflated devices with or
without a structural frame, or any other sign intended for a limited period of
display, but not including decorative displays for holidays or public events.
Portable signs (in the definition above) also fall under this definition of
TEMPORARY SIGN.
      WALL SIGN. A display sign that is painted on or attached directly to the
building wall. Also included within this definition is a wall mounted corporate
or business flag.
   (B)   General requirements for all signs. The following conditions shall
also apply to all signs erected or located in any use district.
      (1)   All signs shall conform to all codes and ordinances of the township
and where required to conform with the building code shall also be approved by
the Building Inspector and a building permit issued.
      (2)   No sign, except those established and maintained by the township,
county, state or federal governments, shall be erected, located or placed in,
project into or overhang a public right-of-way or dedicated public easement.
      (3)   Signs of a utilitarian nature with no advertising intended to
provide orientation and to direct traffic and pedestrian movements. The signs
are for the purpose of promoting safety and ease of ingress, egress and use of
site facilities and services. Because directional signs are of a noncommercial,
aid-to-the-public nature, they shall be permitted in all use districts subject
to Planning Commission approval in those cases requiring site plan review and
subject to Zoning Administrator approval in all other instances. Directional
signs are to be of an appropriate size and character to accomplish their aid-
to-the-public objective.
      (4)   No sign otherwise permitted shall project above or beyond the
maximum height limitation of the use district in which located and provided
further that no freestanding sign, where permitted, shall exceed three feet in
height.
      (5)   No sign above a height of two feet shall be located within, project
into or overhang the triangular area formed at the intersection of street
right-of-way lines by a straight line drawn between the right-of-way lines at a
distance along each line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
      (6)   Accessory signs shall be permitted in any use district and may be
located in the required front yard except as otherwise provided herein.
      (7)   Except as provided by division (D)(1) below (involving prohibited
signs), non-accessory signs shall not be permitted in any zoning district in
the township, except that non-accessory signs pertaining to real estate
development located within the township and designated to promote the sale of
lots or homes within a subdivision located within the township may be permitted
on a temporary basis in any use district, but shall not be located upon
subdivided land, unless the land is part of the subdivision being advertised
for sale and shall be subject to the requirements and conditions of all codes
and ordinances of the township.
      (8)   Illumination of signs shall be only by means of white light at
constant intensity. Signs may be internally or externally illuminated, however,
all illumination shall be shielded, directed or shaded downward so as not to
interfere with driver visibility, become hazardous to traffic or the vision of
persons on adjacent streets or property. Flashing, animated or intermittent
type signs shall not be permitted.
      (9)   Signs used for advertising land or buildings for rent, lease and/or
for sale shall be permitted on the land or building intended to be rented,
leased and/or sold.
      (10)   Any sign, including framing, now or hereafter existing, which no
longer advertises a bona fide business conducted or a product or entertainment,
service or commodity offered or sold on the lot, shall be taken down and
removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building
or structure upon which the sign shall be found within 30 days after written
notice from the Zoning Administrator. Notice shall be sent to the property
owner of record, as indicated in township tax rolls, by certified mail. The
owner may petition the Zoning Board of Appeals for temporary approval to
install blank sign faces when it can be demonstrated that the sign structure is
likely to be reused within one year by a future business and the sign framework
is in sound structural condition.
      (11)   Connections to an energy source for lighting shall be in accord
with all codes of the township and shall not be exposed in any way that may
constitute a safety hazard to the public.
      (12)   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, non-
commercial messages shall be permitted on any sign on which commercial messages
are permitted.
      (13)   No sign shall include language or graphics referring to either
specified anatomical areas or specified sexual activities.
   (C)   Permitted signs by zoning district. All plans for the erection of
signs shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator for review and approval
and shall be further subject to all codes and ordinances of the township.
      (1)   A/R-Agricultural/Residential, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2-Single and Two-
Family Residential, and MHR-Manufactured Home District and RM Multiple-Family
Residential Districts, sign types allowed.
         (a)   For each dwelling unit, one nameplate not exceeding two square
feet in area, indicating the name of the occupant.
         (b)   For structures or uses other than dwelling units, one
identification sign not exceeding ten square feet.
         (c)   For churches, one accessory sign not to exceed 18 square feet,
except when located on a major thoroughfare or on a roadway with a posted speed
of 45 MHP or greater, in which case the size, may be increased to 32 square
feet.
         (d)   For rental and/or management offices in a multiple housing
development, an identification sign not exceeding six square feet.
         (e)   For lawfully permitted home occupations, one nameplate not
exceeding four square feet in area indicating the name of the lawful home
occupation.
      (2)   O Office District, GB General Business District, sign types
allowed. Ground or pole (not both), temporary and wall signs as defined in this
section and subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Ground sign.
            1.   One ground sign having a sign area of not more than 72 square
feet for a single face and 144 square feet for a total of all sign faces shall
be permitted. The sign shall not exceed six feet in height.
            2.   Not more than one ground sign may be erected accessory, to any
one development, regardless of the number of buildings, separate parties,
tenants or uses contained therein, except that when any single development is
located on a parcel of land that abuts on two or more streets, one ground sign
may be erected along each street frontage.
            3.   The distance measured between the principal faces of any
ground sign shall not exceed 18 inches.
            4.   Ground signs shall be setback from the planned right-of-way
line in accordance with the following schedule (except that along State Hwy. M-
25, the sign shall be setback two feet outside of the existing right-of-way).
 
Maximum Height of Sign Minimum Setback from Proposed R.O.W.
2 feet                 6 feet
2-1/2 feet             8 feet
3 feet                 10 feet
4 feet                 14 feet
5 feet                 16 feet
6 feet                 20 feet
 
            5.   Ground signs shall be utilized only for identification of the
uses allowed in the zoning district and shall not be utilized to advertise
products for sale.
            6.   Ground signs may be illuminated as required by divisions (B)
(8) and (B)(11) above.
            7.   Time and temperature signs shall be permitted.
            8.   All ground signs shall be securely built, constructed and
erected upon an approved foundation extending at least 42 inches below the
material surface of the ground.
            9.   All letters, figures, characters, items or representations in
cutout or irregular form maintained in conjunction with, attached to or
superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to
the sign structure. Loose or missing letters, figures, characters or items
shall constitute a maintenance violation.
         (b)   Pole signs.
            1.   Not more than one pole sign may be erected accessory to any
one development, regardless of the number of buildings, separate parties,
tenants or uses contained therein.
            2.   It shall be unlawful to erect any pole sign to a height
greater than 18 feet above the level of the street upon which the sign faces.
The vertical distance from all points on the bottom of the sign face to the
nearest point on ground shall be not less than seven feet, and the sign shall
be so erected as not to obstruct traffic vision.
            3.   Pole signs may be illuminated as required by divisions (B)(8)
and (11) above.
            4.   Time and temperature signs shall be permitted.
            5.   All pole signs shall be securely built, constructed and
erected upon posts and standards at least 42 inches below the material surface
of the ground and shall be embedded in concrete. Wood or wood products shall be
of wolmanized or equal treatment.
            6.   All letters, figures, characters, items or representations in
cutout or irregular form maintained in conjunction with, attached to or
superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to
the sign structure. Loose or missing letters, figures, characters or items
shall constitute a maintenance violation.
            7.   The distance measured between the principal faces of any pole
sign shall not exceed 18 inches.
            8.   Sign height, setback (all portions of sign) and size for pole
signs.
                                                                            Minimum   Maximum
                                                                            Setback** Area*
                                                                            Required  of
Maximum Height (See division (C)(2)(b) “Pole Signs” above for method of from edge Single
measuring height (in feet))                                                 of        Sign
                                                                            proposed  Face
                                                                            R.O.W.    (in
                                                                            (in feet) square
                                                                                      feet)
                                                                            Minimum   Maximum
                                                                            Setback** Area*
                                                                            Required  of
Maximum Height (See division (C)(2)(b) “Pole Signs” above for method of from edge Single
measuring height (in feet))                                                 of        Sign
                                                                            proposed  Face
                                                                            R.O.W.    (in
                                                                            (in feet) square
                                                                                      feet)
14                                                                          12        60
15                                                                          14        60
16                                                                          16        60
17                                                                          17        60
18                                                                          19        60
*In those instances where more than one sign face is proposed, the maximum area of all sign
faces shall not exceed two times the area prescribed for a single-faced sign (See division
(A)(6) Sign area for calculation of permitted sign area)
**Except that along State Hwy. M-25, the sign shall be setback two feet outside of the
existing right-of-way
 
         (c)   Temporary signs.
            1.   Portable sign: there shall be no more than one portable sign
on any one zoning lot. The portable sign shall be licensed as a temporary sign
for periods not to exceed seven days in a 30-consecutive-day period and not to
exceed 28 days in any one year. Each face of the sign shall not exceed 32
square feet in area and shall not exceed six feet in height. In no instance
shall the sign be located so as to obstruct or occupy parking spaces or
automobile or pedestrian travel lanes. The signs shall not flash or be located
so as to obstruct traffic vision, and lighting shall be of a type so as not to
be confused with traffic controls and not to cause distraction to vehicle
drivers.
            2.   For sale or rental of individual units, there shall be no more
than one like sign, except that on a corner lot two signs, one facing each
street, shall be permitted. No like sign shall exceed six square feet in area
for each side of the sign. All the signs shall be removed within one week after
a lease or sale contract has been signed.
            3.   Signs advertising buildings under construction may be erected
for the period of construction and shall not exceed a face area of 32 square
feet for each side of the sign. The signs shall be erected on the building or
lot where the construction is being carried on and shall advertise only the
architect, contractor, subcontractor, building or materials and equipment used.
There shall be no more than one such sign per individual contractor or
supplier. All the signs shall be removed at the point an occupancy permit is
granted or at project completion if no occupancy permit is required.
            4.   One temporary sign may be displayed for any new business or
owner for a period of time not to exceed 28 consecutive days.
            5.   No temporary sign may have a single face area greater than 32
square feet nor be of greater height than the top of the wall to which it is
attached. If the temporary sign is not attached to a wall, the sign shall be
attached so the bottom edge of the sign is not less than seven feet six inches
above grade and shall not exceed 12 feet in overall height.
            6.   No temporary sign shall be strung across any public right-of-
way, nor shall any temporary sign project beyond the property line, except as
part of an authorized public event.
            7.   Temporary signs shall be removed promptly at the end of the
display period provided for above.
            8.   Temporary signs found by the Zoning Administrator to be in a
torn or damaged condition must be removed by the owner within three days after
his or her receipt of notice to do so from the Zoning Administrator. Temporary
signs found to be unsafe shall be removed immediately upon receipt of notice
from the Zoning Administrator.
         (d)   Wall signs.
            1.   Wall signs may be provided on all street sides, front sides or
parking lot sides of a building, and the total surface area of all wall signs
shall not exceed 10% of the area of the front elevation (including doors and
windows) of the principal building or three square feet for each lineal foot of
building frontage, or 100 square feet, whichever is less. Where a single
principal building is devoted to two or more businesses or commercial uses, the
operator of each use may install a front wall sign. The maximum area of each
sign shall be determined by determining the proportionate share of the front
face (including doors and windows) of the principal building occupied by each
such use and applying the proportion of the total sign area permitted from the
front wall of the building; or the percent agreed to by the occupants, total
not to exceed the above area limitations. It is the responsibility of the
applicant to provide the required information when applying for a sign permit.
            2.   The sign may be illuminated as required by divisions (B)(8)
and (11).
            3.   Time and temperature signs shall be permitted.
            4.   All wall signs of a greater area than 50 square feet shall
have a surface or facing of noncombustible material.
            5.   Limitation on placement: no wall sign shall cover wholly or
partially any wall opening nor project beyond the ends or top of the wall to
which it is attached.
            6.   No wall sign shall have a greater thickness than 12 inches
measured from the wall to which it is attached to the outermost surface. Wall
signs may project over the public right-of-way not to exceed 12 inches,
provided clearance of not less than seven feet six inches is maintained below
the sign if the sign projects more than four inches. The sign shall not project
above the roofline.
            7.   All wall signs shall be safely and securely attached to
structural members of the building by means of metal anchors, bolts or
expansion screws. In no case shall any wall sign be secured with wire, strips
of wood or nails. The method of attachment shall be stated on the permit
application.
      (3)   RCC Recreation, Conservation and Cemetery Districts sign types
allowed. All sign types allowed and as controlled for the O and GB Districts.
      (4)   I Industrial Districts sign types allowed. All sign types allowed
and as controlled for the O and GB Districts.
      (5)   Permitted signs accessory to churches, schools or nonprofit
institutions; sign types allowed (all use districts). Churches, colleges,
schools, buildings housing governmental functions and utilities of the
township, county or state or any subdivision thereof are permitted to erect
signs. The signs, when of a permanent nature, shall meet all the requirements
of this chapter and other ordinances of the township except as provided herein
and may include ground, portable, pole, temporary and wall signs as defined in
this chapter. Temporary signs advertising special events may be allowed for
periods not to exceed two weeks.
   (D)   Prohibited signs. Any sign type that is not defined within this
chapter shall be subject to review and approval by the township. The following
signs are prohibited within the township, except as otherwise provided for in
division (C)(2)(c) above (Temporary Signs):
      (1)   Non-accessory signs, except along a state highway provided that
they shall conform to all requirements for signs by sign type (i.e., ground,
pole, wall and the like) for the zoning district in which they are located,
including but not limited to: number, area, height, lighting and setback. The
number and area of the signs shall fall within, and shall not be in addition
to, the limits provided for each sign type for the district in which located;
      (2)   String lights used in connection with business premises for
commercial purposes, other than holiday decorations;
      (3)   Any sign unlawfully installed, erected or maintained;
      (4)   Signs on any fencepost, tree, utility pole or similar object;
      (5)   Any sign or banner erected upon or across any public right-of-way
or dedicated public easement except as otherwise provided within this section;
      (6)   Signs that incorporate flashing lights in any manner;
      (7)   Any sign or other advertising structure upon which is displayed any
obscene, indecent or immoral matter. Any sign that includes language or
graphics referring to either specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities;
      (8)   Signs which move, rotate or have any moving or animated parts or
image, whether movement is caused by machinery, electronics, wind or otherwise,
including swinging signs;
      (9)   Strings of flags, streamers or pennants;
      (10)   Inflated or deflated membrane devices;
      (11)   Signs on park-type benches;
      (12)   Freestanding signs;
      (13)   Any sign on the roof of any building;
      (14)   Marquee signs;
      (15)   Projecting signs; and
      (16)   Vehicles used as signs: Any sign on a motor vehicle or trailer
which is parked in front of or at a business, or in a manner so that it is
visible from a public street or from a residential zoning district, which is
used primarily for the purpose of advertising a business, product or service is
prohibited.
   (E)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   All signs which were in existence as of November 20, 1996, and
which were permanently affixed to real property that do not conform to the
provisions of this chapter shall be permitted to continue until a time as they
are removed or until any structural or configuration changes are necessary, at
which time they shall conform to the provisions of this chapter. The provisions
of this division (E) shall not apply to electrical maintenance, repainting or
changing of the message.
      (2)   A property that is a nonconforming use of land under §
154.022, shall not be permitted to add additional signs to the buildings or
property, other than those already existing at the effective date of this
chapter. Signs on nonconforming uses shall be maintained in good repair or be
removed, and the removal shall be conditional to divisions (F) and (G) below.
      (3)   No permits for the installation, erection or placement of any new
signs shall be issued while a nonconforming sign or an unlawful sign remains in
use upon the same premises.
      (4)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, a lawful
nonconforming accessory pole sign existing at the effective date of this
chapter and located within a GB District, may (within 90 days of the date of
casualty) be replaced or reconstructed if damaged or destroyed by wind, fire,
flood, vehicles or by other casualty, provided the replacement or
reconstruction will not create a greater nonconformity than existed prior to
the damage or destruction.
   (F)   Unsafe or damaged signs. Signs shall be subject to inspections, and
when the condition of a sign is questionable, the owner or occupant shall
obtain a professional engineer’s report, certifying the condition of the sign.
Failure to submit the report and make any specified corrections is a direct
violation which will result in court action and order for the sign removal.
   (G)   Sign maintenance. All signs, including those for which a permit is not
required, together with all their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall be
maintained in good working order; and when not galvanized or constructed of
approved corrosion resistant, noncombustible materials shall be painted when
necessary to prevent corrosion. The exteriors of all signs, supporting members,
painted surfaces, advertising materials and lettering shall be kept painted and
in good repair so as to present a neat and orderly appearance and so as not to
create visual blight within the township. All bulbs or component parts of the
sign, including the electrical switches, boxes and wiring used in the
illumination of the sign, must be well maintained and in good repair. Loose or
missing letters, figures, characters or items shall constitute a maintenance
violation. Signs that lack maintenance shall be removed. It shall be the duty
and responsibility of the owner or lessee of every sign to maintain the
immediate premises occupied by the sign in a clean, sanitary and healthful
condition.
   (H)   Sign permits required. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect,
replace, repair (if cost of reconstruction or repair exceeds 50% of the
reproduction cost of the sign), alter or relocate any sign within the township,
as defined in this section, without first obtaining a permit from the Zoning
Administrator, with the exception of the following.
      (1)   Signs that are not subject to regulation under this chapter.
         (a)   Wall signs used as nameplates, not exceeding two square feet in
area; occupational signs denoting only the name and profession of the occupant
in a commercial, public or other institutional building and not exceeding two
square feet in area;
         (b)   Message boards not over 20 square feet in area for governmental,
educational and religious institutions when the same are located on the
premises of the institutions; provided, however, if the signs are electrically
illuminated, an electrical permit must be obtained;
         (c)   Memorial signs or tablets, names of buildings and date of
erection when cut into any masonry surface or when constructed of bronze or
aluminum;
         (d)   Traffic or other municipal signs, legal notices, danger and
temporary emergency or non-advertising signs;
         (e)   Signs advertising the rental, sale, lease or open house of the
property upon which they are located;
         (f)   Flags of recognized federal, state, county or township
governments, but not including corporate or business flags;
         (g)   Decorative displays, except for those that occupy a public
right-of-way as regulated by this section;
         (h)   No hunting signs, no fishing signs, no trespassing signs; and
         (i)   Political signs relating to the election of a person to public
office, relating to a political party, or a matter to be voted upon at an
election called by a public body, provided:
            1.   They are placed outside the highway or road right-of-way and
in no way create a traffic hazard due to reduced vision of motorists or
pedestrians;
            2.   Permission has been obtained from the property owner or
occupant; and
            3.   That the signs are erected no earlier than 60 days prior to
the election and are removed no later than ten days after the election.
      (2)   Application for sign permit. Applications for permits shall be made
upon forms provided by the Zoning Administrator or other designated official
and shall contain or have attached thereto the following information:
         (a)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and
landowner;
         (b)   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which
the sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
         (c)   Position and location of the sign or other advertising structure
in relation to nearby buildings or structures;
         (d)   Two blueprints or drawings of the sign showing specifications
and methods of construction and attachment to the building or in the ground;
         (e)   Name of sign company, person, firm, corporation or association
erecting the structure;
         (f)   In all cases where wiring is to be used in connection with the
structure, it shall comply with the Township Electrical Code. The Electrical
Inspector shall approve and affix his or her signature to the permit if it is
deemed necessary by the Electrical Inspector; and
         (g)   Other information as the Zoning Administrator shall require to
show full compliance with this section and all other ordinances of the
township.
      (3)   Sign permit fee. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or
alter any sign, except those signs specifically exempted herein, unless a
permit shall first have been obtained from the Zoning Administrator for the
erection or alteration and a permit fee paid to the township according to the
schedule as shall be established from time to time by resolution of the
Township Board.
      (4)   Sign permit revocable at any time.
         (a)   All rights and privileges accrued under the provisions of this
section or any amendment thereto are mere licenses and may be revoked upon the
violation of any of the conditions contained herein. If the work authorized
under an erection permit has not been completed within six months after the
date of issuance, the permit shall become null and void and a new permit shall
be necessary to continue the project.
         (b)   Partially completed signs, if abandoned, shall be removed by the
erector upon notice from the Zoning Administrator, an opportunity for the
permit holder to respond and a final determination by the Township Board.
      (5)   Permit number. Every sign shall have placed in a conspicuous place
thereon, in letters not less than one-half inch in height, the date of
erection, the permit number and the voltage of any electrical apparatus used in
connection therewith.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006) (Ord. passed 10-20-2008) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.026 STREETS, ALLEYS AND RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   All streets, private roads, alleys and railroad rights-of-way, if not
otherwise specifically designated, shall be deemed to be in the same zone as
the property immediately abutting upon the street or alley that serves as a
district boundary. The zoning of the street or alley, unless otherwise
specifically designated, shall be deemed to be the same as that of the abutting
property up to the centerline.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.027 SWIMMING POOLS.
   All swimming pools, as defined in the State Building Code, as may be
hereinafter amended, that are proposed to be erected in the township shall
comply with the State Building Code and the following requirements.
   (A)   Application. The application for a zoning compliance permit (see §
154.146) to erect a swimming pool shall include the name of the owner, a plot
plan, location of adjacent buildings, and nearby fences or other structures.
   (B)   Pool location. Pools may be located in the rear yard of any
residential property, the front yard of any property abutting Lake Huron or the
side yard of a residential property on a corner lot. The minimum side yard
setback of the pool as measured from the outside pool wall to the lot line
shall comply with §
154.063. Furthermore, the pool fence must not be built within the required
front yard or required corner lot side yard. Rear yard setback shall not be
less than four feet between the pool outside wall and the rear property line,
or less than the established easement width at the rear property line, or less
than four feet between pool wall and any building on the lot.
   (C)   Pool fences. Pool fences shall be at least the minimum height provided
by the state building codes and not more than 48 inches tall or the minimum
height provided by the state building codes, whichever is greater. Pool fences
shall be located not less than five feet and not more than 20 feet from the
nearest outside wall of the pool.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006) (Ord. passed 7-6-2010)
§ 154.028 BOATS, RVS AND HOBBY VEHICLES IN THE YARD.
   (A)   Parking and storage in residential yards of RVs, boats, personal
watercraft, snowmobiles, machinery, golf carts and similar private-use vehicles
(hereinafter called “hobby vehicles”).
      (1)   If property is over two acres, the property owner may park his or
her hobby vehicles on the driveway during the season of use. Hobby vehicles
also may be parked elsewhere in the front yard, except within the required
front yard setback. Off-season, hobby vehicles may be stored in a side or rear
yard, except that minimum setbacks must be observed and screening from view of
adjacent property may be required upon investigation by the Zoning
Administrator. No limitations are placed on the number of hobby vehicles that
household occupants may park or store if they own them.
      (2)   For lots under two acres that meet the minimum lot size for their
district:
         (a)   The property owner’s hobby vehicles may be parked on the
property for the season of use. Except when parked on the driveway, the vehicle
may not be parked within ten feet of the edge of the road;
         (b)   Off-season storage of seasonal hobby vehicles is not permitted
in front yards; and
         (c)   No hobby vehicles except those owned by household occupants,
their parents and/or their children may be stored or continuously parked on the
property.
      (3)   For lots under the minimum size in the R-1 District, the property
owner’s boat or other hobby vehicle may be parked for up to one week in the
front, back or side yard, so long as it does not block any portion of the
street or sidewalk.
         (a)   Off-season storage of seasonal hobby vehicles is not permitted
in front yards, except those fronting on Lake Huron.
         (b)   No hobby vehicles except those owned by household occupants may
be stored or parked on the property.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator, upon notifying the property owner of the
ordinance, may grant a reasonable time for removal of an improperly parked or
stored hobby vehicle. An extension shall be in writing and be issued on a one-
time-only basis per property owner.
   (C)   Condominiums, subdivisions and private road associations may make
their own regulations, which may be more restrictive, but shall not be less
restrictive that those herein.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.029 MANUFACTURED HOUSING OUTSIDE OF MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITIES.
   Manufactured houses that do not conform to the standards of §
154.003 shall not be used for dwelling purposes within the township unless
located within a manufactured housing community or a manufactured housing plat
zoned for those uses, or unless used for temporary residence purposes as
hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.030 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations shall be subject to the requirements of the zoning district
in which they are located, as well as the following standards, unless otherwise
specified elsewhere in this chapter.
   (A)   Home occupations must be customarily incidental to the use of the
dwelling as a residence.
   (B)   No outdoor display or storage of materials, goods, supplies or
equipment used in the home occupation shall be permitted on the premises.
   (C)   The appearance of the principal structure shall not be altered, nor
shall the home occupation be conducted in a manner that would cause the
premises to differ from its residential character either by the use of colors,
materials, construction, lighting, signs or the emission of sounds, noises or
vibrations.
   (D)   Only the residents of the dwelling unit may be employed on the
premises.
   (E)   The home occupation may increase vehicular traffic flow and parking by
no more than one additional vehicle at a time. No more than ten customers or
clients shall come to the dwelling unit for services or products during any one
day. Any need for parking generated by the conduct of the home occupation shall
be met off the street and other than in the required front yard.
   (F)   No home occupation shall require internal or external alterations or
involve construction features or the use of electrical or mechanical equipment
that would change the fire rating of the structure.
   (G)   One non-illuminated nameplate, not more than four square feet in area,
shall be permitted. The sign shall be attached flat to the building wall, and
shall display only the name and occupation of a resident on the premises.
   (H)   A home occupation shall not create noise, dust, vibration, odors,
smoke, glare, electrical interference, fire hazard or any other hazard or
nuisance to any greater or more frequent extent than would normally be
generated in a similarly zoned residential district.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.031 REGULATION OF CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all condominium developments within
the township.
   (A)   Initial information. Concurrently with notice required to be given the
township, pursuant to § 71 of Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
through 559.272, as amended (the Condominium Act), a person, firm or
corporation intending to develop a condominium project shall provide the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of:
         (a)   All persons, firms or corporations with an ownership interest in
the land on which the condominium development will be located together with a
description of the nature of each entity’s interest (for example, fee owner,
optionee or land contract vendee);
         (b)   All engineers, attorneys, architects, planners or registered
land surveyors associated with the project; and
         (c)   The developer or proprietor of the condominium development.
      (2)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium
development will be developed together with appropriate tax identification
numbers;
      (3)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium
development will be developed;
      (4)   The purpose of the development (for example, residential,
commercial, industrial and the like);
      (5)   Approximate number of condominium units to be developed on the
subject parcel;
      (6)   Whether or not a community water system is contemplated; and
      (7)   Whether or not a community septic system is contemplated.
   (B)   Information to be kept current. The information shall be furnished to
the Township Zoning Administrator and shall be kept updated until a time as a
certificate of occupancy has been issued, pursuant to §
154.147.
   (C)   Site plans for new projects, application and review fees.
      (1)   Review procedures: All condominium plans submitted to the township
shall follow the same review process as outlined in division (I)(1) below.
      (2)   All condominium plans shall meet the design requirements outlined
in division (I)(4) below.
      (3)   Prior to recording of the master deed, required by § 72 of Public
Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended, the
condominium development shall undergo site plan review and approval, pursuant
to §
154.150. In addition, the township shall require appropriate engineering plans,
including as-built drawings and inspections, prior to the issuance of any
certificates of occupancy.
      (4)   Application and review fees for condominium developments shall be
established by resolution of the Township Board. In addition to the application
fee, and prior to plan review, the applicant shall deposit with the township an
amount sufficient to cover the estimated cost of reasonable engineering and
legal reviews. If the actual cost of the reviews exceeds the amount initially
deposited, the applicant shall reimburse the township for the balance of the
cost prior to the issuance of any permits for the project. Unused deposits
shall be returned to the applicant upon final completion and inspection of the
project.
   (D)   Site plans for expandable or convertible projects. Prior to expansion
or conversion of a condominium development to additional land, the new phase of
the project shall undergo site plan review and approval pursuant to §
154.150.
   (E)   Master deed, restrictive covenants and “as-built” survey to be
furnished. The condominium development developer or proprietor shall furnish
the Zoning Administrator with the following: one copy of the recorded Master
Deed; one copy of all restrictive covenants and two copies of an “as-built
survey”. The “as-built survey” shall be reviewed by the Township Engineer for
compliance with township ordinances. Fees for this review shall be established
by resolution of the Township Board.
   (F)   Monuments required.
      (1)   All condominium projects. All condominium projects shall be marked
at their boundaries with monuments meeting the requirements of division (F)(3)
(a) below.
      (2)   Site condominium projects. All condominium developments, which
consist in whole or in part of condominium units which are residential,
commercial or industrial building sites, mobile home sites or recreational
sites, shall be marked with monuments as provided in this division (F).
      (3)   Miscellaneous.
         (a)   All monuments used shall be made of solid iron or steel bars at
least one-half inch in diameter and 36 inches long and completely encased in
concrete at least four inches in diameter.
         (b)   Monuments shall be located in the ground at these locations: at
all angles in the boundaries of the condominium development, at the
intersection lines of streets, at the intersection of the lines of streets with
the boundaries of the condominium development, and at the intersection of
alleys with the boundaries of the condominium development, at all points of
curvature, points of tangency, points of compound curvatures, points of reverse
curvature and angle points in the side lines of streets and alleys, and at all
angles of an intermediate traverse line. It is not intended or required that
monuments be placed within the traveled portion of a street to mark angles in
the boundary of the condominium development if the angle points can be readily
reestablished by reference to monuments along the sidelines of the streets.
         (c)   If the required location of a monument is in an inaccessible
place or where the locating of a monument would be clearly impracticable, it is
sufficient to place a reference monument nearby and the precise location
thereof be clearly indicated on the plans and referenced to the true point.
         (d)   If a point required to be monumented is on a bedrock
outcropping, a steel rod, at least one-half inch in diameter shall be drilled
and grouted into solid rock to a depth of at least eight inches.
         (e)   All required monuments shall be placed flush with the ground
where practicable.
         (f)   All unit corners, all intersections in the boundary or
boundaries of all limited common elements, and all intersections in the
boundary or boundaries of common elements shall be monumented, in the field, by
iron or steel bars or iron pipes at least 18 inches long and one-half inch in
diameter, or other approved markers.
         (g)   The Township Board may waive, for a reasonable time, not-to-
exceed one year, the placing of any of the required monuments and markers, on
the condition that the proprietor deposits, with the Township Clerk, in an
amount to be established by the Township Board, by resolution: cash, a
certified check or irrevocable bank letter of credit to the township, whichever
the proprietor selects. The cash, certified check or irrevocable bank letter of
credit shall be returned to the proprietor upon receipt of a certificate,
issued by a surveyor, that the monuments and markers have been placed as
required within the time specified.
   (G)   Compliance with federal, state and local laws. All condominium
developments shall comply with federal and state statutes and local ordinances.
   (H)   Temporary certificate of completion. The Zoning Administrator may
issue a temporary certificate of completion of the condominium development
before all improvements, required by this chapter are installed, provided that
an adequate performance guarantee, as set forth in division (I)(19) below, has
been provided to provide for the installation of improvements before the
expiration of the temporary certificate of completion and without expense to
the township.
   (I)   Site condominiums.
      (1)   Review procedures. Pursuant to authority conferred by § 141 of the
Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended, before condominium units may be sold or site improvements
initiated, all condominium subdivision plans must be approved by the Township
Board, following review and recommendation for approval by the Planning
Commission. In determining whether to recommend a condominium subdivision plan
for approval to the Township Board, the Planning Commission shall consult with
the Zoning Administrator, Township Attorney, Township Engineer and Township
Planner regarding the adequacy of the master deed, deed restrictions, utility
systems and streets, development layout and design and compliance with all
requirements of the Condominium Act and this chapter. The review process shall
consist of two steps.
         (a)   Preliminary plan review. In the preliminary plan review phase,
the Planning Commission shall review the overall plan for the site, including
basic road and unit configurations, and the consistency of the plans with all
applicable provisions of this chapter and Master Plan. Plans submitted for
preliminary review shall only be required to include information specified in
divisions (I)(2)(a) through (d) below of the submission requirements as set
forth below. Section 154.150, site plan review information not required at this
stage. The plans shall be submitted for review and comment to all applicable
local, county and state agencies as may be appropriate, and as determined by
the Planning Commission.
         (b)   Final plan review. Upon receipt of preliminary plan approval,
the applicant should prepare the appropriate engineering plans and apply for
final review by the Planning Commission. Final plans shall include information
as required by divisions (I)(2)(a) through (i) below of the submission
requirements as set forth below and the requirements for site plans contained
in §
154.150. Plans shall be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator, Township Planner,
township attorney and/or the township engineer. Further, the plans shall be
submitted for review and comment to all applicable local, county, and state
agencies as may be appropriate, and as determined by the Planning Commission.
The Township Board may grant approval of the final plans after receiving the
recommendation of the Planning Commission, and following expiration of the time
allotted to other parties to review and comment on the plans.
      (2)   Exhibits required. In addition to the requirements of § 66 of the
Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.166, and the requirements for site plans
contained in §
154.150, all plans for site condominium projects presented for approval shall
contain the following information:
         (a)   Survey of the condominium subdivision site;
         (b)   A survey or drawing delineating all natural features on the site
including, but not limited to: ponds, streams, lakes, drains, floodplains,
wetlands and woodland areas;
         (c)   The location size, shape, area and width of all condominium
units and common elements, and the location of all proposed streets;
         (d)   A generalized plan for the provision of utilities and drainage
systems;
         (e)   A copy of the master deed and a copy of all restrictive
covenants to be applied to the project;
         (f)   A utility plan showing all sanitary sewer, water and storm
drainage improvements, including all easements to be granted to the township
for repair and maintenance of all utilities;
         (g)   A street construction, paving and maintenance plan for all
streets within the proposed condominium subdivision;
         (h)   A storm drainage and storm water management plan, including all
lines, swales, drains, basins and other facilities; and
         (i)   A mechanism contained in the master deed and/or bylaws providing
for the continued maintenance of all common elements.
      (3)   Condominium development. A site condominium development, whether
intended for residential, commercial or industrial use shall be subject to all
of the requirements and standards of the applicable zoning district in which
the development is located.
      (4)   Design. The design of a site condominium project shall be subject
to the design layout and engineering standards, as provided below, except as
may otherwise be provided by this chapter. Unless otherwise provided herein,
all newly created streets, regardless of whether they are to be in public or
private ownership, shall conform to at least all minimum requirements of the
general specifications and typical cross sections, including bituminous or
concrete paving standards, as set forth in the manual entitled “Procedures and
Specifications for Plat Street Development” adopted January 17, 1995, as
amended, issued by the County Road Commission.
         (a)   Location, arrangement and design of streets.
            1.   The street layout shall provide for continuation of collector
streets in the adjoining subdivision or of the proper projection of streets
when adjoining property is not subdivided; or conform to a plan for a
neighborhood unit drawn up and adopted by the Planning Commission.
            2.   The street layout shall include local streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
            3.   Should a proposed condominium development border on or contain
an existing or proposed major thoroughfare, the Planning Commission may require
marginal access streets, reverse frontage or other treatment as may be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford
separation and reduction of traffic hazards.
            4.   Should a proposed condominium development border on or contain
a railroad, expressway or other limited access highway right-of-way, the
Planning Commission may require the location of a street approximately parallel
to and on each side of the right-of-way at a distance suitable for the
development of an appropriate use of the intervening land such as for parks in
residential districts. The distances shall be determined with due consideration
to the minimum distance required for approach grades to future grade
separation.
            5.   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where absolutely
essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with
the other requirements of these regulations and where the Planning Commission
finds it will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when
the adjoining property is developed. Wherever there exists adjacent to the
tract to be developed, a dedicated or platted and recorded half street, the
other half shall be platted or otherwise included in the condominium
subdivision.
            6.   Should a proposed condominium development border upon or
contain an existing or proposed canal, channel or drainage-way, the Planning
Commission may require the location of a bridge facility suitable to permit the
unimpeded flow of water and the passage of water-borne vehicles.
            7.   Should a proposed condominium development border upon a public
road for which the existing right-of-way is less than the planned right-of-way
as shown on the County Thoroughfare Plan (or Township Thoroughfare Plan if one
has been adopted), additional right-of-way in the amount necessary to conform
to the thoroughfare plan shall be dedicated to the state or county (as may be
applicable) as a condition of approval.
            8.   For projects in which private roads are proposed, the proposed
condominium shall have fee simple ownership of all means of ingress and egress
by which the proposed condominium is to be connected to a public road or
street. Shared ownership of ingress and egress or other modification of this
requirement must be approved by the Planning Commission after first receiving a
recommendation from the Township Planner and other professional reviewers as
deemed appropriate.
         (b)   Street right-of-way, pavement widths and other requirements.
            1.   Culverts and bridges shall have a minimum design loading
capacity (American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials,
AASHTO, standard HS20 or greater) to provide for safe passage of emergency
vehicles.
            2.   Street right-of-way and pavement widths shall conform to at
least the following minimum requirements:
Street Type Right-of-Way Width Pavement Width*
Street Type                  Right-of-Way Width Pavement Width*
Curbed Streets (Enclosed Drainage)
Collector streets            86 feet            36 feet
Industrial streets           86 feet            36 feet
Local residential and other
types of streets w/utilities 66 feet            30 feet**
within the right-of-way
Local residential and other
types of streets w/utilities 60 feet            30 feet**
outside of right-of-way
Cul-de-sac                   75-foot radius     56-foot outside radius 34-foot
                                                inside radius 22-foot width
Uncurbed Streets (Open Drainage)
Collector streets            86 feet            22 feet
Local residential and other  80 feet            22 feet
types of streets
Cul-de-sac                   75-foot radius     56-foot outside radius
*Pavement width is measured from back of curb to back of curb.
**Streets providing access to more than 50 lots shall have a pavement width of
36 feet.
Certain referenced streets defined:
                             A street so constructed that it only allows travel
Half street                  of one vehicle (e.g., automobile width) going in
                             either direction. Typically a half street will be
                             one-half, or about one-half the width required.
                             A local street parallel and adjacent to a
                             collector thoroughfare, a major or secondary
                             thoroughfare and intercepts other local streets
                             and controls access to a collector thoroughfare, a
Marginal access street       major or secondary thoroughfare, sometimes
                             referred to as a frontage street. A marginal
                             access street will often provide direct access to
                             abutting land and will also provide for local
                             traffic movements.
                             A local street which runs generally parallel to,
                             but removed one condominium unit (e.g., lot) width
                             from a collector thoroughfare, a major or
                             secondary thoroughfare and intercepts other local
                             streets and controls access to a collector
Reverse frontage street      thoroughfare, a major or secondary thoroughfare. A
                             reverse frontage street by providing direct access
                             to abutting land is intended to eliminate the need
                             for condominium units (e.g., lots) to obtain
                             access from a collector thoroughfare, a major or
                             secondary thoroughfare.
                             A street that typically has a planned right-of-way
                             of 86 feet and has three purposes. First, it
                             collects traffic from local streets and
                             distributes that traffic to local destinations or
Collector street             major or secondary thoroughfares. Second, it
                             funnels through traffic from major and/or
                             secondary thoroughfares to local destinations.
                             Third, a collector street can provide internal
                             circulation and access to major shopping centers
                             and industrial parks.
                             A street intended primarily to serve traffic
                             within an area of industrial development or
Industrial street            proposed industrial development. Those streets are
                             typically constructed to a standard that
                             accommodates vehicles carrying heavy loads.
 
            3.   No on-street parking shall be allowed unless the street has
been designed to accommodate parking in a manner approved by the Planning
Commission. The master deed shall contain adequate mechanisms to ensure that
streets will be properly maintained. These provisions shall be reviewed and
approved by the township’s engineer and attorney. If the street is private,
policing of “no parking” shall be the responsibility of the condominium
association. If the association fails to adequately police “no parking”, the
township may warn and/or fine the association in accordance with policy, law
and terms adopted by the Township Board.
            4.   Minimum length for cul-de-sac streets shall be 140 feet.
Maximum length for cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed one-half mile, measured
from the centerline intersection of streets to the center point of the cul-de-
sac circle.
            5.   Curbs and gutters, when provided, shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the County Road
Commission. All traffic islands and medians shall be provided with concrete
curbing.
            6.   All driveway openings onto streets or access across road
ditches shall be as specified by the County Road Commission or the State
Department of Transportation as applicable.
            7.   All streets that are not dedicated to the public shall be
properly maintained. The surface shall be kept in good repair. Accumulations of
snow and ice shall be promptly removed. The master deed shall contain adequate
mechanisms to ensure that streets will be properly maintained. those provisions
shall be reviewed and approved by the township’s engineer and attorney.
         (c)   Easements.
            1.   Location of utility easements shall be provided as necessary
for utilities. The easements shall be a total of not less than 12 feet wide,
and six feet from each proposed condominium unit site.
            2.   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone,
television, natural gas and electric company easements should be sought from
all of the utility companies serving the area. It shall be the responsibility
of the proprietor to submit copies of the proposed condominium development plan
to all appropriate public utility agencies.
            3.   Easements six feet in width, three feet from each condominium
unit site shall be provided where needed along side condominium unit boundary
lines so as to provide for street light dropouts. Prior to the approval of the
condominium subdivision plan, a statement shall be obtained from the
appropriate public utility indicating that easements have been provided along
specific condominium unit boundaries. A notation shall be made on the
condominium subdivision plan indicating: “The side boundary lines between
condominium units (indicating building envelope numbers) are subject to street
light dropout rights granted to the (name of utility company).”
      (5)   Condominium units within site condominium developments. Condominium
units within site condominium developments shall conform to the following
standards.
         (a)   The unit size, width, depth and shape of any site condominium
shall be appropriate for the location and type of development contemplated.
         (b)   Condominium unit areas and widths and building setback lines
shall conform to at least the minimum lot and setback requirements of this
chapter for the district in which the site condominium is proposed.
         (c)   Condominium units situated on corners in residential condominium
subdivisions shall be at least 20 feet wider than the minimum lot width
permitted by this chapter. In instances where the minimum required lot width is
greater than 100 feet, this requirement shall not apply.
         (d)   Excessive condominium unit depth in relation to width shall be
avoided. A depth-to-width ratio of three to one shall normally be considered a
maximum by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may vary from this
maximum due to physical conditions of the land or other circumstances that may
justify greater depth.
         (e)   Condominium units intended for purposes other than residential
use shall be specifically designed for those purposes, and shall have adequate
provision for off-street parking, setbacks and other requirements in accordance
with this chapter.
         (f)   Every condominium unit shall front or abut on a street for the
full width of the unit. The measurement of unit width shall be determined in
the same manner as prescribed in the zoning ordinance for “lots”.
         (g)   Side condominium unit lines shall be at right angles or radial
to the street lines.
         (h)   Residential condominium units abutting major thoroughfares or
collector streets, where marginal access streets are not desirable or possible
to attain, shall be situated with reverse frontage condominium units or with
side condominium unit lines parallel to the major traffic streets.
         (i)   Condominium units shall have a front-to-front relationship
across all streets where possible.
         (j)   Where condominium units border upon bodies of water, the front
yard may be designated as the waterfront side of the condominium unit, provided
the buildable area of the condominium unit has sufficient depth to provide
adequate setback on the street side to maintain a setback for all structures
equal to the front setback on the street side as well as on the waterfront
side.
      (6)   Blocks.
         (a)   Maximum length for blocks shall not exceed 1,320 feet in length,
except where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, conditions may justify
a greater distance.
         (b)   Widths of blocks shall be determined by the condition of the
layout and shall be suited to the intended layout.
      (7)   Natural resources. The natural features and character of lands must
be preserved wherever possible. Due regard must be shown for all natural
features such as large trees, natural groves, wetlands, water courses and
similar community assets. (See §
154.150(C), concerning site plan review criteria.) The proprietor must consider
preservation of drainage and natural stream channels. The provision of adequate
barriers, where appropriate, shall be required.
      (8)   Privately held reserve strips controlling access to public streets.
Privately held reserve strips controlling access to public streets shall be
prohibited.
      (9)   Reserve strips; public. A one-foot reserve may be required to be
placed at the end of a “stub” of “dead-end” public streets that terminate at
condominium boundaries and between half-streets. These reserves shall be deeded
in fee simple to the township for future public street purposes.
      (10)   Public sites. Where a proposed park, playground, school,
recreational area, public access to water frontage or other public use, shown
on the Master Plan (or delineated or specified by official action of the
Planning Commission), is located in whole or in part within a site condominium
development, the Township Board may request, but not require, that a suitable
area for this purpose be dedicated to the public or reserved for public
purchase. If, within two years of master deed recording, the purchase is not
agreed on, the reservation may be canceled or shall automatically cease to
exist. The master deed shall contain a provision permitting the dedication or
sale of common elements for this purpose.
      (11)   Greenbelts or landscaped screen plantings. Greenbelts or
landscaped screen plantings, the configuration and design of which is subject
to the review and approval of the Planning Commission, shall be required to be
located between residential site condominium developments and adjacent major
arterial streets.
      (12)   Provision of common elements (excluding roads). In the case of
residential developments, not less than 2-1/2% of the gross land area of the
parcel to be developed as a “site condominium” shall be designated as a general
common element (excluding roads). The common element shall be permanently
reserved for use as active or passive recreational areas or natural resource
preserve or a combination of both. These areas shall be designed to accommodate
the needs of all age groups (as may be applicable to the anticipated occupancy
type). The location, configuration and development plans for these areas shall
be subject to the review and approval of the Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission may waive this requirement in instances where it is not feasible or
practical due to the small size of a proposed development or where adequate
parkland and/or natural areas are already available in the immediate vicinity.
      (13)   Sidewalks. Except as otherwise provided herein, the developer
shall install concrete sidewalks in all site condominium developments.
Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet in width along both sides of local
streets and six feet in width along all collector streets and major
thoroughfares.
         (a)   The sidewalks shall be increased to eight feet in width (and may
be constructed of asphalt) in order to safely accommodate bicycle traffic, when
the additional width is indicated on a plan for the area as adopted or required
by the Planning Commission or Township Board.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be placed within the street right-of-way and
shall be located one foot from the edge of the right-of-way. Sidewalks shall
also be constructed within the public right-of-way along existing public
roadways on the side or sides of the roadway abutting the site condominium
development. In instances where the right-of-way of an adjacent public roadway
is not sufficient to construct the sidewalk, the developer shall dedicate
additional land as may be necessary to the County Road Commission or State
Department of Transportation, as applicable. Access to all general common areas
shall be provided.
         (c)   Upon review of the site plan, the Planning Commission may
approve alternate locations for the sidewalks or may waive the sidewalk
requirement if it would not serve the purpose of providing adequate pedestrian
circulation. Notwithstanding the above, in instances where the average width of
condominium units is greater than 100 feet, sidewalks along internal streets
shall not be required.
      (14)   Utilities.
         (a)   Storm drainage. An adequate storm drainage system, including
necessary storm sewers, catch basins, manholes, culverts, bridges and other
appurtenances, as approved by the township engineer, shall be required in all
developments. Adequate provision shall be made for proper drainage of storm
water from the rear yards of condominium units. Drainage of each yard shall be
self-contained and shall be drained from rear to front except where topography
or other natural features require otherwise. The Township Board may require
that all storm sewers be installed within the public rights-of-way or within
the general common elements and dedicated to the township when, in the
determination of the Township Board, dedication of the same would be in the
best interest of the township.
         (b)   Sewage disposal. When a proposed site condominium is located
within, adjacent to or reasonably near the service area of an available public
sanitary sewer system, sanitary sewers and other appurtenances thereto, as
approved by the township engineer, shall be installed in a manner as to serve
all condominium units. Where a public sewer system is not available, on-site
sewage disposal systems may be employed providing they are approved by the
State or County Health Department, as applicable. The Township Board may
require that all sanitary sewers be installed within the public rights-of-way
or within the general common elements and dedicated to the township when, in
the determination of the Township Board, dedication of the same would be in the
best interest of the township. When located on private property, appropriate
easements to permit access for maintenance by the township shall be provided.
         (c)   Water supply. When a proposed site condominium is located
within, adjacent to or reasonably near the service area of a public water
supply system, water mains, fire hydrants and required water system
appurtenances thereto, in accordance with township standards and as approved by
the township engineer, shall be constructed in a manner so as to adequately
serve all condominium units shown on the condominium subdivision plan, both for
domestic use or business use and fire protection. In the event of the non-
availability of a public water supply system, a private water supply system
shall be provided by the developer as regulated by the State or County Health
Department, as applicable. The Township Board may require that all water lines
and appurtenances connecting to the public water supply system be installed
within the public rights-of-way or within the general common elements and
dedicated to the township when, in the opinion of the Township Board,
dedication of the same would be in the best interest of the township. When
located on private property, appropriate easements to permit access for
maintenance by the township shall be provided.
         (d)   Requirements for underground wiring. The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all lines for telephone, electric, television and other
similar services, distributed by wire or cable, to be placed entirely
underground throughout the development area; and the conduits or cables shall
be placed within private easements provided to the service companies by the
developer, or within dedicated public ways; provided, only, that overhead lines
may be permitted upon written recommendation of the township engineer and the
approval of the Planning Commission at the time of site plan approval, where it
is determined that overhead lines will not constitute a detriment to the
health, safety, general welfare, design or character of the development. All
the facilities, placed in dedicated public ways, shall be planned so as not to
conflict with other underground utilities. All the facilities shall be
constructed in accordance with standards of construction approved by the State
Public Service Commission. All drainage and underground utility installations,
which traverse privately held property, shall be protected by easements granted
by the proprietor.
      (15)   Street names and signs. For the purpose of ensuring proper
response by emergency vehicles, road name signs and traffic control signs shall
be installed within the condominium development in accordance with the
standards of the County Road Commission. Street names shall be designated in a
manner so as not to duplicate or be confused with preexisting streets within
the township, postal zone or (9-1-1) local telephone calling area. For private
streets, in addition to the above requirements, signs, meeting County Road
Commission standards, with the words “Not a Public Street”, shall be installed
and maintained at all points where private streets meet public streets.
      (16)   Street lighting. For the purpose of protecting public safety,
streetlights meeting the standards of the County Road Commission and of the
utility provider shall be installed and maintained within the condominium
development at all street intersections. The association of co-owners shall be
responsible for the full cost of operation of streetlights.
      (17)   Street trees and landscaping.
         (a)   Street trees shall be provided in the ratio of at least one per
dwelling unit and shall be placed in the street right-of-way approximately
midway between the sidewalk and the curb, or upon Planning Commission approval
shall be placed up to five feet behind the road right-of-way line to avoid
potential conflicts with utilities. Trees shall be deciduous shade trees, not
be less than eight feet in height at time of planting, and shall be of a
species and variety approved by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   See §
154.019(D) and (E) for a list of approved plant materials and a list of trees
that are not permitted.
         (c)   All unimproved surface area of the site shall be planted with
grass, ground cover, shrubbery or other suitable landscape materials, except
that patios, terraces, decks and similar site features may be allowed.
      (18)   Final documents to be provided. After submittal of the condominium
plan and bylaws as part of the master deed, the proprietor shall furnish to the
township a copy of the site plan in digital format (e.g., AutoCAD or similar).
The Planning Commission may approve acceptance of an alternate copy on a Mylar
sheet of at least 13 inches by 16 inches with an image not to exceed ten and
one-half by 14 inches.
      (19)   Improvements, performance guarantees. 
         (a)   The improvements set forth under this section are to be
considered as the minimum acceptable standard. All those improvements for which
standards are not specifically set forth shall conform to generally accepted
municipal engineering standards as determined by the township engineer. All
improvements must meet the approval of the Township Board.
         (b)   Prior to the undertaking of any improvements, the proprietor
shall deposit with the Township Clerk: cash, a certified check or irrevocable
bank letter of credit running to the township, whichever the developer selects,
to ensure the faithful completion of all improvements within the time
specified. The Township Board shall set the amount of the deposit based on an
estimate by the township engineer. Completed construction of all improvements
shall be approved by the township’s designated official before issuance of any
certificate of occupancy. The Township Board shall release funds for the
payment of work as it is completed and approved by the township.
         (c)   Prior to the acceptance by the township of improvements, the
developer shall post a two-year cash maintenance bond in an amount set by the
Township Board.
         (d)   Improvements shall be provided by the proprietor in accordance
with the standards and requirements established in this section and/or any
other standards and requirements which may from time to time be established by
ordinance or published rules of the township.
   (J)   Area, height and placement requirements.
      (1)   When dwellings are to be constructed within a condominium
development that is not classified as a “site condominium”, minimum lot area
and minimum lot width requirements shall not apply. In such cases, maximum
permitted dwelling density shall not exceed two-thirds of that permitted by §
154.063(B), Schedule Note I.
      (2)   Dwelling unit placement shall be governed by the front, side and
rear setback requirements provided in the schedule, which shall be applied in
the same manner as if lot or unit lot lines were present.
   (K)   Roadways within housing developments. In housing developments where
internal roadways are provided to serve attached or detached dwelling units,
which have individual driveways leading to or serving as the parking area for
each dwelling unit, the roadways shall be designed and constructed to meet the
standards set forth in division (I)(4) above.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006) (Ord. passed 1-22-2009)
§ 154.032 OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION DEVELOPMENT (RESIDENTIAL CLUSTERING OPTION).
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide an
optional mechanism for development of single-family residences, where
permitted, which assists in meeting the following goals: maintaining the
character of the area, maintaining an image of open space, permanently
preserving open space and natural resources, protecting a portion of lands for
agriculture and farming, and achieving a balance between farming, open space
and residential growth.
   (B)   Eligibility under the Township Zoning Act (Public Act 184 of 1943,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271 through 125.301, as amended). To utilize this
development option, a site without public sewer service shall be located within
a zoning district that has a one-half acre (21,280 square feet) or larger
minimum lot size or a site with public sewer service shall be located within a
zoning district that has a one-third acre (14,520 square feet) or larger
minimum lot size. In the township, the Open Space Preservation Development
(Residential Clustering) Option shall be a permitted use in the A/R, R-1C and
R-2 Districts.
   (C)   Method of land division. Home sites may be developed under this option
as a subdivision, a site condominium or land division.
   (D)   Open space retained. To the greatest extent possible, all the natural
features of the property such as large trees, natural groves, wetlands,
floodplains, watercourses, natural drains and stream channels and similar
assets shall be preserved. Retained open space and other protected resource
areas shall be reasonably contiguous (not fragmented).
      (1)   Primary Conservation Areas (PCA). This category consists of
wetlands, lands that are generally inundated (under ponds, lakes, creeks and
the like), land within the 100-year floodplain, and soils subject to slumping.
The full area of these lands shall be preserved. Fifty percent of these (PCA)
lands shall be subtracted from the parcel total acreage toward an “Adjusted
Tract Acreage for Yield”. See division (E) below.
      (2)   Existing Permanent Easement Areas (EPEA). Land that would be
required for street rights-of-way (a minimum 10% of the net tract area) and
land under permanent easement (public and private) prohibiting future
development (Co. drain easements, existing and planned public road ROWs,
utility easements and the like) shall also be subtracted from the parcel total
acreage toward an “Adjusted Tract Acreage for Yield”. See division (E) below.
      (3)   Secondary Conservation Areas (SCA). At least 50% of the remaining
land (that full portion which is not a primary conservation area or an easement
conservation area) shall be designated and permanently protected. Full density
credit shall be allowed for land in this category that would otherwise be
buildable under local, state and federal regulations, so that their development
potential is not reduced by this designation. The density credit may be applied
to other unconstrained parts of the site. This category typically includes all
or part of the following kinds of resources: mature woodlands, significant
wildlife habitat areas, prime farmland, historic, archaeological, scenic views
into the site from public roads.
      (4)   All dedicated areas (under divisions (D)(1), (2) and (3) above)
shall be outside the boundaries of the proposed lots.
   (E)   Density limit (yield plan). The permitted density may be modified if a
density bonus(es) is approved by the Planning Commission as provided under
division (F) below. The number of dwellings permitted to be constructed shall
not exceed the number that would be permitted under conventional zoning
regulations as determined by gross parcel area:
      (1)   Less 50% of the primary conservation areas (PCAs) as defined in the
division (D)(1) above;
      (2)   Less land required for existing permanent easement areas (EPEAs)
under division (D)(2) above; and/or
      (3)   Divided by the minimum lot area set forth in the schedule of
regulations for the district involved. This produces the “yield plan” number of
lots.
   (F)   Density bonus.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   To encourage developers to utilize this development option where
a large amount of open space is permanently preserved instead of conventional
forms of land division where little or no usable open space remains, the
Planning Commission may permit the number of dwelling units to be increased by
up to 30% depending upon the physical characteristics of the site and upon a
determination by the Commission that the plan is well designed and that
proposed development complies in all respects with the intent and purpose of
this section, provided all other requirements of this section are met.
         (b)   Proceeds from the sale of bonus lots are to be used to provide a
conservation endowment (50%) and to provide an incentive (50%) to the
developer. Spending from this Conservation Endowment Fund shall be restricted
to interest from the Fund and shall be used to offset continuing open space
monitoring and maintenance costs.
      (2)   Public access.
         (a)   To encourage appropriate and desirable lands to be set aside for
public access to a portion of the site, a bonus of one additional potential lot
may be granted to the developer in exchange for a written and recorded easement
to a unit of government for each two acres of public access land provided.
         (b)   Note: land for connecting public paths or trails and adjoining
buffer areas are one type of public access that may be desired.
         (c)   Public access to or along water bodies may be desired. Historic,
archaeological or cultural features, rare or unusual plants, or habitats are
examples of other potential candidate resources for public access.
         (d)   Fifty percent of the proceeds from the sale of the bonus lot(s)
shall be set aside for a public access endowment. The interest from the
endowment shall be used to cover the additional public liability insurance
requirements and cover other protection, maintenance and inspection costs.
      (3)   Conservation endowment and public access endowment payments. To
ensure preservation and payment of bonus proceeds, the developer shall make
proportional payments out of all lot sales as follows. An average projected
proceed value shall be established and then corrected based on actual sales
after each subsequent one-quarter of the total lots are sold. The proportional
payments shall be equal to the percentage of bonus lots to the total number of
lots multiplied by the average lot sale proceeds (as projected and corrected)
multiplied by 0.5. Each subsequent conservation endowment payment shall be
adjusted to account for the corrected proceed average and to make additional
payment (or receive credit) for past sale proceeds in accord with each new
average.
   (G)   Minimum lot size. The conventional minimum lot area and width
requirements set forth in the schedule of regulations shall not apply. The
minimum lot area and width shall be large enough for anticipated rural or very
low-density suburban household activities and shall also be determined by land
area and distances required to comply with yard and setback requirements and
County Health Department on-site sewage disposal and well requirements
(including isolation distances and sufficient land area for replacement septic
fields). See criteria in division (O) below.
   (H)   Method of preservation. The areas in open space, recreation,
agriculture or commons shall be perpetually protected from development. The
open space shall be preserved using one or a combination of the following
methods, subject to the review and approval of the Township Attorney and the
Township Planning Commission.
      (1)   Home Owners Association (HOA). Title to the open space lands and
other protected resource areas may be held by a homeowner’s association with
required participation of all residents within the development. If an HOA is to
hold title, a recognized independent conservation organization shall be granted
a conservation easement(s) covering all land areas to be protected.
      (2)   Protective covenants. The covenants of the subdivision may include
the preservation of lands within them. The exact locations of the open space
and other protected resource areas shall be defined within this document. These
covenants shall also state the types of uses that would be allowed in such open
spaces and other protected areas. Covenants may be used with a homeowners
association but a recognized independent conservation organization shall be
granted a conservation easement(s) covering all land areas to be protected.
      (3)   Condominium Association. All elements that are reserved for open
space and other protected resource areas shall be preserved as common elements
as shown on the site plan, except those areas that may be dedicated to a unit
of government. Any alteration to the open space and other protected areas under
common element status shall require the submittal of a new site plan and
approval by the appropriate bodies. If a condominium association is to hold
title to any open space and/or other protected areas, a recognized independent
conservation organization shall be granted a conservation easement(s) covering
all land areas to be protected.
      (4)   Fee simple dedication to a unit of government. The open space lands
are dedicated to a unit of government (township, village, city, school
district, county, state or federal and the like). This dedication may have
provisions within it that state that in no way shall the unit of government be
obligated to any cost due to the acquisition, and that the municipality has
ample access to all areas of the open space for adequate maintenance purposes
should they ever be needed. There shall also be deed restrictions preventing
the unit of government from selling the property or using it for development
purposes. If dedication to the township or another governmental body is to be
used, a recognized independent conservation organization shall be granted a
conservation easement(s) covering all land areas to be protected.
      (5)   Conservation easements. The easement over the open space lands and
other protected resource areas shall be held by a legal owner/holder, such as a
conservation agency, and that owner shall have the right to enforce any aspect
of the easement. The easement shall state the uses that are allowed within the
open space areas and other protected resource areas and which uses are
disallowed. The agreement shall be as specific as possible as to what is
allowed and where it is allowed to take place. If the easement is granted to
any party other than a recognized independent conservation organization, the
easement shall be co-signed by a recognized independent conservation
organization to ensure a check and balance system. Whichever organization holds
the legal rights to the easement, they shall visit the site a minimum of once
per year to inspect and record any violations that may be occurring within the
open space areas and other protected resource areas and create and file a
report of what is observed.
      (6)   Public trust. The open space lands and other protected resource
areas may be dedicated to a public trust. This shall include the accompaniment
of money with it to provide funds for the trust to conduct annual surveys on
the land to turn into state agencies that may require these reports. The two
entities shall enter into an agreement stating that the trust, whose only
purpose is to protect open lands and other protected resource areas, shall
protect these spaces of the development.
      (7)   Conveyance of any unused development rights. Any unused development
rights of the subject property may be conveyed to a unit of government or a
conservation agency while allowing present and future owners of the open space
lands to continue to maintain farming activities or open lands for their own
use, but permanently giving up the right to ever develop it.
   (I)   Frontage on internal road. All lots shall front only upon an approved
public or private road that is internal to the development. No lots may be
created that front upon existing public roads.
   (J)   Road standards. All internal public roads shall be designed and
constructed to meet all requirements of the County Road Commission (SCCRC) and
as may be set forth in the township’s subdivision regulations or the township’s
site condominium requirements. All internal public roads shall be dedicated to
the SCCRC, be accepted and be incorporated into the SCCRC road system. All
internal private roads, shared driveways and driveways shall be designed and
constructed to meet all requirements of §§
156.01 through
156.10, and
156.99.
   (K)   Setbacks. Dwellings shall be located in compliance with all yard and
setback requirements of the district in which they are located.
      (1)   Dwelling units and structures shall be set back a minimum of 50
feet from any perimeter lot line of the parent parcel, except that they shall
be set back at least 100 feet from any planned public road right-of-way which
borders the perimeter of the project site.
      (2)   Dwelling unit clusters shall be spaced an appropriate distance
apart from another cluster, as determined by the Planning Commission,
compatible with the surrounding community character and to discourage a
suburban subdivision appearance.
   (L)   Landscaping.
      (1)   To maintain the rural or very low-density suburban character of the
district, the frontage along the perimeter public road(s) shall be heavily
landscaped to screen clustered home sites from view of the public to the
greatest extent feasible.
      (2)   Scenic vistas from the perimeter public road(s) shall be maintained
(and perhaps enhanced) to the greatest extent feasible. A landscape plan for
those areas shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Existing natural screens, or new screens may be used. The Planning
Commission may require the installation of a landscaped berm where necessary to
meet the intent of this section.
   (M)   Sewage disposal and water supply.
      (1)   Use of on-site wells and public water supply and septic systems is
anticipated in the township. However, community septic systems or package
treatment plants and community wells in lieu of individual wells and septic
fields may be permitted if approved by the County and/or State Health
Department. Public water and sewage disposal systems shall not be extended to
serve projects developed under this section if the site lies beyond an urban
services area boundary, as may be set forth within the Master Plan, except in
those instances where the utilities already are located at the perimeter of the
site.
      (2)   Portions of the open space may be used, if approved by the Planning
Commission and the County Health Department for individual or community wells,
for underground drainage fields for individual or community septic systems and
for “spray fields” for spray irrigation purposes in a “land treatment” sewage
disposal system. However, “mound” systems protruding above grade and aerated
sewage treatment ponds shall be limited to no more than 10% of the required
minimum open space.
   (N)   Pedestrian linkages to open space. To the greatest extent feasible,
the open spaces should be located and interwoven with the dwelling unit
clusters so as to be easily accessible to residents of the development, except
in cases where the open space to be preserved is not intended for the use of
the residents (as in the case of active farming or protection of endangered
species). Linking pedestrian trails shall be provided within the open space(s).
   (O)   Site plan. Approval under this section requires that a site plan
meeting the requirements of §
154.150 be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission. In addition to a
site plan, the Planning Commission may require the submission of additional
documents as specified or called for herein.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall consider the following general
evaluation guidelines:
         (a)   Protects and serves all floodplains and wetlands;
         (b)   If development must be located on open fields or pastures
because of greater constraints in all other parts of the site dwellings should
be sited on the least prime agricultural soils, or in locations at the far edge
of a field, as seen from existing public roads;
         (c)   Maintains or creates an upland buffer of natural native species
vegetation adjacent to wetlands and surface waters;
         (d)   Designs around existing tree lines and hedgerows between fields
or meadows, and minimizes impacts on large woodlands (greater than five acres);
         (e)   Leaves scenic views and vistas unblocked or uninterrupted,
particularly as seen from public thoroughfares;
         (f)   Avoids siting new construction on prominent hilltops or ridges,
by taking advantage of lower topographic features;
         (g)   Protects wildlife habitat areas of species listed as endangered,
threatened or of special concern;
         (h)   Designs around and preserves sites of historic, archaeological
or cultural value, their environs and their related features (e.g., stones
walls, earthworks and burial grounds);
         (i)   Protects rural roadside character;
         (j)   Landscapes common areas (such as community greens), cul-de-sac
islands and both sides of new streets with native species shade trees and
flowering shrubs with high wildlife conservation value;
         (k)   Provides active recreational areas in suitable locations that
offer convenient access by residents and adequate screening from nearby house
lots;
         (l)   Includes a safe internal pedestrian circulation system, ideally
connected to community pedestrian/bicycle system. The system must be integrated
with open space, recreation, preservation areas and provide convenient access
from home sites; and
         (m)   Provides open space that is reasonably contiguous. (Design and
Management Handbook for Preservation Areas, by the Natural Land Trust is a good
reference resource.)
      (2)   The Planning Commission also shall consider the following specific
evaluation guidelines.
         (a)   Location of house sites. House sites should generally be located
not closer than 100 feet from primary conservation areas, but may be situated
within 50 feet of secondary conservation areas to provide buffering distances
and afford enjoyable views. The building “foot print” of proposed residences
may be changed in any direction by less than 50 feet without approval. Changes
involving 50 feet or more may be changed with approval from the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   Street and lot layout. When lots and access streets are laid
out, they shall be located in a way that avoids or at least minimizes adverse
impacts on both the primary and secondary conservation areas. To the greatest
extent practicable, wetland crossings and streets traversing existing slopes
over 15% shall be strongly discouraged. Street connections shall generally be
encouraged to minimize the number of new cul-de-sacs to be maintained by the
county and to facilitate easy access throughout the development. Single-loaded
residential access streets may maximize the number of homes with enjoyment of
open space views, but may require more land to be disturbed.
         (c)   Lot lines. These are generally drawn midway between adjacent
house locations. Lots may be irregularly shaped, including L-shaped “flag-
lots”.
   (P)   Site condominium, subdivision approval or land division. A project
approved under this section shall also comply with all requirements of the
township, county and state for a site condominium, subdivision or land division
as may be applicable, and shall follow all the steps and procedures for
approval required therein. If clustering under land division is intended,
documentation of the potential number of new parcels out of the parent parcel
must be submitted.
   (Q)   Application and approval process.
      (1)   The applicant shall prepare and present the following exhibits to
the Planning Commission for review and approval. The Planning Commission shall
submit the applicant’s exhibits to the Township Planner for a recommendation.
As may be necessary or advisable, a recommendation from the Township Engineer
may also be sought during the preliminary approval process.
         (a)   Applicant prepares and presents a “yield plan” for review and
approval of the Planning Commission. The “yield plan” shall identify all
primary conservation areas (PCAs) and all existing permanent easement areas
(EPEAs) as defined in the paragraphs under divisions (D)(1) and (2) above, and
shall accurately demonstrate the maximum number of lots or parcels in
accordance with division (E) above.
         (b)   Applicant submits conceptual preliminary plan with all basic
existing and proposed land features and structures shown separately. Aerial
photos and simple transparencies may be used.
         (c)   Applicant submits conceptual landscape plan with all basic
existing and proposed topography and vegetation features shown separately.
Photos and simple transparencies may be used.
         (d)   A site walkabout may be scheduled for the applicant, Planning
Commissioner(s) and the local governmental staff and/or consultants.
      (2)   Planning Commission site plan review procedures (see §
154.150) are required in all eligible districts (A/R, R-1C, R-2) for this
permitted use leading to a determination of approval, approval with conditions
or disapproval.
      (3)   Any legal instruments (easements, covenants and the like) pertinent
to the effectuating of the proposed open space preservation development must be
reviewed and approved by the Township Attorney. Any approved easements,
covenants or other legal instruments that run with the land are to be recorded
with the county Register of Deeds. No zoning compliance permit or building
permit shall be issued until this has been accomplished.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.033 REVIEW AND PRELIMINARY APPROVAL OF MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY
PLANS.
   (A)   Review. Prior to the establishment of a new manufactured housing
community, an expansion of a manufactured housing community or construction of
any building within the community that was not previously approved, a plan
shall be presented to the Planning Commission for its review and approval.
   (B)   Application. All plans submitted to the Planning Commission for review
under this section shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Every preliminary site plan submitted for review by the Planning
Commission shall be a complete application and in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. Fifteen copies of the preliminary site plan shall
be submitted with the application;
      (2)   The name and address of the property owner and developer;
      (3)   The name and firm address of the professional civil engineering,
registered landscape architect, landscaping firm, architectural or planning
firms responsible for the preparation of the site plan;
      (4)   The date, north arrow and scale. The scale shall not be less than
one inch equals 50 feet for property under three acres and at least one inch
equals 100 feet for those three acres or more;
      (5)   All property lines are to be shown in dimension;
      (6)   The location and height of all existing structures on and within
the subject property, and within 100 feet of the property’s perimeter;
      (7)   The typical location and typical dimensions of all existing and
proposed internal drives, sidewalks, curb openings, signs, exterior lighting,
parking areas (showing dimensions of a typical parking space), unloading areas
and community buildings;
      (8)   The location of all proposed open space and recreation areas with
written assurance that it meets the requirements of Rule 946 of the
Manufactured Housing Commission;
      (9)   The location of all proposed landscaping and buffering;
      (10)   The location and the pavement and right-of-way width of all
abutting roads, streets or alleys;
      (11)   The location of all rubbish receptacles and landscaping and the
location, height and type of fences and walls;
      (12)   Location of all fire hydrants, if applicable;
      (13)   The number of manufactured housing sites proposed;
      (14)   The submittal shall contain a narrative of the arrangements to be
made for water supply and sewage disposal service, including approximate
capacity, source of water supply, discharge points for sewage disposal;
      (15)   Utility and other easements;
      (16)   Existing wetlands;
      (17)   A description of storm water management facilities with written
assurance that surface drainage facilities will meet the requirements and
standards of part of the MDEQ (Michigan Department of Environmental Quality);
      (18)   Proposed sign locations; and
      (19)   A statement of all required setbacks and separation distances.
   (C)   Detailed construction plans shall not be required. Provided, however,
that detailed construction plans shall not be required to be submitted to the
township.
   (D)   Fee. Fees for the review of a manufactured housing community plan
shall be established by resolution of the Township Board.
   (E)   Decision.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall review the plan for compliance with
the design standards for manufactured housing communities contained in this
chapter, and the regulations of the State Manufactured Housing Commission. If
it is determined that the manufactured housing community complies with the
ordinance and regulations, it shall be approved.
      (2)   The plan shall be approved, approved with conditions or denied
within 60 days after received by the township, unless the applicant consents to
allow a longer period of review.
   (F)   Copy of final construction plan. A copy of the final construction plan
shall be submitted to the township upon approval by the State Department of
Consumer and Industry Services.
   (G)   Noncompliance. Any substantial noncompliance with the approved
preliminary site plan shall be reported along with all pertinent evidence to
the Manufactured Housing Division of the State Department of Consumer and
Industry Services, or successor department or agency, for remedy.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.034 MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY REQUIREMENTS.
   State-licensed manufactured housing communities (also previously known as
mobile home parks) are a permitted use in the MHR, Manufactured Home
Residential District subject to the following requirements for this high-
density land use.
   (A)   Site size. A 15-acre site shall be the minimum site size.
   (B)   Access and roads.
      (1)   The proposed site location shall be governed by the requirements of
§ 11 of the Mobile Home Commission Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.2311, and Rule 920
(1)(b) of the Manufactured Housing Commission Rules.
      (2)   Two access points shall be provided to a public thoroughfare to
allow a secondary access for emergency vehicles. A boulevard entrance extending
to the first intersection of a community road shall be interpreted as
satisfying this requirement.
      (3)   All internal roads shall be constructed of concrete or bituminous
asphalt and be supported by a suitable sub-grade in compliance with the
standards of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials (AASHTO).
      (4)   Maximum cul-de-sac length shall be 1,000 feet. A blunt-end road is
prohibited. An internal road that has no exit at one end shall terminate with
an adequate turning area that is to be approved by the Township Fire Chief.
Parking shall not be permitted within the turning area.
      (5)   Safe-sight distance shall be provided at intersections.
      (6)   An offset at an intersection or an intersection of more than two
internal roads is prohibited.
      (7)   The following types of internal roads shall have driving surfaces
that are not less than the following widths:
         (a)   One-way, no parking: 16 feet;
         (b)   Two-way, no parking: 21 feet;
         (c)   One-way, parallel parking, one side: 23 feet;
         (d)   One-way, parallel parking, two sides: 33 feet;
         (e)   Two-way, parallel parking, one side: 31 feet; and
         (f)   Two-way, parallel parking, two sides: 41 feet.
      (8)   All entrances to communities that have 300 or more home sites shall
be a minimum of 30 feet in width. The entrance shall consist of an ingress lane
and a left and right egress turning lane at the point of intersection between a
public road and the community’s internal road, and shall be constructed as
follows.
         (a)   All turning lanes shall be a minimum of ten feet in width and 60
feet in depth, measured from the edge of the pavement of the public road into
the community.
         (b)   The turning lane system shall be tapered into the community
internal road system commencing at a minimum depth of 60 feet.
         (c)   The ingress and right egress turning lanes of the ingress and
egress road shall connect to the public road with a curved line that has a
minimum radius of 15 feet. The intersection of the public road and the ingress
and egress road shall not have squared corners.
         (d)   Entranceway structures, including but not limited to, walls,
columns and gates marking the entrance to a manufactured housing community, may
be permitted, and may be located in a required setback, except that required
clear vision areas as provided under §
154.013 shall be maintained. The entranceway structure(s) shall comply with the
State Building Code. A driveway permit shall be obtained from the County Road
Commission or State Department of Transportation (whichever has jurisdiction)
and must approve the proposed entranceway structures if located within the
public road right-of-way.
      (9)   An orderly street name system and unit numbering system shall be
established by the community owner and the plan of the system approved by the
Township Fire Department. Manufactured home space numbers shall be located
uniformly on each space, housing unit or identification marker, throughout the
community, and street names shall be adequately marked at all internal road
intersections.
      (10)   Appropriate traffic control signs shall be provided on all
internal roads, and a regulation stop sign shall be installed at the point of
intersection with a public road, unless a traffic control device is provided.
   (C)   Driveways.
      (1)   Improved hard-surface driveways shall be provided on the site where
necessary for convenient access to service entrances of buildings, and at
delivery and collection points for fuel, refuse and other materials.
      (2)   The minimum width of driveways shall be ten feet. The entrance to
the driveway shall have the flare or radii, and horizontal alignment for safe
and convenient ingress and egress.
   (D)   Resident vehicle parking.
      (1)   All home sites shall be provided with two parking spaces.
      (2)   If vehicle parking is provided on the home site, it shall be in
compliance with both of the following provisions.
         (a)   The parking space shall be constructed of concrete or bituminous
asphalt and supported by a suitable sub-grade in compliance with the standards
of AASHTO.
         (b)   The parking spaces may be either in tandem or side-by-side. If
spaces are in tandem, then the width shall not be less than nine feet and the
combined length shall not be less than 40 feet. If spaces are side by side,
then the combined width of the two parking spaces shall not be less than 18
feet and the length shall be not less than 20 feet.
      (3)   If the two resident vehicle parking spaces required by this section
are provided off the home site, then the parking spaces shall be within 30 feet
of the home site and each parking space shall have a clear parking width of
nine feet and a clear length of 20 feet.
      (4)   If parking bays are provided for resident vehicle parking, they
shall contain individual spaces that have a clear parking width of nine feet
and a clear length of 20 feet.
   (E)   Visitor parking facilities.
      (1)   A minimum of one parking space for every three home sites shall be
provided for visitor parking.
      (2)   Visitor parking shall be located within 500 feet of the home sites
the parking is intended to serve, as measured along a road or sidewalk.
      (3)   If parking bays are provided for visitor parking, they shall
contain individual spaces that have a clear parking width of nine feet and a
clear length of 20 feet.
   (F)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Public sidewalks: concrete sidewalks, five feet in width, shall be
required along that portion of a community fronting along public road(s). The
sidewalk shall be located within the road right-of-way or easement, beginning
one foot inside the right-of-way line.
      (2)   (a)   Sidewalks shall also be constructed in the community and
maintained for the safe and convenient movement from all home sites to
principal destinations within the community and connection to the public
sidewalks outside the community.
         (b)   Sidewalks shall be installed along one side of all internal
collector roads within the community and to the public right-of-way and to all
service facilities including, but not limited to, central laundry, central
parking and recreation areas.
      (3)   All sidewalks shall be constructed in compliance with all of the
following requirements:
         (a)   Sidewalks shall have a minimum width of four feet and shall be
constructed in compliance with Public Act 8 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1361
et seq., an act that regulates sidewalks for disabled; and
         (b)   All sidewalks shall meet the standards established in Rule 928
of the Manufactured Housing Commission Rules and AASHTO standards.
      (4)   An individual sidewalk with a minimum width of three feet shall be
constructed between at least one entrance, or patio, porch or deck of the
dwelling if provided, and the parking spaces on the home site or parking bay,
whichever is provided, or the common sidewalk.
      (5)   No portion of any off-street parking area shall be considered part
of the sidewalk system.
   (G)   Lighting.
      (1)   Access points of the community from the public road shall be
lighted. If the public thoroughfare is lighted, then the illuminated level
shall not be more than the average illumination level of the adjacent
illuminated thoroughfare.
      (2)   At all internal road intersections and designated pedestrian
crosswalks, the minimum illumination shall not be less than 0.15-foot candle.
      (3)   Internal roads, parking bays and sidewalks shall be illuminated at
not less than 0.05-foot candle.
      (4)   If a community directory is provided, then it shall be illuminated
at not less than 3.15 horizontal foot-candles on any entry on the directory.
   (H)   Utilities.
      (1)   All electrical, telephone, cable television, natural gas and other
utility services shall be installed underground and specifically designed in
conformance with the Manufactured Housing Commission Rules. When separate
meters are installed, each meter shall be located in a uniform manner on each
housing site.
      (2)   All manufactured housing sites and all other buildings within the
community shall be connected to the water system of the township, if it is
available to the community, or to another state-approved system. The community
water system shall conform to Part 2-4 of the State Department of Environmental
Quality manufactured housing community standards.
      (3)   Fire hydrants shall be installed in all communities for which
public water systems are available and shall be in compliance with the
requirements and provisions of the fire code. There shall be no more than 500
feet between hydrants as measured along adjacent roadways within the community.
      (4)   All manufactured housing sites and all other buildings within the
community shall be connected to the public sanitary sewage system of the
township, if it is available to the community within 200 feet at the time of
preliminary site plan approval. If a public sewer system is unavailable, the
proposed development shall connect to a state-approved sewage system. The
community’s sanitary sewage system shall conform to the State Department of
Environmental Quality manufactured housing community standards.
      (5)   All storm sewers shall be constructed in accordance with Parts 2-
4 of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality manufactured housing
community standards. Additional requirements for a community may be established
by the County Drain Commissioner, pursuant to § 11(3) of Public Act 96 of 1987,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, as amended.
   (I)   Individual home site size, spacing, setback and fence requirements and
pool location.
      (1)   Home site area.
         (a)   The manufactured housing community shall be developed with sites
averaging 5,500 square feet per manufactured housing unit.
         (b)   This 5,500 square feet average may be reduced by 20% provided
that each individual site shall be equal to at least 4,400 square feet.
         (c)   For each square foot of land gained through the reduction of the
average site below 5,500 square feet, at least an equal amount of land shall be
dedicated as open space.
         (d)   This open space shall be in addition to that required under R
125.1946, Rule 946 and R 125.1941 and R 125.1944, Rules 941 and 944 of the
Michigan Administrative Code, and division (K) below. (Open Space Requirements)
of this chapter.
      (2)   Required distances between homes and other structures.
         (a)   Home sites shall be arranged to allow for, and manufactured
homes shall be located to comply with, all of the following minimum separation
distances, as measured from the wall support line or foundation line, whichever
provides the greater distance:
            1.   For a home not sited parallel to an internal road, 20 feet
from any part of an attached structure of an adjacent home that is used for
living purposes;
            2.   For a home sited parallel to an internal road, 15 feet from
any part of an attached structure of an adjacent home that is used for living
purposes if the adjacent home is sited next to the home on the same internal
road or an intersecting internal road;
            3.   Ten feet from either of the following:
               a.   The parking space on an adjacent home site; or
               b.   An attached or detached structure or accessory of an
adjacent home that is not used for living purposes.
            4.   Fifty feet from permanent community-owned structures, such as
either of the following:
               a.   Club houses; or
               b.   Maintenance and storage facilities.
            5.   One hundred feet from a baseball or softball field; and
            6.   Twenty-five feet from the fence of a swimming pool.
         (b)   Attached or detached structures or accessories that are not used
for living space shall be a minimum of ten feet from an adjacent home or its
adjacent attached or detached structures.
         (c)   Any part of an accessory structure, such as steps, porches,
supported or unsupported awnings, decks, carports or garages, or similar
structures shall be set back the following minimum distances:
            1.   Ten feet from the edge of an internal road;
            2.   Seven feet from a parking bay off a home site;
            3.   Seven feet from a common sidewalk; and
            4.   Twenty-five feet from a natural or human-made lake or
waterway.
         (d)   A carport shall be in compliance with both of the following
setbacks if it is completely open, at a minimum, on the two long sides and the
entrance side:
            1.   Support pillars that are installed adjacent to the edge of an
internal road shall be set back four feet or more from the edge of the internal
road or two feet or more from the edge of a sidewalk; and
            2.   Roof overhangs shall be set back two feet or more from the
edge of the internal road.
         (e)   Steps and their attachments shall not encroach into parking
areas more than three and one-half feet.
      (3)   Setbacks from property boundary lines.
         (a)   Homes, permanent buildings and facilities, and other structures
shall not be located closer than 20 feet from the property boundary line of the
community.
         (b)   If homes, permanent buildings and facilities, and other
structures abut a public right-of-way, then they shall not be located closer
than 50 feet from the boundary line. If the boundary line runs through the
center of the public road, then the 50 feet shall be measured from the road
right-of-way line.
      (4)   Fences on individual home sites. Fences on individual home sites
shall be uniform in height, not to exceed 36 inches, and shall be constructed
in a manner so as to provide firefighters an access to at least two gates.
      (5)   Pool location. Free-standing swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and
similar devices shall not be located between any home and roadway. Swimming
pools, spas, hot tubs and similar devices are further regulated under §
154.027, concerning swimming pools, if provided, shall be in compliance with
Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as amended, and the
rules promulgated thereunder.
   (J)   Screening/landscaping. Manufactured housing communities shall provide
the following screening, buffering and landscaping.
      (1)   If a manufactured home development abuts an existing residential
development, the development shall provide screening along the boundary line
abutting the adjacent development, if not in conflict with existing utilities.
      (2)   In all cases, a community shall provide screening along the
boundary abutting a public right-of-way.
      (3)   The landscaping shall consist of evergreen trees or shrubs that are
spaced so they provide a continuous screen at maturity.
      (4)   Landscape material shall consist of evergreen trees a minimum of
four feet in height at installation and evergreen shrubs a minimum of three
feet in height at maturity.
      (5)   The Planning Commission may approve alternative screening
techniques (earth berms, fences and the like) based upon a landscape plan for
the site if they conceal the manufactured home development as effectively as
the required landscaping described above.
      (6)   Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of the community shall be
paved or covered with ornamental stone or protected with grass, trees or shrubs
that are capable of preventing soil erosion. The ground surface and all parts
of the community shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in a
safe and efficient manner.
   (K)   Open space requirements.
      (1)   A community that contains 50 or more sites shall have not less than
2% of the community’s gross acreage dedicated to designated open space, but in
no case less than 25,000 square feet. At least one-half of the required open
space, up to two acres, shall be dedicated to community recreation uses, such
as, but not limited to, picnic areas, athletic fields, playgrounds, walking
trails, basketball courts and lawn game areas.
      (2)   Required setbacks may not be used in the calculation of open space
area. No part of a wastewater lagoon(s) and any appurtenances thereto shall be
considered a part of any required open space.
   (L)   Site constructed buildings, dwellings and additions to manufactured
homes.
      (1)   Site constructed buildings within the community such as community
buildings or laundries, but not including manufactured homes and their HUD
approved accessory buildings, shall be reviewed by the township at the time of
submission for a building permit under the State Building Code, unless approved
as part of the original plan for the community.
      (2)   The maximum height of any community or similar building shall not
exceed 35 feet, or two stories in height, whichever is less. Storage or service
buildings shall not exceed 15 feet, or one story in height.
      (3)   Community or service buildings shall not be located adjacent to an
adjoining parcel that is either zoned or developed for single-family
residential purposes, unless wall or greenbelt (see §
154.018) is provided for that area.
      (4)   Site-built single-family dwellings may be located in a community as
follows:
         (a)   One single-family dwelling may be permitted for the exclusive
use of the community owner or manager in a community of 30 acres or less;
         (b)   Two single-family dwellings may be permitted for the exclusive
use of the community owner, manager or caretaker in a community in excess of 30
acres; and
         (c)   Any such single-family dwellings permitted under this section
shall comply in all respects with the requirements of single-family dwellings
in the R-1A Single-Family Residential District.
      (5)   Any addition to a manufactured home unit that does not comply with
the standards of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development for
manufactured homes and any site built garages or carports shall comply with the
State Building Code. A carport or garage shall not exceed 576 square feet.
   (M)   Signs.
      (1)   There shall be a maximum of one sign per road frontage with an
entrance that shall bear only the name of the community.
         (a)   The sign may be lighted, provided that the source of the light
is not visible and is not of the flashing or intermittent type.
         (b)   One sign, not exceeding 32 square feet in area shall be
permitted for the first entrance provided to the community.
         (c)   For multiple entrances, a 16-square-foot sign shall be permitted
at each entrance after the first.
         (d)   Signs may be doubled-faced, but each side of the sign shall have
identical copy and be flush with the other side.
         (e)   Signs shall not exceed eight feet in height.
      (2)   Signs purely for traffic regulation and direction within the
manufactured housing community may be utilized as required.
   (N)   Boats, RVs and hobby vehicles storage.
      (1)   If boats, boat trailers and utility trailers are permitted to be
parked within the manufactured housing community, adequate parking spaces for
the vehicles in a central or collective parking area shall be provided. This
area shall be in addition to the automobile parking requirements of this
chapter and shall be adequately locked, fenced and permanently buffered.
      (2)   The storage shall not be located adjacent to an adjoining parcel
that is either zoned or developed for single-family residential purposes,
unless a wall or greenbelt (§
154.018) is provided for that area.
   (O)   Compliance with regulations. The design, layout, construction and use
of a manufactured housing community shall in all other respects comply with the
regulations on the design, construction and use of manufactured housing
communities, the sale and leasing of manufactured housing lots and all other
aspects of the construction and use of manufactured housing communities, as set
forth in the rules of the State Manufactured Housing Commission, as amended
from time to time.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.035 MANUFACTURED HOMES WITHIN MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITIES/OPERATION
OF COMMUNITIES.
   (A)   Home size. Manufactured homes within a community shall not contain
less than 760 square feet of area, as measured by the outside dimensions, nor
have an outside width of less than 13 feet.
   (B)   Installation. The installation of manufactured housing on each site
within the community shall conform to the requirements of Rule 602 and Rule
602A of the Manufactured Housing Commission Rules. All utility connections to
homes within the community shall be performed in accordance with the
requirements of Rule 603 of the Manufactured Housing Commission Rules.
   (C)   Skirting. Skirting shall be installed around all manufactured housing
units and meet all of the following requirements.
      (1)   All skirting shall be installed prior to the issuance of a
certificate of occupancy. In the event that the installation is delayed due to
weather, or for other similar reasons, a temporary certificate of occupancy may
be issued for a period not to exceed 90 days. All skirting shall meet the
requirements established by the rules of the State Manufactured Housing
Commission.
      (2)   Individual manufactured housing units shall be skirted around the
perimeter of the manufactured housing unit to conceal the under-body from view.
Skirting shall be vented in accordance with the requirements of Rule 604 of the
Manufactured Housing Commission Rules. All skirting shall be manufactured of
fire resistant material and certified as such by the manufacturer. Skirting
shall be installed in a manner so as to resist damage under normal weather
conditions and shall be properly maintained.
   (D)   Storage of personal property.
      (1)   Except as otherwise noted in this chapter, no personal property,
including tires, shall be stored outside or under any manufactured housing, or
within carports which are open on any side. Towing mechanisms, including axles,
are not subject to this provision.
      (2)   Bicycles and motorcycles may be parked in carports. Seasonal
outdoor storage of outdoor cooking grills is permitted so long as they are kept
on either a finished wooden deck, a concrete or bituminous asphalt patio or
equivalent type of surface associated with the home.
      (3)   Storage sheds with a maximum area of 144 square feet may be placed
upon any individual manufactured housing site for the storage of personal
property.
   (E)   Towing mechanisms. Towing mechanisms shall be removed from all homes
at the time of installation and stored so as not to be visible from the
exterior of the community. Towing mechanisms, including axles, may, however be
stored under manufactured homes within a community.
   (F)   Use. A manufactured home shall be used only as a single-family
dwelling. This provision shall not be construed to preclude the siting of model
manufactured homes on licensed sites in a manufactured housing community.
   (G)   Vehicle repair/inoperable vehicle storage. No major vehicular repair,
changing of oil or use of other potentially hazardous materials or procedures
is permitted within the community. Further, no vehicles which are inoperable
for a period of 72 consecutive hours shall be stored and/or remain in any
outdoor area associated with the developed community property. The community
shall comply with the requirements of §
154.028.
   (H)   Occupancy. No manufactured home shall be occupied for dwelling
purposes unless it is placed on a site or lot and connected to water, sanitary
sewer, electrical and other facilities as may be necessary, prior to building
official inspection and approval.
   (I)   Manufactured home sales. New or pre-owned manufactured homes, which
are to remain on-site in the manufactured housing community, may be sold by the
resident, owner or a licensed dealer or broker, provided that manufactured
housing development management permits the sale, pursuant to § 28A of the
Mobile Home Commission Act, Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301
through 125.2350, as amended.
   (J)   Community maintenance. The owner or operator of any community shall be
responsible for all private street maintenance within the confines of the
community and shall be responsible for all snow removal within the confines of
the community and shall be responsible for picking up trash and garbage within
the confines of the community. The community’s owner or operator shall also
maintain the sidewalks, open space and common area facilities.
   (K)   Storage of combustible items. Individual fuel oil, liquid petroleum or
other fuel tanks or combustible personal property shall not be permitted to be
stored in or under any home.
   (L)   Garbage containers. Each home site shall be provided with approved
garbage containers that meet the requirements of the Manufactured Housing
Commission. The containers shall be kept in sanitary conditions at all times.
It shall be the responsibility of the community operator to ensure that all
garbage containers do not overflow and to ensure that all areas within the
community are maintained free from any trash or other discarded materials.
   (M)   Fire extinguishing equipment. Every community shall be equipped with
fire extinguishing equipment in good working order, with type, size and number
so located as to be in compliance with Rule 702A of the Manufactured Housing
Commission Rules. Each fire extinguisher shall be periodically examined and
kept at all times in a useable condition in compliance with the regulations of
the State Police Fire Marshal Division.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.036 COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. Pursuant to Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 324.11501 et seq., as amended, the State Department of Environmental Quality
(“MDEQ”) is authorized to issue permits for onsite sewage disposal systems that
service more than one property (referred to herein as a “community sewer
system”). In issuing a Part 41 permit, the MDEQ may no longer require that the
township adopt a resolution stating that the township will assume
responsibility for the operation, maintenance, and in the event of system
failure, clean-up of the proposed system, if the owner fails to do so. While
the township recognizes that it cannot be forced to assume the responsibilities
for a community sewer system, and a community sewer system may be in the best
interests of the health, safety and welfare of the township and the residents
in some circumstances, the township requires assurance that should a Part 41
permit be issued, the township shall not incur any costs or liability in
connection with the design, construction, operation, maintenance, repair and/or
replacement of that system. To this effect, this chapter is intended to
regulate community sewer systems to provide those assurances.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT 451. Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., as
amended.
      ASSOCIATION. For a condominium development, shall have the same meaning
as “association of co-owners” found in Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§
559.101 through 559.272, as amended. For a subdivision or other development, it
shall mean an association of homeowners or property owner organized to deed
restrictions and/or restrictive covenants in a particular development.
      COMMUNITY SEWER SYSTEM or SYSTEM. A facility for the transportation,
collection, processing, or treatment of sanitary sewage, which is owned by a
non-governmental entity and which services or which is proposed to service more
than one structure.
      DEVELOPMENT. Includes a subdivision as defined by Public Act 288 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended, a condominium pursuant
to the provisions of Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended, or any group of dwellings or structures which are proposed
to be serviced by a community sewer system.
      DEVELOPMENT DOCUMENTS.
         (a)   For a condominium project, the master deed and bylaws provided
by Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as
amended: and
         (b)   With regard to subdivisions or other developments, deed
restrictions and/or restrictive covenants.
      DWELLING. A structure primarily designed or used for residential
purposes.
      EXPANSION. Any activity whereby additional structures or users shall be
added to an existing system.
      MDEQ. The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or its
successors.
      OWNER. The owner of a fee simple, or a land contract interest, in real
property or the owner of a unit in a condominium, of property which is serviced
or is proposed to be serviced by a community sewer system.
      PART 41 PERMIT. A permit issued in accordance with the Provisions of Part
41 of Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq.
      PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A publicly-owned sanitary sewer system.
      SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A facility for transportation, collection,
processing or treatment of sanitary sewage.
      STRUCTURE. A building in which toilet, kitchen, laundry, bathing or other
facilities that generate water carrying sanitary sewage are used for household,
commercial, industrial or other purposes.
   (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to
construct, install or operate a community sewer system to service a development
within the township.
      (2)   The township shall grant approval of a community sewer system only
after the applicant has provided all information and met all the requirements
contained in this chapter.
   (D)   Requirements for approval.
      (1)   Any community sewer system shall comply with the terms of this
chapter, applicable standards of the MDEQ, Michigan Department of Public
Health, and the County Health Department, and any other applicable laws and
regulations of the federal government, the state, the county and the township,
as they may not exist or are hereafter adopted or amended. The system shall
only be permitted within the R-1A, R-1B, R-2, MHR or RM Zoning Districts.
      (2)   No new community sewer or an expansion of an existing system shall
be constructed, installed or operated within the township unless the plans for
the installation and system design have been approved by the township, the
County Health Department, the State Department of Public Health, and/or state
department of environmental quality (MDEQ) (whichever had jurisdiction) as
conforming with their regulations and a permit issued in accordance therewith,
and any other applicable government unit having jurisdiction over the system.
      (3)   The applicant shall provide the following to the township before
approval for a community sewer system may be granted:
         (a)   A certification from the system engineer indicating that the
system as designed and constructed will adequately process sanitary sewage and
waste as required by applicable laws and regulations of the federal government,
state, county and the township. The township engineer shall review and make a
recommendation regarding the adequacy of the certification;
         (b)   An executed agreement between the applicant, owner and/or
association (which must be formed and made a party to any agreement executed
hereunder), and the County Drain Commissioner Office, or another operator as
determined by the township, in its sole discretion, to be properly certified
and possessing the required ability to operate and manage the system.
            1.   The agreement shall contain provisions for: operation and
maintenance of system; collection of charges for connection to, use and
replacement of the system; and compliance with all applicable governmental
laws, ordinances, regulations and agreements regarding the system.
            2.   The agreement shall provide that it may not be terminated
without township approval. The language of the agreement shall be approved by
the township attorney and township engineer prior to granting of township
approval.
         (c)   An executed agreement between the applicant, owner and/or
association, and the township in a form acceptable to the township. The
agreement shall provide the terms and conditions related to the township’s
obligation to oversee the system and shall specify:
            1.   The applicant, owner and/or association shall be responsible
for operation and maintenance of the system;
            2.   The individual or entity responsible for the operation and
maintenance on behalf of the applicant, owner and/or association;
            3.   Standards for operation, maintenance, repair and/or
replacement of the system;
            4.   The applicant, owner and association shall jointly and
severely indemnify the township from any and all costs and liability incurred
by the township with respect to operation, maintenance, repair and replacement
of the system;
            5.   The applicant, owner and/or association shall provide an
escrow, bond or letter of credit in an amount determined by the township to
satisfy all costs relating to the maintenance, operation, repair and/or
replacement of the system. The amount of the escrow, bond or letter of credit
account shall be established by the township prior to granting approval for the
system;
            6.   The applicant, owner and/or association shall pay an
application fee designed to reimburse the township for all its expenses
involved in review of the construction and design of the system, or preparing
or reviewing any documents references in this chapter, including review by the
township engineer and township attorney, as required;
            7.   That should the designed individual entity fail to comply with
any requirements listed in division (D)(3) above, that the township, may but is
not required to, enter with or without notice onto the property, perform any
necessary maintenance, repair, replacement and/or operation, with the
applicant, owner and/or association reimbursing the township all costs
resulting from the activity, plus a 25% administration fee; and that in default
of the payment, the township shall be entitled to withdraw any or all of the
escrow, bond or letter of credit account referenced in division (D)(3)(c)5.
above, without the consent of the applicant, owner, association or any other
person or entity and additionally undertake whatever collection proceedings are
available to it by law including, but not limited to , the addition of the
costs to the tax roll to be collected in the same manner as special assessments
are assessed against any real property, or interest therein serviced by the
system;
            8.   The applicant, owner and/or association shall provide for the
maintenance of a policy of casualty insurance for the replacement value of the
insurable components of the system and a policy of comprehensive general
liability insurance with limits acceptable to the township, naming the township
as an additional insured;
            9.   The township may, at its sole discretion, require that the
community sewer system by abandoned and all properties in the development be
connected to any publicly-owned community sewer system which may be constructed
in the future abutting the development or easements abutting the development;
and
            10.   In the event a publicly owned sewer system is created or if,
notwithstanding the provision of this chapter, the township is required to
assume responsibility for the system, the township shall have the option to
purchase for the sum of $1: marketable title to any lands required to be titled
in the name of the township by governmental or regulatory requirements; or
easements reasonably deemed by the township to be necessary in conjunction with
the township’s assumption of responsibility for community sewer system or
future publicly-owned community sewer system.
      (4)   The applicant, owner and/or association shall also agree that
provisions of the development documentation referenced in the preceding section
shall also be included in a separate document, in form approved by the township
attorney, and included within the condominium project, or in a separate
recordable document for other developments, and delivered to the prospective
purchaser prior to the execution of a purchase agreement for property proposed
to be serviced by a community sewer system.
      (5)   A permanent and irrevocable easement, in recordable form, shall be
granted by the applicant, owner and/or association to the township and its
employees, agents and assigns authorizing them to enter onto the property upon
which the system is located for the purpose of inspections. The easement shall
also permit, but not require, the township access for the purpose of improving,
repairing, maintaining and/or replacing the system area and require that the
system area shall be maintained and to be accessible at all times, prohibiting
any structures or landscaping within the area that would unreasonably interfere
with the access.
      (6)   No building permit shall be used for any structure or development
proposed to be serviced by a community sewer system until the township has
inspected and approved the system in accordance with the terms and provisions
of this chapter.
      (7)   Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the
township shall not be responsible for or obligated to perform any needed or
desired repairs, maintenance, improvement and/or replacement of the system or
any portion thereof. Any like repairs, maintenance improvement and/or
replacement undertaken by the township shall be in its sole and absolute
discretion.
      (8)   At the time any approval for a community sewer system is granted,
the township may condition such approval upon the applicant and current and
future owners of property proposed to be serviced by the system and/or any
association to adhere to certain operational and maintenance requirements. The
contractor and/or association shall furnish periodic operating reports in
accordance with the maintenance requirements and schedule. Any requirements
shall be made a part of the development documents.
      (9)   The development documents referenced in divisions (D)(3) and (4)
shall be recorded at the office of the County Register of Deeds. After approval
by the township, the development documents, as they pertain to the system,
shall not be changed without township approval, which restriction shall be
expressly stated in the documents.
      (10)   The association, individual owners and/or users of the system
shall be responsible for all costs involved in the installation, operation,
maintenance, repair, replacement and liability associated with the system. The
township may, at its option, elect to collect all costs it may incur in the
connection with the system pursuant to the other provisions of this chapter, or
by direct court action against the association, owners and/or users of the
system.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalties.
      (1)   Civil remedies. The provisions of this section shall be enforceable
through any and all remedies at law or in equity in any court of competent
jurisdiction. Any violation of this section is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
      (2)   Criminal remedies. An person convicted of a violation of this
chapter , or any person who knowingly makes any false, statements,
representations or certifications in any application, record, pan or other
document, filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this section, shall
upon conviction be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment in
the county jail for a period of time not to exceed 90 days, or both the fine
and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court, together with the costs of
prosecution. Each day this section is violated shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006) (Ord. passed 10-20-2008) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.037 MEDICAL MARIJUANA CAREGIVERS.
   (A)   A registered primary caregiver, operating in compliance with the MMMA,
MMMA Administrative Rules, and the requirements of the Zoning Ordinance, shall
be permitted as a home occupation, as regulated by this section. The township
makes the following findings, in support of its determination that the
regulation of registered primary caregivers as a permitted home occupation
pursuant to the requirements of this section.
   (B)   A primary caregiver is required to register the location of the home
occupation with the Burtchville Township Clerk's office. At the time of
registration, the caregiver shall provide the following information on a form
provided by the Township Clerk.
      (1)   A current Michigan registration card issued to the primary
caregiver.
      (2)   A full description of the nature and types of equipment which will
be used in marijuana cultivation and processing.
      (3)   Sufficient evidence that the registered primary caregiver resides,
full time, at the residential dwelling.
   (C)   All medical marijuana grown by the caregiver shall be contained in an
enclosed, locked facility, inaccessible on all sides, and equipped with locks
or other security devices that permit access only the registered primary
caregiver or registered qualifying patient in full compliance with the Act and
Administrative Rules.
   (D)   All necessary building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical permits
shall be obtained for any portion of the structure in which electrical wiring,
lighting and/or watering devices that support the production of marijuana are
located.
   (E)   Those portions of the residential structure where energy usage and
heat exceeds typical residential use, such as a marijuana grow room, and the
storage of any chemicals such as herbicides, pesticides and fertilizers are
subject to inspection and approval by the Burtchville Township Building and
Fire Departments to ensure compliance with applicable township codes.
   (F)   If a room with windows is utilized as the marijuana-growing location,
any lighting methods that exceed usual residential use between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. shall employ shielding methods, without alteration to the
exterior of the residence, to prevent ambient light spillage that causes or
creates a distraction or nuisance to adjacent residential properties.
   (G)   Not more than one registered primary caregiver may be permitted to
operate or engage in primary caregiver home occupation activities at any
residential dwelling pursuant to this section.
   (H)   No person other than the primary caregiver shall be engaged or
involved in the growing, processing, dispensing, delivering or handling of
medical marijuana except to the extent that the primary caregiver lawfully
transfers medical marijuana to a qualifying patient to whom the primary
caregiver is linked through the state registration system.
   (I)   The use of the primary caregiver's residential dwelling for medical
marijuana related purposes shall be clearly incidental and subordinate to the
dwelling's use for residential purposes. Not more than 25% of the gross
finished floor area of the dwelling including the basement, if any, in single
family dwellings shall be used for the growing, processing, or handling of
medical marijuana. Any modifications to the dwelling made for the purpose of
cultivating medical marijuana shall comply with all applicable building,
electrical, mechanical and fire safety code requirements, including all
requisite permit applications and related inspections.
   (J)   No part of any accessory building, detached garage, pole barn or
similar building or structure shall be used for the growing, processing or
distribution of medical marijuana.
   (K)   There shall be no visible change to the outside appearance of the
primary caregiver's residential dwelling or other visible evidence of
conducting a medical marijuana operation within the dwelling.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
§ 154.038 SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS.
   (A)   General requirements. All solar energy systems are subject to the
following general requirements:
      (1)   All solar energy systems must conform to the provisions of this
section and all county, state, and federal regulations, and safety requirements
as well as applicable industry standards.
      (2)   Solar energy systems shall be located or placed so that
concentrated solar glare shall not be directed toward or onto nearby properties
or roadways at anytime of the day.
   (B)   Private solar energy systems. Private solar energy systems shall be
permitted in all zoning districts, provided they conform to applicable county,
state and federal regulations and safety requirements, including the Michigan
Building Code. A building permit shall be required for the installation of any
private solar energy system.
      (1)   Roof- or building-mounted private solar energy systems. Roof- or
building-mounted private solar energy systems shall be considered an accessory
use in all zoning districts, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   No part of the solar energy system erected on a roof shall
extend beyond the peak of the roof.
         (b)   No part of a solar energy system mounted on a roof shall be
installed closer than three feet from the edges of the roof, the peak, or eave
or valley in order to maintain pathways of accessibility.
         (c)   No part of a solar energy system mounted on a roof shall extend
more than two feet above the surface of the roof.
         (d)   In the event that a roof- or building-mounted solar energy
system has been abandoned (meaning not having been in operation for a period of
one year), it shall be removed by the property owner within six months from the
date of abandonment.
         (e)   A building permit shall be required for installation of roof- or
building-mounted private solar energy systems.
      (2)   Ground-mounted private solar energy systems. Ground-mounted private
solar energy systems shall be considered an accessory use in all zoning
districts, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Prior to the installation of a ground-mounted solar energy
system, the property owner shall submit a site plan to the Zoning
Administrator. The site plan shall include setbacks, panel size, and the
location of property lines, buildings, fences, greenbelts, and road right-of-
ways. The site plan must be drawn to scale.
         (b)   A ground-mounted solar energy system shall not exceed the
maximum building height for adjacent accessory buildings, but in no case shall
the maximum height of any ground-mounted solar energy system exceed 15 feet
above the ground when oriented at maximum tilt.
         (c)   A ground-mounted solar energy system shall be located in the
rear yard and shall meet the rear yard setback requirements applicable in the
zoning district in which the solar energy system will be located.
         (d)   All power transmission or other lines, wires, or conduits from a
ground-mounted solar energy system to any building or other structure shall be
located underground. If batteries are used as part of the ground-mounted solar
energy system, they must be placed in a secured container or enclosure.
         (e)   There shall be greenbelt screening around any ground-mounted
solar energy systems and equipment associated with the system to obscure, to
the greatest extent possible, the solar energy system from any adjacent
residences. The greenbelt shall consist of shrubbery, trees, or other non-
invasive plant species that provide a visual screen. In lieu of a planting
greenbelt, a decorative fence (meeting the requirements of this chapter
applicable to fences) may be used.
         (f)   No more than 20% of the total lot area may be covered by a
ground-mounted solar energy system.
         (g)   In the event that a ground-mounted solar energy system has been
abandoned (meaning not having been in operation for a period of one year), the
property owner shall notify the township and shall remove the system within six
months from the date of abandonment.
         (h)   A building permit shall be required for installation of a
ground-mounted solar energy system.
   (C)   Commercial solar energy systems. Commercial solar energy systems shall
only be allowed in the Agricultural-Residential District or the Industrial
District as a special land use approved by the Planning Commission. In addition
to any other requirements for special land use approval, commercial solar
energy systems shall be ground-mounted and are subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   The property owner or applicant for a commercial solar energy
system shall provide the Planning Commission with proof of ownership of the
subject property, a copy of any lease agreement for a commercial solar energy
system, together with an operations agreement, which shall set forth the
operations parameters, the name and contact information of the certified
operator, inspection protocol, emergency procedures and general safety
documentation.
      (2)   Commercial solar energy systems shall be located on parcels of land
no less than 20 acres in size.
      (3)   The commercial solar energy system shall meet the minimum front,
side and rear yard setbacks of the zoning district.
      (4)   The height of the commercial solar energy system and any mounts
shall not exceed 15 feet when oriented at maximum tilt.
      (5)   Landscaping shall be provided to screen the system from view on all
sides to the greatest extent possible.
      (6)   Prior to installation, the applicant shall submit a descriptive
site plan to the Planning Commission which includes where and how the
commercial solar energy system will connect to the power grid.
      (7)   No commercial solar energy system shall be installed until evidence
has been given to the Planning Commission that the electric utility company has
agreed to an interconnection with the electrical grid or a power purchase
agreement. Any such agreement shall be furnished to the Planning Commission.
      (8)   A condition of every approval of a commercial solar energy system
shall be adequate provision for the removal of the system whenever it ceases to
be used for one year or more. In the event that a system has been abandoned
(meaning not having been in operation for a period of one year), the property
owner and developer/applicant shall notify the township and shall remove the
system within six months from the date of abandonment. Removal includes the
proper receipt of a demolition permit from the Building Official and proper
restoration of the site to the satisfaction of the Zoning Administrator. The
site shall then be filled and covered with top soil and restored to a state
compatible with the surrounding vegetation.
      (9)   To ensure proper removal of a commercial solar energy system upon
discontinued use or abandonment, applications shall include a description of
the financial security guaranteeing removal of the system which must be posted
with the township within 15 days after approval or before a construction permit
is issued for the facility. The financial security shall be: 1) a cash bond; or
2) an irrevocable bank letter of creditor a performance bond, in a form
approved by the township. The amount of such guarantee shall be no less than
the estimated cost of removal and may include a provision for inflationary cost
adjustments. The estimate shall be prepared by the engineer for the developer
and shall be approved by the township. The applicant shall be responsible for
the payment of any costs or attorney fees incurred by the township in securing
removal. If the owner of the facility or the property owner fails to remove or
repair the defective or abandoned commercial solar energy system, the township,
in addition to any other remedy under this section, may pursue legal action to
abate the violation by seeking to remove the solar energy system and recover
any and all costs, including attorney fees.
(Ord. passed 11-15-2021)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 154.050 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the township is hereby divided into these
districts:
   (A)   Residential districts:
      (1)   A/R, Agricultural/Residential District;
      (2)   R-1A, Single-Family Residential District;
      (3)   R-1B, Single-Family Residential District;
      (4)   R-1C, Single-Family Residential District;
      (5)   R-2, Two-Family Residential District;
      (6)   MHR, Manufactured Home Residential District; and
      (7)   RM, Multiple-Family Residential District.
   (B)   Nonresidential districts:
      (1)   RCC, Recreation, Conservation and Cemetery District;
      (2)   O, Office District;
      (3)   GB, General Business District; and
      (4)   I, Industrial District.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.051 BOUNDARIES SHOWN ON OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on
the official zoning map, which accompanies this chapter, which is incorporated
by reference herein and which map with all notations, references and other
information shown thereon shall be as much a part of this chapter as if fully
described herein.
   (B)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
Township Supervisor attested by the Township Clerk, under the following words:
      “This is to certify that this is the official zoning map referred to in §
154.051 of the code of the Township of Burtchville: Adopted August 15, 2016.”
   (C)   If, in accordance with provisions of this chapter, changes are made in
district boundaries or other matter portrayed on the official zoning map, those
changes shall be made on the official zoning map after the amendment has been
approved by the Township Board together with an entry on the official zoning
map as follows:
      “On (date), by official action of the Township Board, the following
change(s) were made (brief description with reference number to Board
proceedings).”
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Res. 2016-08-15.1, passed 8-15-2016)
Cross-reference:
   Burtchville Township Zoning Map, see Appendix A
   Burtchville Township Zoning Detail, see Appendix B
§ 154.052 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES INTERPRETED.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of the various
districts as shown on the zoning map, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerlines of
streets, highways or alleys, shall be construed to follow the centerlines.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following platted lot lines
shall be construed as following the lot lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following township limits shall
be construed as following township limits.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as parallel to, or extensions of, features shall
be so construed. Distances that are not specifically indicated on the zoning
map shall be determined by the scale of the map.
   (E)   Where physical or natural features existing on the ground are at
variance with those shown on the official zoning map, or in other circumstances
not covered by divisions (A) through (D) above, the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall interpret the district boundaries.
   (F)   Insofar as some or all of the various districts may be indicated on
the zoning map by patterns which, for the sake of map clarity, do not cover
public rights-of-way, it is intended that the district boundaries do extend to
the center of any public right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.053 DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings and uses in any district shall be subject to the provisions of
§§
154.001 through
154.036 and §§
154.075 through
154.079.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.054 RCC RECREATION, CONSERVATION AND CEMETERY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The Recreation, Conservation and Cemetery
District provides for land used for recreation, for conservation purposes, and
for cemeteries. This district includes the Lakeport State Park, Burtchville
Township Park, Dixie Park and cemeteries.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the Recreation,
Conservation and Cemetery District:
      (1)   Publicly owned and operated parks and recreational facilities;
      (2)   Conservation areas dedicated for public use or access;
      (3)   Cemeteries;
      (4)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incident to
the above uses. See §
154.063;
      (5)   Accessory signs in accordance with §
154.025(C)(3);
      (6)   Communication towers as provided in §
154.134; and
      (7)   Uses similar to the above uses.
   (C)   Area, height and placement requirements. The building, height, lot
coverage, floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance
with the schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.055 A/R AGRICULTURAL/RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The Agricultural/Residential District encourages
farms on land resources needed for agricultural production, fosters rural
lifestyles and regulates the encroachment from untimely suburban and urban
development. Land uses commonly found within the Agricultural/Residential
District include farming, woodland, farmsteads, large lot rural non-farm
dwellings, open space, outdoor recreation and similar extensive land uses. In
the future, based upon the township’s Comprehensive Development Plan,
Agricultural/Residential Districts may be converted to other zoning districts
to accommodate expansion of suburban and more urban areas.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following uses are permitted in the Agricultural/
Residential District:
      (1)   Farms, when located on a parcel of land ten acres or more in area
located outside the boundaries of either a proprietary or supervisor’s plat. A
farm shall be subject to the health and sanitary regulations of the county and
the state. No farm shall be operated for the disposal of garbage, sewage
(except when the sewage is applied by state approved methods for the purpose of
fertilizing the soil on a farm and when approved by the Township Board),
rubbish, offal or rendering plants, or for slaughtering of animals (except such
animals as may have been raised on the premises for consumption by persons
residing on the premises);
      (2)   Raising of livestock and farm animals (but not including feedlots)
for the purpose of this chapter, shall constitute a farm and require at least
ten acres. No livestock or animal buildings or pens shall be located closer
than 50 feet from any abutting residential district. (Michigan’s “generally
accepted agricultural and management practices” (GAAMPS) may require a greater
setback.) All livestock and farm animals shall be kept within a fenced
enclosure. All livestock or animal buildings and enclosures shall be kept in a
well-maintained condition. The farm operator is advised that raising livestock
and farm animals should be conducted and sited in accordance with the state
“generally accepted agricultural and management practices” (GAAMPS) under
Public Act 94 of 1995, being M.C.L.A. § 286.472. The township explicitly leaves
GAAMPS enforcement to the state and is not, by reference herein, incorporating
them into the ordinance;
      (3)   An accessory residential animal hobby on non-farm lots or parcels
outside of an existing residential plat, subdivision and condominium
development, unless the development is originally designed to provide for the
accessory residential animal hobbies as provided herein.
         (a)   Raising of hobby animals on parcels of land less than ten acres
in area shall be limited to one animal unit (except horses and cattle. All
other animal types not in the table on the next page are to be calculated thus:
1,000 pounds live weight equals one animal unit) for the first five acres, plus
one additional animal unit for each two additional acres.
         (b)   The use shall be accessory to an existing residence located on
the same lot or parcel. Animals kept for a 4-H project are included under this
permitted use. All hobby animals shall be kept within a fenced enclosure. No
hobby animals or animal buildings, pens or corrals shall be located closer than
50 feet from any abutting property line, except that hobby animal paddocks may
extend to one foot from the property line or to a property line fence
established between neighbors with a mutual agreement required to be recorded
at the Register of Deeds for any fence on a property line.
         (c)   All hobby animals or animal buildings and enclosures shall be
kept in a well-maintained condition, and waste products shall not create a
health hazard or a public nuisance. Storage or piling of waste products shall
be confined to areas where hobby animal buildings and quarters are permitted
(accessory building) and away from wells, water bodies and drainage ways.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the below table, offspring of the hobby animals
may be kept on the premises for the time period that is customary for the
species.
         (e)   A plot plan only (not a full site plan) is required for this
use. See §
154.151.
         (f)   On parcels of five to 6.99, seven to 8.99 or nine to 9.99 acres,
the following numbers of hobby animals shall be allowed.
Number of Residential Animals Allowed On
Type of Hobby Animal 5 to 6.99 acres 7 to 8.99 acres 9 to 9.99 acres
Number of Residential Animals Allowed On
Type of Hobby Animal           5 to 6.99 acres 7 to 8.99 acres 9 to 9.99 acres
Cattle (slaughter and feeder)  2               3               4
Horse                          2               3               3
EQUIVALENTS*
Mature dairy cattle (milked or -               1               2
dry)
Swine**                        2               5               7
Sheep, lambs, goats            10              20              30
Turkeys                        30              60              90
Laying hens                    30              60              90
Ducks                          5               10              15
Ostrich, emu, lama             2               4               6
*The animal equivalents shown here are based on U.S. Code of Federal
Regulations: 40 C.F.R. Appendix B (§ 122.23)
**Each weighing over 25 kilograms, approximately 55 pounds.
 
      (4)   Farm buildings, plant and tree nurseries, and greenhouses;
      (5)   Farm markets for sale of agricultural products raised or grown on
the farm premises and
agriculture-related items; when carried on entirely within the farm dwelling or
accessory buildings (including roadside stands), and only when carried on as an
accessory use to a farm.
         (a)   In the case of roadside sales and roadside stands, the sale
shall not extend for more than nine months. The roadside stand shall be located
not less than ten feet from the existing road right-of-way, and an open area
for patron’s parking shall be provided subject to the same ten-foot setback.
         (b)   All structures or buildings used for the sale shall be of
portable construction, temporary, non-permanent and not anchored to the site.
The structures must be removed from the front yard of the premises within 30
days of the termination of the sale.
      (6)   Single-family detached dwellings. The requirements a single-family
dwelling must meet to locate in this district are included in the definition of
single-family dwelling. Additional requirements related to area, height and
placement on a lot are given under §
154.063. A plot plan is required under §
154.151;
      (7)   Single-family detached dwellings developed in accordance with a
residential clustering option as set forth in §
154.032;
      (8)   Foster family homes (one to four children) and foster group homes
(five to six children) as defined in §
154.003;
      (9)   Family day care homes (one to six children) as defined in §
154.003;
      (10)   State-licensed residential care facilities for six or fewer
persons;
      (11)   Garage sales, yard sales or similar types of sales, provided that
no like sale shall take place for a period of more than four days and no
residence shall be permitted more than three sales per year with at least 14
days between sales;
      (12)   Home occupations as defined (§
154.003) and as regulated (§
154.030);
      (13)   Public and parochial elementary, intermediate and secondary
schools;
      (14)   Publicly owned and operated parks and recreational facilities;
      (15)   Accessory buildings and structures customarily incidental to any
of the above uses when located on the same property. See §
154.063(R) and §
154.009;
      (16)   Personal storage buildings, subject to the following requirements.
A personal storage building is considered to serve the same function as a
residential garage, namely for the storage of the property owner’s vehicles and
household items. However, a personal storage building is not required to be
accessory to a residential structure or other use.
         (a)   One such building is permitted per lot of at least three acres
in the A/R District.
         (b)   The height, length and width shall not exceed the dimensions
allowable under §
154.009(C)(4).
         (c)   The building’s location on the lot shall accommodate a future
residential dwelling of a size typical of the neighborhood and accessory uses
such as a driveway and septic system and shall accommodate yard setbacks and
other requirements of §
154.063. In addition, the building shall be located no closer than 200 feet to
the planned right-of-way line and be served by a driveway that can accommodate
the township’s emergency response vehicles.
         (d)   An application for a building permit for a personal storage
building shall meet the requirements of §
154.151 and include sufficient information for the Zoning Administrator to
determine that the requirements above also will be met.
         (e)   No home occupation or commercial use or use as living quarters
is permitted in a personal storage building or on the premises in other than a
dwelling.
         (f)   Outdoor storage of items is permitted in the rear of the
building.
         (g)   If and when a building permit is issued for a residential
dwelling on the property or other lawful primary use is made of the property,
the personal storage building shall be automatically reclassified as an
accessory building, subject to the requirements of such, and shall be included
in the calculation of lot coverage and for other district regulations.
      (17)   Storage of a contractor’s commercial vehicles and equipment:
Storage of commercial vehicles and equipment, such as but not limited to that
used by a contractor, a builder, an excavator, a landscaper, a construction
company or a snow removal business (pickup trucks, vans, delivery vehicles,
snow plows, lawn maintenance equipment, tank trucks, semi-tractors and
trailers, and construction equipment) is permitted after review and approval by
the Planning Commission of a plot plan, subject to the conditions below.
         (a)   All the uses shall be located on a major thoroughfare or
secondary road, as shown in the Comprehensive Master Plan for the township.
         (b)   All equipment or stored materials shall be set back at least 150
feet from all property lines.
         (c)   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided to serve the
expected number of users of the commercial vehicles and for the storage of the
commercial vehicles.
         (d)   No on-site employees shall be permitted other than members of
the household.
         (e)   The number of commercial vehicles or pieces of equipment on-site
shall be limited to five. For purposes of counting, a truck and trailer
normally used together and stored together will be counted as one vehicle. A
piece of equipment that is stored on the trailer of a truck/trailer combination
shall not be counted as an additional vehicle.
         (f)   Vehicles stored within a building will not be counted for the
above limitations.
         (g)   Any hazardous materials, such, as but not limited to, gasoline,
diesel fuel and motor oils, shall conform to all requirements for hazardous
materials under state law.
         (h)   Storage of materials, such as, but not limited to, topsoil,
dirt, gravel, limestone and crushed concrete, stored on the premises for use in
commercial activity will be limited to occupying no more than 3,000 square feet
of contiguous ground, free standing piles and in bins. There shall be adequate
means provided to prevent these materials from spreading to adjacent properties
or waterways due to wind or rain.
         (i)   Whenever the proposed use is adjacent to a residential zoning
district or use, the Planning Commission may require that a landscaped
greenbelt and berm if necessary be provided in order to provide proper
screening of the vehicle(s), equipment or material storage from the residential
district or use.
      (18)   Private recreational areas in accordance with the standards of §
154.113;
      (19)   Public and private conservation areas; and
      (20)   Accessory signs in accordance with §
154.025.
   (C)   Special approval land uses. Special approval land uses are permitted
subject to the procedures set forth in §§
154.090 through
154.098, which include a public hearing. A site plan is required for all
special approval uses (§
154.150), except as otherwise provided herein. Section
154.095 provides general standards to guide action by the Township Planning
Commission. For a specific land use, additional standards are specified in §§
154.099 through
154.135, and in this section below:
      (1)   Summer housing and migratory labor camps used for seasonal labor
between April 1 and November 15, provided that the building or structure
complies with these regulations:
         (a)   All buildings or structures shall be maintained in a safe and
sanitary condition and shall be furnished with a safe and sanitary water supply
and sewage disposal facilities that are no less than those required by the
County and State Health Departments; and
         (b)   All buildings or structures shall be located so as to comply
with regulations for structures in an Agricultural/Residential District as set
forth §
154.063, with the exception that no building shall be located nearer than 50
feet to any side property line.
      (2)   Plant and tree nurseries and greenhouses with sales areas;
      (3)   Commercial and open-to-the-public stables, kennels and animal
clinics as provided in §
154.115;
      (4)   Quarries, mining and extraction as provided in §
154.104;
      (5)   Large-scale outdoor recreational uses, as provided in §
154.114;
      (6)   Gun and hunt clubs, shooting and archery ranges as provided in §
154.129. Note: does not apply to activity of a property owner or resident upon
his or her own property for personal use;
      (7)   Combat game areas, as provided in §
154.128;
      (8)   Cemeteries, as provided in §
154.130;
      (9)   Personal use aircraft landing fields as provided in §
154.133;
      (10)   Communication towers as provided in §
154.134;
      (11)   Feedlots and the raising of fur-bearing animals as provided in §
154.109. Note: the special approval uses below are also special approval uses
in the residential districts;
      (12)   Group day care home as provided in §
154.116 and boarding and rooming houses as provided in §
154.119;
      (13)   Bed and breakfast establishments as provided in §
154.107;
      (14)   Churches and public buildings as provided in §§
154.110 and
154.111;
      (15)   Golf courses, including driving ranges or miniature golf courses
only when accessory to a regular golf course of nine holes or more, as provided
in §
154.112;
      (16)   Utility provider buildings, telephone exchange buildings, electric
transformer stations, and substations, and gas regulator stations, but not
including storage yards when operation requirements necessitate the locating
within the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity as provided in §
154.106;
      (17)   High-pressure gas or high-voltage (120 kV or greater) electric
transmission lines as provided in §
154.099;
      (18)   Uses similar to the above uses (divisions (C)(1) through (17));
and
      (19)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures, customarily incident to
the above uses. See §§
154.009 and
154.063(R).
   (D)   Area, height And placement requirements. The building, height, lot
coverage, floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance
with the schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006) Penalty, see §
154.999
§ 154.056 R-1A, R-1B AND R-1C SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The R-1A, R-1B and R-1C Districts are
distinguished by different minimum lot sizes and setbacks as shown in the
Schedule of District Regulations, §
154.063.
      (1)   The Single-Family Residential Districts encourage the construction
of, and the use of the land for, dwellings at a density without overcrowding,
where public facilities can be provided at reasonable cost.
      (2)   The Single-Family Residential Districts seek to protect an
environment conducive to the enjoyment of home and family living by
discouraging heavy traffic on local residential streets; by not allowing new
commercial, industrial and other uses that interfere with residential uses; and
by phasing out existing nonconforming uses.
      (3)   In the Single-Family Residential Districts special provision is
made for uses that, because of their character or size, create a need for
public facilities and services that are significantly different from that
anticipated from single-family developments. These needs include: fire and
police protection, water supply, wastewater collection and treatment, streets.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   The permitted residential uses in the R-1A and R-1B Single-Family
Residential Districts are the same as those permitted in the Agricultural/
Residential District under §
154.055(B)(6), (8) through (15) and (20).
      (2)   The permitted residential uses in the R-1C Single-Family
Residential Districts are the same as those permitted in the Agricultural/
Residential District under §
154.055(B)(3), (6) through (15) and (20), which includes the residential
clustering option, as set forth in §
154.032.
   (C)   Special approval land uses. Special approval land uses are permitted
subject to the procedures set forth in §§
154.090 through
154.098, which include a public hearing. A site plan is required for all
special approval uses (§
154.150), except as provided herein. Section
154.095 provides general standards to guide action by the Township Planning
Commission. For a specific land use, additional standards are specified in §§
154.099 through
154.135, and in this section below.
      (1)   Special approval land uses as listed and as regulated under §
154.055(C)(12) through (19).
      (2)   Private recreational areas as provided in §
154.113.
   (D)   Area, height and placement requirements. The building, height, lot
coverage, floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance
with the schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.057 R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.
      (1)   The Two-Family Residential District is established to provide an
environment suitable for families who typically have children, but families of
smaller size than those residing in the Single-Family Residential Districts.
      (2)   To achieve this goal, uses are primarily limited to moderately low-
density two-family dwelling units, plus certain residentially related uses
designated to provide an acceptable neighborhood environment.
      (3)   The district may also provide a transition between higher-density
residential districts or nonresidential districts and low-density Single-Family
Residential Districts.
      (4)   The Two-Family District also permits the construction of residences
at a slightly higher density than Single-Family.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All permitted uses as regulated in the R-1A, Single-Family
Residential District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Single-family detached dwellings and two-family dwellings developed
in accordance with a residential clustering option as set forth in §
154.032; and
      (4)   Accessory buildings and structures customarily incidental to any of
the above uses when located on the same property (§§
154.009 and
154.063(B)(18)).
   (C)   Special approval land uses. Special approval land uses are permitted
subject to the procedures set forth in §§
154.090 through
154.098, which include a public hearing. A site plan is required for all
special approval uses (§
154.150), except as provided herein. Section
154.095 provides general standards to guide action by the Township Planning
Commission. For a specific land use, additional standards are specified in §§
154.099 through
154.135, and in this section below.
      (1)   Special approval uses as listed and as regulated under §
154.055(C)(12) through (19).
      (2)   Private recreational areas as provided in §
154.113.
   (D)   Area, height and placement requirements. The building, height, lot
coverage, floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance
with the schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.058 MHR MANUFACTURED HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The MHR, Manufactured Home Residential District
is a higher-density residential district. The rules applicable to the district
are those set forth by the State Manufactured Home Commission, except for the
following regulations designed to provide adequate space and land use
separation in harmony with the township’s other zoning districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All principal and special land uses permitted and as regulated in
the R-2, Two-Family Residential District, except permitted use as related to
residential clustering option.
      (2)   Manufactured housing communities (previously known as mobile home
parks), and subject to the requirements as established and regulated by Public
Act 419 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., as amended, and §§
154.033,
154.034 and
154.035.
      (3)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental to
any of the above uses. (See §
154.063(B)(18) and §
154.009.)
      (4)   Accessory signs in accordance with §
154.025.
   (C)   Special approval land uses. Special approval land uses are permitted
subject to the procedures set forth in §§
154.090 through
154.098, which include a public hearing. A site plan is required for all
special approval uses (§
154.150), except as provided herein. Section
154.095 provides general standards to guide action by the Township Planning
Commission. For a specific land use, additional standards are specified in §§
154.099 through
154.135 and in this section below.
      (1)   Special approval land uses as listed and regulated under §
154.055(C)(12) through (19).
      (2)   Nursery school, day nursery and child care centers as regulated
under §
154.117.
   (D)   Area, height and placement requirements. The building, height, lot
coverage, floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance
with the schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.059 RM RESIDENTIAL MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The RM, Residential Multiple-Family District is
designed to permit a more intensive residential use of land with various types
of multiple dwellings and related uses. These areas would be located near major
streets for good accessibility. Various types and sizes of residential
accommodations for ownership or rental would be provided to meet the needs of
the different age and family groups in the community.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Principal permitted uses are the same as those permitted in the
Agricultural/Residential District under §
154.055(B)(6) through (15), and (20);
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings including:
         (a)   Apartment houses;
         (b)   Row or townhouse dwellings;
         (c)   Efficiency units; and
         (d)   Two-family dwellings.
      (3)   Community garages serving the principal residential building,
allowing space for no more than two passenger vehicles for each dwelling unit;
      (4)   Maintenance and management buildings to serve the multiple
dwellings;
      (5)   Private swimming pool designed and operated only for occupants of
the principal building and their personal guests;
      (6)   Off-street parking and loading in accordance with §
154.023;
      (7)   Uses similar to the above uses;
      (8)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures customarily incidental to
any of the above uses when located on the same property. (Also see §
154.063(B)(18) for additional guidance. Communication towers are not permitted
in this district); and
      (9)   Accessory signs in accordance with §
154.025.
   (C)   Special approval land uses. Special approval land uses are permitted
subject to the procedures set forth in §§
154.090 through
154.098, which include a public hearing. A site plan is required for all
special approval uses (§
154.150). Section
154.095 provides general standards to guide action by the Township Planning
Commission. For a specific land use, additional standards are specified in §§
154.099 through
154.135 and in this section below.
      (1)   Any uses (§
154.055(C)(12) through (19)) permitted after special approval in the A/
R District are permitted in this district subject to all requirements for those
uses in zoning district where first permitted;
      (2)   Nursery school, day nursery and child care centers as regulated
under §
154.117;
      (3)   Boarding and rooming houses as provided in §
154.119; and
      (4)   Orphanage, foster home, homes for the aged, indigent, physically or
mentally disabled as provided in §
154.118.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Vehicle access shall be provided by a paved thoroughfare(s) or
private road, and use of one or more local thoroughfares with less than a
standard 66-foot right-of-way (ROW) shall be prohibited, unless the applicant
proposes an alternate remedy approved by the Planning Commission as part of
site plan review (See §
154.150.) The intent of the requirement is to minimize the impact of multiple-
family development on single-family residential streets that are too narrow to
handle increased traffic volumes. This provision is applicable when a site plan
is presented for all new construction on a parcel or for renovation affecting
more than 50% of the footprint of the existing primary structure.
      (2)   In reviewing an applicant’s proposal for vehicular access to the
property via adjacent local thoroughfares, the Planning Commission shall
consider whether:
         (a)   The proposed plan for access results in a county-approved road
width for the portion of the local thoroughfare to be used for access;
         (b)   The proposed plan provides for off-site turning lanes from and
to an adjacent major, secondary or collector thoroughfare, thereby reducing the
impact of increased traffic on the local residential thoroughfare;
         (c)   The proposed plan provides for linking off-site safe, non-
motorized traffic along adjacent portions of any local thoroughfare involved in
the plan;
         (d)   The site plan shows measurements, construction details and
planned signage relating to any proposed off-site entrance route(s) and related
turning lane(s); and
         (e)   In the case of a private road being used, the applicant has
proposed a workable, long-term method and/or schedule of providing for the
future maintenance of any off-site widened portion or portions of a local
thoroughfare(s) to be used as an entrance route(s), implementation of which
plan shall be a condition of approval.
   (E)   Height and placement requirements. The building, height, lot coverage,
floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance with the
schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.060 O OFFICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The Office District is intended to permit office
uses, office sales uses and certain personal services. This use district when
not a part of a shopping center or other business district is intended to serve
the function of land use transition between business districts and adjacent
residential districts. Office districts normally will be located along major
thoroughfares.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In an O Office District, no land, building, structure
or premises except as otherwise provided in this chapter shall be erected,
altered or used except for one or more of the following uses: the parenthetical
number (000000) listed by each use is taken from the North American Industry
Classification System (NAICS), 1997 (published by the U.S. Office of Management
and Budget) and is intended to provide a general guide of uses intended under
each heading. However, if it is determined by the Planning Commission that the
effects of a listed use may tend to extend beyond the site, then special land
use approval shall be required:
      (1)   Office buildings for any of the following occupations: real estate;
insurance; executive; administrative; professional; accounting; writing;
clerical; stenographic; drafting; and sales subject to the limitations
contained below in division (D) below;
      (2)   Public utility buildings, offices, telephone exchanges, but not
including storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulator
stations;
      (3)   Churches;
      (4)   Government buildings and uses;
      (5)   Publicly owned and operated parks and recreational facilities;
      (6)   Other similar uses not permitted elsewhere, as determined by the
Planning Commission; and
      (7)   Accessory signs in accordance with §
154.025.
   (C)   Special approval land uses. Special approval land uses are permitted
subject to the procedures set forth in §§
154.090 through
154.098, which include a public hearing. A site plan is required for all
special approval uses (§
154.150). Section
154.095 provides general standards to guide action by the Township Planning
Commission. For a specific land use, additional standards are specified in §§
154.099 through
154.134, and in this section below. The parenthetical number (000000) listed by
each use is taken from the North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS), 1997 (published by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget) and is
intended to provide a general guide of uses intended under each heading:
      (1)   Commercial office supply stores and office service establishments,
when a part of a large O Office District that by the nature of its size and
complexity would require these attendant services;
      (2)   High-pressure gas or high-voltage (120 kV or greater) electric
transmission lines as provided in §
154.099;
      (3)   Telephone exchanges, and static transformer stations, gas regulator
stations and other utility provider buildings as provided in §
154.106;
      (4)   Nursery school, day nursery and child care center as provided in §
154.117;
      (5)   Medical office, including clinics, but not animal clinics;
      (6)   Banks, credit union offices, savings and loan associations (522110
- 522130), stock brokerage and similar uses;
      (7)   Art galleries and photographic studios, except those defined as
adult entertainment uses, and interior decorating studios;
      (8)   Personal service establishments including barber shops (812111),
beauty shops (812112), and health salons, except those defined as adult
entertainment uses; and
      (9)   Communication towers as provided in §
154.134.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   The outdoor storage of goods or materials is prohibited.
      (2)   Warehousing or indoor storage of materials, beyond that actually
incidental to the above permitted uses, is prohibited.
      (3)   Off-street parking and loading in accordance with §
154.023.
      (4)   Vehicle ingress and egress using local thoroughfares with less than
a 66-foot right-of-way shall be prohibited, unless the property owner proposes
a remedy approved by the Planning Commission as part of site plan review (See §
154.150.) The intent is to minimize the impact of commercial development on
residential streets that are too narrow to handle increased traffic volumes.
This provision is applicable when a site plan is presented for all-new
construction on a parcel or for renovation affecting more than 50% of the
footprint of the existing primary structure. In reviewing an applicant’s
proposal for vehicular access to the property via adjacent local thoroughfares,
the Planning Commission shall consider whether:
         (a)   The proposed plan for access results in a county-approved road
width for the portion of the local thoroughfare to be used for access;
         (b)   The proposed plan provides turning lanes from and to an adjacent
major, secondary or collector thoroughfare, thereby reducing the impact of
increased traffic on the local residential thoroughfare;
         (c)   The proposed plan provides for safe, non-motorized traffic along
adjacent portions of any local thoroughfare involved in the plan;
         (d)   The site plan shows measurements, construction details and
planned signage relating to any proposed entrances and turning lanes; and
         (e)   In the case of a private road (local thoroughfare) being used,
the applicant has proposed a workable, long-term method and/or schedule of
providing for the future maintenance of any widened portion or portions of the
local thoroughfare, implementation of which plan shall be a condition of
approval.
   (E)   Area, height and placement requirements. The building, height, lot
coverage, floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance
with the schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.061 GB GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The GB General Business District is intended to
permit a wide range of business and entertainment activities. The permitted
uses would serve not only nearby residential areas, but also people further
away for types of businesses and services usually found in major shopping
centers and central business districts at the juncture of principal streets.
These uses would generate larger volumes of vehicular and pedestrian traffic
and may be characterized by an integrated or planned cluster of establishments
served by a common parking area. Alternatively, the districts may also be
located along state, or other major thoroughfares, where the sites are easily
accessible to large volumes of traffic. The GB Districts in the township would
reflect major existing shopping concentrations, other commercial uses along
major highways and desired future commercial centers as proposed in the
Comprehensive Master Plan that are needed to serve adequately the future
population of the township.
   (B)   Permitted uses. In all GB, General Business Districts, no building or
land shall be erected or used except for one or more of the following uses. The
parenthetical number (000000) listed by each use is taken from the North
American Industry Classification System (NAICS), 1997 (published by the U.S.
Office of Management and Budget) and is intended to provide a general guide of
uses intended under each heading. However, where it is determined by the
Planning Commission that the effects of a listed use may tend to extend beyond
the site, then special land use approval shall be required. Any business or use
proposing a drive-through facility shall only be considered under special land
use approval procedures:
      (1)   All principal permitted uses in the O Office District, subject to
all requirements for such uses in zoning districts where first permitted;
      (2)   Hardware store (444130);
      (3)   General merchandise and variety stores (452990);
      (4)   Convenience food stores (445120);
      (5)   Specialty food retail stores (including dairy product store
(445299);
      (6)   Doughnut shops and ice cream parlors (722213);
      (7)   Candy, nut and confectionary store (445292);
      (8)   Drug stores (446110);
      (9)   Beauty shop (812112);
      (10)   Barber shop (812111);
      (11)   Coin-operated laundries and dry cleaning (812310);
      (12)   Banks, credit union offices, savings and loan associations (522110
- 522130), stock brokerage, branch offices of the same and similar uses;
      (13)   Florists (453110);
      (14)   Miscellaneous retail stores:
         (a)   Beer, wine and liquor stores (445310);
         (b)   Sporting goods store and bicycle shop (451110);
         (c)   Bait shops;
         (d)   Book store (451211)(453310);
         (e)   Stationery store (453210);
         (f)   Jewelry store (448310);
         (g)   Hobby, toy and games shop (451120);
         (h)   Gift, novelty and souvenir shop (453220);
         (i)   Luggage, and leather goods store (448320);
         (j)   Sewing, needlework and piece goods store (451130); and
         (k)   News dealers and newsstands.
      (15)   Paint and wallpaper stores (444120);
      (16)   Electronic shopping and mail-order houses (454110), only in
conjunction with a retail showroom;
      (17)   Meat (445210) and fish (445220) markets;
      (18)   Fruit store and vegetable market (445230);
      (19)   Retail baked goods stores (445291), including bakery with product
made on the premises for immediate consumption (722213);
      (20)   Apparel (4481) and accessory store (448150);
      (21)   Furniture, home furnishings and equipment store (442);
      (22)   Eating and drinking places (722110) except drive-in, fast food or
carry-out restaurants (722211), and except those adult-oriented entertainment
uses permitted after special approval as provided in division (C)(10) below;
      (23)   Miscellaneous retail stores (453), except manufactured (mobile)
home dealers (453930), see §
154.061(D);
      (24)   Real estate and developer office (531);
      (25)   Personal services (8121), except escort services (812990), massage
parlors and tattoo parlors (812199) or any other adult service or business
regulated under §
154.061(C)(10);
      (26)   Business services (54, 55, 561), except display advertising
services (541850);
      (27)   Electrical repair shops (8112);
      (28)   Watch, clock and jewelry repair (811490);
      (29)   Re-upholstery and furniture repair (811420);
      (30)   Small repair shop (8114), except blacksmith, boiler repair,
cesspool cleaning, brick cleaning, horseshoeing, motorcycle repair, replating,
septic tank cleaning and tractor repairing;
      (31)   Videotape, DVD and CD rental shop (532230), except rental of adult
video, DVD and CD pictures or movies;
      (32)   Membership organizations (813410), including community service
clubs;
      (33)   Medical office, including clinics, but not animal clinics;
      (34)   Museums (712110) and art galleries (453920);
      (35)   Art shops and photographic studios (except those defined as adult
entertainment uses, and interior decorating studios;
      (36)   Personal service establishments including health salons (except
those defined as adult entertainment uses);
      (37)   Commercial services: offices and showrooms of plumbers,
electricians, decorators or similar trades. The ground floor premises facing
upon and visible from any abutting street shall be used only for pedestrian
entrances, offices or display. All storage of material or any incidental repair
or fabrication shall be within the confines of enclosed buildings;
      (38)   Temporary outdoor sales: the temporary outdoor display and sale of
live plants, cut flowers or Christmas trees, which are not part of an otherwise
approved open-air business (see §
154.061(C) and §
154.126), provided the display or sale is for a period of not more than 60 days
per year and is in accordance with §
154.061(D);
      (39)   Other similar uses not permitted elsewhere, as determined by the
Planning Commission;
      (40)   Accessory buildings to any use herein;
      (41)   Accessory uses to any use herein;
      (42)   Temporary buildings pursuant to the establishment of a permanent
building and permitted use subject to §
154.153; and
      (43)   Accessory signs in accordance with §
154.025.
   (C)   Special approval land uses. Special approval land uses are permitted
subject to the procedures set forth in §§
154.090 through
154.098, which include a public hearing. A site plan is required for all
special approval uses (§
154.150), except as otherwise provided herein. Section
154.095 provides general standards to guide action by the Township Planning
Commission. For a specific land use, additional standards are specified in §§
154.099 through
154.135 and in this section below. The parenthetical number (000000) listed by
each use is taken from the North American Industry Classification System
(NAICS), 1997 (published by the U.S. Office of Management and Budget) and is
intended to provide a general guide of uses intended under each heading:
      (1)   Nursery school, day nursery and child care center as provided in §
154.117;
      (2)   Lumber and other building materials dealers (444190) as provided in
§
154.103;
      (3)   Open air business uses;
      (4)   Open air sale of mobile homes and manufactured home dealerships
(453930), recreational vehicles (441210), motorcycles (441221) or other motor
vehicle sales areas (other than trucks, automobiles and homeowners’ gardening
equipment and the like) as provided in §
154.126;
      (5)   New automobile and truck agency sales and showrooms (441110) as
provided in §
154.124 and used automobile and truck sales (441120) as provided in §
154.125;
      (6)   Passenger car rental and leasing (53211);
      (7)   Department stores (452110) and warehouse clubs and superstores
(452910);
      (8)   Gasoline service stations (447) as provided in §
154.122;
      (9)   Drive-in, fast food or carry-out restaurants (722211), provided in
§
154.127;
      (10)   Adult bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, massage parlors
(812199), nude modeling studios and premises for nude entertainment, all
subject to the following regulations:
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to establish any adult bookstore, adult
motion picture theater, massage parlor, nude modeling studio or premises for
nude entertainment except in the GB General Business District;
         (b)   No like uses may be permitted in the GB General Business
District, within 225 feet (as measured from the nearest lot line of the
protected use to the location of the proposed use) of any: dwelling; district
zoned A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C or R-2; church, school, playground or youth center;
         (c)   Any of the above stated adult entertainment uses shall not be
located within a 1,000-foot radius (as measured from the nearest lot line of
the protected use to the nearest lot line of the location of the proposed use)
of any other like use; and
         (d)   Public display (visible from the exterior) of merchandise for
sale or viewing shall be prohibited.
      (11)   Direct selling establishments (4543) including fuel dealers and
bottled water providers;
      (12)   Hotels and motels (721110), and tourist courts as provided in §
154.108;
      (13)   Personal services (812199) not previously described as a permitted
use in this district;
      (14)   Motor vehicle repair and service facilities not previously
described as permitted uses in this district (8111), as provided in §
154.123, except car washes (811192);
      (15)   Repair services not previously described as permitted uses in this
district (811);
      (16)   Motion picture theaters (512131), except drive-in theaters
(512132);
      (17)   Outdoor theaters, including drive-in theaters (512132), (except
adult motion picture theaters) as provided in §
154.100;
      (18)   Theatrical producers (711310) and dinner theaters (711110);
      (19)   Amusement and recreation centers and services (see §
154.120) not previously described as permitted uses in this district (713120,
713940, 713950, 713990), except racing (711212) as provided in §§
154.101 and
154.102;
      (20)   High-pressure gas or high-voltage (120 kV or greater) electric
transmission lines as provided in §
154.099;
      (21)   Telephone exchanges, and static transformer stations, gas
regulator stations and other utility provider buildings as provided in §
154.106;
      (22)   Motor vehicle washing, conveyor or non-conveyor type (811192) as
provided in §
154.121;
      (23)   Mini-warehouses (531130) used to provide temporary storage needs
for businesses, apartment dwellers and other individuals on a self-service
basis as provided in §
154.131;
      (24)   Retail nurseries, lawn and garden supply stores (444220);
      (25)   Supermarkets and other grocery stores (445110) except convenience
stores (445120);
      (26)   Dance halls (713990), studios (541430) and schools (611);
      (27)   Flea markets (453310) in accordance with division (D) below; and
      (28)   Particular uses listed under division (B) above as permitted uses,
where it is determined by the Planning Commission that the effects of the
particular use will extend beyond the site.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   Outdoor display of merchandise shall be limited as noted in
divisions (B) and (C) above, except for open-air display uses approved by the
Planning Commission;
      (2)   Outdoor display of merchandise shall be kept back at least 80 feet
from the centerline on all roads;
      (3)   Outdoor storage shall be limited to the side or rear yard and
totally enclosed with view-obscuring screening as specified by the Planning
Commission based on §
154.018, when adjacent to any residential district or open to public view;
      (4)   Off-street parking and loading in accordance with §
154.023; and
      (5)   Vehicle ingress and egress using local thoroughfares with less than
a 66-foot right-of-way shall be prohibited, unless the commercial property
owner proposes a remedy approved by the Planning Commission as part of site
plan review. (See §
154.150.) The intent is to minimize the impact of commercial development on
residential streets that are too narrow to handle increased traffic volumes.
This provision is applicable when a site plan is presented for all new
construction on a parcel or for renovation affecting more than 50% of the
footprint of the existing primary structure. In reviewing an applicant’s
proposal for vehicular access to the commercial property via adjacent local
thoroughfares, the Planning Commission shall consider whether:
         (a)   The proposed plan for access results in a county-approved road
width for the portion of the local thoroughfare to be used for access;
         (b)   The proposed plan provides turning lanes from and to an adjacent
major, secondary or collector thoroughfare, thereby reducing the impact of
increased traffic on the local residential thoroughfare;
         (c)   The proposed plan provides for safe, non-motorized traffic along
adjacent portions of any local thoroughfare involved in the plan;
         (d)   The site plan shows measurements, construction details and
planned signage relating to any proposed entrances and turning lanes; and
         (e)   In the case of a private road (local thoroughfare) being used,
the applicant has proposed a workable, long-term method and/or schedule of
providing for the future maintenance of any widened portion or portions of the
local thoroughfare, the implementation of which plan shall be a condition of
approval.
   (E)   Area, height and placement requirements. The building, height, lot
coverage, floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance
with the schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.062 I INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The Industrial District is established as a
district in which the principal uses allowed are wholesale activities,
warehousing, manufacturing, fabrication or processing.
      (1)   For the Industrial District, in promoting the general purpose of
this chapter, the specific intent of this section is:
         (a)   To control nuisance effects of warehousing, wholesale
activities, and industry such as smoke, noise, odor, dust, dirt, glare,
vibrations and other adverse effects so that the uses will be compatible with
other land uses such as commercial or residential;
         (b)   To encourage industrial uses to locate on major highways so that
traffic generated by these uses will not utilize local residential streets; and
         (c)   To control open outdoor storage of materials.
      (2)   More intensive industrial uses may be provided for by special land
approval use procedures.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Any of the following uses conducted wholly within a completely
enclosed building:
         (a)   Warehousing and wholesale establishments, and storage buildings
(other than those accessory to an adjoining retail use). Mini-warehouses
subject to standards in §
154.131;
         (b)   The compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of such
products as: bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, toiletries, food
products, hardware and cutlery; tool, die, gauge and machine shops;
         (c)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or improvement of
articles or merchandise from the following previously prepared materials:
canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair,
leather, paper, plastics, metals such as iron or aluminum, precious or semi-
precious metals or stones, soil, shell, textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood or
yarns;
         (d)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar
ceramic products using only previously pulverized clay or kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
         (e)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties and metal or
rubber stamps or other small molded rubber products;
         (f)   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, electronic
instruments and devices, radios and phonographs (excluding large stamping);
         (g)   Laboratories, whether experimental, film or testing;
         (h)   Manufacture and repair of electronic or neon signs, light sheet
metal products, including heating and ventilating equipment, cornices, eaves
and the like; and
         (i)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair
or storage of materials, goods or products which shall conform to the
performance standards of the township governing noise, smoke and other factors.
      (2)   Storage of a contractor’s commercial vehicles and equipment;
      (3)   Off-street parking and loading as required in §
154.023;
      (4)   Publicly-owned buildings, utility provider buildings with service
yards; water and sewage pumping stations;
      (5)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses that are customarily
incidental to any of the above uses when located on the same premises; and
      (6)   Accessory signs in accordance with §
154.025.
   (C)   Special approval land uses. Special approval land uses are permitted
subject to the procedures set forth in §§
154.090 through
154.098, which include a public hearing. A site plan is required for all
special approval uses (§
154.150). Section
154.095 provides general standards to guide action by the Township Planning
Commission. For a specific land use, additional standards are specified in §§
154.099 through
154.134, and in this section below:
      (1)   High-pressure gas or high-voltage (120 kV or greater) electric
transmission lines as provided in §
154.099;
      (2)   Outdoor theaters (except adult motion pictures theaters) as
provided in §
154.100;
      (3)   Motorized vehicle race and horse and dog race tracks as provided in
§§
154.101 and
154.102;
      (4)   Lumber and building material dealers as provided in §
154.103;
      (5)   Quarries as provided in §
154.104;
      (6)   Junkyards, auto salvage or wrecking yards, waste or scrap recycling
operations, and refuse transfer stations as provided in §
154.105;
      (7)   Telephone exchanges and static transformer stations, gas regulator
stations and other utility provider buildings as provided in §
154.106;
      (8)   Personal use aircraft landing fields as provided in §
154.133;
      (9)   Communication towers as provided in §
154.134;
      (10)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair
or storage of materials, goods or products which shall conform to the
performance standards of the township governing noise, smoke and other factors;
      (11)   Electric power generating facilities together with all necessary
uses;
      (12)   Any industrial use requiring outdoor storage;
      (13)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses that are customarily
incidental to any of the above uses when located on the same premises; and
      (14)   Publicly owned and operated parks, and recreational facilities.
   (D)   Area, height and placement requirements. The building, height, lot
coverage, floor area, lot size and setbacks shall be determined in accordance
with the schedule of regulations set forth in §
154.063.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.063 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   Schedule of regulations limiting height, bulk, density and area by zoning
district:
         Minimum    Minimum Yard Setbacks (B)  Maximum Height Maximum   Minimum
District Lot Size   (per lot in feet)          of Structures  Lot       Floor
                                               (E)            Coverage  Area
              Width Front  Minimum Total                      By        Per
         Area (in   (C)    Side    of Two Rear Stories Feet   Buildings Unit
              feet)        (D)
                                                    Maximum      Maximum   Minimum
District      Minimum Lot  Minimum Yard Setbacks    Height of    Lot       Floor
              Size         (B) (per lot in feet)    Structures   Coverage  Area
                                                    (E)
                     Width Front Minimum Total                   By        Per
              Area   (in   (C)   Side    of    Rear Stories Feet Buildings Unit
                     feet)       (D)     Two
RCC -
Recreation,   -      -     -     25      50    50   2       30   -         -
Conservation
and Cemetery
A/R (R)(L)    2.5    165   50(C)                            30
Agricultural/ acres  (C)   (L)   20      40    50   2       (G)  30%       (S)
Residential
R-1A (R)(L)   12,000 75    30(C)
Single-Family square (C)   (L)   10      20    30   2       30   30%       (S)
Residential   feet
R-1B (R)(L)   20,000 100   35
Single-Family square (C)   (C)   15      30    30   2       30   30%       (S)
Residential   feet         (L)
R-1C (R)(L)   2.5    165   40
Single-Family acres  (C)   (C)   20      40    40   2       30   25%       (S)
Residential
R-2 (H)(R)(L) 2.5    165   40
Two-Family    acres  (C)   (C)   20      40    50   2       30   30%       (S)
Residential
MHR (R)
Manufactured  -      -     -     -       -     -    2       30   -         -
Home
Residential
RM (H)(R)
Multi-Family  (I, J) -     40    25      50    50   2       30   30%       (k)
Residential
              15,000       25            30
O Office      square 80    (M,   15 (N)  (N)   20   2       30   30%       -
              feet         Q)
GB General                 20
Business      -      -     (O,   (N)     (N)   20   2       30   -         -
                           P, Q)
                           30            30    30
I Industrial  -      -     (O,   15 (P)  (P)   (P)  2       30   50%       -
                           P, Q)
Division (B) below contains the regulations referred to in the schedule above
For example, the “(A)” at the end of the schedule’s title corresponds to division
(B)(1) below
 
   District regulations. Note: letters shown as footnotes in the chart above
correspond with letters of items below.
   (A)   Conformance. No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, except in conformity with the building
area, placement and height regulations of the district in which the building is
located; and except in conformity with the lot area, width and coverage
regulations of the district in which the building is located.
   (B)   Minimum yard setbacks.
      (1)   For lots adjacent to a county road or state highway, the yard
setbacks shall be measured from the edge of the planned right-of-way for the
roads and highways to the building or structure on a lot. In determining the
location of the edge of the planned right-of way, the centerline of a planned
right-of-way, as set forth in the adopted Township Thoroughfare Plan, shall be
considered to coincide with the centerline of the existing thoroughfare.
      (2)   In the event that no Township Thoroughfare Plan shall have been
adopted, the County Thoroughfare Plan or MDOT planned right-of-way. In an
instance where the defined existing road right-of-way is less than 66 feet, the
front yard setback shall be based on the average front yard setback of the
existing structures on the lots adjacent to the subject property.
   (C)   Frontage and street access requirements. Buildings and lots shall
comply with §
154.007.
   (D)    Side yards. In the case of a rear yard abutting a side yard, or where
a side yard is adjacent to a front yard across a common separating street, the
side yard abutting a street shall not be less than the minimum front yard of
the district in which located. See illustration below. Also see division (B)
(12) below for possible inclusion in yard averaging.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-715.png]
 
   (E)   Permitted height.
      (1)   No building in any zoning district shall be erected, converted,
enlarged, reconstructed or structurally altered to exceed the height limit
hereinafter established for the district in which the building is located,
except that a structure may exceed the height limits herein prescribed for the
following:
         (a)   Roof structures for the housing of elevators;
         (b)   Stairways, tanks, ventilating fans or similar equipment required
to operate and maintain the building;
         (c)   Fire or parapet walls; and
         (d)   Skylights, towers, cupolas, steeples, stage lofts and screens,
flagpoles, chimneys, smoke stacks, individual domestic radio and television
aerials and wireless masts, water tanks or structures similar in function and
appearance to those listed above.
      (2)   No like structure may be erected to exceed by more than 15 feet the
height limits of the district in which it is located; nor shall the structure
have a total area greater than 10% of the total square footage of the top floor
or attic, whichever is less; nor shall the structure be used for any
residential purpose or any commercial or industrial purpose other than a use
incidental to the main use of the building.
      (3)   The erection of commercial radio and television transmitting, relay
or other types of antenna towers, where permitted, shall abide by the
regulations set forth in §
154.134.
   (F)   Reserved. This division is reserved for future use.
   (G)   Height of farm buildings. In the Agricultural/Residential District,
silos are permitted to a maximum height of 90 feet and storage barns are
permitted to a maximum height of 40 feet.
   (H)   Single-family dwellings in R-2 or RM Districts and Two-Family
Dwellings in RM Districts. Where one and two-family dwelling units are
permitted, minimum lot area and minimum lot width shall be determined as
follows:
 
Single-Family Dwellings
Minimum lot width 165 feet
Minimum lot area  2.5 acres
Setbacks, heights, lot coverage and floor area shall comply with the R-1C
District requirements
 
Two-Family Dwellings
Minimum lot width 165 feet
Minimum lot area  2.5 acres
Setbacks, heights, lot coverage and floor area shall comply with the R-
2 District requirements
 
   (I)   Multiple-family dwelling projects; calculation of maximum number of
units.
      (1)   In multiple-family dwelling projects, the total number of rooms of
80 square feet or more (not including kitchen, dining and bathrooms) shall not
be more than the area of the parcel, in square feet, divided by 1,600.
      (2)   All units shall have at least one living room and one bedroom,
except that not more than 10% of the units may be of an efficiency type, and
not more than 20% one bedroom units.
      (3)   In the case of an apartment complex intended specifically for
senior citizens or disabled persons, the Planning Commission may allow the 20%
limitation on one bedroom apartments to be increased to a maximum of 90%.
      (4)   For multiple-family dwellings projects, for the purpose of
computing the permitted number of dwelling units per acre, the following room
assignments shall control:
 
Efficiency     1 room
One bedroom    2 rooms
Two bedrooms   3 rooms
Three bedrooms 4 rooms
 
      (5)   Plans presented showing one-, two- or three-bedroom units and
including a den, “library” or other extra room shall count the extra room as a
bedroom for the purpose of computing density.
      (6)   In multiple-family dwelling projects, the area used for computing
density shall be the total site area exclusive of any dedicated public right-
of-way, either interior or bounding roads.
   (J)   Multiple-family dwelling projects; calculation of space between
buildings.
      (1)   In multiple-family dwellings projects, front, side or rear yards
need not refer to spacing between buildings for a planned development for two
or more buildings on the same parcel.
      (2)   In those cases the minimum distance between any two buildings shall
be regulated according to the length and height of the buildings, and in no
instance shall this distance be less than 30 feet. (See following formula.)
      (3)   In multiple-family projects, areas devoted to off-street parking,
drives or maneuvering lanes shall not cover more than 30% of the area of any
required yard or any required minimum distance between buildings.
      (4)   In a Multiple-Family District the maximum horizontal length of any
one building shall be 180 feet, measured along any single front, side, rear or
other exterior wall elevation.
      (5)   In a Multiple-Family District the formula for regulating the
required minimum distance between two buildings is as follows: S = LA + LB + 2
(HA + HB)/6, where S = Required minimum horizontal distance between any wall of
building A and any wall of building B or the vertical prolongation of either.
      (6)   LA - Total length of building A. The total length of building A is
the length of that portion or portions of a wall or walls of building A from
which, when viewed directly from above, lines drawn perpendicular to building A
will intersect any wall of building B.
      (7)    LB - Total length of building B. The total length of building B is
the length of that portion or portions of a wall or walls of building B of
which, when viewed directly from above, the lines drawn perpendicular to
building B will intersect any wall of building A.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/a74ab0406e250cdff56e692c16fb3e365590f83d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-717.png]
 
      (8)   The height of building A at any given level is the height above
natural grade level of any portion or portions of a wall or walls along the
length of building A. Natural grade level shall be the mean level of the ground
immediately adjoining the portion or portions of the wall or walls along the
total length of the building.
      (9)   HB = Height of building B. The height of building B at any given
level is the height above natural grade level of any portion or portions of a
wall or walls along the length of building B. Natural grade level shall be the
mean level of the ground immediately adjoining the portion or portions of the
wall or walls along the total length of the building.
   (K)   Multiple-family dwelling projects; minimum floor areas. Minimum floor
area per dwelling units in square feet for multiple-family dwellings are as
follows:
 
Efficiency unit    500 square feet
One-bedroom unit   600 square feet
Two-bedroom unit   800 square feet
Three-bedroom unit 1,000 square feet
Four-bedroom unit  1,200 square feet
 
   (L)   Averaged yard setback.
      (1)   In a case where the front yards (or respectively rear yards) of two
or more existing permitted principal structures, then any principal structure
subsequently erected on that side of the street shall not have less than and
need not have greater than the average depth of the front yards (or
respectively rear yards) of the two or more existing principal structures:
         (a)   Are located in any block in existence on the effective date of
this chapter;
         (b)   Are within the same zoning district; and
         (c)   Are on the same side of the street; but
         (d)   Have less than the required minimum front (or respectively rear)
yards.
      (2)   Averaged side yard: in a case where there is an undeveloped lot of
record which has a side yard included within a row of two or more developed
front yards (or respectively a row of rear yards), then any principal structure
subsequently erected on the lot shall not have an affected side yard with less
than and need not have an affected side yard greater than the average depth of
the existing developed yards facing on that street.
   (M)   Business uses; parking in front yard (conditions).
      (1)   Off-street parking may be permitted to occupy a required front yard
after approval of the parking plan layout and points of ingress and egress by
the Planning Commission provided that there shall be maintained a minimum
unobstructed and landscaped setback of ten feet between the nearest point of
the off-street parking area, exclusive of access driveways and the nearest
planned right-of-way.
      (2)   The landscaped area shall conform to the provisions of §§
154.018 and
154.019.
   (N)   Business uses; waiver of side yard(s).
      (1)   The Planning Commission may waive one or both side yard
requirements of buildings in the O and GB Districts provided that adequate
access to the rear of the property is provided by one of the following manners:
         (a)   There shall be provided on every lot in an O and GB Districts on
which is located a permitted building at least one side yard not less than 20
feet wide for access to the rear yard. If the permanent building is not placed
on the property line of the remaining side to allow for a common wall, then a
setback of at least three feet is required for maintenance;
         (b)   A dedicated alley or service aisle or permanent easement of
access to the rear of the property is provided; or
         (c)   An overall master site development plan is presented to the
Planning Commission, agreed upon by all affected property owners; which plan
includes building elevations for the commercial center, adequate off-street
parking and loading area, access to all buildings and the rear of the property
for police and fire vehicles.
      (2)   Side yard requirements for the O and GB Districts shall not be
waived if any one of the following conditions exist:
         (a)   Where side yards are adjacent to a public right-of-way;
         (b)   Where side yards abut property zoned in a Residential District;
or
         (c)   Where the continuous development of stores exceeds 500 feet.
   (O)   Industrial uses; parking in yard (conditions).
      (1)   Off-street parking may be permitted in a portion of the required
front yard provided that the off-street parking is not located within 50 feet
of the front lot line. Any portion of a required front yard not used for off-
street parking shall be planted in lawn, landscaped and maintained in a healthy
and growing condition.
      (2)   Required side or rear yards may be used for off-street parking or
loading and unloading provided that in those instances the Planning Commission
shall review and approve the proposed parking and site plan to determine that
sufficient access to the rear of the building is provided for firefighting or
other emergency type equipment.
   (P)   Industrial uses; additional conditions. For appearance of industrial
buildings see §
154.010.
      (1)   No building shall be located closer than 50 feet to the outer
perimeter (property line) of the district when the property line abuts any
residential district.
      (2)   A heavily planted, completely obscuring, year-round greenbelt not
less than 20 feet wide, an obscuring wall or a landscaped earth berm (as
approved by the Planning Commission) shall be provided on those sides of the
property used or planned for open storage, parking or service drives, loading,
unloading or servicing, and abutting land zoned A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR
or RM.
      (3)   The extent of the greenbelt, wall or berm may be determined by the
Planning Commission on the basis of usage. The wall shall not be less than six
feet in height and may, depending upon land usage, be required to be eight feet
in height. The greenbelt, wall or berm shall be subject further to the
requirements of §§
154.018 and
154.019.
   (Q)   Commercial and industrial uses; access through residential districts
prohibited.
      (1)   Access to office, commercial or industrial uses shall not be
through property zoned A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR or RM.
      (2)   For greenbelt, wall, berm requirements, see §
154.018. For fence and wall requirements, see §
154.017. For off-street parking requirements, see §
154.023.
   (R)   Accessory buildings, structures and uses.
      (1)   Buildings accessory to residential dwellings shall comply with §
154.009. Swimming pools shall comply with §
154.027.
      (2)   Open parking and storage of hobby vehicles shall comply with §
154.028.
      (3)   Off-street parking shall comply with §
154.023.
      (4)   Communication towers shall comply with §
154.134.
      (5)   Wind energy conversion systems shall comply with §
154.132.
      (6)   Accessory signs shall comply with §
154.025.
      (7)   Fences and walls shall comply with §
154.017.
      (8)   Greenbelts, walls and berms shall comply with §
154.018.
   (S)   Minimum floor areas. Minimum floor areas per unit for single- and two-
family dwellings are as follows:
      (1)   One-bedroom unit: 750 square feet;
      (2)   Two-bedroom unit: 864 square feet;
      (3)   Three-bedroom unit: 1,000 square feet; and
      (4)   Four-bedroom unit: 1,200 square feet, plus 120 square feet for each
additional bedroom over four.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 154.075 ACCESS THROUGH YARDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, access drives may be placed in the
required front or side yards so as to provide access to rear yards and/or
accessory or attached structures. These drives shall not be considered as
structural violations in front yards and side yards.
   (B)   Further, any walk, terrace or other pavement servicing a like
function, and not in excess of nine inches above the grade upon which placed,
shall for the purpose of this chapter not be considered to be a structure, and
shall be permitted in any required yard.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.076 DWELLING IN A NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   This chapter does not permit dwellings to be constructed in the Business or
Industrial Districts. However, the sleeping quarters of a watchman, a caretaker
or living quarters as a secondary use may be permitted in these districts in
conformance with the specific requirements of the particular district.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.077 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services, except for high-voltage electric transmission lines and
high-pressure gas transmission lines, shall be exempt from application of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.078 PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   Architectural features, as defined, not including vertical projections, may
extend or project into a required side yard not more than two inches for each
one foot of width of the side yard and may extend or project into a required
front yard or rear yard not more than three feet. Architectural features shall
not include those details that are normally demountable.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.079 VOTING PLACE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to interfere
with the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with a
township or other public election.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
SPECIAL LAND USE APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.090 SPECIAL LAND USE APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The formulation and enactment of this subchapter is based upon the
division of the township into districts in each of which is permitted specified
uses that are mutually compatible.
   (B)   In addition to the permitted compatible uses, however, certain other
uses may be necessary or desirable to allow in certain locations in certain
districts, but because of their actual or potential impacts on neighboring uses
or public facilities there is a need to carefully regulate them with respect to
their location.
   (C)   These uses, due to their peculiar location needs or the nature of the
service offered, may have to be established in a district where they cannot be
reasonably allowed as a permitted use.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.091 AUTHORITY TO GRANT PERMITS.
   The Planning Commission, as provided by this subchapter, shall have the
authority to grant special land use approval permits, subject to the conditions
of design, operation and safeguards as may be determined for all special
approval land uses specified in the various provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.092 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   Application for any special land use approval permit permissible under the
provisions of this chapter shall be made to the Planning Commission through the
Township Clerk by filing an official special approval land use permit
application form; exhibits and information; and depositing the required fee as
established by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.093 DATA, EXHIBITS AND INFORMATION REQUIRED IN APPLICATION.
   An application for a special land use approval permit shall contain: the
applicant’s name and address in full; a statement that the applicant is the
owner involved or is acting on the owner’s behalf; the address of the property
involved; a site plan in accordance with §
154.150, except as provided herein, and a statement of supporting data,
exhibits, information and evidence regarding the required findings set forth in
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.094 PUBLIC HEARING AND NOTICES.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a special land use permit which
requires a decision on discretionary grounds, one notice that a request for
special land use approval has been received shall be published in a newspaper
that circulates in the township, and sent by mail or personal delivery to the
owners of property for which approval is being considered, to all persons to
whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the boundary of the property
in question, and to the occupants of all structures within 300 feet.
   (B)   The notice shall be given not less than 15 days before the date the
application will be considered. If the name of the occupants is not known, the
term “occupant” may be used in making notification.
   (C)   Notification need not be given to more than one occupant of a
structure, except that if a structure contains more than one dwelling unit or
spatial area owned or leased by different individuals, partnerships, businesses
or organizations, one occupant of each unit or spatial area shall receive
notice.
   (D)   In the case of a single structure containing more than four dwelling
units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses or organizations, notice may be given to the manager
or owner of the structure who shall be requested to post the notice at the
primary entrance to the structure.
   (E)   The notice shall:
      (1)   Describe the nature of the special land use request;
      (2)   Indicate the property that is the subject of the special land use
request;
      (3)   State when and where the special land use request will be
considered;
      (4)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request; and
      (5)   Indicate the date, time and place where the public hearing on the
special land use will be held.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 7-6-2010)
§ 154.095 REQUIRED STANDARDS AND FINDINGS FOR MAKING DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the particular circumstances and
facts of each proposed use with respect to the proposed site, lot or parcel.
   (B)   In addition to the specific standards applicable to certain types of
special land uses, as set forth beginning with §
154.099, the following required general standards shall comprise the Planning
Commission’s criteria for reviewing and approving or rejecting a special land
use application:
      (1)   Will be in accordance with the general objectives, intent and
purposes of this chapter:
         (a)   Will be consistent with maintenance of the public health, safety
and welfare; and
         (b)   Will be of a location, size and character that it will be in
harmony with all applicable regulations of the zoning district in which it is
to be located.
      (2)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal or that persons or agencies responsible for
establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any such
service;
      (3)   Will be of a nature that will make vehicular and pedestrian traffic
no more hazardous than is normal for the district involved, taking into
consideration vehicular turning movements in relation to routes of traffic
flow, proximity and relationship to intersections, adequacy of sight distances,
location and access of off-street parking and provisions for pedestrian
traffic, with particular attention to minimizing child-vehicle contacts in
residential districts;
      (4)   Will be compatible with adjacent uses of land and the natural
environment:
         (a)   Will be of a location, size and character that it will be in
harmony with the appropriate and orderly development of the surrounding
neighborhood;
         (b)   Will be designed so that the location, size, intensity, site
layout and periods of operation of any proposed use shall eliminate any
possible nuisance emanating therefrom which might be noxious to the occupants
of any other nearby permitted uses, whether by reason of dust, noise, fumes,
vibration, smoke or lights;
         (c)   Will be designed so that the proposed location and height of
buildings or structures and location, nature and height of walls, fences and
landscaping will not interfere with or discourage the appropriate development
and use of adjacent land and buildings; and
         (d)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property
in the neighborhood in which it is located.
      (5)   Will promote the use of land in a socially and economically
desirable manner; and
      (6)   Will relate harmoniously with the physical and economic aspects of
adjacent land uses as regards prevailing shopping habits, convenience of access
by prospective patrons, continuity of development, and need for particular
services and facilities in specific areas of the township.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.096 DETERMINATION AND IMPOSITION OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   If the facts in the case establish that the findings and standards set
forth in this subchapter apply to the proposed use, and have been met, the
Planning Commission shall grant special approval. In granting a special
approval use permit, the Planning Commission may impose the reasonable
conditions of use as is determined necessary to protect the best interest of
the township and the surrounding property, and to achieve the objectives of
this chapter.
   (B)   Conditions imposed shall meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare and the social and economic well being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole;
      (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes,
which are affected, by the proposed use or activity; and
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this subchapter, be
related to the standards established in the ordinance for the land use or
activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure compliance with those
standards.
   (C)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a land use or
activity shall be established in the record of the approval action, and shall
remain unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the Planning Commission and
the landowner. The Planning Commission shall maintain a record of conditions
that subsequently are so changed.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.097 APPROVAL AND APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Approval, grant of permit. Upon holding a public hearing, and findings
that the applicant has satisfactorily met all the requirements of this
subchapter, the Planning Commission shall within 30 days grant a special land
use approval permit. The Planning Commission’s decision on a special approval
land use application shall be incorporated in a statement that contains the
conclusions relative to the special approval under consideration and that
specifies the basis for the decision, and any conditions imposed. Upon
approval, a special land use approval permit shall be issued to the applicant.
The Planning Commission shall forward a copy of the permit to the applicant,
Clerk and Zoning Administrator. This record shall be on file in the Clerk’s
Office as well as being made a part of the site plan or building records for
that parcel. The statement of conditions will be recorded in the County
Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Appeal to Circuit Court. Decisions of the Planning Commission on
special land uses shall be final. A person having an interest affected by a
special land use decision of the Township Planning Commission may appeal to
Circuit Court within the time allowed by law.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.098 VOIDING OF SPECIAL APPROVAL LAND USE PERMIT.
   (A)   A special land use permit shall lapse and cease to be in effect:
      (1)   If the special use has not commenced within 18 months of the
approval date;
      (2)   If work has not commenced on structures or other property
improvements shown on a site plan approved in the process of granting the
permit;
      (3)   If the special use has been abandoned for a period of six months;
or
      (4)   If work to complete the building of structures or to make other
property improvements shown on the approved site plan has been abandoned for a
period of six months.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may grant a special land use permit holder one
or more six-month extensions of time if good cause is shown and the request for
an extension is received by the Planning Commission chairperson prior to the
permit’s expiration.
   (C)   If the special land use permit sent to the applicant and on file in
the Township Clerk’s Office and recorded in the County Register of Deeds is
dated and includes a notice of the above circumstances under which the permit
can lapse and become void, the township is under no further obligation to
notify the property owner before a permit is declared void.
   (D)   Violation of an approval requirement or of a condition imposed in
accordance with §
154.096 shall be considered a violation of this subchapter and grounds for the
Zoning Administrator to suspend the special approval land use permit until
review by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   After notice to the permit holder and a hearing, the Planning
Commission shall determine if a violation has indeed occurred.
      (2)   In the case of a violation, the Planning Commission shall direct
the corrective action as it determines is necessary to bring conformance with
this chapter, or the Planning Commission shall cancel the special approval land
use permit in question.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.099 HIGH-PRESSURE GAS, HIGH-VOLTAGE ELECTRICAL TRANSMISSION LINES.
   High-pressure gas transmission lines and high-voltage electric transmission
tower lines may be permitted in any district subject to the following special
land use approval requirements.
   (A)   General regulations.
      (1)   All the utility lines shall follow existing utility corridors,
where possible and reasonable, as determined by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The loss of any active agricultural use on property shown as prime
or unique farmland on the soil conservation service’s important farmland map of
the county shall be minimized to the greatest extent feasible consistent with
the public interest and common good as determined by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Selective clearing techniques shall be used throughout a utility
corridor or property for installation of towers, lines, pipelines, service
roads, drainage facilities and similar facilities. Existing vegetation shall be
maintained, whenever possible, throughout the remainder of the corridor not
affected by the actual installation of approved facilities.
      (4)   Noncompliance with any part of this subchapter, or any other
township ordinance, shall be grounds for the township acting to withdraw its
approval or conditional approval of any use regulated hereunder and to order
the use to be discontinued.
      (5)   Prior to commencement of construction, any approvals granted
hereunder are not transferable to others or to successors in interest, without
first applying for such to the Planning Commission.
      (6)   The person or company granted privileges hereunder shall inform the
Township Clerk on a continuing basis of the name, address and phone number of
its employee who is responsible for receiving complaints and communications
from the township.
      (7)   The existence of one line or facility approved hereunder does not
imply permission to erect any other lines or facilities other than those
originally permitted.
   (B)   Requirements for high-voltage electric transmission lines of 120kV or
greater.
      (1)   High-voltage electric transmission lines of more than 345 kV shall
not be located closer than 500 feet to occupied residences. Existing 345 kV
lines shall not be energized at a higher voltage level when located closer than
500 feet to occupied residences.
      (2)   Corridor width shall be a minimum of two times the proposed tower
height for all voltages so that accidental collapse of any tower will be
confined to the utility right-of-way.
      (3)   Where operating voltages will exceed 345 kV, the township shall
evaluate an area one-quarter mile on either side of the proposed electric
corridor. The existing density of occupied dwellings per square mile shall not
exceed 100 in any two-mile segment of this area. The applicant shall provide
maps showing all information necessary to determine compliance with this
standard.
      (4)   The electric field strength for all voltage levels shall not exceed
0.8 kV per meter, as measured at the edge of the corridor right-of-way.
      (5)   No such line or system shall cause radio or TV interference within
residential dwellings in the township, and if that happens it will be
considered a public nuisance, subject to abatement.
      (6)   “Danger-No Trespassing” signs shall be placed at all road crossings
and the Planning Commission may require fencing at those road crossings that it
determines are in need of additional protective measures.
      (7)   Any area destroyed by necessity in the construction of the approved
facilities may be subject to conditions imposed by the Planning Commission for
its immediate restoration by replanting or similar techniques.
      (8)   (a)   Noise levels at the edge of the corridor right-of-way, that
is the pressure level of sounds, shall not exceed the following decibel levels
when adjacent to the following types of uses:
 
Sound Level Adjacent Use Where Measured
40 dBA      Residential  Common property line
40 dBA      Agricultural Common property line
60 dBA      Commercial   Common property line
75 dBA      Industrial   Common property line
 
         (b)   The sound levels shall be measured using a weighted decibel
measurement (referenced to 20 micropascals) and with a type of audio output
meter approved by the U.S. Bureau of Standards. Where noise levels will exceed
the above standards for the corridor width proposed, a widening of the
corridor, consistent with these requirements, shall be required.
      (9)   During the construction or repair of any facilities approved
hereunder, the following shall
be required:
         (a)   All internal roads shall be kept dust free by chemical
treatment;
         (b)   Any damage to public or private roads, fences, structures or
facilities shall be repaired immediately;
         (c)   No wastes or spoils of any kind, such as tree stumps,
construction wastes, trash and the like, shall be left after construction or
repair operations are complete; and
         (d)   All construction operations shall be confined to daylight hours
- Monday through Saturday - unless permitted in writing by the Planning
Commission.
      (10)   At the time a request is made for approval under this section, the
person, partnership, corporation or public utility shall submit an estimated
timetable for completion of the construction plans to the Planning Commission,
and specifications of all equipment and facilities proposed for installation.
The Planning Commission may require a performance bond with surety or an
irrevocable bank letter of credit as a guarantee of completion of all approved
facilities, and an agreement to indemnify, defend and hold harmless the
township from any claims arising out of the construction or operation of a
project approved herein.
      (11)   When the lines or systems interfere with a public road by crossing
such or paralleling such, any person or company, upon five days notice, shall
be required to raise the lines for necessary passage of any barn, building,
house or other object over the public ways.
      (12)   If any court or the State Public Service Commission or other
governmental body finds that such lines and systems are not necessary, such
shall, upon exhaustion of appeals, be dismantled under regulation by the
Planning Commission.
      (13)   The township may make reasonable requests to require the person or
company granted privileges hereunder to file written reports of the current
status of research on high-voltage electricity, and the reports shall be true
and complete. Any privilege granted hereunder is subject to a continuing
representation by the holder of such that the lines and systems are safe and
have no chance of being detrimental to the health or safety of any person or
the environment.
      (14)   After the construction of the line is completed and before regular
operation is begun, the operating company shall retain the services of an
independent testing laboratory, which shall test the line for compliance with
the standards contained herein, and submit a report of the test results to the
township.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.100 OUTDOOR THEATERS.
   Outdoor theaters may be permitted in the GB General Business or I Industrial
Districts subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   Because outdoor theaters possess the unique characteristics of being
used only after darkness and since they develop a concentration of vehicular
traffic in terms of ingress and egress from their parking area, they shall only
be permitted when the site in question is surrounded by a nonresidential
district.
   (B)   The proposed internal design shall receive approval from the Building
Inspector as to adequacy of drainage, lighting, screening and other technical
aspects.
   (C)   Points of ingress and egress shall be available to the outdoor theater
only from abutting major thoroughfares.
   (D)   All vehicles waiting or standing to enter the facility shall be
provided off-street waiting space. No vehicle shall be permitted to wait or to
stand within a dedicated right-of-way.
   (E)   The area shall be laid out and screened so as to prevent the movie
screen from being viewed from residential areas or adjacent major
thoroughfares. All lighting used to illuminate the area shall be so installed
so as to be confined within, and directed onto the premises of the outdoor
theater site.
   (F)   All sides of the development not abutting a major thoroughfare shall
be screened with a fence or wall so as to obscure from view all activities
within the development.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.101 MOTORIZED VEHICLE RACETRACKS.
   Motorized vehicle racetracks (including midget, auto, motorcycle and go-cart
tracks, and not including tracks for personal use) may be permitted in the I
Industrial District, subject to the following special land use approval
requirements.
   (A)   Because motorized vehicle racetracks develop a concentration of
vehicular traffic in terms of ingress and egress from their parking areas and
cause noise levels which may project beyond the property so used, they shall be
permitted when located adjacent to a major thoroughfare and shall be located on
a parcel of land which is abutting land zoned for industrial purposes on all
sides of the parcel in question.
   (B)   All parking shall be provided as off-street parking within the
boundaries of the development.
   (C)   All access to the parking areas shall be provided from a major
thoroughfare.
   (D)   All sides of the development not abutting a major thoroughfare shall
be screened with a fence or wall so as to obscure from view all activities
within the development.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.102 HORSE AND DOG RACETRACKS.
   Horse and dog racetracks may be permitted in the I Industrial District,
after special approval, subject to the following special land use approval
requirements.
   (A)   Because horse and dog racetracks develop a concentration of vehicular
traffic in terms of ingress and egress from their parking areas and require
sizable land areas which would be incompatible with business or residential
districts, they shall be permitted when located adjacent to a major
thoroughfare and shall be located on a parcel of land that abuts land zoned for
industrial purposes on all sides of the parcel in question.
   (B)   All parking shall be provided as off-street parking within the
boundaries of the development.
   (C)   All access to the parking areas shall be provided from a major
thoroughfare.
   (D)   All sides of the development not abutting a major thoroughfare shall
be screened with a fence or wall so as to obscure from view all activities
within the development.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.103 LUMBER AND BUILDING MATERIAL DEALERS.
   Lumber and building material dealers may be permitted in the GB General
Business and I Industrial Districts, subject to the following special land use
approval requirements.
   (A)   The site shall abut only land zoned General Business or Industrial.
   (B)   All storage of building materials shall be within enclosed buildings,
or storage sheds, except that outdoor storage may be permitted when within an
area enclosed by an obscuring fence or wall not less than six feet nor more
than eight feet in height. Screening slats placed in a chain link fence shall
not be accepted as a suitable screening device.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.104 QUARRIES.
   Because the commercial removal of soil, sand, gravel, stone and other earth
materials is likely to involve substantial amounts of nuisance (primarily noise
and dust, with resulting air pollution) and large amounts of trucking and in
some (but not necessarily all) cases the land is spoiled for any subsequent use
with resulting loss of taxable revenues, the use may be permitted only in the I
Industrial or A/R Agricultural/Residential Districts, subject to the following
special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   There shall be not more than one entranceway from a public road to the
lot for each 500 feet of street frontage.
   (B)   The removal, processing, transportation and activities relating to
storage such as stockpiling shall not take place before 7:00 a.m. or after
sunset.
   (C)   No digging or excavating shall take place closer than 100 feet to any
lot line or public right-of-way.
   (D)   All roads, driveways, parking lots and loading and unloading areas
within 100 feet of any lot line shall be paved, watered or chemically treated
so as to limit on adjoining lots and public roads the nuisance caused by wind-
borne dust.
   (E)   Any odors, smoke, fumes or dust generated on the lot by any digging,
excavating, processing, stockpiling or transportation operation and borne or
able to be borne by the wind shall be confined within the lines of the lots as
much as is possible so as not to cause a nuisance or hazard on any adjoining
lot or public road.
   (F)   The removal processing or storage shall not be conducted as to cause
the pollution by any material of any surface or subsurface, watercourse or
water body outside the lines of the lot on which the use shall be located.
   (G)   The removal processing or storage shall not be conducted as to cause
or threaten to cause the erosion by water of any land outside of the lot or of
any land on the lot so that earth materials are carried outside of the lines of
the lot, that the removal shall not be conducted as to alter the drainage
pattern of surface or subsurface waters on adjacent property, and that in the
event that the removal, processing or storage shall cease to be conducted it
shall be the continuing responsibility of the owner or operator thereof to
assure that no erosion or alteration of drainage patterns, as specified in this
division (G), shall take place after the date of the cessation of operation.
   (H)   All fixed equipment and machinery shall be located at least 100 feet
from any lot line and 500 feet from any residential zoning district.
   (I)   If a commercial removal of soil, sand, gravel, stone or other earth
materials by reasons of its depth or other conditions constitutes or is
reasonably likely to constitute a danger to public health, safety or welfare,
then a fence shall be erected around it. The fence shall be six feet in height,
shall be adequate to prevent trespass, and shall be placed no closer than 50
feet to the edge of any slope.
   (J)   All areas within any single development shall be rehabilitated
progressively as they are worked out or abandoned to a condition of being
entirely lacking in hazards, inconspicuous and blended with the general
surrounding ground form so as to appear reasonably natural.
   (K)   The operator shall file with the Planning Commission a detailed plan
for the restoration of the development area which shall include the anticipated
future use of the restored land, the proposed final topography indicated by
contour lines of not greater interval than five feet, steps which shall be
taken to conserve topsoil, proposed and final landscaping, and the location of
future roads, drives, drainage courses and/or other improvements contemplated.
The plans shall be subject to review and modification from time to time by the
Planning Commission. The anticipated cost of carrying out the plans for
restoration shall be included with the plans.
   (L)   The operator shall file with the township a performance bond, payable
to the township and conditioned on the faithful performance of all requirements
contained in the approved restoration plan. The amount of the required bond,
which will reflect the anticipated cost of restoration, shall be fixed by the
township. The bond shall be released upon written certification of the Zoning
Administrator that the restoration is complete and in compliance with the
restoration plan.
   (M)   The operator shall file with the County Road Commission a bond for
maintenance of, and dust control on, the public road(s) providing access to the
site.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.105 JUNK YARDS, AUTOMOBILE SALVAGE OR WRECKING YARDS, WASTE OR SCRAP
RECYCLING OPERATIONS AND REFUSE TRANSFER FACILITIES.
   These uses may be permitted in the I Industrial Districts subject to the
following special land use approval requirements. (Junkyards may also be
subject to additional local licensing requirements by separate ordinance.) In
cases where there are conflicting requirements, the most restrictive
requirements shall govern.
   (A)   These uses may only be located upon a site where abutting lands are
zoned for nonresidential purposes on all sides.
   (B)   All parking shall be provided as off-street parking within the
boundaries of the development.
   (C)   Any required front yard setback shall not be used for providing off-
street parking, but must be landscaped.
   (D)   All sides of the development shall be screened with an un-pierced
fence or wall at least eight feet in height and not less than the height of the
materials on the lot on which a stated use is located.
   (E)   The above required fence or wall shall be no closer to the lot lines
than the yard requirements for buildings or structures permitted in the
district.
   (F)   All junk, waste or scrap materials shall be exclusively contained
behind the fence or wall.
   (G)   All roads, driveways, parking lots and loading and unloading areas
within the use shall be paved, oiled, watered or chemically treated so as to
limit the nuisance caused by wind-borne dust to adjoining property and public
roads.
   (H)   In order to protect the community from the danger of the leaching or
runoff of chemicals or substances into the groundwater or surface water, these
uses shall not be located upon lands classified as “wetlands” as defined on the
national wetland inventory map or upon a determination by the MDEQ, nor upon
lands lying within the 100-year floodplain, as defined on the federal flood
insurance rate map, or federal flood hazard boundary map.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.106 TELEPHONE EXCHANGE AND STATIC TRANSFORMER STATIONS, GAS REGULATOR
STATIONS AND OTHER PUBLIC UTILITY BUILDINGS.
   These uses may be permitted in all districts, subject to the following
special land use approval requirements:
   (A)   No public business office or any storage yard or storage building is
operated in connection therewith;
   (B)   The exchanges, transformer stations or transformer mats are located
not less than 15 feet from any interior side property line, 25 feet from its
front property line, and 30 feet from its rear property line; and
   (C)   All required yards are to be landscaped and maintained.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.107 BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Bed and breakfast establishments may be permitted as a special approval land
use in A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2 and RM Residential Districts and as a
permitted use in the GB, General Business District upon review and approval of
a plot plan and subject to the following special land use approval
requirements.
   (A)   The rooms utilized are not specifically constructed for rental
purposes. Each bed and breakfast establishment shall contain not less than two
bedrooms for rent.
      (1)   A structure shall not be eligible for bed and breakfast use unless
it contains at least 2,000 square feet of gross floor area.
      (2)   Adequate living space must be preserved for the owner/innkeeper
quarters; this must include a separate bedroom for owner/innkeeper and bedrooms
for other family members residing on the premises.
   (B)   The dwelling unit that contains the bed and breakfast establishment
shall be the principal residence of the owner/innkeeper. The owner/innkeeper
shall reside on the premises when the bed and breakfast establishment is in
operation.
   (C)   Parking, driveway and maneuvering area shall be provided in accordance
with §
154.023.
   (D)   Off-street parking is provided as follows: two spaces for the primary
residential uses, plus one-half per single bed equivalent, plus one space for
each employee on the largest shift.
   (E)   Parking must be screened from residential uses as specified in §
154.018.
   (F)   Lighting must be directed away from residential uses.
   (G)   Food may be served in a bed and breakfast establishment only to
persons renting a room and only during their stay at the establishment, except
in the GB General Business District.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.108 HOTELS AND MOTELS.
   These uses may be permitted in the GB General Business District subject to
the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   Vehicular ingress and egress from the site shall be onto a major
thoroughfare having an existing or planned right-of-way of at least 120 feet in
width.
   (B)   No kitchen or cooking facilities within the units are to be provided
with the exception of the manager’s or caretaker’s units.
   (C)   Each unit shall contain no less than 250 square feet of floor area.
   (D)   Units shall not be occupied as a place of permanent residence and a
guest register shall be maintained.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.109 FEEDLOTS AND RAISING OF FUR-BEARING ANIMALS.
   (A)   Feedlots may be permitted upon special approval in the A/
R Agricultural/Residential District subject to the following special land use
approval requirements.
      (1)   Any pen, corral or structure where barnyard animals are maintained
as a feedlot, or where swine are raised shall be sited in accordance with the
Michigan “generally accepted agricultural and management practices” (GAAMPS)
under Public Act 94 of 1995, being M.C.L.A. § 286.472.
      (2)   The raising of fowl, poultry, quail or other game birds shall be
conducted within an adequately fenced area or an enclosed building and shall be
sited in accordance with the Michigan “generally accepted agricultural and
management practices” (GAAMPS) under Public Act 94 of 1995, being M.C.L.A. §
286.472. The killing and dressing of fowl are permitted provided that the
operation is conducted within a building. All waste parts or offal must be
immediately disposed of and no outdoor storage of offal shall be permitted.
   (B)   The raising of fur-bearing animals, including mink and rabbit, may be
permitted upon special approval in the A/R Agricultural/Residential District
when located on a continuous parcel of land ten acres or more in area with all
buildings and outdoor runs set back 100 feet or more from all property lines;
with the exception of raising mink, which shall be conducted on a continuous
parcel of land 40 acres or more in area, with all outdoor runs or breeding
areas enclosed on all sides by a fence not less than four feet in height and
set back from all property lines a minimum distance of 400 feet.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.110 CHURCHES.
   Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto may be permitted
upon special approval in the A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, RM Residential
Districts subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
These requirements do not apply to churches in the O Office and GB, General
Business Districts, as they are permitted uses.
   (A)   The site is so located as to have at least one property line abutting
a public thoroughfare of not less than 120 feet of right-of-way width, either
existing or proposed, and all ingress and egress to the site shall be directly
onto the major thoroughfare, or a marginal access service drive thereof.
   (B)   Front and side yards shall be equal to at least one and one-half the
height of the main building. The height limitations set forth in §
154.063 shall not apply to churches.
   (C)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
154.023. No off-street parking area may occupy a required front yard.
   (D)   Whenever an off-street parking area is located within 50 feet of the
abutting property line of a residential district, a continuous and obscuring
protective screening device at least four feet six inches in height, but not
more than six feet in height, shall be provided along the sides of the parking
area adjoining the residentially zoned land. The screening device shall comply
with the provisions of §§
154.018 and
154.019.
   (E)   The site shall not be used for dwelling purposes, except that
residential dwelling facilities may be provided for regular employees of the
church and their families. These dwelling units or quarters shall comply with
the minimum requirements for dwellings in that district.
   (F)   Accessory structures shall not exceed one story or 14 feet in height.
   (G)   For the purpose of ensuring that large churches are located within or
adjacent to the urban portion of the township where adequate infrastructure is
available to service the facility and not in an inappropriate rural setting
where the services are not available, and for the protection of the public
health, churches having seating capacity in the main sanctuary for 100 or more
persons shall not be approved unless accessible from a paved road and connected
to public water and, if available, public sewer facilities.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.111 GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS.
   Government buildings and uses may be permitted as special approval land uses
in the A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2 and RM Residential Districts subject to the
following special land use approval requirements. These requirements do not
apply to government buildings in the O Office and GB General Business
Districts, as they are permitted uses.
   (A)   The site is so located as to have at least one property line abutting
a public thoroughfare of not less than 120 feet of right-of-way width, either
existing or proposed, and all ingress and egress to the site shall be directly
onto the major thoroughfare, or a marginal access service drive thereof.
   (B)   The depth of the front and rear yard and the width of each side yard
shall not be less than 50 feet.
   (C)   Front and side yards shall be equal to at least one and one-half the
height of the main building. The height limitations set forth in §
154.063 shall not apply to government buildings.
   (D)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
154.023. No off-street parking area may occupy a required front yard.
   (E)   Whenever an off-street parking area is located within 50 feet of the
property line of an abutting residential district, a continuous and obscuring
protective screening device at least four feet six inches in height, but not
more than six feet in height, shall be provided along the sides of the parking
area adjoining the residentially zoned land. The screening device shall comply
with the provisions of §§
154.018 and
154.019.
   (F)   The site shall not be used for dwelling purposes except that
residential dwelling facilities may be provided for regular employees of the
governmental building(s) and their families. The dwelling units or quarters
shall comply with the minimum requirements for dwellings in the district in
which located.
   (G)   Accessory structures shall not exceed one story or 14 feet in height.
   (H)   For the purpose of ensuring that large governmental buildings are
located within or adjacent to the urban portion of the township where adequate
infrastructure is available to service the facility and not in an inappropriate
rural setting where the services are not available, and for the protection of
the public health, governmental buildings having an occupancy capacity of 100
or more persons shall not be approved unless accessible from a paved road and
connected to public water and, if available, connected to public sewer
facilities.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.112 GOLF COURSES.
   Golf courses may be permitted in the A/R, Agricultural/Residential, R-1A, R-
1B, R-1C, R-2 and RM Residential Districts subject to the following special
land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The site is so located as to have at least one property line abutting
a major thoroughfare of not less than 120 feet of right-of-way width, either
existing or proposed, and all ingress and egress to the site shall be directly
onto a major thoroughfare or a marginal access drive thereto.
   (B)   All development features including the principal building and any
accessory buildings or structures are so located and related to minimize the
possibility of any adverse effect upon adjacent property. This shall mean a
minimum distance of 200 feet to the property line of abutting residentially
zoned lands and public rights-of-way provided where topographic conditions are
such that the building would be screened from view, the Planning Commission may
modify this requirement.
   (C)   Major accessory uses that are generally of a commercial nature, such
as a restaurant and bar, shall be housed in a single building with a clubhouse.
Minor accessory uses which are strictly related to the operation of the golf
course itself, such as maintenance garage and pro shop, may be located in
separate buildings.
   (D)   Whenever a swimming pool is to be provided, the pool shall be provided
with a protective fence six feet in height and entry shall be by means of a
controlled gate or turnstile.
   (E)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the provisions
of §
154.023.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.113 PRIVATE RECREATIONAL AREAS.
   Private recreational areas not open to the general public. Institutional
community or neighborhood recreation centers and neighborhood association
swimming pools may be permitted as a special approval land use in the R-1A, R-
1B, R-1C and R-2 Residential Districts and as a permitted use in the A/
R District subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The subject property is so located as not to hinder the natural and
presumed residential development of the area.
   (B)   The depth of the front and rear yards and the width of each side yard
shall not be less than 50 feet.
   (C)   Off-street parking shall be determined on the basis of one parking
space for each 500 square feet of land area devoted to these uses. Off-street
parking shall be in accordance with the provisions of §
154.023.
   (D)   Whenever an off-street parking area is located within 50 feet of an
adjoining residentially zoned property line, a continuous and obscuring screen
at least four feet six inches in height, but not more than six feet in height,
shall be provided along the sides of the parking area adjoining the
residentially zoned land. The screen shall comply with the provisions of §§
154.018 and
154.019.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.114 LARGE-SCALE OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL USES.
   (A)   Large-scale outdoor recreational uses, including recreational fields
(football, softball, baseball, soccer and similar activities), tennis courts,
basketball courts, ice skating rinks, music concert pavilions and band shells,
ski facilities, picnic grounds, miniature golf courses, golf driving ranges,
campgrounds, small-boat rental, swimming facilities, kiddie-type rides and
tracks for off-road vehicles or similar uses for physical and outdoor exercises
may be permitted in the A/R Agricultural/Residential Districts subject to the
following special land use approval requirements.
   (B)   Not included under “large scale outdoor recreational uses” and
regulated elsewhere in this chapter are the following: motorized vehicle race
tracks, horse or dog tracks, combat game areas, gun clubs, golf courses,
outdoor theaters, amusement parks, circuses, carnivals, rebound tumbling
facilities, outdoor dance pavilions. (Personal recreational activities or uses
are not subject to this section.)
      (1)   The subject property is at least 20 acres or more in area and is
located on a major thoroughfare having an existing or proposed right-of-way of
not less than 120 feet.
      (2)   All development features including the principal building and
spectator seating facility shall not be closer than 200 feet to a public street
or land zoned residential except, where natural topographical conditions are
such that the development features would be screened from view, this
requirement may be modified.
      (3)   No activity shall take place within 30 feet of the perimeter of the
recreational area. All those activities shall be screened from abutting land
zoned residential by means of a protective screening device as determined by
the Planning Commission that meets the requirements of §§
154.018 and
154.019.
      (4)   Exterior lighting shall be installed in a manner so that it is
deflected away from adjacent properties and so that it does not impede the
vision of traffic along adjacent roads.
      (5)   Adequate trash containers shall be provided on the site. The site
shall be periodically cleared of debris so that wind-blown litter does not
accumulate on adjacent properties.
      (6)   In order to ensure that the recreational use is compatible with
adjacent land uses, the Planning Commission may require such items as
landscaped buffer strips with berms, off-site street improvements, fencing
security facilities and other improvements in order to ensure that excessive
dust, noise, traffic, lighting glare and trespassing are not inflicted on
adjacent properties.
      (7)   Related accessory commercial uses such as refreshment stands,
concession counters and sit-down restaurants which may include the sale of
alcoholic beverages, retail shops selling or renting sport and recreational
items such as a “pro shop” or rental equipment store, office buildings relating
to the management of the recreational use, spectator seating and service areas
including locker rooms, showers, restrooms and similar facilities may be
permitted in conjunction with the recreational uses when it is clearly
incidental to the main recreational character of the use. Those related
accessory uses shall not include the sale, servicing or repair of any vehicles
or equipment used on the site except that owned by the proprietor.
      (8)   Whenever a swimming pool is to be provided, the pool shall be
provided with a protective fence six feet in height and entry shall be by means
of a controlled gate or turnstile.
      (9)   Off-street paved parking shall be constructed in accordance with §
154.023 except that the Planning Commission may waive requirements for paved
parking areas, maneuvering lanes and drives for campgrounds, parks, riding
stables and other similar outdoor recreational uses where because of their
rural or rustic nature, hard-surfaced parking would, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, detract from the nature of the recreational facility.
      (10)   Permitted accessory uses that are generally of a minor commercial
nature shall be housed in a single building. Minor accessory uses which are
strictly related to the operation of the recreational use itself, such as a
maintenance garage, may be located in a separate building.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.115 OPEN-TO-THE-PUBLIC PUBLIC OR COMMERCIAL STABLES, KENNELS AND
VETERINARY CLINICS.
   (A)   An open-to-the public or commercial stable or a kennel and veterinary
clinic may be permitted in the A/R Agricultural/Residential Districts subject
to the following special land use approval requirements.
      (1)   The subject property is so located as not to hinder the natural and
presumed residential development of the area.
      (2)   The subject property contains a minimum of five acres.
      (3)   The stable, barn or kennel is located 100 feet from any neighboring
residential use. All runs or breeding areas shall be enclosed by a chain link
fence not less than six feet in height.
      (4)   If the use is of a commercial nature, off-street parking shall be
provided in accordance with the provisions of §
154.023.
   (B)   Veterinary clinics shall also be allowed as a special approval land
use in the GB, General Business District, provided that there are no outdoor
runs for animals, and that there be no boarding, no noise, and no odor.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.116 GROUP DAY CARE HOME.
   Group day care home (as defined §
154.003 and under Public Act of 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through
722.128, as amended) with seven to 12 children may be permitted in the A/R, R-
1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR and RM Districts, subject to the following special
land use approval requirements.
   (A)   Adequate ingress and egress, parking and circulation shall be provided
on the site.
   (B)   The lot or parcel on which the use is located shall be located no
closer than 1,500 feet to any of the following:
      (1)   Another group day care home;
      (2)   An adult foster care group home licensed by the State Department of
Social Services;
      (3)   A facility offering substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation
service to seven or more persons, licensed by the State Office of Substance
Abuse Services; or
      (4)   A community corrections center, resident home, halfway house or
similar facility which houses an inmate population under the jurisdiction of
the State Department of Corrections.
   (C)   The construction and use shall be licensed by the State Department of
Social Services prior to beginning operation, including the minimum regulations
and requirement regarding play space.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.117 NURSERY SCHOOL, DAY NURSERY AND CHILDCARE CENTERS.
   Nursery schools, day nurseries and childcare centers may be permitted in the
MHR and RM Residential Districts, O Office District and GB Business Districts
subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The childcare center shall be licensed by the State Division of Child
Day Care Licensing, which includes minimum outdoor play area requirements.
   (B)   Adequate ingress and egress, parking and circulation shall be provided
on the site, including a drop-off/pick-up area for children, outside of any
public right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.118 ORPHANAGE, FOSTER HOME, HOME FOR THE AGED, INDIGENT OR PHYSICALLY OR
MENTALLY DISABLED.
   An orphanage, foster home or a home for the aged, indigent, physically or
mentally disabled, a rest or convalescent home may be permitted in the RM
Multiple-Family Residential District subject to the following special land use
approval requirements.
   (A)   All vehicular ingress and egress from the site shall be directly onto
a public road having a planned right-of-way of not less than 86 feet.
   (B)   The maximum extent of development and occupancy shall not exceed 30
persons, patients or residents per acre of land.
   (C)   No building other than a structure for strictly residential purposes
shall be closer than 60 feet to any property line.
   (D)   State licensed homes for six or fewer residents shall be a permitted
use in all districts where single-family homes are a permitted use.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.119 BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSES.
   Boarding and lodging houses, rooming houses and tourist homes may be
permitted in A/R, Agricultural/Residential, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, MHR and RM
Residential Districts, subject to the following special land use approval
requirements.
   (A)   Not more than five sleeping rooms for the development.
   (B)   Adequate parking shall be available on-site.
   (C)   Maximum density of 20 persons per acre for the development.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.120 AMUSEMENT AND RECREATION SERVICES.
   (A)   Indoor recreation. Recreation centers similar to bowling alleys,
skating rinks, racquet sports, archery ranges, arcades and similar forms of
recreation or amusement may be permitted in the GB General Business District
provided they are conducted wholly within an enclosed building.
   (B)   Amusement-oriented outdoor recreation. Outdoor recreational space for
adult or children’s amusement parks, circuses, carnivals, rebound tumbling
facilities, outdoor dance pavilions, miniature golf courses, and golf driving
ranges may be permitted in the GB General Business District subject to the
following special land use approval requirements.
      (1)   Site shall not abut any residential district directly or across a
street.
      (2)   Children’s amusement parks shall be fenced on all sides with a wall
or fence not less than four feet six inches in height.
      (3)   No loudspeaker of public address system shall be used except by
express written consent of the Township Planning Commission wherein it is
deemed that no public nuisance or disturbance will be established.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.121 MOTOR VEHICLE WASHING.
   Motor vehicle washing, conveyor- or non-conveyor-type, may be permitted in
the GB General Business District subject to the following special land use
approval requirements.
   (A)   All cleaning operations shall be completely enclosed within a
building, excepting points of ingress and egress.
   (B)   A hard-surfaced driveway of one or more lanes shall be constructed on
the parcel in a manner so as to provide for a continuous movement of cars into
the wash rack.
   (C)   The driveway so provided shall be not less than ten feet wide for a
single lane and not less than ten additional feet in width for each additional
lane.
   (D)   Where only a single lane is provided, it shall be used for no other
purpose than to provide access to the wash rack. All lanes provided shall be
suitably protected from interference by other traffic.
   (E)   The total length of the required lane or lanes so provided for a
conveyor-type wash rack shall be determined by the overall length of the
building, including areas having sidewalls but no roof. In any building where
the washing operation moves in other than a straight line, the length of the
building, for the purposes of this section, shall be the distance measured
along the centerline of the conveyor or wash line from the point of entry to
the point of exit from the building. The overall length of the required lane or
lanes, as measured along the centerline, shall be determined in accordance with
the following formula:
Where the building is 80 feet or less in overall length, the total required
lanes shall be not less than 400 feet in length. Where the building exceeds 80
feet in length, the length of the required lane or lanes shall be increased 50
feet for each ten feet of or fraction thereof by which the building exceeds 80
feet in overall length.
   (F)   For a non-conveyor-type auto wash, five waiting spaces, each 20 feet
in length, shall be provided for each washing stall on the entrance side of the
stall and two spaces per stall shall be provided on the exit side for a drying
area.
   (G)   The site shall be designed in a manner so that no operations are
conducted off the parcel.
   (H)   A building setback of at least 60 feet must be maintained from the
proposed or existing street right-of-way.
   (I)   Ingress and egress points shall be located at least 60 feet from the
intersection formed by the existing or proposed right-of-way lines, whichever
is greater, and shall be directly from a major thoroughfare.
   (J)   The site shall be drained so as to dispose of all surface water in a
way so as to preclude drainage of water onto adjacent property.
   (K)   Gasoline sales shall be permitted on the property provided there is
compliance with division (D) above, and §
154.122(A) through (H).
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.122 GASOLINE STATIONS.
   Gasoline service stations may be permitted in the GB General Business
District subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   One hundred and fifty feet of street frontage on the lot proposed for
the gasoline station shall be provided on the principal street serving the
station.
   (B)   The lot shall contain not less than 22,500 square feet in area.
   (C)   Gasoline pumps, air and water hose stands and other appurtenances
shall be set back not less than 15 feet from all street right-of-way lines.
   (D)   Driveway widths entering the gasoline station shall have a width of 30
feet.
   (E)   Any driveway approach shall enter the property not less than 25 feet
from the intersection formed by the existing or proposed right-of-way lines as
set forth in the township Thoroughfare Plan, and not less than ten feet from
any adjoining nonresidential property line nor less than 25 feet from any
abutting residential district. The angle of intersection of any driveway along
the principal street(s) shall not be more than 60 degrees.
   (F)   Curbs, in accordance with standard township specifications, shall be
constructed on all streets adjacent to the gasoline station site.
   (G)   Damaged or disabled motor vehicles shall not be parked except on a
temporary basis for 72 hours or less. Junk parts and junk vehicles shall not be
kept outside of the building.
   (H)   Prohibited activities include, but are not limited to: motor vehicle
body repair; undercoating; painting; tire recapping; engine and transmission
rebuilding; motor vehicle dismantling; upholstery work; and other activities
whose adverse external physical effects would extend beyond the property line.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.123 MOTOR VEHICLE REPAIR AND SERVICE FACILITIES.
   Motor vehicle repair and service facilities may be permitted in the GB
General Business District subject to the following special land use approval
requirements.
   (A)   All activities shall be conducted in an enclosed building.
   (B)   All buildings shall be set back not less than 40 feet from all
existing or proposed street right-of-way lines, whichever is greater.
   (C)   There shall be no outside storage or display of any kind except for
the display of new merchandise related to the primary use of the facility and
for retail sale during the hours of operation of the facility.
   (D)   There shall be no outdoor parking of damaged motor vehicles except on
a temporary basis not to exceed 72 hours. Junk parts and junk vehicles shall
not be kept on the outside of the building.
   (E)   Parking shall be provided on the site at a ratio of one parking space
for each 100 square feet of site area.
   (F)   The parking of tow trucks shall be permitted only in designated areas
and shall not be permitted in the corner clearance areas.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.124 NEW AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK SALES AND SHOWROOMS.
   New automobile and truck sales and showrooms may be permitted in the GB
General Business District subject to the following special land use approval
requirements.
   (A)   The automobile and truck sales must be located on a site having a
frontage on a major thoroughfare of not less than 120 feet and an area of not
less than two acres.
   (B)   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60 feet
from any point of intersection formed by the existing or proposed right-of-way
lines, whichever is greater.
   (C)   Major repair and major refinishing shops shall be permitted as
accessory when conducted entirely within an enclosed building.
   (D)   No outside storage of discarded or salvaged materials, junk vehicles
or junk parts shall be permitted on the premises.
   (E)   The outside display of new and used automobiles and trucks shall be
permitted and the storage area shall occupy no more than 35% of a lot which is
used for vehicle sales.
   (F)   A 15-foot landscaped setback shall be provided between any existing or
proposed right-of-way line, whichever is greater, and any outdoor display of
new or used automobiles.
   (G)   No outside loudspeaker or outside public address system shall be used.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.125 USED AUTOMOBILE AND TRUCK SALES.
   Used automobile and truck sales may be permitted in the GB General Business
District subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The used automobile and truck sales must be located on a site having a
frontage on a major thoroughfare of not less than 100 feet and an area of not
less than 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60 feet
from any point of intersection formed by the existing or proposed right-of-way
lines, whichever is greater.
   (C)   No outside storage of discarded or salvaged materials, junk vehicles
or junk parts shall be permitted.
   (D)   A 15-foot landscaped setback shall be provided between any existing or
proposed right-of-way line, whichever is greater, and any outdoor display of
used automobiles or trucks.
   (E)   No outside loudspeaker or outside public address system shall be used.
   (F)   Any person selling more than two vehicles per year shall be defined as
a used car dealer and shall be located only in a GB General Business District.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.126 OPEN-AIR DISPLAY AND SALE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, MOTORCYCLES OR
OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE SALES AREAS OTHER THAN TRUCKS, AUTOMOBILES AND HOME OWNERS’
GARDENING EQUIPMENT AND THE LIKE.
   Open-air display and sale of recreational vehicles, motorcycles or other
motor vehicle sales areas other than trucks and automobiles, homeowners’
gardening equipment and the like, may be permitted in the GB General Business
District, provided that the vehicles are displayed on a paved surface complying
with the provisions of §
154.023, there is no outside storage, and further provided that there be no
display in areas that are required for parking, aisles, loading or sidewalks.
Ingress and egress to the site shall be at least 25 feet from a street
intersection or adjacent residential district.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.127 DRIVE-IN, FAST FOOD, DRIVE-THROUGH OR CARRY-OUT RESTAURANTS.
   Drive-in, fast-food, drive-through or carry-out restaurants may be permitted
in the GB General Business District subject to the following special land use
approval requirements.
   (A)   Must directly front upon and have its ingress and egress points from a
major thoroughfare.
   (B)   Ingress and egress points shall be located at least 30 feet from the
intersection of any two streets. The measurement shall be made from the
intersection of the two streets’ existing right-of-way lines to the nearest
edge of the curb radius of the driveway.
   (C)   The minimum distance of any driveway to the property line shall be
seven feet. The minimum distance between driveways on the site shall be 65 feet
measured from the two closest driveway curbs.
   (D)   Concrete curbing six inches in height shall be properly placed and
maintained along or parallel to all property lines, except where bumper guards
are required and except across approved driveways so as to prevent vehicular
encroachment onto or over the adjoining property or vehicular damage to
buildings.
   (E)   All outside trash receptacles (except those intended for use by the
customer) shall be located within a six-foot high enclosure constructed of an
obscuring material and shall be provided with obscuring gate of same height.
   (F)   If adjacent to a residential district, no outside loudspeaker or
outside public address system shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. 06-08, passed 4-16-2012)
§ 154.128 COMBAT GAME AREAS.
   Combat game areas in which participants use air guns or other similar
devices that are intended only to “mark” participants and not injure them may
be permitted in the A/R Agricultural/Residential District subject to the
following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The site shall contain a minimum of 20 acres. The site shall not abut
any residential district directly or across a street. The site shall have
direct access to a public road.
   (B)   A 200-foot buffer zone around the perimeter of the property shall be
provided in which no game activities are permitted. This buffer area shall be
clearly marked so that participants will not use the area.
   (C)   No trespassing signs shall be placed in prominent locations.
   (D)   The applicant shall provide off-street parking subject to standards
established by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Toilet facilities shall be provided and shall be approved by the
County Health Department.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.129 GUN AND HUNT CLUBS, SHOOTING AND ARCHERY RANGES.
   Gun and hunt clubs, shooting and archery ranges, including state-licensed
game bird hunting preserves, may be permitted in the A/R Agricultural/
Residential Districts subject to the following special land use approval
requirements. (Personal hunting and target shooting activities or uses are not
subject to this section.)
   (A)   It must be located on a parcel of 40 acres or more in area.
   (B)   The parcel must be located at least 450 feet from a lot line of any
adjacent residential district.
   (C)   All ingress and egress from the parcel must be directly from a public
road.
   (D)   Off-road parking must be provided.
   (E)   No on-road parking shall be permitted.
   (F)   All new gun clubs, shooting and archery ranges and any additions to
those uses shall be designed by an engineer or architect licensed by the state.
   (G)   All new shooting ranges shall meet the design standards of the
National Rifle Association. Basic measures to provide for projectile
containment have not changed dramatically for well over 30 years. These
measures include: backstops, sideberms and sidewalls, baffles, target
placement, use of natural features such as mountains or rolling hills, sloping
floor or grade of the range. Various standard range lengths and other
characteristics are to be designed into a proposed facility in accordance with
the types of projectiles to be used.
   (H)   Operations shall not begin before 8:00 a.m. nor continue beyond 9:00
p.m. Noise levels at the property lines shall not exceed 40 dbA at any time.
Sound levels shall be measured using a weighted decibel measurement (referenced
to 20 micropascals) and with a type of audio output meter approved by the U.S.
Department of Standards.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.130 CEMETERIES.
   Cemeteries are a permitted use in the RCC District. They may be permitted in
the A/R Agricultural/Residential Districts subject to the following special
land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The location of a cemetery shall be permitted in the quarter section
within an A/R District when the quarter section does not have more than 51% of
its land area in recorded plats.
   (B)   All access shall be provided from a public road having a planned
right-of-way of not less than 120 feet.
   (C)   All sides of the cemetery shall be screened from any residential view
by providing a continuous and completely obscuring wall, fence or buffer strip
planting as described in §§
154.018 and
154.019.
   (D)   Approval shall be given contingent on a satisfactory site plan review.
   (E)   Any crypt, mausoleum or other buildings or structures wholly or in
part above the ground, other than monuments, shall together occupy not more
than 25% of the lot area.
   (F)   No part of any crypt, mausoleum or other building containing bodies or
remains, other than a subterranean grave shall be less than 100 feet from the
nearest lot line.
   (G)   The proposed cemetery complies with all provisions in acts relating to
cemeteries enacted by the people of the state.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.131 MINI-WAREHOUSES.
   Mini-warehouses may be permitted as a special land use in the GB General
Business Districts and as a permitted use in the I Industrial Districts, in all
cases subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The site shall be at least two acres in size and shall be located on a
paved major thoroughfare and shall not directly abut a residential district
unless all storage faces away from it and no drives, parking, or outside
storage shall exist between the storage buildings and the property line.
   (B)   The only access to the site shall be from the major thoroughfare.
   (C)   All storage on the site shall be kept within enclosed buildings,
except that up to 50% of the storage units may be “open front” three-sided
buildings for the storage of boats, recreational vehicles, snowmobiles and
automobiles. The “open front” of the buildings shall face the interior of the
complex.
   (D)   Buffering shall be required as provided by §
154.018.
   (E)   All driveways, parking, loading and vehicular circulation areas shall
be surfaced with concrete, asphalt or asphaltic concrete. All one-way driveways
shall provide for one ten-foot parking lane and one 15-foot travel lane. All
two-way driveways shall provide for one ten-foot parking lane and two 12-foot
travel lanes. The parking lanes may be eliminated when the driveway does not
serve storage cubicles. When no parking is provided within the building
separation areas, the building separation need only 15 feet. There shall be at
least one parking space for each ten cubicles. At the office, one parking space
shall be provided for each 25 cubicles. Two spaces shall be provided for the
caretaker’s residence, if any.
   (F)   No business activities, manufacturing or garage sales shall be
conducted on the premises. The operation of such a facility shall in no way be
deemed to include a transfer and storage business where the use of vehicles is
part of the business.
   (G)   The servicing or repair of motor vehicles, boats, trailers, lawn
mowers and other similar equipment shall not be conducted on the premises.
   (H)   The owner or operator shall properly police the property for removal
of trash and debris and for compliance with public and private restrictions.
   (I)   A residence for a resident caretaker or manager may be constructed on
the premises. The residence shall comply with all provisions of this chapter
and the State Building Code.
   (J)   No explosive, hazardous or radioactive materials shall be stored on
the premises.
   (K)   The Planning Commission shall approve any proposed perimeter fencing
or walls for its compatibility with adjacent properties and the neighborhood.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.132 WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEMS, hereinafter referred to as WECS.
Any device that converts wind energy to mechanical or electrical energy.
      (2)   WIND ROTOR. The blades plus hub to which the blades are attached
used to capture wind for purposes of energy conversion.
      (3)   TOWER HEIGHT. The height of the actual tower, plus one-half the
rotor diameter on horizontal axis installations, and on vertical axis
installations, the distance from the base of the tower to the top of the unit.
      (4)   SURVIVAL WIND SPEED. The maximum wind speed a WECS in automatic,
unattended operation (not necessarily producing power) can sustain without
damage to structural components or loss of the ability to function normally.
   (B)   Applicable zones. WECS may be permitted in any zoning district subject
to the following special land use approval requirements with the following
exception:
      (1)   The erection of one windmill on a single parcel of land at a height
equal to or less than 50 feet shall be considered a permitted use in any
district and shall not require special land use and Planning Commission
approval; and/or
      (2)   The approval of a windmill under this requirement shall be subject
to administrative approval through the Zoning Administrator, as well as all
other applicable provisions of this section.
   (C)   Applicability of this chapter.
      (1)   The standards that follow shall apply to systems intended for the
provision of the electrical or mechanical power needs of the owner/operator of
the system; also, such a system shall be for one main building and its
accessory buildings only.
      (2)   For systems intended for uses other than the above, Planning
Commission approval shall be required. The approval shall cover the location of
the system (shown on a survey of the property) on the site, the noise generated
by the system, assurances as to the safety features of the system and
compliance with all applicable state and federal statutes and regulations.
      (3)   Planning Commission approval shall specifically be required for
arrays of more than one wind energy conversion system and for systems wherein
one wind energy conversion system is intended to provide the electric power for
more than one main building.
   (D)   Standards for and regulation of WECS.
      (1)   Construction. Tower construction shall be in accordance with the
latest edition of the State Building Code, and any future amendments and/or
revisions to it.
      (2)   Electric-magnetic interference (EMI). Wind energy conversion system
generators and alternators shall be filtered and/or shielded so as to prevent
the emission of radio frequency energy which would cause harmful interference
with radio and/or television broadcasting or reception, and shall comply with
the provisions of C.F.R. Title 47, Chapter 1, Part 15, and subsequent revisions
governing the emissions.
      (3)   Setbacks.
         (a)   The structural design shall be signed and sealed by a
professional engineer, registered in the state, certifying that the structural
design complies with all of the standards set forth for safety and stability in
all applicable codes then in effect in the state and all sections referred to
herein above.
         (b)   The minimum setbacks for the towers from all abutting streets or
adjacent property shall be a distance equal to one and one-half times the
height of the tower.
         (c)   The WECS shall be located a sufficient distance from any
overhead utility lines, excluding service drops, such that a structural failure
of any portion of the WECS or its supporting structure will not cause any
portion of it to fall within five feet of utility lines.
      (4)   Maximum height. The maximum height permitted as a special land use
shall be 150 feet unless otherwise prohibited by any state or federal statutes
or regulations.
      (5)   Minimum blade height. The minimum distance between the ground and
any protruding blades utilized on a WECS shall be 15 feet, as measured at the
lowest point of the arc of the blades.
      (6)   Labeling requirements. A minimum of one sign shall be posted near
ground level on the tower structure warning of high voltage. In addition, the
following information shall be posted on a label or labels on the generator or
alternator of the WECS:
         (a)   The maximum power output of the system and the wind speed at
which it is achieved;
         (b)   Nominal voltage and maximum current;
         (c)   Manufacturer’s name and address, serial number and model number;
and
         (d)   Maximum survival wind speed and the emergency and normal shut
down procedures.
      (7)   Utility company notification. The Detroit Edison Company shall be
notified in writing of any proposed interface with that company’s grid prior to
installing the interface and shall conform with any legislated requirements
governing installations of WECS so as to comply with the utility tariff
specifications.
      (8)   Safety. The WECS’ manufacturers shall document that the WECS model
has been tested and certified by Underwriter’s Laboratory, or other applicable
independent accrediting agency, and that when installed in accordance with
recommended specifications shall have a maximum survival wind speed of not less
than 80 mph.
      (9)   Noise. The maximum level of noise to be generated by a WECS shall
be 50 decibels, as measured on the dBA scale, measured at each property line at
any time.
   (E)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   All electric line/utility wires shall be buried under ground except
in A/R Agricultural/Residential Districts.
      (2)   Any mechanical equipment associated with and necessary for
operation, including a building for batteries and storage cells shall be
enclosed with a six-foot fence. The supporting tower shall also be enclosed
with a six-foot fence unless the base of the tower is not climbable for a
distance of 12 feet.
      (3)   When a building is necessary for storage of cells or related
mechanical equipment, the building may not exceed 140 square feet in area nor
eight feet in height, and must be located at least the number of feet equal to
the height of the tower from any property line.
      (4)   The tower and generating unit shall be kept in good repair and
sound condition. Upon abandonment of use, the tower and related structure shall
be dismantled and removed from the property within 60 days.
      (5)   Every WECS shall be insured with minimum liability insurance of
$100,000 for each occurrence. Proof of insurance shall be furnished to the
township.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 154.133 PERSONAL USE AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELDS.
   Landing fields for the personal use of the property owner may be permitted
in the A/R Agricultural/Residential Districts and I Industrial Districts
subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The landing field is subject to all rules and regulations of the
Federal Aviation Administration and the State Aeronautics Commission, which
agencies or their successors shall approve the preliminary plans submitted to
the township.
   (B)   No landing field for personal use shall be established within five
miles of a public use facility certified by the State Aeronautics Commission
without approval of the commission. No landing field for personal use shall be
established within a two-mile radius of another landing field.
   (C)   All landing fields shall have a runway with an 1,800-foot landing
length in each direction from a clear approach slope of 20 to one, and a 100-
foot usable width with an additional 50-foot minimum width on each side which
is free of obstructions.
      (1)   The approach slope with a width of not less than 200 feet shall be
based on a clearance of all objects within the approach area, including a
roadway clearance of 15 feet or 17 feet over an interstate highway, a railway
clearance of 23 feet and a clearance at the property line of 25 feet.
      (2)   The landing area shall be marked in accordance with State
Aeronautical Commission standards.
   (D)   No landing field shall be approved that would interfere with the right
of nearby and adjacent owners and occupants of property to peaceful enjoyment
of their property.
   (E)   Hazards to navigation: no obstruction of whatever character, object of
natural growth or use of land, upon the premises of the landing field that
prevents the safe use of the facilities for the take off or landing of aircraft
shall be permitted.
   (F)   Yard and placement regulations.
      (1)   The site shall not abut directly or across a street in any
residential district.
      (2)   Landing fields shall be located on a contiguous parcel of land not
less than 25 acres in area.
         (a)   The parcel shall have a width of not less than 450 feet.
         (b)   The parcel shall have a depth of not less than 1,800 feet.
         (c)   It is not required that the necessary clear zones be contained
within the site, however, if future development intrudes upon the required
clear zones, use of the landing field shall immediately cease.
   (G)   The property owner shall construct a residence within two years or be
required to obtain a two-year renewable license from the governing township
authority.
   (H)   All lights used for landing fields and other lighting facilities shall
be arranged so as not to reflect towards adjoining non-landing field uses.
   (I)   Prohibited uses:
      (1)   The open storage of junked or wrecked motor vehicles or aircraft
shall not be permitted; and
      (2)   Use of a personal use aircraft landing field is limited solely to
the single owner. No commercial activity or operations such as the sale of
gasoline or oil, the soliciting or engaging in charter flying or student
instruction, the provision of shelter or the tie-down of an aircraft (except
for aircraft owned by and for the personal use of the property owner), the
overhaul or repair of an aircraft or of engines, or otherwise offering
aeronautic facilities or services to the public shall not be permitted on the
premises.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.134 COMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   Communication towers may be permitted in the A/R District with the exception
of land designated residential in the future land use map of the Comprehensive
Master Plan, in the RCC, O, GB, I Districts, and on open land in any district
that is permanently dedicated for conservation, recreation or institutional use
subject to the following special land use approval requirements.
   (A)   The tower must be set back a minimum of 200 feet from all property
lines.
   (B)   Towers shall be a monopole type using no guy wires.
   (C)   Accessory structures are limited to uses associated with the
maintenance of the tower and may not be located any closer to any property line
than 30 feet.
   (D)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 600 square feet of gross
building area.
   (E)   All requirements of §§
154.016,
154.017,
154.018 and
154.019 shall be met.
   (F)   All towers shall be equipped with an anti-climbing device to prevent
unauthorized access.
   (G)   A registered structural engineer shall certify the plans of the tower
construction.
   (H)   The applicant shall provide verification that the antenna-mount and
structure have been reviewed and approved by a professional engineer and that
the installation is in compliance with all applicable codes.
   (I)   Applicant shall obtain or document approval from the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA) and the State Aeronautics Administration for the height
and location of a proposed tower structure near an airport or helipad.
   (J)   Communication towers in excess of 100 feet in height above grade level
shall be prohibited within a two-mile radius of a public or private airport or
one-half-mile radius of a helipad.
   (K)   Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with, corrosive-
resistant material.
   (L)   Antennae and metal towers shall be grounded for protection against a
direct strike by lightning and shall comply as to electrical wiring and
connections with all applicable local statutes, regulations and standards.
   (M)   Towers with antennae shall be designed to withstand a uniform wind
loading as prescribed in the official Building Code approved by the township.
   (N)   All signals and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or antenna and a
structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight feet above the ground at
all points, unless buried underground.
   (O)   Towers shall be located so that they do not interfere with reception
in nearby areas. If problems occur after construction, the tower owner or
lessee shall provide a remedy.
   (P)   Towers shall be located so there is room for vehicles doing
maintenance to maneuver on the property owned and/or leased by the applicant.
   (Q)   The base of the tower shall occupy no more than 500 square feet.
   (R)   Minimum spacing between tower locations shall be one mile (without
respect to municipal boundaries) in order to prevent a concentration of towers
in one area.
   (S)   Height of the tower, including antennae, shall not exceed 195 feet
from grade.
   (T)   Towers shall not be artificially lighted, it being the intent of the
township to encourage the use of towers of the height that does not require
lighting, which may adversely affect nearby properties. However, if required by
the FAA in the future, lighting shall be of the dual mode day/night type (red
at night, strobe during the day) and be designed to refract upward so as to
limit ground scatter to a maximum of 75 candela.
   (U)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum extent
practicable.
   (V)   There shall not be displayed advertising or identification of any kind
intended to be visible from the ground or other structures, except as required
for emergency purposes.
   (W)   The antenna shall be painted to match the exterior treatment of the
tower. The chosen paint scheme shall be designed to minimize off-site
visibility of the antenna.
   (X)   Structures shall be subject to any state and federal regulations
concerning non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation. If more restrictive state or
federal standards are adopted in the future, the antenna shall be made to
conform to the extent required by that standard or the special land use
approval shall be subject to revocation by the Township Board. Cost for testing
and verification of compliance shall be borne by the operator of the antenna.
   (Y)   There shall be no employees located on the site on a permanent basis
to service or maintain the antenna. Occasional or temporary repair and service
activities are excluded from this restriction.
   (Z)   All driveway entrances shall meet the requirements of the County Road
Commission and a permit shall be obtained from the Road Commission for each
driveway entrance.
   (AA)   Except for the driveway opening, along the entire perimeter of the
tower, including its related structures and fencing, and within the area leased
or owned by the applicant, the developer shall plant a landscaping buffer,
which the lessee or owner shall subsequently maintain.
      (1)   The buffer, at a minimum, shall consist of two staggered rows of
trees that are a minimum of six feet tall when planted with a height at
maturity of at least 20 feet.
      (2)   Trees shall be planted on 20-foot centers.
      (3)   Trees shall be 80% evergreens and 20% deciduous, mixed in species,
using only species approved by the American Nursery and Landscape Association
or a similar organization that may be specified elsewhere by township
ordinance.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may waive this requirement if the site is
buffered by adequate existing natural vegetation.
   (BB)   Shared use of towers is both permitted and encouraged.
      (1)   A new tower application shall not be accepted unless the applicant
makes a good faith effort to substantially demonstrate that no existing or
planned tower can accommodate the applicant’s antenna or transmitter.
      (2)   The applicant shall include documentation regarding the
availability of any existing or approved, but not yet built communication
towers within the transmission area that may meet the needs of the applicant.
      (3)   The supplied documentation shall evaluate the following factors:
         (a)   Structural capacity of the communication towers;
         (b)   Geographic service area requirements;
         (c)   Mechanical or electrical incompatibilities;
         (d)   Inability or ability to locate equipment on existing
communication towers; and
         (e)   Any restriction of the FCC that would preclude the shared use of
communication towers.
      (4)   And, further, the applicant for a new tower shall submit a written
agreement, transferable to all successors and assigns, stating that the tower
operator shall make space available on the tower for co-location. Proposed
antenna locations shall be indicated on the site plan.
   (CC)   A prospective co-locator on an existing tower must provide the
following in applying for a special land use permit, the review and written
approval of which will be handled by, and will not be unreasonably withheld by,
the Zoning Administrator or other designated official, unless he or she
determines there are special issues or circumstances that compel a Planning
Commission review:
      (1)   One copy of the original site plan for the tower, as amended;
      (2)   Information or documentation as needed to verify compliance with
the requirements above; and
      (3)   Any fee that may be required for a special land use application.
   (DD)   All towers that cease to be used for a period of six continuous
months shall be removed at the owner’s expense, including all equipment and
structures, and the owner shall restore the site to its original condition
within three months of a written notice and request by the township. If a tower
is scheduled to be back in use within six months of the date of the township’s
notice, as provided herein, the owner may apply to the Zoning Board of Appeals
(ZBA) for an extension. Upon proof that use of the tower will recommence within
six months of the notice to remove, the ZBA may grant an extension, not to
exceed six months.
   (EE)   The applicant also shall submit to the township a valid certificate
of liability insurance, to be renewed annually, listing the township and its
past, present and future trustees as additional named insured. The certificate
also shall state that if the policy is to be canceled before the expiration
date thereof, the issuing company will mail a notice to the township, as
certificate holder, at least 30 days before the expiration date. A cancellation
notice shall be considered an event of default, which allows the township to
draw the entire amount of the bond as security. If the insurance is allowed to
lapse, the tower will be deemed to be no longer in use.
   (FF)   The following communication facilities are exempt from the above
provisions, provided that they meet the requirements of the zoning district in
which they are located and provided that the maximum height of these facilities
shall be 60 feet:
      (1)   Citizen band radio facilities;
      (2)   Short wave facilities;
      (3)   Ham and amateur radio facilities;
      (4)   Television reception antennae;
      (5)   Satellite dishes;
      (6)   A farmer’s communication system; and
      (7)   Government facilities subject to state and federal law or
regulations that preempt municipal regulatory authority.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 7-6-2010)
§ 154.135 SHORT TERM RENTAL OF RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY.
   Short term rental of single-family homes may be permitted in R-1A and R-1B,
R-1C, R-2 and A/R Districts, subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   A short term rental is a rental of residential property for a minimum
of seven days and less than 30 days. Short term rentals of six days or less
shall not be permitted. Rentals of single-family residential property for 30
days or more are exempt from the provisions of this section.
   (B)   The occupancy of the short term rental property shall be limited to
two persons for each approved bedroom in the single-family home. Upon
application, the premises shall be inspected by the Burtchville Township Zoning
Administrator to determine the number of bedrooms and compliance with
applicable building codes.
   (C)   The short term rental shall not be permitted for the purpose, in whole
or in part, for a reception, event or party.
   (D)   Day time guests shall not exceed the amount of people permitted for
overnight occupancy and shall leave the premises by 10:00 p.m.
   (E)   No overnight guests in excess of the number of persons identified in
division (B) above shall be permitted.
   (F)   The number of cars on the premises at any one time shall be limited to
one car for each approved bedroom.
   (G)   The property shall have adequate off street parking for the parking of
cars allowed hereunder.
   (H)   The property owner shall designate a property manager, who shall
reside within 25 miles of the property and provide 24-hour a day, seven days a
week contact information for the manager during all times the premises are
rented. This information shall be provided to Burtchville Township annually
prior to May 1 or upon change of property manager.
   (I)   The property shall otherwise be used in compliance with all other
Burtchviile Township ordinances and shall not be used in a manner which
disturbs the adjacent neighbors.
   (J)   The property owner shall have each adult rental occupant sign an
acknowledgment that the renter has been advised of rules in divisions (B)
through (I) above.
   (K)   The property owner shall maintain records of each short term lease,
number of occupants and registered cars for 12 months, which records shall be
supplied to the township upon request of the Zoning Administrator or
Supervisor.
   (L)   Any special land use permit approved by the Planning Commission shall
be issued to the applicant, and upon transfer of ownership the succeeding owner
must re-apply and provide updated property manager information.
   (M)   The property owner shall provide proof of liability insurance covering
the short term rental activity annually on or before May 1 or upon change of
insurance coverage.
   (N)   The property owner shall provide a sewage disposal evaluation from the
St Clair County Health Department indicating no known problems or code
violations.
   (O)   Annual fee to be paid prior to May 1 every year in the amount to be
determined by the Board for the purpose of administration including maintaining
records and sending notices to landlords.
   (P)   Failure to maintain records annually or any of the above section may
result in special land use being revoked by Planning Commission and/or civil
infraction being issued to property owner by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 4-17-2017; Ord. passed 7-15-2024) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.136 LIST OF SPECIAL APPROVAL LAND USES BY DISTRICT.
   List of special approval land uses by district:
Name of Use Section of Chapter Districts Where Special Land Use May Be Allowed
Name of Use                   Section of Chapter Districts Where Special Land
                                                 Use May Be Allowed
Airports: personal use        154.133            A/R and I
aircraft landing fields
Amusement and recreation      154.120            GB
services
Bed and breakfast                                A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, RM
establishments                154.107            and GB, where it is a
                                                 permitted use
Boarding and rooming houses   154.119            A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2,
                                                 MHR and RM
Cemeteries                    154.130            A/R (permitted use in RCC)
Churches                      154.110            A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2 and
                                                 RM (permitted use in O and GB)
Combat game areas             154.128            A/R
Communication towers          154.134            RCC, O, GB, I (possibly A/R or
                                                 any, see conditions)
Drive-in, fast food and       154.127            GB
carry-out restaurants
Feedlots and raising of fur-  154.109            A/R
bearing animals
Gasoline service stations     154.122            GB
Golf courses                  154.112            A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2 and
                                                 RM
Government buildings          154.111            A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2 and
                                                 RM (permitted use in O and GB)
Group day care home           154.116            A/R, R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2,
                                                 MHR and RM
Gun clubs, shooting and       154.129            A/R
archery ranges
High-pressure gas or high-
voltage electrical            154.099            All districts
transmission lines
Horse and dog race tracks     154.102            I
Hotels and motels             154.108            GB
Junkyards, auto salvage/
wrecking yards, waste or      154.105            I
scrap recycling operations
and refuse transfer stations
Large-scale outdoor           154.114            A/R
recreation uses
Lumber and building material  154.103            GB and I
dealers
Mini-warehouses               154.131            GB (permitted use in I)
Motor vehicle repair and      154.123            GB
service facilities
Motor vehicle washing         154.121            GB
Motorized vehicle race tracks 154.101            I
New auto and truck sales and  154.124            GB
showrooms
Nursery school, day nursery   154.117            MHR, RM, O and GB
and childcare center
Open-air display and sales of
mobile homes, motorcycles and 154.126            GB
the like
Orphanage, foster home, home
for aged, indigent,           154.118            RM
physically or mentally
disabled
Outdoor theaters              154.100            GB and I
Private recreational areas    154.113            R-1A, R-1B, R-1C and R-2
                                                 (permitted use in A/R)
Public or commercial stable,  154.115            A/R
kennel and veterinary clinic
Quarries                      154.104            A/R and I
Short term rental of          154.135            R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, R-2, A/R
residential property
Telephone exchange and static
transformer stations, gas     154.106            All districts
regulator stations and other
utility provider buildings
Used auto and truck sales     154.125            GB
Wind energy conversion        154.132            All districts
systems (windmills)
 
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 4-17-2017)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.145 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Office of the Zoning Administrator shall be conducted in a manner
consistent with the Zoning Administrator Ordinance, as adopted by the Township
Board.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 5-18-2009)
§ 154.146 ZONING COMPLIANCE PERMITS.
   Hereafter, no land use shall be commenced or changed (to a use of a
different class or type, or when such change additional zoning requirements,
including but not limited to parking, buffering, landscaping, etc.) and no
structure shall be erected or enlarged, nor any building permit issued unless
and until the Zoning Administrator has determined that the same is in full
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.147 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued under the Building Code of
the township until all requirements of this chapter have been met. A temporary
certificate may be issued under circumstances where expressly permitted by this
chapter.
   (B)   All certificates of occupancy issued by the Building Inspector shall
also bear the signature of the Zoning Administrator certifying that all
requirements of this chapter have in fact been met and that a field inspection
has been made to ascertain same.
   (C)   In cases where certificates of occupancy are not required under the
Building Code, such as in the case of farm buildings, the Zoning Administrator
shall nevertheless issue a certificate of occupancy for zoning purposes
certifying that the structure or use has been established or erected in
compliance with the terms of the zoning compliance permit and/or approved site
plan.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.148 RESERVED.
§ 154.149 PERMIT FEES.
   Fees for inspection and the issuance of permits or certificates or copies
thereof required or issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
collected by the township in advance of issuance. The amount of the fees shall
be established by resolution of the Township Board and shall cover the cost of
inspection and supervision resulting from enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.150 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Site plan review required.
      (1)   Site plan review and approval of all development proposals (except
as otherwise provided herein) is required as set forth in division (B) below.
      (2)   The intent of this section is to provide for consultation and
cooperation between the developer and the Planning Commission so that both
parties might realize maximum utilization of land and minimum adverse effect
upon the surrounding land uses.
      (3)   Through the application of the following provisions, the attainment
of the Master Plan will be assured and the township will develop in an orderly
fashion.
      (4)   Where it is determined by the Planning Commission and Zoning
Administrator that certain requirements of this section are not necessary for
the review and understanding of the proposal, the Planning Commission may waive
the requirements.
   (B)   Site plan review required. A site plan shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for review whenever one or more of the following apply:
      (1)   Whenever a building permit is required for the erection or
structural alteration of a building, not including the following:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings;
         (b)   Two-family dwellings;
         (c)   Farm buildings; and
         (d)   Accessory structures to the above uses (divisions (B)(1)(a)
through (c) above.
      (2)   For the development of a platted subdivision, site condominium or
condominium project;
      (3)   For the construction, use or establishment of a new or expanded
parking or storage area;
      (4)   For all special land uses, except as provided for herein;
      (5)   For any change in use or class of use as determined significant by
the Planning Commission. A significant change in use is considered to have
occurred whenever a change would trigger different or additional zoning
requirements, such as, but not limited to: number and or arrangement of off-
street parking spaces, loading zones, points of ingress or egress, walls,
greenbelt, buffer, screening, landscaping and the like;
      (6)   The erection of, or addition to, any major utility service
facilities, including towers, substations, pump stations and similar
facilities; and/or
      (7)   Planning Commission review may be waived and the site plan approved
by the Zoning Administrator when, in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator,
with concurrence of the Chairperson of the Planning Commission, the expansion
of use or change in use will not involve changes substantial enough to warrant
Planning Commission review. A written memorandum documenting this decision
shall be prepared by the Zoning Administrator and signed by the Zoning
Administrator and the Chairperson of the Planning Commission. The Zoning
Administrator shall not have the authority to waive Planning Commission review
for a proposed special land use or the expansion/alteration of an existing
special land use.
   (C)   Site plan review criteria. The site plan shall be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission upon finding that all the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   The proposed use will not be injurious to the surrounding
neighborhood;
      (2)   There is a proper relationship between thoroughfares and proposed
service drives, driveways and parking areas;
      (3)   The location of buildings, outside storage receptacles, parking
areas, screen walls and utility areas is such that the adverse effects of those
uses will be minimized for the occupants of that use and the occupants of
surrounding areas;
      (4)   It provides for proper development of roads, easements and public
utilities and protects the general health, safety, welfare and character of the
township;
      (5)   It meets township requirements and standards for grading and
surface drainage and for the design and construction of storm sewers, storm
water holding facilities, water mains, sanitary sewers and driveway approaches;
      (6)   All buildings or groups of buildings shall be so arranged as to
permit emergency vehicle access by some practical means to all sides;
      (7)   Natural resources are preserved by developing in a manner that will
not detrimentally affect or destroy natural features such as lakes, ponds,
streams, wetlands, steep slopes and woodlands;
      (8)   Sites which include storage of hazardous materials or waste, fuels,
salt or chemicals will be designed to prevent spills and discharges of
polluting materials to the surface of the ground, groundwater or nearby water
bodies;
      (9)   The location of buildings, parking, drives, landscaping and other
improvements on the site is appropriate for the lot size and configuration;
      (10)   Landscaping, including trees, shrubs, and other vegetative
material, is provided to maintain and improve the aesthetic quality of the site
and the area; and
      (11)   The proposed use is in compliance with all township ordinances and
any other applicable laws.
   (D)   Information required on site plan.
      (1)   Plans submitted for site plan approval shall contain all of the
following data prior to approval of the plans by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Final construction plans must be submitted to the Building
Department and the construction plans must be reviewed and approved prior to
obtaining a building permit.
      (3)   Site plans shall consist of an overall plan for the entire
development.
      (4)   Sheet size shall be at least 24 inches by 36 inches with plan view
drawn to a minimum scale of one inch equals 20 feet if the subject property is
less than three acres and one inch equals 50 feet if three acres or more.
      (5)   Included on the site plan will be all dimensions, and the
following.
         (a)   General information.
            1.   Proprietor’s name, address and telephone number;
            2.   Date (month, day, year), including revisions;
            3.   Title block;
            4.   Scale;
            5.   North point;
            6.   Location map drawn at a scale of one inch equals 2,000 feet,
with north point indicated;
            7.   Architect, engineer, surveyor, landscape architect or
planner’s seal;
            8.   Existing lot lines, building lines, structures, parking areas
and the like, on the parcel, and within 100 feet of the site;
            9.   Proposed lot lines, property lines and all structures, parking
areas and the like, within the site, and within 100 feet of the site;
            10.   Centerline and existing and proposed right-of-way lines;
            11.   Zoning classification of petitioner’s parcel and all abutting
parcels;
            12.   Gross acreage figure; and
            13.   Proximity to major thoroughfare and/or section corners.
         (b)   Physical features.
            1.   Proposed locations of access drives, street intersections,
driveway locations, sidewalks, signs, curbing and acceleration, deceleration
and passing lanes;
            2.   Location of existing and proposed service facilities above and
below ground, including:
               a.   Storage, loading and disposal areas for chemicals,
hazardous substances, salt and fuels;
               b.   Water main, hydrants, pump houses, standpipes and building
services and sizes;
               c.   Sanitary sewers and pumping stations;
               d.   Storm water control facilities and structures including
storm sewers, swales, retention and detention basins, drainage ways and other
facilities, including calculations for sizes; and
               e.   Location of all easements.
            3.   All buildings with dimensioned floor plans, setback and yard
dimensions, and typical elevation views of proposed structures;
            4.   Dimensioned parking spaces and calculations, drives and method
of surfacing;
            5.   Exterior lighting locations and illumination patterns;
            6.   Location and description of all existing and proposed
landscaping, berms, fencing and walls;
            7.   Sidewalks and bike paths;
            8.   Trash receptacle pad location and method of screening;
            9.   Transformer pad location and method of screening;
            10.   Dedicated road or service drive locations;
            11.   Entrance details including sign locations and size;
            12.   Designation of fire lanes; and
            13.   Any other pertinent physical features.
         (c)   Natural features.
            1.   Existing topography with a maximum contour interval of two
feet indicated. Topography on the site and beyond the site for a distance of
100 feet in all directions shall be indicated;
            2.   A grading plan showing finished contours at a maximum interval
of two feet, correlated with existing contours so as to clearly indicate
required cutting, filling and grading;
            3.   Location of existing drainage courses, lakes, ponds, wetlands,
rivers and streams, including their water surface elevation, flood plain
elevation and ordinary high water mark; and
            4.   Location of other natural resource features, including
woodlands.
         (d)   Additional requirements for multiple-family, and planned unit
development projects.
            1.   Density calculations by type of unit by bedroom count;
            2.   Designation of units by type of unit in each building;
            3.   Carport locations and details where proposed;
            4.   Specific amount of recreation space and locations;
            5.   Type of recreation facilities to be provided in recreation
space; and
            6.   If proposed, details of community building and fencing of
swimming pool.
         (e)   Additional requirements for commercial and industrial
developments.
            1.   Loading/unloading areas;
            2.   Gross and usable floor area; and
            3.   Number of employees in peak usage.
   (E)   Application procedure. An application for site plan review shall be
processed in the following manner:
      (1)   All site plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator at
least 15 days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning
Commission and must contain the following to be accepted:
         (a)   A signed and complete application;
         (b)   Fifteen copies of the site plan or as otherwise specified by the
Zoning Administrator on the application form;
         (c)   All items, as required by division (D) above, shown on the site
plan; and
         (d)   Required fees as established by resolution of the Township
Board.
      (2)   Upon satisfactory completion of the requirements of divisions (E)
(1)(a) through (d) above, the Zoning Administrator shall:
         (a)   Forward a copy of the site plan and application to the
appropriate department heads and consultants for review;
         (b)   Place review of the site plan on the next Planning Commission
agenda; and
         (c)   Forward a copy of the site plan and application to each
Commission member.
   (F)   Township review. Upon receipt of the site plan from the Zoning
Administrator, the Planning Commission shall review the plan at its next
regular meeting and thereafter approve or deny the site plan within a
reasonable time.
      (1)   Upon determination of the Planning Commission that a site plan is
in compliance with the zoning ordinance and other regulations, it will be so
indicated on the site plan.
      (2)   Upon determination by the Planning Commission that a site plan is
in compliance except with minor revisions, the Planning Commission may grant
conditional approval. All revisions must be clearly delineated on copies
required to be filed with the township.
      (3)   If extensive revision to the site plan is necessary to meet the
ordinance and regulation requirements, the site plan shall be denied and the
applicant requested to prepare an alternate site plan. In this case, “Denied”
shall be written on the plan and reasons for denial indicated in the Planning
Commission’s resolution.
      (4)   When a site plan has been reviewed by the Planning Commission and
all steps completed, five copies of the application and plans will be marked
approved or denied for the following distribution:
         (a)   One copy forwarded to the Township Clerk for permanent record;
         (b)   Two copies forwarded to the Zoning Administrator;
         (c)   One copy forwarded to the Township Planner or planning
consultant; and
         (d)   One copy forwarded to the applicant.
   (G)   Effect of approval.
      (1)   When an applicant receives final site approval, he or she must
develop the site in complete conformity with the approved site plan.
      (2)   The site plan approval shall be valid for a period of one year.
      (3)   If the project is not under construction with a building permit at
the expiration of the approval time, the site plan approval becomes null and
void, requiring the developer to make a new application for approval before the
project is permitted to proceed.
      (4)   The Planning Commission may approve an extension to site plan
approval.
   (H)   Amendment to approved site plans.
      (1)   Existing or proposed developments that have had site plan review
and approval by the Planning Commission, as required herein, shall not be
changed unless the proposed revisions are minor and are reviewed and approved
by the Zoning Administrator with written concurrence of the Chairperson of the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   All major revisions to approved site plans shall be subject to
review and approval of the Planning Commission and shall be processed under the
same procedure used for new site plans.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 10-20-2008; Ord. passed 5-18-2009; Ord.
passed 7-6-2010)
§ 154.151 REQUIREMENTS FOR SINGLE-FAMILY AND TWO-FAMILY DWELLINGS AND FARM
BUILDINGS AND ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Single-family dwellings, two-family dwellings and farm buildings are
exempt from the site plan review requirements set forth in §
154.150 above.
   (B)   However, in order to ensure that lot and setback requirements are
complied with, all applications for building permits and zoning compliance
permits shall be accompanied by a plot plan, in triplicate, drawn to scale,
showing the following:
      (1)   The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lots;
      (2)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures
to be erected, altered or moved, and of any building or other structures
already on the lot;
      (3)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all the structures
upon it, including in residential areas, the number of dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate; and
      (4)   Other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be
essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
served.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.152 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   To ensure compliance with a zoning ordinance and any conditions
imposed thereunder, the Zoning Administrator may require that a cash deposit,
certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit acceptable to the township,
covering the estimated cost of required improvements associated with a project
for which site plan approval is sought, be deposited with the township to
ensure faithful completion of the improvements.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator, upon consultation with the Township
Building Inspector and engineer shall estimate the cost of the improvements.
      (2)   In determining whether or not to require a performance guaranty,
the Zoning Administrator shall consider the following:
         (a)   The size and scope of the project;
         (b)   Impact on the health, welfare and safety of the residents of the
township if the project is not completed;
         (c)   The impact on the surrounding properties, if the project is
started but not completed;
         (d)   The ability the applicant has to complete the project; and
         (e)   The credit worthiness of the applicant in the event the township
is required to bring enforcement action against the applicant.
      (3)   The performance guarantee, if required, shall be deposited at the
time of the issuance of the permit authorizing the activity or project, or
alternatively may be required by the Zoning Administrator in conjunction with a
request for a temporary occupancy permit.
      (4)   The township may not require the deposit of the performance
guarantee prior to the time when the township is prepared to issue the permit.
      (5)   The township shall establish procedures whereby a rebate of any
cash deposits in reasonable proportion to the ratio of work completed on the
required improvements will be made as work progresses.
   (B)   This section shall not be applicable to improvements for which a cash
deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or surety bond has
been deposited pursuant to Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, as amended (i.e., subdivisions).
   (C)   As used in this section, IMPROVEMENTS means those features and actions
associated with a project which are considered necessary by the body or
official granting zoning approval in order to protect natural resources, the
health, safety and welfare of the residents of the township, and future users
or inhabitants of the proposed project or project area, including roadways,
lighting, utilities, sidewalks, screening and drainage. IMPROVEMENTS does not
include the entire project that is the subject of zoning approval.
      (1)   If any portion of the required improvements is not completed or
does not meet construction standards within the allocated time period, the
Township Board or Zoning Administrator shall declare whatever security has been
pledged as forfeit. Where the Township Board or Zoning Administrator is not
already in possession of the guarantee, it shall immediately take the actions
necessary to obtain it. Upon receipt of these securities, the Township Board or
Zoning Administrator shall use them, or receipts from their sale if that be
necessary, to finance the completion of contracted improvements or the
rebuilding of the improvements to the proper specifications. Unused portions of
these securities shall be returned to the subdivider, bonding company or
crediting institution, as is appropriate.
      (2)   Upon acceptance of the final portion of improvement, the township
shall authorize the release of the remaining portion of the performance
guarantee.
      (3)   No action or inaction by the township in respect to any required
improvement shall serve to extend the time of validity of any temporary
certificate of occupancy or excuse any violation of this chapter. A temporary
certificate of occupancy may, however, be extended in time, and from time to
time, for good cause shown. Any like extension shall serve to extend for the
same period the time for completion of the required site improvements.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.153 TENTS, TEMPORARY MOBILE HOME OR CONSTRUCTION OFFICE AND PORTABLE ON-
DEMAND STORAGE DEVICES (PODS).
   (A)   Temporary mobile homes or construction offices. The Zoning
Administrator may issue a permit for the temporary placement of a mobile home
as a temporary residence, during the actual construction or reconstruction of a
permanent dwelling or for temporary placement of a mobile home or similar
structure as a temporary construction office, subject to the following
requirements.
      (1)   Any temporary structure to be used for dwelling purposes shall be
of a type and quality conforming to the “Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards”, as promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, being 24 C.F.R. § 3280, as amended, and shall bear the “federal
seal” attesting to the same.
         (a)   In addition, all dwellings shall meet or exceed all applicable
roof snow loads and strength requirements.
         (b)   No temporary dwelling shall be occupied until the dwelling has
been connected to a suitable source of potable water and sewage disposal
facilities, both of which shall be approved by the County Health Department.
         (c)   The initial permit shall not exceed 12 months and shall be
concurrent with a valid building permit for a permanent structure. Not more
than two extensions, not to exceed 24 months, may be granted where substantial
progress toward completion of the permanent structure is being demonstrated.
      (2)   A cash bond in the amount of $500 shall be deposited with the
Township Clerk to insure removal of the temporary unit upon expiration of the
temporary permit. Failure to complete construction of the permanent structure,
within the time limits specified in the building permit and this section shall
be sufficient grounds for the Township Board to declare the performance
guarantee forfeited and use the proceeds as necessary.
   (B)   Tents. The Zoning Administrator may issue a zoning compliance permit
for the placement of a tent used solely for the purpose of storage, subject to
the following.
      (1)   Tents on residentially zoned property shall be considered an
accessory structure for the purposes of this chapter and shall be governed by
the requirements of §
154.008. No tent shall be permitted on a residentially zoned property for a
period exceeding 90 days.
      (2)   Tents on commercial or industrial zoned property shall meet all
setback requirements of the district in which the property is located and shall
require site plan approval from the Planning Commission. However, tents
temporarily located on a property for a period of less than 90 days shall only
require a zoning compliance permit from the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   This section shall not apply to tents erected temporarily (less
than three days) for the purpose of holding a party or other similar
circumstance.
   (C)   Portable on-demand storage device (PODS). PODS may be permitted on any
property in the township for a period of less than 30 days unless otherwise
stated, and shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   PODS shall not be located within any required yard; and
      (2)   PODS associated with the construction of a structure on a property
may be permitted for the duration of the building permit, plus an additional 30
days past the granting of a final certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 10-20-2008)
§ 154.154 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   The Township Board may from time to time, on recommendation from the
Planning Commission or on petition, amend, supplement or change the district
boundaries or the regulations herein, or subsequently established herein
pursuant to the authority and procedure established in Public Act 110 of 2006,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.155 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience or general welfare.
   (B)   It is not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in
any way to impair or interfere with any existing provision of law or ordinance
other than the above described Zoning Ordinance, or with any rules, regulations
or permits previously adopted or issued or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to the law relating to the use of building or premises; provided,
however, that where this chapter imposed a greater restriction than is required
by existing ordinance or by rules, regulations or permits, the provisions of
this chapter shall control.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.156 VESTED RIGHT.
   Nothing in this chapter should be interpreted or construed to give rise to
any permanent vested rights in the continuation of any particular use,
district, zoning classification or any permissible activities therein; and,
they are hereby declared to be subject to subsequent amendment, change or
modification as may be necessary to the preservation or protection of public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 154.170 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   A Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) is hereby created, which shall perform
its duties and exercise its powers as provided in § 18 of Public Act 184 of
1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271 through 125.301, as amended, and in a way that
the objectives of this chapter shall be observed, public safety secured and
substantial justice done.
   (B)   The Board shall consist of the following three members:
      (1)   The first member shall be a member of the Township Planning
Commission, for the term of his or her office; and
      (2)   The remaining members shall be appointed to represent various
interests present in the township and shall be appointed by the Township Board
from among the electors residing in the unincorporated area of the township.
However, no employee or contractor of the township may serve on the Zoning
Board of Appeals or be an employee of it. An elected official of the township
may not be Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Terms shall be for three years, except for members serving because of
their membership on the Planning Commission or Township Board, whose terms
shall be limited to the time they are members of the Planning Commission or
Township Board respectively, and the period stated in the resolution appointing
them.
      (1)   When members are first appointed, the appointments may be for less
than three years to provide for staggered terms.
      (2)   A successor shall be appointed not more than one month after the
term of the preceding member has expired.
      (3)   Vacancies for unexpired terms shall be filled for the remainder of
the term.
   (D)   The Township Board may appoint not more than two alternate members for
the same term as regular members to the ZBA. An alternate member may be called
to serve as a regular member of the ZBA in the absence of a regular member if:
      (1)   The regular member is absent from or will be unable to attend two
or more consecutive meetings of the ZBA; or
      (2)   The regular member will be unable to attend meetings for a period
of more than 30 consecutive days.
   (E)   An alternate member may also be called to serve as a regular member
for the purpose of reaching a decision on a case in which the regular member
has abstained for reasons of conflict of interest.
      (1)   The Chairperson shall determine when to summon an alternate.
      (2)   The alternate member appointed shall serve in the case until a
final decision is made.
      (3)   The alternate member has the same voting rights as a regular member
of the ZBA.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.171 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the call
of the Chairperson and at other times as the ZBA may specify in its rules of
procedure.
   (B)   All hearings conducted by the ZBA shall be open to the public.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt its own rules of procedure and
keep a record of its proceedings showing the vote of each member upon each
question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating the fact; and shall file
a record of its proceedings in the office of the Township Clerk, and shall be
public record.
   (D)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision or
determination of the Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission, to decide
in favor of an applicant any matter upon which they are required to pass under
this chapter or to effect any variation in this chapter.
   (E)   The ZBA shall have the power to subpoena and require the attendance of
witnesses, administer oaths, compel testimony and the production of books,
papers, files and other evidence pertinent to the matters before it.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.172 APPEAL.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the Zoning Board of Appeals by any person,
firm or corporation, or by any officer, department, board or bureau affected by
a decision of the Zoning Administrator or the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The exceptions are special land use decisions by the Planning
Commission, as provided in §
154.097(B).
   (C)   The appeal to the ZBA shall be made within such time as shall be
prescribed by the Zoning Board of Appeals by general rule, by filing with the
Zoning Administrator and with the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of appeal
specifying the grounds thereof.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall forthwith transmit to the ZBA all of
the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
   (E)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Zoning Board of
Appeals after notice of appeal has been filed with him or her that by reason of
facts stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be
stayed, otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by a court
of record.
   (F)   The ZBA shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of
the appeal and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay.
   (G)   Any person may appear and testify at the hearing, either in person or
by duly authorized agent or attorney.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.173 FEES.
   The Township Board may from time to time prescribe and amend by resolution a
reasonable schedule of fees to be charged to applicants for appeals to the
Zoning Board of Appeals. At the time the notice for appeal is filed the fee
shall be paid to the township.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.174 JURISDICTION.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have the power to alter or
change the zoning district classification of any property, nor to make any
change in the terms of this chapter, but does have power to act on those
matters where this chapter provides for an administrative review,
interpretation or exception and to authorize a variance as defined in this
section and laws of the state.
   (B)   The powers include:
      (1)   Administrative review. To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that there is an error in any order, requirement,
permit, decision or refusal made by the Zoning Administrator or any other
administrative official in carrying out or enforcing any provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   Variance.
         (a)   To authorize, upon an appeal, a variance from the strict
application of this chapter under the following conditions:
            1.   The property was characterized by exceptional narrowness,
shallowness, shape or area at the time the ordinance became effective;
            2.   The property possesses exceptional topographic conditions or
other extraordinary or exceptional conditions;
            3.   The above condition was not self-created by the applicant or
past property owner subsequent to the effective date of the ordinance;
            4.   The strict application of the ordinance would result in
peculiar or exceptional practical difficulties or exceptional hardship for the
property owner; and
            5.   The proposed variance will not substantially harm the public
good or substantially impair the intent and purposes of the ordinance.
         (b)   In granting a variance, the ZBA may attach conditions regarding
the location, character and other features of the proposed change(s) to the
property as it may deem reasonable to improve the degree to which the proposed
change(s) meet the requirements and intent of the ordinance.
         (c)   In granting a variance, the ZBA shall state in writing the
findings upon which it justifies granting a variance and any conditions it has
attached.
         (d)   The Zoning Board of Appeals does not have the authority to grant
“use” variances, except as is specifically provided for in division (B)(5)
below. The authority to designate permitted uses and special land use approvals
is a legislative function and resides exclusively with the Township Board. The
Zoning Board of Appeals may, however, interpret whether a proposed use (not
expressly designated in a given district) falls under the definition of a
stated permitted use.
      (3)   Exceptions and other appeals.
         (a)   To hear and decide in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter; requests for interpretation of the zoning map or ordinance; appeals
from the decision of the Zoning Administrator, and on any provisions of this
chapter that the Zoning Board of Appeals are required to pass.
         (b)   Also, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide on any
exceptions subject to conditions as the ZBA may require to preserve and promote
the character of the zoning district in question and otherwise promote the
purpose of this chapter, including the following:
            1.   Interpret the provisions of this chapter in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of this plan, as shown upon the zoning map
fixing the use districts, accompanying and made a part of this chapter, where
street layout actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on
the map aforesaid;
            2.   Permit the erection and use of a building or use of premises
for public utility purposes, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission;
            3.   Permit the modification of the automobile parking space or
loading space requirements where, in the particular instance, the modification
will not be inconsistent with the purposes and intent of the requirements;
            4.   Permit the modification of the height and area regulations as
may be necessary to secure an appropriate improvement of a lot that is of a
shape, or so located with relation to surrounding development or physical
characteristics, that it cannot otherwise be appropriately improved without the
modification;
            5.   Permit temporary buildings and uses for periods not to exceed
six months. Not more than two extensions of three months each may be granted
upon a showing of good cause. Extensions as provided for above may be
specifically granted for construction purposes. A cash deposit as designated by
the Township Board, by resolution, shall be held for a temporary building with
refund upon removal. (Also see §
154.153 for temporary exceptions under Zoning Administrator permit.); and
            6.   Permit, upon proper application, the following character of
temporary use, not otherwise permitted in any district, not to exceed six
months with the granting of six-month extensions being permissible: provided
the use does not require the erection of any capital improvement of a
structural nature, including a mobile home. A cash deposit as designated by the
Township Board, by resolution, shall be held for a temporary use placement with
refund upon removal.
         (c)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, in granting permits for the above
temporary uses, shall do so under the following conditions:
            1.   The granting of the temporary use shall in no way constitute a
change in the basic uses permitted in the district not on the property wherein
the temporary use is permitted;
            2.   The granting of a temporary use shall be granted in writing,
stipulating all conditions as to time, nature of development permitted and
arrangements for removing the use at the termination of the temporary permit;
            3.   All setbacks, land coverage, off-street parking, lighting and
other requirement to be considered in protecting the public health, safety,
peace, morals, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of
the township shall be made at the discretion of the Zoning Board of Appeals;
            4.   In classifying the uses as not requiring capital improvement,
the Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine that they are either de-mountable
structures related to the permitted use of the land, or structures which do not
require foundations, heating systems or sanitary connections; and
            5.   The use shall be in harmony with the general character of the
district.
      (4)   Light, air, congestion, danger and the like. Before making any
variance from the zoning ordinance in a specific case, the ZBA shall first
determine that the proposed variation will not impair an adequate supply of
light and air to adjacent property, or unreasonably increase the congestion in
public streets, or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety,
or unreasonably diminish or impair established property values within the
surrounding area, or in any other respect impair the public safety, health,
comfort, morals or welfare of the inhabitants of the township.
      (5)   Limitation of jurisdiction. Nothing herein contained shall be
construed to give or grant to the ZBA the power or authority to alter or change
this chapter or the zoning map, the power and authority being reserved to the
Township Board of Trustees, in the manner provided by law.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.175 ORDERS.
   In exercising the above powers, the ZBA may reverse or affirm wholly or
partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or determination
appealed from and may make the order, requirement, decision or determination as
ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of the Zoning
Administrator from whom the appeal is taken.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.176 NOTICE.
   (A)   The ZBA shall make no recommendation except in a specific case and
after a public hearing conducted by the ZBA.
   (B)   It shall by general rule or in specific cases, determine the
interested parties who, in the opinion of the ZBA, may be affected by any
matter brought before it, which shall in all cases include all owners of record
of property within 300 feet of the premises in question, the notices to be
delivered personally or by mail addressed to the respective owners at the
address given in the last assessment roll shall be given 15 days prior to the
hearing.
   (C)   The ZBA may require any party applying to the ZBA for relief to give
the notice to other interested parties, as it shall prescribe.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 7-6-2010)
§ 154.177 LAPSE OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   No order of the ZBA permitting the erection of a building shall be
valid for a period longer than one year, unless a building permit for the
erection or alteration is obtained within that period and the erection or
alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms
of the permit.
   (B)   No order of the ZBA permitting a use of a building or premises shall
be valid for a period longer than one year unless the use is established within
that period, provided, however, that where the use permitted is dependent upon
the erection or alteration of a building, the order shall continue in force and
effect if a building permit for the erection or alteration is obtained within
that period and the erection or alteration is started and proceeds to
completion in accordance with the terms of the permit.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.178 APPEAL TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   (A)   Decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be final. However, a
person having an interest affected by a decision of the ZBA may appeal to
Circuit Court. Upon appeal, the Circuit Court shall review the record and
decision of the ZBA to ensure that the decision:
      (1)   Complies with the constitution and laws of the state;
      (2)   Is based upon proper procedure;
      (3)   Is supported by competent material and substantial evidence on the
record; and
      (4)   Represents the reasonable exercise of discretion granted by law to
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   If the court finds the record of the Zoning Board of Appeals
inadequate to make the review required by this section, or that there is
additional evidence which is material and with good reason was not presented to
the Zoning Board of Appeals, the court shall order further proceedings before
the Zoning Board of Appeals on conditions which the court considers proper.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may modify its findings and decision as
a result of the new proceedings, or may affirm its original decision.
      (2)   The supplementary record and decision shall be filed with the
court.
   (C)   As a result of the review required by this section, the court may
affirm, reverse or modify the decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006)
§ 154.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The words MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION mean an act or omission that is
prohibited by ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under this
chapter, and for which civil sanctions, including, without limitation, fines,
damages, expenses and costs, may be ordered, as authorized by Chapter 87 of
Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction is not a lesser-included offense of a
violation of this chapter that is a criminal offense.
      (1)   Penalties and sanctions. A person who violates any provision of
this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to
payment of a civil fine of not less than $50 or more than $100, plus costs and
other sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses shall be subject to
increased fines as provided herein.
      (2)   General penalties and sanctions for violations of the township
zoning ordinance: continuing violations injunctive relief.
         (a)   Except as otherwise set forth, a violation of this chapter of
the township is specifically designated as a municipal civil infraction.
         (b)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil
infraction shall be a civil fine in the amount provided by this chapter, plus
any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions, as authorized under Chapter
87 of Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended,
and other applicable laws.
            1.   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular
municipal civil infraction violation by this chapter, the civil fine for a
violation shall be not less than $50, plus costs and other sanctions, for each
infraction.
            2.   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations
by a person of any requirement or provision of this chapter.
               a.   As used in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or
any subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provision: committed by a person within any six-month period (unless some other
period is specifically provided by this chapter); and for which the person
admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
               b.   Unless otherwise specifically provided by this chapter for
a particular municipal civil infraction violation, the increased fine for a
repeat offense shall be as follows:
                  i.   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense
shall be no less than $100, plus costs; and
                  ii.   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat
offense or any subsequent repeat offense shall be no more than $200, plus
costs.
            3.   A VIOLATION includes any act that is prohibited or made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense by this chapter, and any omission or
failure to act where the act is required by this chapter.
            4.   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues
constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions
as a separate offense.
            5.   In addition to any remedies available at law, the township may
bring an action for an injunction or other process against a person to
restrain, prevent or abate any violation of this chapter.
         (c)   In addition to the rights and remedies herein provided to the
township, any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter listed
below shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall
be fined in an amount not exceeding $500, or be imprisoned in the county jail
for a period not exceeding 90 days, or be both so fined and imprisoned. Each
day the violation is continued or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such hereunder.
            1.   Unlawful use of a property in its district following
notification from the Township that the use is not permitted. Sections
154.004,
154.005 and
154.006.
            2.   Continuance of work on a project that has been cited or “red-
tagged” for zoning ordinance violations. Sections
154.004,
154.005 and
154.006.
            3.   After receiving written notice, the intentional or material
deviation from a Planning Commission approved site plan, or failure to comply
with the amendment procedures outlined in §
154.150(H).
      (3)   Public nuisance per se. Any building or structure that is erected,
altered or converted, or any use of premises or land which is begun or changed
subsequent to the time of passage of this chapter and in violation of any of
the provisions thereof is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se, and
may be abated by order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
      (4)   Fines. The owner of any buildings, structure or premises or part
thereof, where any condition in violation of this chapter shall exist or shall
be created, and who has assisted knowingly in the commission of the violation
shall be responsible for a separate civil infraction and shall be liable for
the fines, costs and sanctions as herein provided.
      (5)   Each day a separate offense. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during or when a violation occurs or continues.
      (6)   Rights and remedies are cumulative. The rights and remedies
provided herein are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided
by law.
(Ord. passed 6-28-2006; Ord. passed 1-22-2009)
APPENDIX A: BURTCHVILLE TOWNSHIP ZONING MAP
Click_here_to_view_map_in_PDF_format (page 1)
APPENDIX B: BURTCHVILLE TOWNSHIP ZONING DETAIL
Click_here_to_view_map_in_PDF_format (page 2)
CHAPTER 155: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
155.01   Short title
   
155.02   Purposes
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Compliance standards
   
155.05   Interpretation
   
155.06   Review fees
Subdivision Procedure
   
155.15   In general
   
155.16   Pre-preliminary plat investigation
   
155.17   Preliminary plat procedure (stage 1)
   
155.18   Preliminary plat procedure (stage 2)
   
155.19   Final plat
Design Layout Standards
   
155.30   In general
   
155.31   Streets
   
155.32   Blocks
   
155.33   Lots
   
155.34   Reserve strips—private
   
155.35   Reserve strips—public
   
155.36   Public sites
   
155.37   Natural features
   
155.38   Floodplains
Improvements
   
155.50   In general
   
155.51   Streets
   
155.52   Utilities
   
155.53   Other improvements
   
155.65   Variance for hardship
   
155.66   Variance for complete neighborhood
 
   
155.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the Burtchville
Township Subdivision Regulations Ordinance.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.02 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the orderly growth and
harmonious development of the community, to secure adequate traffic circulation
through coordinated street systems with relation to major thoroughfares,
adjoining subdivisions, and public facilities; to achieve individual property
lots of maximum utility and livability; to secure adequate provisions for water
supply, drainage and sanitary sewerage, and other health requirements; and, to
provide logical procedures for the achievement of these purposes.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All terms
as defined in the Subdivision Act shall control in this chapter unless
indicated to the contrary in this section.
   BLOCK. Property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest such street and railroad
right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream; or between any of the
foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the Township of Burtchville.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Township of Burtchville.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by the public,
a corporation, or persons for specific uses and purposes, to be designated as a
“public” or “private” easement depending on the nature of the use.
   FILING DATE. For the purpose of these regulations, the filing date shall be
the initial meeting date at which the plan for preliminary plat (stage 1) ,
preliminary plat (stage 2) , tentative or final, and final plat review appears
on the Planning Commission or Township Board’s regular meeting agenda.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curb and gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, culverts,
bridges, utilities, and other additions to the natural state of land which
increases its value, utility, or habitability.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land, which is described or
fixed in a recorded plat.
   MAJOR STREETS OR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the Master Plan which sets
forth the location, alignment and dimensions of existing and proposed streets
and thoroughfares.
   MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive land use plan for the township, including
graphic and written proposals indicating the general locations recommended for
the streets, parks, schools, public buildings, zoning districts, and all
physical developments of the township, and includes any unit or part of such
plan separately adopted, and any amendments to such plan or parts thereof duly
adopted by the Planning Commission.
   PARCEL or TRACT. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the Subdivision Act.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE 1). A map indicating the proposed layout of
the subdivision in sufficient detail to provide adequate basis for review and
to meet the requirements and procedures set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE 2). A map showing the salient features of a
proposed subdivision submitted to an approving authority for purposes of
preliminary consideration prepared in conformance with the Subdivision Act.
      (3)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of the subdivision providing
substantial conformance to the preliminary plat (stage 2) of the subdivision
prepared in conformance with the requirements of the Subdivision Act and this
chapter, and suitable for recording by the County Register of Deeds.
   PROPRIETOR. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
or combination of any of them which may hold any ownership interest in land,
whether recorded or not.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct/alley,
or other way which is an existing state, county, or municipal roadway; or a
street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved,
by official action; or, a street or way on a plat duly filed and recorded in
the office of the County Register of Deeds. A STREET includes the land between
the street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavement,
shoulders, gutter, sidewalks, parking areas, and lawns.
      (1)   ALLEY. A minor service street and primarily to provide secondary
vehicular access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting upon a
street.
      (2)   BOULEVARD STREET. A street developed to two, two-lane, one-way
pavements separated by a median.
      (3)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street intended to serve as a major means of
access from minor streets to major thoroughfares which has considerable
continuity within the framework of the Major Thoroughfare Plan.
      (4)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A short minor street having one end permanently
terminated by a vehicular turn-around.
      (5)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street of great continuity which is
intended to serve as a large volume trafficway for both the immediate township
area and region beyond, and may be designated in the Township Major
Thoroughfare Plan as a major thoroughfare, parkway, expressway, or equivalent
term to identify those streets comprising the basic structure of the street
plan.
      (6)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street paralleling and adjacent to
a major thoroughfare which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (7)   MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting residential properties.
      (8)   TURN-AROUND. A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turn-around.
   SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof or by his heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of sale, or lease of
more than one year, or of building development that is not exempted from the
platting requirements of the Subdivision Act. SUBDIVISION does not include a
property transfer between two or more adjacent parcels, if the property taken
from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel; and any resulting parcel shall
not be considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to the
requirements of the township Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code).
   SUBDIVISION ACT. Means Michigan Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended,
presently known as the Land Division Act.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Burtchville.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the Township of Burtchville.
   TOWNSHIP ENGINEER or ENGINEER. The staff engineer or consulting engineer of
the township.
   TOWNSHIP PLANNER or PLANNER. The staff planner or consulting planner of the
township.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Township of Burtchville Zoning Ordinance (
Chapter 154 of this code).
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.04 COMPLIANCE STANDARDS.
   The approvals required under the provisions of this chapter shall be
obtained prior to the installation of any subdivision or project improvements
within the township, in public streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way and
public easements, and/or under the ultimate jurisdiction of the township. All
subdivision or project improvements within the township installed in public
streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way or public easements, and/or under
the ultimate jurisdiction of the township shall comply with all of the
provisions and requirements of this or any other related ordinance.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.05 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion and preservation of public health,
safety and general welfare of the township. These regulations are not intended
to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any manner interfere with existing regulations
or laws of the township, nor conflict with any statutes of the State of
Michigan or St. Clair County, except that these regulations shall prevail in
cases where these regulations impose a greater restriction than is provided by
existing statues, laws or regulations.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.06 REVIEW FEES.
   Preliminary (stages 1 and 2) and final plat review fees, planning fees,
engineering fees, attorney fees, inspection fees, water and sewer connection
charges and other applicable development charges shall be paid by the
proprietor as provided by ordinance of the township. Fees shall be reasonable
and shall be based upon the number of lots in the subdivision.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE
§ 155.15 IN GENERAL.
   The preparation, of a subdivision for platting shall be carried out through
three phases: pre-preliminary plat investigation, preliminary plat (stages 1
and 2), and final plat, all in accordance with the procedure as follows in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.16 PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Prior to the preparation and filing of a preliminary plat, the
proprietor may meet informally with the Planning Commission in order that he or
she may become familiar with the procedures and standards of the township with
reference to this chapter and with the proposals of the Master Plan as they
affect the area in which the proposed subdivision is located.
   (B)   The proprietor should concern himself or herself with the following
factors:
      (1)   The proprietor shall secure a copy of the Zoning Ordinance,
subdivision regulations, engineering specifications, and other similar
ordinances or controls relative to the subdivision and improvement of land so
as to make himself or herself aware of the requirements of the township.
      (2)   The area for the proposed subdivision shall be properly zoned for
the intended use.
      (3)   An investigation of adequacy of existing schools and the adequacy
of public open spaces including parks and playgrounds to serve the proposed
subdivision shall be made by the proprietor.
      (4)   The relationship of the proposed subdivision with respect to major
thoroughfares and plans for widening of thoroughfares shall be investigated by
the proprietor.
      (5)   Standards for sewage disposal, water supply and drainage of the
township shall be investigated by the proprietor.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.17 PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE (STAGE 1).
   The procedure under this stage for preparation and submittal of a
preliminary plat of the land area to be subdivided shall be as follows:
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat (stage 1) of the proposed
subdivision, together with written application in triplicate, shall be
submitted to the Clerk for the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Submittal to the Clerk shall be at least ten days prior to the
regular Commission meeting (which meeting shall be considered as the date of
filing) at which the proprietor will be scheduled to appear. Should any of the
data required in this section be omitted, the Clerk shall notify the proprietor
of the additional data required and Commission action shall be delayed until
the required data is received. The Commission shall act on the preliminary plat
(stage 1) within 45 days after the date of filing unless the proprietor agrees
to an extension of time in writing.
   (B)   Identification and description. The preliminary plat (stage 1) shall
include:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision.
      (2)   Location by Section, Town and Range, or by other legal description.
      (3)   Names and addresses of the proprietor, and the planner, designer,
engineer or surveyor who designed the subdivision layout. The proprietor shall
also indicate his or her interest in the land.
      (4)   Scale of plat, 1' = 100' as minimum acceptable scale.
      (5)   Date.
      (6)   Northpoint.
   (C)   Existing Conditions. The preliminary plat (stage 1) shall include:
      (1)   An over-all area map at a scale of not less than 1" = 2,000'
showing the relationship of the subdivision to its surroundings such as section
lines and/or major streets or collector streets shall be provided.
      (2)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, section or corporation lines
within or adjacent to the tract and over-all property dimensions.
      (3)   Property lines of adjacent tracts of subdivided and unsubdivided
land shown in relation to the tract being proposed for subdivision including
those of areas across abutting roads.
      (4)   Location, widths, and names of existing or prior platted streets
and private streets, and public easements within or adjacent to the tract being
proposed for subdivision, including those located across abutting roads.
      (5)   Location of existing sewers, water mains, storm drains and other
underground facilities within or adjacent to the tract being proposed for
subdivision.
      (6)   Topography drawn as contours with an interval of at least two feet.
Topography to be based on U.S.G.S. datum.
      (7)   The School Board or Board Superintendent of the School District
having jurisdiction in the area concerned shall be informed and made aware of
the proposed preliminary plat (stage 1) by the proprietor. A letter or document
from the School Board or School Board Superintendent indicating awareness of
the proprietor’s intentions shall be submitted to the Planning Commission as
part of the preliminary plat (stage 1).
   (D)   Proposed conditions. The preliminary plat (stage 1) shall include:
      (1)   Layout of streets indicating proposed street names, right-of-way
widths, and connections with adjoining platted streets and also the widths and
location of alleys, easements and pubic walkways.
      (2)   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots, including building setback
lines showing dimensions.
      (3)   Indication of parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set aside
for public use or for the use of property owners in the subdivision.
      (4)   An indication of the ownership, and existing and proposed use of
any parcels identified as “excepted” on the preliminary plat. If the proprietor
has an interest or owns any parcel so identified as “excepted,” the preliminary
plat shall indicate how this property could be developed in accordance with the
requirements of the existing zoning district in which it is located and with an
acceptable relationship to the layout of the proposed preliminary plat.
      (5)   An indication of system proposed for sewage by a method approved by
the Township Board and the Township Engineer.
      (6)   An indication of system proposed for water supply by a method
approved by the Township Board and the Township Engineer.
      (7)   An indication of storm drainage proposed by a method approved by
the Township Board and the Township Engineer and, if involving county drains,
the proposed drainage shall be acceptable to the County Drain Commissioner.
Storm drainage must be provided to an approved outlet.
      (8)   In the case where the proprietor wishes to subdivide a given area,
but wishes to begin with only a portion of the total area, the preliminary plat
shall include the proposed general layout for the entire area. The part which
is proposed to be subdivided first shall be clearly superimposed upon the over-
all plan in order to illustrate clearly the method of development which the
proprietor intends to follow. Each subsequent shall follow the same procedure
until the entire area controlled by the proprietor is subdivided.
   (E)   Preliminary plat (stage 1) review by Planning; Commission.
      (1)   The Clerk shall receive and check for completeness the preliminary
plat (stage 1) as required under this subchapter. If compete and basically in
conformance with applicable municipal requirements, the Clerk shall place the
proposal on the agenda of the next regular Commission meeting.
      (2)   The Clerk shall transmit a copy of the preliminary plat (stage 1)
to the Township Engineer and the Township Planner for their technical review
and recommendation to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Commission shall review all details of the proposed subdivision
within the framework of the Zoning Ordinance, within the various elements of
the Master Plan and within the standards of this chapter.
      (4)   The Commission shall approve conditionally, disapprove, or approve
the preliminary plat (stage 1).
         (a)   Should the approval be a conditional approval and therefore
tentative, the preliminary plat (stage 1) shall not be forwarded to the
Township Board until said conditions have been satisfied by the proprietor.
         (b)   Should the Commission disapprove the preliminary plat, it shall
record the reasons in the minutes of the regular meeting. A copy of the minutes
shall be sent to the proprietor and the School Board or School Superintendent
of the school district having jurisdiction in the area concerned.
         (c)   Should the Commission find that all conditions have been
satisfactorily met, it may give approval to the preliminary plat. The Chairman
shall make a notation to that effect on each copy of the preliminary plat and
distribute copies of same as follows:
            1.   Return one copy to the proprietor.
            2.   Retain one copy which shall become a matter of permanent
record in the Commission files.
            3.   Forward one copy to the School Board of School Superintendent
of the School District having jurisdiction in the area concerned.
            4.   Forward the remaining four copies to the Township Board via
the Clerk’s office for informational purposes.
      (5)   The approval of the Planning Commission shall be effective for a
period of twelve months. Should the preliminary plat (stage 2) in whole or in
part not be submitted within this time limit, a preliminary plat (stage 1) must
again be submitted to the Commission for approval.
      (6)   No installation or construction of any improvements shall be made
on the basis of preliminary plat (stage 1) approval.
   (F)   If the Planning Commission approves the preliminary plat (stage 1),
and if the preliminary plat (stage 1) has been prepared in such a manner as to
satisfy all the requirements of a preliminary plat as specified by the
Subdivision Act, the Planning Commission may, at its discretion, forward said
preliminary plat (stage 1) to the Township Board, along with a recommendation
for tentative approval as a preliminary plat (stage 2).
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.18 PRELIMINARY PLAT PROCEDURE (STAGE 2).
   The procedure for the preparation and review of a preliminary plat (stage 2)
requires tentative and final approval as follows:
   (A)   Preliminary plat (stage 2)—tentative approval.
      (1)   Filing.
         (a)   Ten copies of a valid and complete preliminary plat (stage 2) of
the proposed subdivision, together with written application in triplicate and
any other information required to be submitted under the Subdivision Act shall
be filed with the Clerk.
         (b)   The preliminary plat (stage 2) shall conform substantially to
the preliminary plat (stage 1) as approved, and it may constitute only that
portion of the approved preliminary plat (stage 1) which the proprietor
proposed to record and develop at the time; provided, however, that such
portion conforms to this chapter.
         (c)   The Clerk shall check the proposed plat for completeness. Should
any of the data required in the Subdivision Act, or this subchapter be omitted,
the Clerk shall be directed to inform the proprietor of the data required, and
that the application will be delayed until the required data is received.
         (d)   The Clerk shall transmit a copy of the valid and complete
preliminary plat (stage 2) to the Township Engineer and Township Planner for
their technical review and recommendations.
      (2)   Planning Commission review—tentative approval.
         (a)   The Clerk shall place the preliminary plat (stage 2) on the next
regular Planning Commission agenda, at which meeting the proprietor will be
scheduled to appear. The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plat
(stage 2) within 30 days after the date of filing unless the proprietor agrees
to an extension, in writing, of the time required for approval by the Township
Board and Planning Commission.
         (b)   The preliminary plat (stage 2) documents shall be reviewed by
the Township Engineer as to compliance with the approved preliminary plat
(stage 1) and plans for utilities and other improvements.
         (c)   The Township Engineer shall notify the Commission of his or her
recommendation for either approval or rejection of the preliminary plat (stage
2).
         (d)   The preliminary plat (stage 2) documents shall be reviewed by
the Commission as to compliance with the approved preliminary plat (stage 1).
         (e)   Should the Commission find that the preliminary plat (stage 2)
is in close agreement with the preliminary plat (stage 1), it shall approve
same and notify the Township Board of this action in its official minutes and
forward the same, together with all accompanying data, to the Township Board
for their review.
         (f)   Should the Commission find that the preliminary plat (stage 2)
does not conform substantially to the previously approved preliminary plat
(stage 1) and that it is not acceptable, they shall record the reason in their
official minutes and forward same together with all accompanying data to the
Township Board and recommend that the Township Board disapprove the preliminary
plat (stage 2) until the objections causing disapproval have been changed to
meet with the approval of the Commission.
      (3)   Township Board—tentative approval.
         (a)   The Township Board will not review a preliminary plat (stage 2)
until it has received the review and recommendations of the Commission.
Following the receipt of such recommendations, the Township Board shall
consider the preliminary plat (stage 2) at such meeting that the matter is
placed on the regularly scheduled agenda. The Township Board shall take action
on the preliminary plat (stage 2) within 15 days of the filing date of the
plat.
         (b)   Should the Township Board tentatively approve the preliminary
plat (stage 2), they shall record their approval on the plat and return one
copy to the proprietor.
         (c)   Tentative, approval shall not constitute final approval of the
preliminary plat (stage 2).
         (d)   Tentative approval of the Township Board shall be effective for
a period of 12 months. Should the preliminary plat (stage 2) in whole or in
part not be submitted for final approval within this time limit, the
preliminary plat (stage 1) must again be submitted to the Commission for
approval unless an extension is applied for by the proprietor, and such request
is granted in writing by the Township Board.
   (B)   Preliminary plat (stage 2)—review by Township Board—final approval.
      (1)   The proprietor shall file a valid preliminary plat (stage 2) with
the Clerk together with a certified list of all authorities required for
approval in sections 112 to 119 of the Subdivision Act. The proprietor shall
also provide approved copies of plats from each of the required authorities.
      (2)   The Township Board shall take action on the preliminary plat within
15 days of the filing date.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat (stage 2) conforms substantially to the
plan tentatively approved by the Township Board and meets all conditions laid
down for tentative approval, the Township Board shall give final approval to
the preliminary plat (stage 2).
      (4)   The Clerk shall promptly notify the proprietor of approval or
rejection in writing, if rejected, reasons shall be given.
      (5)   Final approval shall be effective for a period of two years from
the date of final approval. The two-year period may be extended if applied for
by the proprietor and granted by the Township Board in writing.
      (6)   No installation or construction of any improvements shall be made
before the preliminary plat (stage 2) has received final approval of the
Township Board, engineering plans have been approved by the Township Engineer,
and any deposits required under §§
155.50 through
155.53 have been received by the township. Where improvements which are to be
owned and/or maintained by the township, such as sewer and water supply
facilities, are to be installed prior to recording of the final plat,
acceptable easements running to the township must be filed with the Clerk
covering all proposed street rights-of-way and other places in which such
installations are located.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.19 FINAL PLAT.
   The procedure for preparation are review of a final plat shall be a follows:
   (A)   Preparation.
      (1)   The final plat shall comply with the provisions of the Subdivision
Act.
      (2)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat
(stage 2) as approved and it may constitute only that portion of the approved
preliminary plat which the proprietor proposed to record and develop at the
time, provide, however, that such portion conforms to this chapter.
      (3)   The proprietor shall submit as evidence of title, an abstract of
title certified to date with the written opinion of an attorney at law thereon,
or at the option of the proprietor, a policy of title insurance for examination
in order to ascertain as to whether or not the proper parties have signed the
plat.
   (B)   Final plat review.
      (1)   Five true mylar copies and three paper prints of the final plat
shall filed by the proprietor with the Clerk.
      (2)   The final plat shall be reviewed by the Township Engineer as to
compliance with the approved preliminary plat and plans for utilities and other
improvements.
      (3)   The Township Engineer shall notify the Township Board of his or her
recommendation for either approval or rejection of the final plat.
      (4)   The Township Board shall review all recommendations and take action
on the final plat within 20 days of its date of filing.
      (5)   Upon the approval of the final plat by the Township Board, the
subsequent approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the Subdivision
Act. The three prints of the final plat shall be forwarded; one to the Clerk,
one to the Planning Commission, and one to the Building Inspector. The five
true mylar copies shall be forwarded to the Clerk of the County Plat Board.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
DESIGN LAYOUT STANDARDS
§ 155.30 IN GENERAL.
   The subdivision design layout standards set forth under this subchapter are
development guides for the assistance of the proprietor. All final plans must
be reviewed and approved by the Township Board and shall conform to the adopted
standards of the St. Clair County Road Commission manual “Procedures and
Specifications for Plat Street Development,” dated January 17, 1995, as
amended.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.31 STREETS.
   Streets shall conform to at least all minimum requirements of the general
specifications and typical cross-sections as set forth in this subchapter, and
other conditions set forth by the Township Board and St. Clair County Road
Commission.
   (A)   Location and arrangement.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the various elements of
the Master Plan and shall be considered in relation to the existing and planned
major thoroughfares and collector streets, and such part shall be platted in
the location and width indicated on such plan.
      (2)   The street layout shall provide for continuation of collector
streets in the adjoining subdivisions or of the proper projection of streets
when adjoining property is not subdivided; or conform to a plan for a
neighborhood unit drawn up and adopted by the Commission.
      (3)   The street layout shall include minor streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
      (4)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain an existing or
proposed major thoroughfare, the Commission may require marginal access
streets, reverse frontage, or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards.
      (5)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain a railroad,
expressway, or other limited access highway right-of-way, the Commission may
require the location of a street approximately parallel to and on each side of
such right-of-way at a distance suitable for the development of an appropriate
use of the intervening land such as for parks in residential districts. Such
distances shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance
required for approach grades to future grade separation.
      (6)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where absolutely essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Commission finds it will be
practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the adjoining
property is developed. Wherever there exists adjacent to the tract to be
subdivided a dedicated or platted and recorded half street, the other half
shall be platted.
      (7)   Should a proposed subdivision border upon or contain an existing or
proposed canal, channel or drainage-way, the Commission may require the
location of a bridge facility suitable to permit the unimpeded flow of water
and the passage of water-borne vehicles.
   (B)   Right-of-way widths. Street right-of-way widths shall conform to at
least the following minimum requirements:
 STREET TYPE RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS
     STREET TYPE                          RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTHS
                                          In conformance with the Major
(1)  Major thoroughfares                  Thoroughfare Plan of the township
                                          and/or St. Clair County, whichever is
                                          greater
(2)  Collector streets                    86 feet
(3)  Industrial service streets           86 feet
(4)  Multiple-family residential streets  66 feet
     where platted
(5)  Minor (single-family residential)    66 feet
     streets
(6)  Minor (mobile home park residential) In conformance with Mobile Home
     streets                              Commission requirements
(7)  Marginal access streets              34 feet
(8)  Turn-around (loop) streets           150 feet
(9)  Alleys                               20 feet
(10) Cul-de-sac streets—turn-arounds    66-foot street and 150-foot exterior
                                          diameter turn-around
     Minimum length for cul-de-sac streets shall be 140 feet. Maximum length
     for cul-de-sac streets shall not exceed 800 feet in length measured from
(11) the centerline intersection of the streets to the centerpoint of the cul-
     de-sac circle. Special consideration may be given by the Commission for
     shorter or longer cul-de-sacs for topographic conditions, non-residential
     uses, or other unusual situations.
     Access to streets across all ditches shall be provided by the proprietor
(12) with the St. Clair County Road Commissions specifications and procedures
     for Driveway Installation.
 
   (C)   Street grades. For adequate drainage, the minimum street grade shall
meet the applicable requirements of the St. Clair County Road Commission. The
maximum street grade shall be 5%.
   (D)   Street geometries. Maximum and minimum street grades, vertical and
horizontal street curves and sight distances shall conform to the standards of
the St. Clair County Road Commission.
   (E)   Street intersections. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible to 90 degrees. Curved streets, intersecting with major
thoroughfares and collector thoroughfares shall do so with a tangent section of
centerline 50 feet in length, measured from the right-of-way line of the major
or collector thoroughfare.
   (F)   Grading and centerline gradients. Per plans and profiles approved by
the St. Clair County Road Commission.
   (G)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet
shall be avoided.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.32 BLOCKS.
   Blocks within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Sizes.
      (1)   Maximum length for blocks shall not exceed 1,320 feet in length,
except where, in the opinion of the Commission, conditions may justify a
greater distance.
      (2)   Widths of blocks shall be determined by the condition of the layout
and shall be suited to the intended layout.
   (B)   Public walkways.
      (1)   Location of public walkways or crosswalks may be required by the
Commission to obtain satisfactory pedestrian access to public or private
facilities such as, but; not limited to, schools and parks.
      (2)   Widths of public walkway shall be at least 12 feet and shall be in
the nature of an easement for this purpose.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided along the rear
or side lot lines as necessary for utility lines. Easements shall give access
to every lot, park or public grounds. Such easements shall be a total of not
less than 12 feet wide, six feet from each parcel.
      (2)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone, television,
natural gas, and electric company easements should be sought from all of the
utility companies serving the area. It shall be the responsibility of the
proprietor to submit copies of the preliminary plat to all appropriate public
utility agencies.
      (3)   Easements six feet in width, three feet from each parcel, shall be
provided where needed along side lot lines so as to provide for street light
dropouts. Prior to the approval of the final plat for a proposed subdivision, a
statement shall be obtained from the appropriate public utility indicating that
easements have been provided along specific lots. A notation shall be made on
the final plat indicating: “The side lot lines between lots (indicating lot
numbers) are subject to street light dropout rights granted to the (name of
utility company).”
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.33 LOTS.
   Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Sizes and shapes.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth and shape in any subdivision proposed
for residential uses shall be appropriate for the location and type of
development contemplated.
      (2)   Lot areas and width and building setback lines shall conform to at
least the minimum requirements of
Chapter 154 for the district in which the subdivision is proposed. In addition,
where connection to a public water and public sewer system is not available or
not accessible, in no instance shall a lot have less than 65 feet of width
(measured as set forth in the Subdivision Act), nor less than 12,000 square
feet of area.
      (3)   Corner lots in residential subdivisions shall be platted at least
20 feet wider than the minimum width permitted by
Chapter 154. In instances where the minimum required lot width is greater than
100 feet, this requirement shall not apply.
      (4)   Excessive lot depth in relation to width shall be avoided. A depth-
to-width ratio of 3 to 1 shall be considered a maximum.
      (5)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate provision for
off-street parking, setbacks, and other requirements in accordance with
Chapter 154.
   (B)   Arrangement.
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut on a street for not less than the
minimum required width of the lot as provided in
Chapter 154.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the street
lines.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thoroughfares or collector streets,
where marginal access streets are not desirable or possible to attain, shal1 be
platted with reverse frontage lots, or with side lot lines parallel to the
major traffic streets.
      (4)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible.
      (5)   Where lots border upon bodies of water, the front yard may be
designated as the waterfront side of such lot provided the lot has sufficient
depth to provide adequate setback on the street side to maintain a setback for
all structures equal to the front setback on the street side as well as on the
waterfront side.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.34 RESERVE STRIPS—PRIVATE.
   Privately-held reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.35 RESERVE STRIPS—PUBLIC.
   A one-foot reserve may be required to be placed at the end of a stub of
dead-end streets which terminate at subdivision boundaries and between half-
streets. These reserves shall be deeded in fee simple to the township for
future street purpose.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.36 PUBLIC SITES.
   Where a proposed park, playground, school, recreational area, public access
to water frontage or other public use, shown on the Master Plan (or delineated
or specified by official action of the Planning Commission), is located in
whole or in part within a subdivision, the Township Board may request, but not
require, that a suitable area for this purpose be dedicated to the public or
reserved for public purchase. If within two years of plat recording, the
purchase is not agreed on, the reservation may be cancelled or shall
automatically cease to exist.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.37 NATURAL FEATURES.
   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved wherever
possible. Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large
trees, natural groves, wetlands, water courses and similar community assets
that will add attractiveness and value to the property, if preserved. The
preservation of drainage and natural stream channels must be considered by the
proprietor and the dedication and provision of adequate barriers, where
appropriate, shall be required.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.38 FLOODPLAINS.
   Any area of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either wholly or
in part within the floodplain of a river, stream, creek or lake, or any other
areas which are subject to flooding or inundation by stormwater shall require
specific compliance with the Subdivision Act and its review by the state
department having jurisdiction over floodplains.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 155.50 IN GENERAL.
   (A)   The improvements set forth under this subchapter are to be considered
as the minimum acceptable standard. All those improvements for which standards
are not specifically set forth shall have the standards set by ordinance or
published rules of the Township Board. All improvements must meet the approval
of the Township Board.
   (B)   Prior to the undertaking of any improvements, the proprietor shall
deposit with the Clerk cash, a certified check or irrevocable bank letter of
credit running to the township, whichever the proprietor selects, to insure the
faithful completion of all improvements within the time specified. The amount
of the deposit shall be set by the Township Board based on an estimate by the
Township Engineer. Completed construction of all improvements shall be approved
by the township before the final plat is approved. The Township Board shall
release funds for the payment of work as it is completed and approved by the
township.
   (C)   Prior to the acceptance by the township of improvements, a two year
cash maintenance bond in an amount set by the Township Board shall be posted by
the proprietor.
   (D)   Improvements shall be provided by the proprietor in accordance with
the standards and requirements established in this subchapter and/or any other
such standards and requirements which may from time to time be established by
ordinance or published rules of the township.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.51 STREETS.
   All streets and appurtenances thereto shall be constructed in accordance
with details and specifications approved by the St. Clair County Road
Commission.
   (A)   Curbs and gutters. Curbs and gutters, when provided, shall be
constructed in accordance with standards and specifications adopted by the
County Road Commission. All landscaped islands on cul-de-sac streets shall be
provided with concrete curbing.
   (B)   Driveways. All driveway openings onto streets shall be as specified by
the County Road Commission or the State Department of Transportation as
applicable.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.52 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Requirements for underground wiring. The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all lines for telephone, electric, television and other
similar services distributed by wire or cable to be placed underground entirely
throughout a subdivided area, except for major thoroughfare right-of-way, and
such conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements provided to
such service companies by the developer or within dedicated public ways. All
such facilities placed in dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to
conflict with other underground utilities. All such facilities shall be
constructed in accordance with standards of construction approved by the
Michigan Public Service Commission. All drainage and underground utility
installations which traverse privately owned property shall be protected by
easements granted by the proprietor.
   (B)   Sewage disposal. When a proposed subdivision is located within,
adjacent to or reasonably near the service area of an available public sanitary
sewer system, sanitary sewers and other required appurtenances thereto shall be
installed, in accordance with township standards, by the subdivider in such
manner as to serve all lots. Easements running to the township for maintenance
purposes shall be provided for any portion of the sewer system not otherwise
located on public property. The system provided shall be turned, over to the
township for operation and maintenance. Where septic tank systems are employed,
they must meet the standards of the St. Clair County Health Department.
   (C)   Water supply. When a proposed subdivision is located within, adjacent
to or reasonably near the service area of a public water supply system, water
mains, fire hydrants and required water system appurtenances shall be
installed, in accordance with, township standards, by the subdivider in such a
manner as to adequately serve all lots shown on the subdivision plat, both for
domestic use and fire protection. Easements running to the township for
maintenance purposes shall be provided for any portion of the water system not
otherwise located on public property. The system provided shall be turned over
to the township for operation and maintenance. In the event of the non-
existence or non-availability of a public water supply system, private water
supply sources and systems shall be permitted subject to the approval of the
County Health Department.
   (D)   Storm drainage system. An adequate storm drainage system including
necessary storm sewers, catch basins, retention basins, manholes, culverts,
bridges, and other appurtenances shall be required in all subdivisions and
shall be subject to the approval of the County Drain Commissioner and the
Township Engineer. The township may establish a special assessment district to
defray the cost of operating and maintaining of retention basins. Adequate
provision shall be made for proper drainage of stormwater runoff from
residential rear yards. Each yard shall be self contained and shall be drained
from rear to front except where topography or other natural features require
otherwise.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.53 OTHER IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Sidewalks.
      (1)   Major thoroughfares. A six-foot wide concrete sidewalk located one
foot from the property line on the side or sides of the roadway abutting the
subdivision shall be provided. Such sidewalks shall be increased to eight feed
in width (and may be constructed of asphalt) in order to safely accommodate
bicycle traffic, when such additional width is indicated on a plan for the area
as adopted or accepted by the Planning Commission or Township Board. In those
instances where no good purpose would be served by the provision of sidewalks,
the Township Board may waive this requirement.
      (2)   Collector streets. A six-foot concrete sidewalk located one foot
from the property line on each side of the roadway shall be provided. Such
sidewalks shall be increased to eight feed in width (and may be constructed of
asphalt) in order to safely accommodate bicycle traffic, when such additional
width is indicated on a plan for the area as adopted or accepted by the
Planning Commission or Township Board. In those instances where no good purpose
would be served by the provision of sidewalks, the Township may waive this
requirement.
      (3)   Minor streets. A five-foot concrete sidewalk located one foot from
the property line on each side of the roadway shall be provided. In those
instances where no good purpose would be served by the provision of sidewalks,
the township may waive this requirement.
      (4)   Marginal access streets. A five-foot concrete sidewalk located one
foot from the property line on the private property side of the roadway shall
be provided. In those instances where no good purpose would be served by the
provision of sidewalks, the Township Board may waive this requirement.
      (5)   Public walkways. The surface of the walkways shall be developed in
concrete. Planting pockets shall be provided in public walkways for tree and
shrub planting. The planting plan and surface treatment shall meet the approval
of the Commission. Fences and/or other improvements may also be required if the
Commission and/or Township Board determines they are necessary to protect the
adjacent property owners.
   (B)   Street trees. Existing trees near street rights-of-way shall be
preserved by the proprietor in so far as possible. Street trees shall be
provided at least one per lot in the street right-of-way between the sidewalk
and the curb. Street trees shall be deciduous shade trees, not less than eight
feet in height at time of planting, and shall be of a species and variety
approved by the Planning Commission. Trees which have nuisance characteristics,
which are not sufficiently hardy, or which are otherwise unsuited for the
street use are prohibited. The following trees are expressly prohibited:
      (1)   Box Elder;
      (2)   Soft Maples (Red, Silver);
      (3)   Elms;
      (4)   Poplars;
      (5)   Willows;
      (6)   Horse Chestnut (nut-bearing);
      (7)   Tree of Heaven;
      (8)   Catalpa.
   (C)   Street signs. Prior to the time of plat approval the proprietor shall
pay the St. Clair County Road Commission for the furnishing and erection of
road name signs and traffic control signs.
   (D)   Street lighting. Street lights shall be required to be installed by
the proprietor at intersections only throughout the subdivision. All street
lighting shall conform to the requirements of the township and the public
lighting utility providing such lighting.
   (E)   Monuments. Monuments shall be placed at all block corners, angle
points, points of curves in streets, and at intermediate points as shal1 be
required by the Township Engineer. The monuments shall be of such material,
size and length as may be approved by the Township Engineer.
   (F)   Greenbelts. It is desirable for the protection of residential
properties to have greenbelts or landscaped screen plantings located between a
residential development and adjacent major arterial streets and railroad
rights-of-way. Where a subdivider desires to protect his or her development in
this respect, a proposed subdivision plat shall show the location of said
greenbelts.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
VARIANCE
§ 155.65 VARIANCE FOR HARDSHIP.
   The Township Planning Commission may recommend to the Township Board a
variance from the provisions of this chapter on a finding that undue hardship
may result from strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of
this chapter or that application of such provision or requirement is
impracticable. The Planning Commission shall only recommend variances it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, as
required herein below, the Planning Commission shall take into account unusual
topography, other physical conditions, or other conditions which are not self-
inflicted, the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land
in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be granted unless the Planning
Commission finds after a public hearing:
   (A)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would clearly be impracticable or unreasonable. In such cases the subdivider
shall first state his or her reasons in writing as to the specific provision or
requirement involved and submit them to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   That the variance will not violate the provisions of the Subdivision
Act.
   (C)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the property
is situated.
   (D)   That the variance will not have the effect of nullifying the spirit
and purpose of this chapter or the Master Plan of the township.
   (E)   The Planning Commission shall include its findings and the specific
reasons therefor in its report of recommendations to the Township Board and
shall also record its reasons and actions in its minutes.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.66 VARIANCE FOR COMPLETE NEIGHBORHOOD.
   (A)   Conditions. The Township Board may authorize a variance from these
regulations in case of a plan for a complete community or neighborhood where
such development is permitted by the Zoning Ordinance and which, in the
judgment of the Township Board, and after a recommendation is received from the
Commission, provides adequate public spaces and includes provisions for
efficient circulation, light and air and other needs. In making its findings,
as required herein below, the Township Board shall take into account the nature
of the proposed use of and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number
of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable
effect of the proposed development upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. The
Township Board shall find:
      (1)   That there is adequate acreage and population in the proposed plan
so as to support at least one elementary school.
      (2)   That the standards and requirements of the Zoning Ordinance of the
township are met.
      (3)   That the Planning Commission has reviewed the plan and recommends
its approval as having met the standards and intent of the Master Plan of land
use as it relates to facility needs.
      (4)   That in granting the variance, it shall be valid only as long as
the plan for the complete neighborhood is carried out as approved. Any
departure from the plan shall immediately rescind any variance granted.
      (5)   That the Township Board shall establish a time schedule to be met
on the various aspects of the complete neighborhood plan.
   (b)   Application. Application for any such variance shall be submitted in
writing by the proprietor at the time the preliminary plat (stage 1) is filed,
stating fully and clearly all facts relied upon by the proprietor and shall be
supplemented with maps, plans, or other additional date which may aid in the
analysis of the proposed project. The plans for such development shall include
such covenants, restrictions or other legal provisions necessary to guarantee
the full achievement of the plan.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
§ 155.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation or anyone acting in behalf of a
person, persons, firm or corporation, violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$500 and the costs of prosecution or in default of the payment thereof, by
imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate violation.
   (B)   This chapter may be enforced additionally by the application to the
St. Clair County Circuit Court for appropriate relief by way of injunction or
otherwise.
(Ord. 98-02, passed 4-20-1998)
CHAPTER 156: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Private Roads
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Applicability
   
156.04   Administration
   
156.05   Fees and security
   
156.06   Definitions
   
156.07   Application
   
156.08   Administration
   
156.09   Standards and requirements
   
156.10   Appeals/variances
 
   
156.99   Penalty
PRIVATE ROADS
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Burtchville Township
Private Road Ordinance”.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the construction,
modification, maintenance and use of private roads and shared driveways, as
defined herein, and to promote and protect the public health, safety and
welfare in the township.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.03 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall apply to the creation, construction
and/or extension of private roads and to the creation of shared driveways and
to the issuance of building permits related to parcels served by a private road
or shared driveway. However, in a site condominium development, the site
condominium section of the zoning ordinance regulates any private road.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.04 ADMINISTRATION.
   The Township Board, by resolution, may designate individuals or officials
other than the Township Board and those specifically named herein to administer
and enforce this subchapter.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.05 FEES AND SECURITY.
   (A)   The applicant may be charged a reasonable fee, as may be established
from time to time by resolution of the Township Board, to cover the costs of
review of the application and administration of this subchapter.
   (B)   Applicants seeking to create, construct or extend a private road may
be required to post a performance bond, cash, an irrevocable letter of credit
or other security, as may be approved by the Township Board.
      (1)   The amount, to be determined by the township engineer or other
designated official, will be held as security for completion of the road, the
total cost of road improvements, compliance with this subchapter and
enforcement costs in the event of a violation.
      (2)   The bond will be discharged upon final approval of the private
road, payment of all fees and issuance of the certificate of completion.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.06 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A circular turn-around for vehicles at the termination of a
dead-end street.
   DRIVEWAY. A driveway provides access to a parcel or premises having the
required frontage on a public or private road.
   EXTENSION OF PRIVATE ROAD. The portion of the road on which it is possible
to drive which is added to a private road after the effective date of this
subchapter.
   OWNERS. All persons or entities who claim an interest in the property which
is being, or is intended to be, served by a private road or shared driveway and
the owners of any interest in the private road or shared driveway easement.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A privately owned and maintained road or road easement
(excluding a shared driveway) allowing access to more than one parcel or
premises complying with the requirements of this subchapter (including a
privately owned and maintained easement for ingress and egress, whether pre-
existing or not).
   SHARED DRIVEWAY. Provides access from a public or a private road to two or
three parcels or premises for single-family use.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.07 APPLICATION.
   (A)   New private road. An application for a private road permit shall be
filed with the Zoning Administrator. Accompanying the application shall be at
least 13 copies of a site plan prepared by a registered land surveyor or
registered engineer and drawn at a scale of not greater than 200 feet to the
inch. This site plan shall conform to all pertinent sections of the township
ordinance and other government agencies. The site plan shall include the
following:
      (1)   A legal description and survey of the lots or parcels;
      (2)   The names and addresses of the owners of the parcels to be served
by the private road and the consent of all owners;
      (3)   A legal description of the road easement, of related utility and
drainage easements, and of an access easement for the township to provide
services;
      (4)   The proposed name of the private road;
      (5)   Plans, profile drawings and cross-sections of the proposed private
road easements showing all materials, grades, dimensions and bearings in
compliance with the standards set forth in §
156.09(A);
      (6)   Existing topography at two-foot contour/elevation intervals, soils
and drainage characteristics of the subject site;
      (7)   Location of existing buildings and structures on the lots or
parcels being served or intended to be served by the private road, as well as
any existing building or structures in or adjacent to any proposed easement;
      (8)   The application shall also include a title search identifying all
owners, lien holders or other party claiming an interest in the private road or
premises to be served;
      (9)   Approvals of the County Road Commission or the State Department of
Transportation (MDOT) if the property is located on a state highway or other
appropriate agencies, if any, as required;
      (10)   A proposed maintenance agreement meeting the requirements of §
156.09(C); and
      (11)   Written permission of adjacent property owner(s), if required
under §
156.09(A)(12).
   (B)   Extension of an existing private road. The site plan shall include the
information called for in divisions (A)(1) through (10) above, except that:
      (1)   The site plan may be limited to the portion or portions of the
private road affected by the extension, as set forth in §
156.09(E) below;
      (2)   The requirement for the consent of owners applies to those owners
whose property is served by the portion or portions of the road included in the
application;
      (3)   The proposed maintenance agreement meeting the requirements of §
156.09(C) may be limited to the same owners whose consent is required for the
extension; and
      (4)   When only a portion or portions of the road is being made compliant
with the standards of this subchapter, the applicant shall supply a map, to
scale, of the entire road, indicating which portions are included in the
application.
   (C)   Shared driveway. An application for a shared driveway permit shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator. The accompanying site plan need not be
drawn by a registered land surveyor or engineer. However, it must show:
      (1)   A legal description and survey of the lots or parcels;
      (2)   A legal description of the driveway easement;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the owners of the lots or parcel owners
to be served;
      (4)   The location and route of the proposed driveway, with dimensions
provided, in relationship to: existing or proposed structures; related utility
and drainage easements; the public or private road with which it intersects;
neighboring driveways; and drainage courses or bodies of water within the
shared driveway easement;
      (5)   A proposed maintenance agreement meeting the requirements of §
156.09(C); and
      (6)   Approvals of the County Road Commission or the State Department of
Transportation (MDOT) if the property is located on a state highway or other
appropriate agencies, if any, as required.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.08 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Review/approval of application and site plan for private road. The
Zoning Administrator or other designated official shall review the application,
site plan and any other information filed by the applicant. If the application
and site plan appear to substantially comply with ordinance requirements, the
Zoning Administrator shall refer them to the Planning Commission for review and
approval or rejection pursuant to the Township Zoning Ordinance. After the
applicant has obtained all pertinent approvals, and the township ordinance
requirements are satisfied, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a private road
permit. The permit shall be valid for not more than 12 months from the date of
issuance. The permit may be extended for additional time as is reasonably
necessary to complete the private road in accordance with this subchapter, but
only for cause and upon application in writing to the Zoning Administrator or
other designated official for an extension. The request for an extension must
be filed with the township prior to the permit’s expiration date.
   (B)   Review and inspection of private road. The permit holder shall be
responsible for contacting the Township Zoning Administrator, or other
designated official, relative to construction and inspections. There shall be a
minimum of one inspection of sub-base and a final inspection of the completed
road and any other inspections as required by the township engineer, Building
Inspector or other designated official.
   (C)   Certificate of completion of private road. The permit holder must
submit a certificate signed by himself or herself and also by a registered
engineer acting on his or her behalf, certifying that all requirements of this
subchapter and any other applicable laws have been complied with in the
construction or modification of the private road. The legal description of the
private road, related utility and drainage easements signed by all owners and
the maintenance agreement shall be recorded by the owner(s) with the County
Register of Deeds, as to all parcels, and a recorded copy furnished to the
township prior to the issuance of a certificate of completion. When the Zoning
Administrator, building inspector or other designated official is satisfied
that the ordinance and all applicable laws appear to have been complied with,
he or she shall then recommend that the Township Board issue a certificate of
completion.
   (D)   Review/approval of application and site plan for shared driveway. The
Zoning Administrator may approve the application upon a determination that the
driveway will permit access by township emergency vehicles. The Zoning
Administrator may consult the Fire Department Chief and Planning Commission
Chair. If there are concerns, the applicant will be asked to amend the site
plan for the purpose of improving access to emergency vehicles. Inspection and
a certificate of completion are not required for a shared driveway unless
otherwise required for a driveway.
   (E)   Building permits. No building permit may be issued for a parcel served
by a private road until the certificate of completion has been issued, or
unless the provisions of §
156.05(B) have been met. No building permit for a dwelling to be served by a
shared driveway shall be issued until the applicant for the permit provides the
Zoning Administrator with proof of lawful access over the shared driveway to
the lot, parcel or building site.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.09 STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Standards of a private road. The road may meet County Road Commission
standards. Alternatively, except as provided for a pre-existing, nonconforming
private road by division (E) below, a private road must comply with the
following requirements.
      (1)   The easement of record shall be a minimum of 66 feet in width, and
shall include allowance for reasonable drainage and for access for installation
and maintenance of public utilities.
      (2)   A roadway surface of at least 20 feet shall be centered on the
easement.
      (3)   If the road is projected to serve fewer than ten single-family
units, or if lots exceed an average of 100 feet in width, the roadway may have
a depth of at least eight inches of 22a road gravel with sufficient supporting
base, based upon accepted engineering standards and practices.
      (4)   If the road is projected to serve 11 or more single-family units,
or if lots average less than 100 feet in width, the roadway shall be paved with
bituminous asphalt or concrete with sufficient supporting base, based on
accepted engineering standards and practices.
      (5)   A private road shall have a cul-de-sac at the terminus if the road
has a dead end. The surface material, base and construction shall be the same
as for the road. A cul-de-sac shall have a 75-foot radius for its right-of-way
width, at minimum, and a 56-foot radius for its roadway surface, at minimum. A
road being constructed in phases must always end in a cul-de-sac if it serves
occupied dwelling or other units. When a subsequent phase of the road is
developed, the cul-de-sac that is no longer needed shall be removed. However,
the Zoning Administrator may approve the continuance of a cul-de-sac at a
midpoint on the road based on a consideration of the topography or other
characteristics of the property that might otherwise impede service by
emergency vehicles. The approval must be in writing and added to the township’s
documentation of the road.
      (6)   Drainage by means, of ditching and/or culverts that allows run-off
of water from the road surface and allows the natural flow of water shall be
provided. Measures to provide for drainage are subject to the approval of the
township engineer or other designated official.
      (7)   Signs meeting public road sign standards shall be posted at every
entrance to a private road, stating: “Privately Maintained Road.” Private roads
shall be named by the owners, subject to the review
and approval of: the Township Planning Commission as a part of site plan
review; and the County Road Commission; or the State Department of
Transportation, if required. The owners shall be responsible for the erection
and maintenance of the street signs and all traffic signs required by any
government authority. All signs, including any temporary signs, shall be
erected as soon as reasonably possible.
      (8)   Notwithstanding the other requirements of this section, a private
road in Districts C and D, as established by the Township Zoning Ordinance as
amended, must have standards that are equal to or better than the public road
with which it intersects. If the private road intersects with two public roads,
the standards of the better road shall apply to the commercial property.
      (9)   Utilities shall be placed within the right-of-way, in the locations
set forth in § IV (B) of the Procedures and Specifications for Plat Street
Development, adopted by the County Road Commission on January 17, 1995, and as
amended.
      (10)   No bridge or culvert shall be permitted on a private road unless a
registered engineer certifies it as being capable of supporting a 30-ton fire
truck.
      (11)   Any structures spanning a drive shall maintain not less than 16
feet vertical clearance.
      (12)   A private road may not be located so as to affect the setback
requirement for an adjacent property not served by the road, without the
permission of the affected property owner. This situation occurs if a private
road is to be located along one side of a parcel, causing adjacent property to
become a corner lot, which requires a second front yard setback. Permission
from the adjacent affected property owner shall be in the form of a notarized
letter agreeing to the additional setback and road location and shall be
received by the township prior to the Planning Commission’s review of the
application.
   (B)   Standards of a shared driveway. The township sets no standards for a
shared driveway, except that:
      (1)   The driveway shall provide for an improved portion for travel being
at least 14 feet in width and 16 feet of vertical clearance and construction
practices sufficient to provide passage to emergency vehicles and fire trucks;
      (2)   House numbers for the properties served shall be visibly displayed
at the intersection of the shared driveway and the public or private road;
      (3)   The shared driveway easement shall be 33 feet wide at a minimum;
and
      (4)   The easement for the recorded shared access may be included in the
calculation for minimum lot area and the width of each parcel served.
   (C)   Recording/disclosure/maintenance agreement. Each private road or
shared driveway shall be the subject of a maintenance agreement signed by the
owners and running with the land.
      (1)   The agreement shall provide that the owners shall maintain the
private road or shared driveway in a condition equal to or better than that
required to receive a certificate of completion. A proposed draft of the
agreement must be submitted with the application for a permit, and prior to
issuance of the certificate of completion, the township shall receive a copy of
the final agreement that has been recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
      (2)   A maintenance agreement shall be signed by all owners prior to the
issuance of the certificate of completion.
      (3)   At a minimum, the maintenance agreement shall contain the
following:
         (a)   General liability, collection and lien. A method of collection,
jointly and severally, from all of the respective owners all costs arising from
or required of the private road/shared driveway and anything incidental
thereto, including a lien against each parcel or other reasonable security for
the costs. This agreement shall include a statement that the financial
obligations imposed by this subchapter are both a personal joint and several
obligation of the owners and an obligation attached to and running with the
parcels being served by the private road/shared driveway, and that these
requirements, obligations and statements are binding upon the heirs, successors
and assigns of the owners. The township has no right or obligation to recover
any enforcement costs incurred by any owner nor any special obligation to any
owner to enforce the agreement or this subchapter;
         (b)   Hold harmless. A statement holding the township harmless as to
any liability arising from or because of the private road/shared driveway and
easement area and any permit issued for the same, including damages, costs,
attorney fees and the like, and specifically including, but not limited to, the
design and maintenance of the private road or shared driveway, inspections,
standards and the maintenance agreement. This shall include an acknowledgment
that the design, construction, maintenance and the like are not the obligation
or duty of the township nor are assumed by the township, and that neither the
township nor the County Road Commission has any obligation to accept a future
dedication of the private road;
         (c)   Responsibility for repair and the like. An acknowledgment that
it is the collective responsibility of the owners to maintain the private road/
shared driveway, including all aspects thereof and appurtenances thereof and
including, but not limited to: surface grading and resurfacing at regular
intervals; snow and ice removal; repair of potholes; maintenance of road
drainage systems; reasonable cutting of weeds and grass within the easement;
and replacement or reconstruction of the roadway and all related improvements,
such as road base, road surface, culverts, catch basins, drains, traffic signs
and the maintenance of the easement area as to the installation, repair and
replacement of public utilities. The township bears no responsibility for these
actions; and
         (d)   Compliance and perpetuity. A statement obligating the owners and
their successors and assigns, to sign all documents, at any time, as may be
reasonably necessary to effectuate the agreement, including amendments or
corrections, to comply with the requirements of this subchapter.
      (4)   If only a portion of a private road is being upgraded to the
standards of this subchapter, the maintenance agreement and requirement for
owners’ signatures may apply only to that portion of the road or drive. The
content of the maintenance agreement shall in all other respects comply with
the provisions above.
      (5)   The maintenance agreement for a shared driveway shall also
acknowledge that notwithstanding any other provision of law, a parcel on a
shared driveway may not be split without upgrading the drive to the standards
of a private road, if such a split would create four parcels or more.
   (D)   Upgrading private road in a special assessment district. If a private
road, or portion thereof, is to be upgraded via the creation of a special
assessment district as provided under state law (Public Act 180 of 1986, being
M.C.L.A. § 41.721 or Public Act 139 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. § 247.391, as
amended), the completed project either shall comply with County Road Commission
standards or shall meet or exceed the requirements of division (A) above.
Except as provided in the following, the owners may not choose lesser
standards.
      (1)   Plans, which by law are prepared by the township engineer, need not
undergo site plan approval. Instead, the Zoning Administrator or other
designated official and the Planning Commission chair shall review and approve
their compliance with division (A) above.
         (a)   If the Zoning Administrator and/or Planning Commission Chair
determine that full compliance with division (A) above is not possible, the
open issues shall be referred to the Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA). The
township engineer and/or Zoning Administrator, depending on the nature of the
noncompliance items, shall recommend one or more options to achieve the highest
degree of compliance with ordinance requirements. The ZBA may request
additional information or exhibits as required for its review.
         (b)   If one of the open issues is the lack of a 66-foot-wide easement
(without which, under present standards, the owners can never seek to dedicate
their road to the county road system), the ZBA may consider and can offer a
reasonable reduction of setback standards along the road, if such will make
possible the 66-foot easement. If the ZBA makes such an offer, written
notification by first-class mail shall be made to all recorded owners. The ZBA
will set a reasonable deadline, not to exceed one year, by which the owners may
unanimously and jointly file with the County Register of Deeds and the township
amended legal descriptions of the road easement, after which deadline passes,
the offer of a reduced setback shall expire.
         (c)   The ZBA’s written ruling on the issues it has addressed shall
form the new minimum standards for the identified aspects of the road or
easement.
      (2)   The township attorney shall review and approve a draft maintenance
agreement meeting the requirements of division (C) above, if the owners do not
already have one. If, as measured by ownership of frontage on the road or
drive, a minority of owners refuses to sign the maintenance agreement, the
agreement may still go into effect provided that:
         (a)   Those who decline agree in writing to participate in the
agreement within ten years (or less if specified) or upon a transfer of
ownership, whichever comes first, and to other terms as may be required by the
remaining owners; and
         (b)   The remaining owners agree to jointly assume all the
responsibilities of the maintenance agreement in the interim.
   (E)   Pre-existing, nonconforming private roads or shared driveways.
Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subchapter, a private road or
shared driveway (and easements for ingress and egress) in existence prior to
the effective date of this subchapter may continue without conforming to the
requirements of this subchapter, except that if a private road is to be
extended, then the extended portion of the private road must conform to the
requirements of this subchapter, unless excepted upon application for a
variance under §
156.10. To do a land division on a pre-existing private road does not
constitute an extension.
   (F)   Future connectivity of private roads. To provide for better access
management to and from public roads, the Planning Commission may require a
developer of parcels to be served by a private road to provide one or more 66-
foot-wide easements for future local and collector roads (as defined by the
Comprehensive Master Plan) with connections to adjacent tracts of land if and
when they are developed.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.10 APPEALS/VARIANCES.
   Any decision or interpretation regarding the administration, standards or
requirements of this subchapter may be appealed to, or a variance from the
decision, standards or requirements may be requested of the Zoning Board of
Appeals (ZBA) upon written request of any interested party, including township
agents or officials, except that appeals must be filed within 21 days of the
final decision of the Planning Commission.
   (A)   The ZBA may grant relief as is appropriate for cause and in granting
the relief may impose reasonable conditions as a part of granting the relief.
   (B)   The ZBA may provide interpretations upon application of any interested
party, including township agents or officials.
   (C)   Variances may only be granted by the ZBA upon finding:
      (1)   There are reasonably special circumstances or conditions affecting
the property, such that the strict application of the provisions of this
subchapter would clearly be impractical or unreasonable;
      (2)   The requested variance is reasonably needed by the applicants for
the applicants’ purposes and if granted would be reasonably consistent with
generally accepted planning, engineering and development standards; and
      (3)   The applicant’s basis is not self-created or inconsistent with the
policy and planning and standards of the township, as established by its
ordinances and other applicable law, and must find:
         (a)   That granting the variance will not be unduly detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the property
is situated; and
         (b)   The variance will not have the effect of being contrary to, or
nullifying, the intention and purpose of township ordinances and the adopted
Master Plan and any other applicable law.
   (D)   In the event a variance is granted under this section, the variance
shall be reflected in the conditional private road or shared driveway permit
and certificate of completion.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
156.01 through
156.10 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by up to 90 days in jail or
$1,000 fine, or both.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 6-17-2002)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES; AGREEMENTS
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES; AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
00-7     7-1-1970    Grants franchise to Port Huron TV Cable Company
00-01    1-24-2000   Grants a limited, non-exclusive revocable electric
                     franchise to Nordic Electric, L.L.C.
00-7.1   7-17-2000   Amendment of Cable Television Ordinance
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
[Reserved]
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Reference Code Section
M.C.L.A. Reference Code Section
15.261—15.275    153.06
41.721             156.09
123.721 et seq.    51.12
123.742(2)         51.11
125.271—125.301  154.032;
                   154.170
125.539            93.03
125.1361 et seq.   154.034
                   30.02;
125.1501—125.153130.03;
                   34.01;
                   34.02
125.1771—125.179451.02;
                   51.10
125.2301 et seq.   154.058
                   154.003;
125.2301—125.2350154.034;
                   154.035
125.2311           154.034
125.3101 et seq.   154.001;
                   154.154
206.1 et seq.      51.09
206.201            90.02
247.391            156.09
286.472            154.005;
                   154.109
324.11501 et seq.  154.036
324.11503          154.003
333.7104           90.07
333.12701          90.03
333.12771          90.03
333.12901          90.03
559.101 et seq.    154.003
                   154.003;
559.101—559.272  154.031;
                   154.036
                   153.02;
                   154.003;
560.101—560.293  154.020;
                   154.036;
                   154.152
560.108            153.03
560.109            153.03
600.101 et seq.    Ch. 70, Sch. I;
                   154.999
680.8396           32.02
710.21—710.70    154.003
722.111—722.128  154.003;
                   154.116
                   
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.        Date Passed Code Section
–             - -         31.12
2014-12-15.1    12-15-2014  32.07
2016-08-15.1    8-15-2016   154.051
2020-08-17.0  8-17-2020   91.25—
                            91.31
                           
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.     Date Passed Code Section
09-02        - -         30.01
                         90.01—
80-1         - -         90.07;
                         90.99
                         51.01—
                         51.12;
96-1         - -         51.14—
                         51.17;
                         51.99
00-7         7-1-1970    TSO I
                         110.01—
82-1         4-1-1982    110.09;
                         110.99
84-1         9-18-1984   Ch. 70, Sch. I
84-2         9-18-1984   130.01;
                         130.99
84-3         8-19-1986   Ch. 70, Sch. I
84-3         8-19-1986   130.01
92-2         8-18-1992   Ch. 70, Sch. I
93-1         2-16-1993   130.02;
                         130.99
–          11-19-1996  51.09
–          11-19-1996  51.09
                         130.15—
98-06.1      - -1998     130.19;
                         130.99
98-06.3      - -1998     111.01—
                         111.07
98-1         1-19-1998   153.01—
                         153.08
                         155.01—
                         155.06;
                         155.15—
                         155.19;
                         155.30—
98-02        4-20-1998   155.38;
                         155.50—
                         155.53;
                         155.65;
                         155.66;
                         155.99
99-01        5-17-1999   50.01;
                         50.99
99-02        5-17-1999   30.02
99-03        5-17-1999   30.03
98-8         7-19-1999   33.01;
                         33.99
00-01        1-24-2000   TSO I
00-7.1       7-17-2000   TSO I
                         91.01—
02-01        5-20-2002   91.12;
                         91.99
02-02        5-20-2002   130.03;
                         130.99
                         156.01—
02-03        6-17-2002   156.10;
                         156.99
02-05        6-17-2002   153.07
                         93.01—
94-2         6-16-2003   93.06;
                         93.99
06-01        2-20-2006   52.01—
                         52.08
                         154.001—
                         154.036;
                         154.050—
                         154.063;
                         154.075—
                         154.079;
                         154.090—
–          6-28-2006   154.134;
                         154.136;
                         154.146,
                         154.147,
                         154.149—
                         154.156;
                         154.170—
                         154.178;
                         154.999
06-03        9-18-2006   31.01—
                         31.11
                         154.001;
                         154.003;
                         154.009;
                         154.025;
–          10-20-2008  154.036;
                         154.063;
                         154.132;
                         154.150;
                         154.153
–          7-6-2008    154.003
                         154.003—
                         154.006;
–          1-22-2009   154.022;
                         154.023;
                         154.031;
                         154.999
                         154.008;
–          5-18-2009   154.145;
                         154.150
10-01        4-19-2010   34.01—
                         34.03
                         154.003;
                         154.008;
                         154.017;
–          7-6-2010    154.027;
                         154.094;
                         154.134;
                         154.150;
                         154.176
                         91.03—
02-01        4-6-2012    91.07;
                         91.13;
                         91.99
06-08        4-16-2012   154.127
                         93.02;
—          4-16-2012   93.03;
                         93.05;
                         93.06
06-08        4-23-2012   154.022
                         93.02;
–          5-21-2012   93.03;
                         93.05;
                         93.06
–          6-18-2012   33.02
–          8-5-2013    51.05;
                         51.07
08-05-2013.1 8-5-2013    32.01—
                         32.09
                         154.003;
–          11-20-2017  154.135;
                         154.136
                         51.03;
–          6-10-2019   51.05;
                         51.11
–          11-15-2021  154.037
–          11-15-2021  154.038
                         51.05,
–          7-15-2024   51.06,
                         51.13
–          7-15-2024   51.15
–          7-15-2024   51.16
–          7-15-2024   51.17
–          7-15-2024   51.04,
                         51.05
–          7-15-2024   154.008
–          7-15-2024   154.135
                        
 
 
