CITY OF BURTON, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Supplement contains local legislation current through 7-19-2021
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
525 Vine Street, Ste. 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588  www.amlegal.com
 
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING CORPORATION
expresses its appreciation to
DUANE HASKINS, Mayor
STEVE HEFFNER, City Council President
THOMAS MARTINBIANCO, City Council Vice President
GREGORY FENNER, City Council Member
CHRISTINA HICKSON, City Council Member
GREG HULL, City Council Member
VAUGHN SMITH, City Council Member
CHRISTINA CONLEY, City Council Member
AMANDA N. DOYLE, City Attorney
and all other officers and employees who assisted in the preparation of these
Codified Ordinances and periodic replacement pages.
OFFICIAL CHARTER OF THE CITY OF BURTON
GENESEE COUNTY, MICHIGAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
      PREAMBLE
      
1.   NAME, BOUNDARIES AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
2.   MUNICIPAL POWERS AND LIABILITIES
      
3.   CITY OFFICERS
      
4.   CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR
      
5.   CITY LEGISLATION
      
6.   THE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
      
7.   GENERAL FINANCE
      
8.   TAXATION
      
9.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
10.   BORROWING POWER
      
11.   CONTRACTS
      
12.   ELECTIONS
      
13.   UTILITY FRANCHISES AND MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
      
14.   TRANSITION SCHEDULE
      INDEX
PREAMBLE
   We, the people of the City of Burton, Genesee County, Michigan, under the
authority of the Constitution of the State of Michigan, in order to obtain the
benefits of local home rule, to encourage more direct and efficient methods in
the transaction of our municipal affairs, and otherwise to promote our common
welfare, do ordain, establish and adopt this charter for our municipal
government.
CHAPTER 1:
NAME, BOUNDARIES AND GENERAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 1.1.  NAME.
   The city shall be a body corporate under the name “The City of Burton.”
SECTION 1.2.  BOUNDARIES.
   (a)   The following described territory, together with all territories that
may be annexed thereto, or detached therefrom, that may be made from time to
time, shall constitute the territory of the City of Burton, and shall be
subject to the municipal control thereof:
   Beginning at the Northeast corner of Section 1, T7N, R7E, thence Southerly
along the East lines of Sections 1, 12, 13, 24, 25, and 36, T7N, R7E, to the
Southeast corner of said Section 36; thence Westerly along the South lines of
Sections 36, 35, 34, 33, 32, and 31, T7N, R7E, to the Southwest corner of said
Section 31; thence Northerly along the West lines of Sections 31 and 30, T7N,
R7E, to a point on an extended line passing from a point on the East line of
Lot 1 of the recorded plat of Burton Gardens 30 feet North of the Southeast
corner of said Lot 1 through a point on the West line of said Lot 1, 44 feet
North of the Southwest corner of said Lot 1; thence Southeasterly along said
extended line to a point on the West line of said Lot 1, 44 feet North of the
Southwest corner of said Lot 1; thence Southeasterly along said extended line
to a point on the West line of said Lot 1, 44 feet North of the Southwest
corner of said Lot 1; thence continuing Southeasterly to a point on the East
line of said Lot 1, 30 feet North of the Southeast corner of said Lot 1; thence
Southerly along a line common to Outlot B and Lots 1, 2 and 3 of said Burton
Gardens to the Southwest corner of said Outlot B; thence Easterly along the
Southerly line of said Outlot B to its Southeast corner; thence Northerly along
the Easterly line of said Outlot B to its Northeast corner; thence Northerly
along the extension of said East line of Outlot B to a point on the North line
of the South 1/2 of the Southwest fractional 1/4 of said Section 30, T7N, R7E;
thence Northerly along the East line of the West 1/2 of the Northwest 1/4 of
the Southwest 1/4 of Section 30, T7N, R7E; to the East and West 1/4 line of
said Section 30; thence Easterly along the East and West 1/4 lines of Sections
30 and 29, to the East 1/4 corner of said Section 29, T7N, R7E; thence
Northerly along the West line of Section 28, T7N, R7E, to the Northwest corner
of said Section 28; thence Easterly along the North line of said Section 28 to
the North 1/4 corner of said Section 28; thence Northerly along the North and
South 1/4 Line of Section 21 to the North 1/4 corner of said Section 21, T7N,
R7E; thence Easterly along the North line of Section 21 to the Northeast corner
of said Section 21; thence Northerly along the West lines of Sections 15, 10,
and 3, T7N, R7E, to the Northwest corner of said Section 3; thence Easterly
along the North lines of Sections 3, 2, and 1 to the point of beginning.
   (b)   Upon annexation or detachment of territory, the boundaries shall be
deemed thereby to be changed without amendment of this section.
   (c)   The Clerk shall maintain and keep available in his office for public
inspection an official description and map of the boundaries of the city, as
the same shall exist from time to time.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-18.jpg]
 
SECTION 1.3.  RECORDS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All records of the city shall be public, unless otherwise provided by law;
shall be kept in city offices, except when required for official reasons or
purposes of safekeeping to be elsewhere; and shall be available for inspection
at all reasonable times.
SECTION 1.4.  PUBLIC RECORDS AS EVIDENCE.
   Public records of the city, or copies duly certified by the custodian
thereof, shall be prima facie evidence of their contents in all legal actions
or in other proceedings.
SECTION 1.5.  DEFINITIONS AND INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context of
this charter:
   (a)   the word “board” includes the word “commission”;
   (b)   the word “city” means the City of Burton;
   (c)   the word “Council” means the body vested with the legislative power of
the City of Burton, and is synonymous with the terms city commission, governing
body, and other terms used to designate the governing bodies of cities in any
law;
   (d)   the word “lien” includes security interest as defined by law or as
brought into being by the operation of law, or both;
   (e)   the word “law” denotes applicable Federal law, the Constitution and
statutes of Michigan, the applicable common law, this charter and ordinances;
   (f)   the word “officer” includes, but shall not be limited to, the Mayor,
the members of the Council, members of city boards, and administrative officers
and deputy administrative officers of the city;
   (g)   the word “person” extends and may be applied to bodies politic and
corporate and to partnerships and associations as well as to individuals;
   (h)   the words “printed” or “printing” include typewriting, printing,
engraving, stencil duplicating, lithographing, photostating, or any similar
method of reproducing written language;
   (i)   the words “publish” or “published” includes publication in one or more
newspapers in circulation in the city and qualified by law for the publication
of legal notices;
   (j)   except in reference to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” include hand written script, printing, typewriting, teletype and
telegraphic communications, and other forms of graphic English language
readable by the average literate person;
   (k)   all words indicating the present tense are not limited to the time of
the adoption of this charter, but extend to and include the time of the
happening of any event or requirement to which a charter provision is applied;
   (l)   the singular includes the plural, the plural includes the singular,
the masculine gender extends to and includes the feminine gender and the
neuter.
SECTION 1.6.  PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF CHARTER.
   No person shall fail to do or perform any act required to be done or
performed by him, nor shall any person do any act forbidden by this charter. 
Any such failure to do or perform any such act so required and the doing of any
such act forbidden shall constitute a violation of this charter.  Any person
found guilty of an act constituting a violation of this charter may be punished
by a fine or imprisonment, or by both such fine and imprisonment, in the
discretion of the court.  No such fine shall exceed the sum of Five Hundred
($500.00) Dollars nor shall any such imprisonment exceed ninety (90) days. 
This section shall not operate to limit or prejudice the power to remove
officers or discharge employees as provided in this charter.
SECTION 1.7.  CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADINGS.
   The chapter and section headings used in this charter are for convenience
only and are not a part of the charter, and shall not be considered as such for
any purpose.
SECTION 1.8.  SEVERABILITY OF CHARTER PROVISIONS-ORDINANCES.
   If any provision, section, or clause of this charter or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect any remaining portion or application of this charter, which can be
given effect without the invalid portion or application, and, to this end, this
charter is declared to be severable.  This rule of severability shall apply
equally to ordinances of the city.
CHAPTER 2:
MUNICIPAL POWERS AND LIABILITIES
SECTION 2.1.  GENERAL POWERS.
   (a)   Unless otherwise provided or limited by law, the City of Burton shall
be vested with and possess all the powers, functions, privileges, and
immunities, expressed or implied, to which cities are, or hereafter may be,
entitled under and in the spirit of the law of Michigan and the home rule
traditions of the State and may exercise all powers which are not prohibited by
and which are not in contravention with law.  In the exercise of such powers,
functions, and privileges, the city shall manage and control its finances,
rights, interests, buildings, and property; enter into contracts; acquire by
purchase, grant, lease, or condemnation and hold and utilize any property, both
within the limits and without the limits of the city; acquire, own, and operate
any utility, unless the power to do so is denied by law; do any act, including
the adoption of any ordinance, to advance the interests, good government, and
prosperity of the city and its inhabitants; and protect the public peace,
morals, health, and general welfare and the safety of persons and property.
   (b)   The city may join with any municipal corporation or with any unit of
government, or with any number or combination thereof, by contract or otherwise
as may be permitted by law, in the ownership, operation, or performance,
jointly, or by one or more on behalf of all, of any property, facility, or
service which each would have the power to own, operate or perform separately.
   (c)   The enumeration of particular powers, privileges, or immunities in
this chapter or elsewhere in this charter shall not be held or interpreted to
be exclusive.
SECTION 2.2.  PERMITTED AND OTHER POWERS.
   Under authority of Act No. 279 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended, and
other provisions of law, the power of the city shall include, but shall not be
limited to, the following, which so far as possible, shall be exercised by
general ordinance provisions:
   (1)   To declare as a hazard or nuisance any act or condition, upon public
or private property, or both, including but not limited to the accumulation of
rubbish and the growing of noxious weeds which is or may be dangerous to the
health, safety, morals or welfare of the inhabitants of the city; to provide
for the abatement thereof; and to provide that the costs of such abatement
shall be charged as a special assessment against the real property on which the
hazard or nuisance is located;
   (2)   To provide for the public peace and health and for the safety of
persons and property by:
      (a)   Regulating trades, occupations and amusements within the city, and
prohibiting trades, occupations and amusements which are detrimental to the
safety, health, morals or welfare of its inhabitants;
      (b)   Regulating the preparation, storage, transportation, sale or other
distribution of foods, drugs and beverages for human consumption;
      (c)   Collecting and disposing of garbage and rubbish;
      (d)   Regulating and restricting the locations of oil and gasoline
stations and other establishments which sell fuels for propelling and
lubricating self-propelled vehicles;
      (e)   Licensing and regulating the number of vehicles which carry persons
or property for hire, fixing the rates of fare and charges, and determining the
location of stands for such vehicles;
      (f)   Regulating the construction, erection, alteration, equipment,
repair, moving, removal and demolition of buildings and structures and their
appurtenances and service equipment;
      (g)   Establishing zones within the city and regulating therein the use
and occupancy of lands or structures; the height, area, size and location of
buildings; the required open spaces for light and ventilation of buildings, and
the density of population;
      (h)   Regulating, limiting, and prohibiting the construction and use of
buildings and lands in order to promote the public safety and to prevent fires;
      (i)   Regulating and controlling the use in any manner of streams,
waters, and water courses within the city in any manner consistent with the
provisions of law, including the prevention and control of the pollution and
obstruction thereof in any manner, and the development of the stream beds and
banks;
      (j)   Regulating the use of private property, insofar as the same may
affect the public health and safety and the use of public streets and highways,
and to provide for the health and safety of persons on property to which
persons are customarily invited for purposes of trade, entertainment, or
manufacture.
   (3)   To establish and reasonably control streets, alleys, bridges and
public places, and the space above and beneath them, and the use thereof by:
      (a)   Creating and vacating the same and by acquiring land or any
interest in land, which may be required therefor, which land may also be sold
by the city to the extent it is not, or may no longer be, required for the
purpose for which acquired, including any surplus land which may be incidental
to or necessary for the purchase of land required;
      (b)   Providing a plan of city streets and alleys;
      (c)   Providing for the safety of persons and property by regulating the
use of the surface of streets and the space above and below the surface for the
purposes of travel in any manner, advertising in any manner, structure of any
type or kind, and as easements or rights-of-way for public utility facilities;
      (d)   Compelling all persons to care for the untraveled portions of
streets lying between the curbs or, where no curbs, shoulders and property line
which abut upon premises owned, controlled, or occupied by them, and to keep
the same free from weeds and from objects which are offensive or hazardous to
public health and safety and, upon the failure to do so, cutting and removing
such weeds and removing such objects and assessing the cost thereof against
such property as a special assessment;
      (e)   Compelling all persons to keep sidewalks which are in the area of
streets immediately adjacent to the premises owned, controlled, or occupied by
them, free from anything which obstructs such sidewalks, or which makes the
same offensive or hazardous to the public health or safety, and upon failure to
do so, to remove the same and assess the cost thereof against such property as
a special assessment;
      (f)   Providing for the grade of streets and sidewalks, or either of them
and requiring public utility users of the streets to conform thereto with
respect to their tracks or facilities located on, above, or under the streets;
requiring railroads to keep their tracks, and the street surface between their
tracks and for a distance on one and one-half feet on each side of them, in a
state of repair deemed reasonable by the city officer responsible therefor;
      (g)   Regulating the speed of vehicles, trains and locomotives within the
city boundaries and upon or across the streets within the provisions and
limitations of law, and the stopping and parking of the same upon the streets
and at street crossings;
      (h)   Providing for and regulating the lighting of streets and alleys,
whether such lights be located on public or private property;
      (i)   Preventing and abating the obstruction of streets and alleys or any
part thereof;
      (j)   Regulating the location of buildings and structures and of trees
and shrubbery near street corners and street intersections with alleys, so as
to provide for the public safety and welfare in the use of streets and alleys;
      (k)   Providing for and regulating the numbering of buildings upon
property abutting the streets and alleys and compelling the owners and
occupants thereof to affix numbers thereto;
      (l)   Providing for the use, by others than the owner, of public utility
property located on, above, or under the streets, alleys and public places,
upon the payment of a reasonable compensation therefor to the owner thereof;
      (m)   Providing for the planting and general care and protection of trees
and shrubbery within the streets and public places of the city and preventing
the cutting of limbs and branches for the placing and maintenance of utility
wires without the consent of the designated officer or agency of the city;
      (n)   Providing for the regulation of the planting of trees and shrubbery
near streets insofar as the same is required to protect city sewers and other
city property;
   (4)   To undertake any public work or make any public improvement, or any
repair or replacement thereof, either directly or by contract with public
bodies or private persons; and to participate in any public work or public
improvement under any lawful plan by which the whole or partial support of such
work or improvement is provided by another governmental unit or agency;
   (5)   To construct, provide, maintain, extend, operate, and improve:
      (a)   Within the city, a city hall, city office buildings, community
buildings, police stations, including jail facilities, fire stations, civic
auditoriums, public libraries, and polling places, and,
      (b)   Either within or without the corporate limits of the city, public
parks, recreation grounds and stadiums, municipal camps, public grounds,
zoological gardens, museums, airports and landing fields, cemeteries, public
wharves and landings upon navigable waters, levees, embankments, and structures
for flood control, and other purposes related to public health, safety, and
welfare; electric light and power plants and system, waterworks and water
treatment plants and systems, sewage disposal facilities, market houses and
market places, facilities for the storage and parking of vehicles, hospitals,
facilities for the landing of helicopters and air vehicles having like landing
characteristics, and any other structure or facility which is devoted to or
intended for public purposes within the scope of the powers of the city;
   (6)   Acquiring by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease or otherwise, real
and personal property and interests in property either within or without the
corporate limits of the city, for any public use or purpose within the scope of
its powers, including, but not by way of limitation, the uses and purposes set
forth in this section;
   (7)   Receiving and holding any property, whether real, personal or
intangible, in trust for city hospital, library, park, cemetery or any other
municipal purpose, and applying the same to the execution of such trust.
CHAPTER 3:
CITY OFFICERS
SECTION 3.1.  CITY OFFICERS.
   (a)   The elective officers of the city are the Mayor and seven Councilmen.
   (b)   The appointive officers of the city are the Clerk, the Treasurer, the
Attorney, the Assessor, the Police Chief, the Fire Chief, and a Board of
Review.
SECTION 3.2.  ELIGIBILITY FOR ELECTIVE CITY OFFICE.
   (a)   To be eligible for election to and to hold a city office, a person
shall be and remain a resident of the city for a period of one year, and be a
qualified elector at the time of election.
   (b)   A person appointed to fill a vacancy in an elective office must have
such qualifications at the time of his appointment.
   (c)   The Council shall be the judge of the election and eligibility of its
members, subject to election recount provisions of law.
SECTION 3.3.  ELIGIBILITY FOR APPOINTIVE OFFICE.
   In making appointments of appointive officers, first consideration shall at
all times be given to electors of the city having the necessary training and
ability for the office to be filled.  The requirement that a person must be a
registered elector of the city to hold an appointive office may be waived by
the Council by an affirmative vote of four or more members of the Council.
SECTION 3.4.  PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR CITY OFFICE OR EMPLOYMENT.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, a person who holds an elective
city office shall not be eligible to hold another city office for which
compensation is paid while he remains in such elective city office, nor shall
he be eligible for any city employment for which compensation is paid by the
city, during his term of office, or until ninety (90) days have elapsed
following the termination of such term of office.
SECTION 3.5.  NOTICE OF ELECTION OR APPOINTMENT.
   The Clerk shall mail to each person elected or appointed, a notice of
election or appointment within five (5) days from the time of election or
appointment.
SECTION 3.6.  COMPENSATION OF OFFICERS.
   (a)   Except where compensation has been otherwise established in this
charter, the compensation of all officers of the city shall be established by
the Council by ordinance.  The city shall not grant or authorize extra
compensation to any officer or agent of the city after his services have been
rendered.
   (b)   City officers shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual reasonable
expenses incurred by them in connection with the execution of their offices,
when the claim therefor has been audited and approved by the Council.
SECTION 3.7.  OATH OF OFFICE.
   Every officer of the city, before entering upon his duties, shall take the
oath of affirmation required by the Constitution of the State of Michigan.  The
Council may require designated employees to take such oath before entering upon
their employment.  Executed copies of such oaths or affirmations shall be filed
with the Clerk.
SECTION 3.8.  SURETY BONDS.
   In order to protect the city and the public, the Council shall require
appropriate surety bonds of officers and employees.  The premium of such bonds
shall be paid by the city.  Blanket bonds covering two or more officers or
employees, or both, may be substituted for individual bonds.
SECTION 3.9.  GIVING OF SURETY BY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES FORBIDDEN.
   No officer or employee shall give or furnish any bail, bond, or
recognizance, nor shall he be the agent of any bondsman or insuror in
connection with any bond or insurance which may be required by law, ordinance,
or by the Council relative to any city function, or which requires the approval
of the Council.
SECTION 3.10.  VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (a)   A city office shall become vacant upon the occurrence of any of the
following:
      (1)   The expiration of the term of office;
      (2)   The death of the incumbent;
      (3)   A resignation, when accepted by the appointing authority;
      (4)   A removal from office in any manner provided by law;
      (5)   Ceasing to possess at any time the qualifications for eligibility
for office required by this charter for election or appointment to office, or
the holding thereof;
      (6)   Final conviction of a felony crime, any act constituting
malfeasance in office under this charter, or of an offense involving a
violation of his oath of office;
      (7)   A judicial determination that the incumbent is mentally ill;
      (8)   A decision of a competent tribunal declaring the election or
appointment of the incumbent void;
      (9)   Failure to take the oath or make the affirmation, or file the bond
required for the office, within thirty (30) days from the date of election or
appointment.
      (10)   Except the Mayor and Councilmen, absence from the city or failure
to perform the duties of such office for ninety (90) consecutive days, unless
such absence from the city or failure to perform the duties of office shall be
excused by the Council prior to the expiration of such ninety-day period.
SECTION 3.11.  RESIGNATIONS.
   Resignations of elective officers and of officers appointed by the Council
shall be made in writing and filed with the Clerk, who shall immediately notify
the Council.  The resignation of all other officers shall be made in writing
and filed with the Mayor.  No resignation from office shall be effective until
twenty-one (21) days after it has been filed, unless accepted by the Council or
Mayor, as the case may be, prior to the expiration of such time.
SECTION 3.12.  REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The Council may remove or suspend officers appointed by it for inefficiency,
neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office, except an officer who is appointed
to fill a vacancy in an elective office; the Mayor, with approval of four (4)
or more members of the Council, may remove or suspend any officer appointed by
him, for inefficiency, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office.
SECTION 3.13.  RECALL.
   An elective officer may be recalled and the vacancy thereby created shall be
filled in the manner prescribed by law.
SECTION 3.14.  FILLING VACANCIES.
   (a)   If a vacancy occurs in the Council, except in the case of recall, the
Council shall fill the vacancy by appointment within thirty (30) days
thereafter.  Each such appointment, except as otherwise provided in this
charter, shall be for a term ending on the second Monday following the next
regular city election.
   (b)   If a vacancy occurs in an appointive office, such vacancy shall be
filled within thirty (30) days thereafter in the manner provided for making the
original appointment.  Such time may be extended for not more than an
additional sixty (60) days, by Council resolution setting forth the reasons
therefor.
SECTION 3.15.  DELIVERY OF OFFICE TO SUCCESSOR.
   Whenever an officer or employee leaves an office or employment for any
reason, he shall deliver forthwith to his successor in the office or
employment, or to the Mayor if there by no such successor, all property of the
city, such as books, working papers, moneys and effects which are in his
custody, possession or control.
CHAPTER 4:
CITY COUNCIL AND MAYOR
SECTION 4.1.  CITY COUNCIL.
   The City Council shall consist of seven (7) councilmen.  The Council shall
exercise all of the legislative and policymaking powers of the city and shall
provide for the performance of all duties and obligations imposed upon the city
by law.
SECTION 4.2.  TERMS OF ELECTED OFFICERS.
   Terms of councilmen and the Mayor shall begin at 8:00 p.m. on the second
Monday following their election.
   (a)   Council Members:  Seven (7) councilmen shall be elected at the first
city election.  The four (4) councilmen receiving the highest number of votes
shall serve terms expiring in November, 1975.  The remaining three (3)
councilmen shall serve terms expiring in November, 1973.
      Thereafter, all councilmen shall be elected for four-year terms.
   (b)   Mayor:  The first Mayor shall serve a term expiring in November,
1975.  Thereafter, the Mayor shall be elected for a four-year term.
SECTION 4.3.  SALARIES.
   The yearly salaries of the councilmen and Mayor are hereby initially fixed
in the following amounts unless changed by ordinance, but shall not be changed
so as to take effect during the current term of any councilman or Mayor
affected thereby.
   (a)   Council Member:  Four Thousand ($4,000.00) Dollars.
   (b)   Mayor:  Eighteen Thousand ($18,000.00) Dollars.
SECTION 4.4.  ORGANIZATION OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Council shall meet and organize on the second Monday following each
regular city election.  At such meeting, or within one week thereafter, the
Council shall elect from its membership a Council President and do such other
acts as may be required for its organization and the conduct of its business.
   The Council may provide for the interim order of the succession of its
members to the office of Council President and for the prompt reconstitution of
the Council in the event that its membership is reduced.
SECTION 4.5.  THE MAYOR.
   (a)   The Mayor shall be recognized as the chief executive officer of the
city and shall perform all duties provided or required by him by law or by the
Council.
   (b)   The Mayor, or his designee, shall attend all official meetings of the
Council.
   (c)   The Mayor shall not have a vote on the Council.
   (d)   The Mayor shall possess the veto power, except that the Council may,
by an affirmative vote of five (5) or more members of the Council, override
said veto.
   (e)   The Mayor shall advise the Council concerning the legislative and
policymaking affairs of the city and make recommendations thereon.
   (f)   The Mayor shall be an ex-officio member of every board and committee
created by this charter or ordinance, but shall not have a vote thereon.
   (g)   The Mayor shall appoint all administrative officers of the city,
except the City Attorney and City Auditor.  The Mayor’s appointments shall be
subject to approval by an affirmative vote of four or more members of the
Council.  The Council shall act within thirty (30) days from the date of
submission upon any appointments submitted by the Mayor for approval.
   (h)   In emergencies, he shall have the powers conferred by law upon peace
officers and shall exercise such powers, as the city’s chief officer, to
prevent disorder, to preserve the public peace and health, and to provide for
the safety of persons and property.
   (i)   The Mayor shall be chief administrative officer of the city treasury,
and act as the official head of the city for all purposes, military law, and
civilian defense.
SECTION 4.6.  SUCCESSION OF MAYOR.
   When a vacancy occurs in the office of Mayor, the Council shall meet within
ten (10) days and appoint a Mayor from the members of the Council, and shall
also fill the Council vacancy created thereby.  Such appointments shall be for
a term ending on the second Monday following the next regular city election.
   In the event a successor to the Mayor cannot be selected from the members of
the Council, the Council shall appoint a successor in the same manner as
provided in section
3.14 for filling Council vacancies.
SECTION 4.7.  MEETING OF THE COUNCIL.
   (a)   The Council shall meet in the established Council chamber, or in such
other place as may be established by ordinance, and shall hold at least two (2)
regular meetings in each month.
   (b)   Special meetings of the Council shall be held at the regular meeting
place of the Council.  Special meetings shall be called by the City Clerk on
the written request of the Mayor or two (2) members of the Council.
   (c)   At least twelve (12) hours’ written notice shall be given of special
meetings designating the time and purpose of the meeting.  Such notice shall be
given personally by the Clerk to each member of the Council by the Clerk or by
someone designated by him.
   (d)   In an emergency, any special meeting shall be a legal meeting, without
such notice, if all members are present; or, if there by a quorum present, all
absent members have waived in writing the required notice thereof.  Waivers may
be made either before or after the time of the meeting.  The fact deemed to
constitute an emergency as grounds for holding a special meeting without notice
under the authority of this subsection shall be set forth in the hournal of the
meeting.
   (e)   An affidavit of the giving or service of any notice required by this
section shall be made a part of the journal of a special meeting.  All waivers
of notice shall be attached to and made a part of the journal of the special
meeting to which they pertain.
   (f)   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the Council
except that stated or given in the notice of the meeting.
   (g)   All regular and special meetings of the Council shall be public
meetings and the public shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard at a
reasonable time in the course of each meeting.
   (h)   Four (4) members of the Council shall be a quorum for the transaction
of business.  In the absence of a quorum, any number less than a quorum may
adjourn a meeting to a later date.
   (i)   The Council shall determine its own rules and order of business and
shall keep a journal, in the English language, of all its proceedings.  The
journal of each meeting of the Council shall be signed by the Clerk.  The vote
upon all matters considered by the Council shall be taken by “yes” and “no”
roll call votes which shall be entered upon record, except that, where the vote
is unanimous, it shall be necessary only so to state.
   (j)   The Council may compel attendance of its members and any officers or
employees of the city at its meetings.  It may punish for non-attendance in
such manner as it may prescribe by its rules.
   (k)   No member of the Council may vote on any question upon which he has a
substantial direct or indirect financial interest other than an interest
similar to that of other citizens affected; otherwise, each member of the
Council shall vote on each question before the Council for determination,
unless excused therefrom by the affirmative vote of all remaining members able
to vote on the question.  If a question is raised under this section at any
Council meeting, such question shall be voted on before the question to which
it applies is voted upon, but the Council members affected may not vote on such
determination.
   (l)   The vote of a majority of the members present at a regular meeting
shall be required for official action by the Council, unless a larger majority
is required by law.  In the case of a special meeting, the vote of at least
four (4) members of the Council shall be required for official action by the
Council, unless a larger majority is required by law.
   (m)   The Clerk shall prepare an agenda of the business to be considered at
each regular Council meeting.
SECTION 4.8.  COUNCIL NOT TO INTERFERE WITH ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
   With the exception of the City Attorney, the City Auditor, and in such
instances where provided otherwise in this charter, the Council and its members
shall deal with the administrative officers and employees of the city solely
through the Mayor, and neither the Council nor any member shall give orders to
any subordinates of the Mayor, either publicly or privately.
CHAPTER 5:
CITY LEGISLATION
SECTION 5.1.  PRIOR TOWNSHIP LEGISLATION CONTINUED.
   In order to preserve and provide for the public health and welfare and for
the safety of persons and property in the city, and as successor to the
Township of Burton, insofar as the same are consistent with and permitted by
law, the valid ordinances of the Township of Burton are continued in effect
under this charter as ordinances of the City of Burton.  When this charter
requires the Council to adopt or provide any ordinance, any existing ordinance
which is continued as provided herein and meets such requirement shall suffice.
SECTION 5.2.  COMPILATION.
   (a)   Copies of this charter and all ordinances and amendments to the
charter shall be prepared and kept on hand in the office of the clerk,
available for public distribution at a reasonable charge.
   (b)   Within six (6) months after the first Council elected under this
charter takes office, the Council shall direct the compilation or codification
of all ordinances of the city, then in force, in loose-leaf or pamphlet form. 
Said direction shall be completed within two years after the effective date of
this charter.  Such compilation or codification of the ordinances of the city
shall be maintained current thereafter.
SECTION 5.3.  ENACTMENT, AMENDMENT, REPEAL, STYLE AND RECORDING OF ORDINANCES.
   (a)   Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written form.  The
style of all ordinances adopted by the Council shall be “The City of Burton
Ordains”.
   (b)   Unless declared to be an emergency ordinance by an affirmative vote of
four (4) or more members of the Council, no ordinance shall be adopted by the
Council except at a regular Council meeting held not less than one (1) week
subsequent to its introduction.  An emergency ordinance may be introduced and
adopted at any regular or special meeting of the Council.  An ordinance which
is declared therein to be an emergency ordinance which is immediately necessary
for the preservation of the public peace, health or safety may be enacted at
the meeting at which it is introduced and may be given effect earlier than
fifteen (15) days after enactment but in no event shall the effective date be
prior to publication, unless so permitted by state law and, in that event, such
ordinance shall be published as soon as reasonably possible after enactment.
   (c)   Each proposed ordinance which is properly introduced as herein
required shall be acted upon by the Council within six months after its
introduction.  If any proposed ordinance be not so acted upon, the Clerk shall
present it to the Council for adoption or rejection at the first meeting of the
Council following the expiration of the six-month period.
   (d)   Ordinances may be amended or repealed in the same manner as provided
in this charter for adoption of ordinances.  No ordinance shall be amended by
reference to the title only, but the amended section or sections of the
ordinance as amended shall be re-enacted and published.  An ordinance or
section thereof may be repealed by references to its title and ordinance or
code number only.
   (e)   Each ordinance shall be recorded by the Clerk in the Ordinance Book
and such recording shall be prima facie evidence of the due and proper adoption
thereof.
   (f)   All ordinances, resolutions, and official proceedings of the city may
be placed in evidence in all courts and tribunals by a copy thereof certified
as true by the Clerk, under the seal of the city, as an alternate to other
methods of proving the same which may be provided or permitted by law.
SECTION 5.4.  PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   Each ordinance shall be published in at least one newspaper in circulation
in the city which is qualified for the publication of legal notices before it
shall become operative, unless otherwise permitted by law.
SECTION 5.5.  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless declared to be an emergency ordinance as provided in Section
5.3 (b), no ordinance shall become operative earlier than fifteen (15) days
after enactment.
SECTION 5.6.  PENALTIES.
   The Council shall provide in its ordinances and the ordinance code for the
punishment of violations of the ordinances of the city and the provisions of
the code.  Such punishment may be by a fine of not to exceed Five Hundred
($500.00) Dollars or by imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or
both, in the discretion of the court.  Imprisonment may be in the city or
county jail, or in any workhouse or penal institution of the state which is
authorized by law to receive prisoners of the city.
SECTION 5.7.  VETO OF COUNCIL.
   No ordinance or resolution of the Council shall have any force or effect if,
within forty-eight (48) hours after the adoption thereof, the Mayor, or person
acting in his stead, shall file in the office of the Clerk a notice, in
writing, suspending the operation of such ordinance or resolution and setting
forth his reasons therefor.  In each case where the Mayor shall file such
notice, such ordinance, or resolution shall not go into effect, unless the
Council shall, within two weeks thereafter adopt such ordinance or resolution
by the affirmative vote of five (5) or more of its members.  If any such
ordinance or resolution shall be passed, it shall become effective according to
the terms thereof as originally adopted, except that it shall not be effective
prior to the time of its last adoption as required herein.
SECTION 5.8.  TIME LIMIT FOR PROSECUTION OF ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS.
   No prosecution for the violation of any ordinance shall be commenced after
the expiration of two years after the commission of the offense.
SECTION 5.9.  INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   The electors of the city may initiate any ordinance or secure a referendum
on any ordinance permitted by law, except annual tax levy ordinances, by
petition as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 5.10.  INITIATIVE OR REFERENDARY PETITIONS.
   An initiatory or referendary petition shall be signed by not less than ten
(10%) per cent of the registered electors of the city who voted at the last
regular city election according to the records of the Clerk on the date the
petition is filed.  No referendum shall be permitted respecting any ordinance
required to be passed by the Council by any law, except in the manner provided
by such law.  Such petition may be the aggregate of two or more petition
papers.  Each signer of a petition shall sign his name and shall, himself,
place thereon after his name the date and his place of residence by street and
number.  To each petition paper there shall be attached a sworn affidavit by
the circulator thereof, stating that each signature thereon is the genuine
signature of the person whose name it purports to be and that it was signed in
the presence of the affiant.  Such petition shall be filed with the Clerk who
shall, within ten (10) days, canvass the signatures thereon to determine the
compliance thereof with the requirements of this section.  Any signature
obtained more than ninety (90) days before the filing of such petition with the
Clerk shall not be counted or considered as valid signature on a petition on
which it appears.  If found to contain an insufficient number of valid
signatures as required herein, or to be improper as to form or compliance with
the requirements of this section, the Clerk shall notify, forthwith, the person
filing such petition and ten (10) days from such notification shall be allowed
for the filing of supplemental petition papers.  No supplemental petition paper
filed after such ten-day period shall be considered by the Clerk.  When found
sufficient and proper, the Clerk shall present the petition to the Council at
its next regular meeting.
SECTION 5.11.  SAME-COUNCIL PROCEDURE.
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the Clerk, the
Council shall, either:
   (1)   If it be an initiatory petition, adopt the ordinance as submitted in
the petition within thirty (30) days after the receipt thereof, or, within such
time, determine to submit the question of adopting the proposed ordinance to
the electors of the city; or
   (2)   If it is a referendary petition, repeal the ordinance to which the
petition refers within thirty (30) days after the receipt thereof, or, within
such time, determine to submit the question of repealing the ordinance to which
the petition pertains to the electors of the city.
SECTION 5.12.  SAME-SUBMISSIONS TO ELECTORS.
   Should the Council decide to submit the question of adopting or repealing an
ordinance, the following receipt of an initiatory or a referendary petition, to
the electors, it shall be submitted at the next regular election held in the
city within ninety (90) days after its determination to submit the question of
such adoption or repeal to the electors of the city or, if there be no such
election, at a special election which shall be held within sixty (60) days
after such determination.  In the event that the city is legally precluded from
holding a special election as herein required, the question of adopting or
repealing such ordinance shall be submitted to the electors of the city at a
city primary election or special city election to be held within sixty (60)
days after the impediment against holding a special city election ends.  The
result shall be determined by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon,
except in cases where otherwise required by law.
SECTION 5.13.  SAME-STATUS OF ORDINANCES ADOPTED.
   An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory proceedings may
not be amended or repealed by the Council for a period of one year after the
date of the election at which the ordinance was adopted.  Should two (2) or
more ordinances be adopted at the same election which have conflicting
provisions, the one receiving the largest affirmative vote shall prevail as to
those provisions.
SECTION 5.14.  SAME-ORDINANCE SUSPENDED.
   The certification by the Clerk of the sufficiency of a referendary petition
within thirty (30) days after the passage of the ordinance to which such
petition refers shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance in
question, pending repeal by the Council or the final determination of the
electors thereon.
CHAPTER 6:
THE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
SECTION 6.1.  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.
   (a)   The administrative officers of the city shall be the Mayor, the Clerk,
the Treasurer, the Attorney, the Assessor, the Chief of Police, the Fire Chief,
and a Board of Review.
   (b)   In making appointments of administrative officers, the appointing
authority shall consider only the good of the public services, the fitness of
the appointee for, and his ability to discharge the duties of the office to
which he is appointed.  Such appointments shall also be subject to the
provisions of Section
3.3.
   (c)   The terms of all administrative officers, except the Mayor, shall be
indefinite.
   (d)   Except where compensation has been otherwise established in this
charter, the compensation of all administrative officers of the city shall be
established by the Council by ordinance.  Within budget appropriations,
reasonable expenses may be allowed to administrative officers when actually
incurred in the performance of their official duties or upon authority of the
council and after they have been audited by the Clerk and approved by the
Council.
SECTION 6.2.  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS - APPOINTMENT, EMPLOYEES.
   (a)   The Council shall appoint the City Attorney and City Auditor who shall
serve at the pleasure of the Council.
   (b)   All other administrative officers shall be appointed by the Mayor
subject to the approval of the Council, and shall serve at the pleasure of the
Mayor for indefinte terms, except that the Mayor shall reaffirm or appoint
those administrative officers and other appointive officers provided in this
charter within thirty (30) days from his election, and give Council notice of
same.
   (c)   All persons employed by the city who are not elective or
administrative officers or members of a board created by this charter, or
declared to be administrative officers by or under authority of this charter,
shall be deemed to be employees of the city, excepting independent contractors
and employees thereof.
SECTION 6.3.  MAYOR.
   (a)   The Mayor shall be the chief administrative officer of the city; shall
be vested with the administrative powers of the city granted to him by this
charter; and shall perform the duties of that office.
   (b)   As the chief administrative officer of the city, the Mayor shall:
      (1)   Be responsible to the Council for the conduct of the administrative
functions and business of the city;
      (2)   Appoint such of the administrative officers as are not required by
this charter to be appointed by the Council;
      (3)   Supervise and coordinate the work of the administrative officers
and departments of the city;
      (4)   Prepare and submit to the Council the annual budget proposal of the
city, together with supporting information in explanation thereof, as required
by
Chapter 7 of this charter;
      (5)   Establish and maintain a central purchasing service for the city;
      (6)   Supervise and coordinate the personnel policies and practices of
the city, subject to any plan for personnel management which may be adopted.
      (7)   Keep informed and report to the Council concerning the work of the
several administrative officers and departments of the city, and, to that end,
he may secure from the administrative officers and department heads such
information and periodic or special reports as he or the Council may deem
necessary;
      (8)   Recommend to the Council measures relating to the city’s
administrative affairs in the light of the needs and development of the city;
      (9)   In case of conflict of authority between any officers or
administrative departments, or both, or in case of absence of administrative
authority, occasioned by inadequacy of charter or ordinance provisions, resolve
the conflict or supply the necessary authority, so far as may be consistent
with law and the ordinances of the city, and direct the necessary action to be
taken in conformance therewith, making a full report to the Council at its next
meeting;
      (10)   Exercise and perform such further powers and such additional
administrative duties as the Council may see fit to delegate to him.
SECTION 6.4.  CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The Clerk shall be Clerk of the Council and of each appointive board
of the city, except as otherwise provided by law.  He or his deputy shall
attend all meetings of the Council and of each board of the city, unless
otherwise provided by the law and shall keep a permanent journal of its
proceedings, in the English language.
   (b)   He shall be custodian of the city seal, and shall affix it to all
documents and instruments requiring the seal, and shall attest the same.  He
shall also be custodian of all papers, documents and records pertaining to the
city, the custody of which is not otherwise provided by law.  He shall give to
the proper officials ample notice of the expiration or termination of their
terms of office and of any official bonds, franchises, contracts or agreements
to which the city is a party.
   (c)   He shall keep a record of all ordinances, resolutions and actions of
the Council and shall keep the Mayor informed with respect thereto.  The Clerk
shall keep the Mayor informed concerning such matters as are within the scope
of the Mayor’s powers and authority as fixed by the charter.
   (d)   He shall have power to administer all oaths required by law and the
ordinances of the city.
   (e)   He shall certify all ordinances and resolutions enacted or passed by
the Council and such certification shall be prima facie evidence of the due and
proper action of the Council thereon.
SECTION 6.5.  CITY ATTORNEY.
   (a)   The City Attorney shall act as the legal advisor of and be responsible
to the Council in all respects concerning the performance of its official
duties.  He shall advise the Mayor concerning legal problems affecting the city
administration, and the Clerk, Treasurer and Assessor concerning their
statutory and charter duties, when so required, and shall file with the Clerk a
copy of all written opinions given by him.
   (c)   He shall prosecute ordinance violations and shall represent the city
in cases before courts and other tribunals.
   (d)   He shall prepare or review all ordinances, regulations, contracts,
bonds and such other instruments that may be required by this charter or by the
Council, and shall promptly give his opinion as to the legality thereof.
   (e)   He shall attend the meetings of the Council when requested.
   (f)   He shall be the Attorney for the several boards of the city and shall
give opinions to such boards upon the written request of the chairmen thereof.
   (g)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him by
this charter or the Council.
   (h)   The Council and the City Attorney shall agree upon the basic
compensation for any or all of the foregoing functions and duties of his office
as are agreed to be covered thereby and upon the basis of compensating the City
Attorney for services rendered which are not covered by such basic
compensation.  All such agreements shall be made before the services to be
covered thereby are rendered.
   (i)   Upon the Attorney’s recommendation, or upon its own initiative, the
Council may provide for an assistant to the City Attorney and may retain
special legal counsel to handle any matter in which the city has an interest,
or to assist the City Attorney in connection therewith.
SECTION 6.6.  CITY TREASURER.
   (a)   The Treasurer shall have the custody of all money of the city and all
evidences of value belonging to or held in trust by the city.
   (b)   He shall collect all city taxes and assessments and such other
accounts and moneys which are collected by the city, except as shall be
permitted or required by law or ordinance.
   (c)   He shall keep and deposit all money or funds in such manner and only
in such places as the Council may determine or as may be required by law.
   (d)   He shall have such powers, duties, and prerogatives in regard to the
collection and custody of state, county, school district and city taxes,
assessments, and moneys as are conferred by law, or under authority of law.
   (e)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or by
the Mayor.
SECTION 6.7.  DEPUTIES OF THE CLERK AND TREASURER.
   The Clerk and Treasurer may appoint and remove their deputies, subject to
the budget allowances therefor and the approval of the Mayor relative to
appointments.
SECTION 6.8.  ASSESSOR.
   (a)   The Assessor shall possess all the powers vested in and shall be
charged with all the duties imposed upon assessing officers by law.
   (b)   He shall make and prepare all regular and special assessment rolls in
the manner prescribed by law and ordinance.
   (c)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by law or the
Mayor.
SECTION 6.9.  POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   The Police Department shall be under the direction of the Chief of
Police.  To be eligible for appointment as Chief of Police, a person must be
qualified for such office by education, training or experience.
   (b)   Police officers shall have all of the powers, immunities and
privileges granted to peace officers by law for the making of arrests, the
preservation of order, and for protecting the safety of persons and property.
SECTION 6.10.  FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (a)   The Fire Department shall be under the direction of the Fire Chief.
   (b)   The Fire Chief and members of the city’s Fire Department shall have
all the powers, immunities, and privileges granted to such persons by law
respecting the performance of their duties and for acts concerning the safety
of persons and property relating to the extinguishment of fires, the spreading
of fire, fire protection and the diminishing of the risk of fire.
   (c)   The Fire Chief or any of his authorized subordinates may cause any
building to be pulled down or destroyed, when he or they deem it necessary in
order to arrest the progress of a fire.  In such case no action shall be
maintained against the city or any person therefor.  If any person having an
interest in such building shall apply to the Council within three (3) months
after the fire for damages or compensation for such buildings, the Council may
pay him such compensation as it may deem just.  The Council may ascertain the
amount of such damage or compensation by agreement with the owner of the
property, or by the appraisal of a jury selected in the same manner as in the
case of juries selected to appraise damages for the taking of property for
public use.  In making any award under authority of this section, the Council
or the jury, as the case may be, shall credit against the damages arising out
of the pulling down or destruction of the building, any insurance recoverable
by all persons having an interest in such property.  No awards shall be made
under authority of this section on account of any loss which could reasonably
be expected to have occurred to a building because of the fire, if it had not
been pulled down or destroyed under authority of this section.  In no event
shall such award give weight to or take into consideration any loss of revenue
from or damages for loss of occupancy of any building so pulled down or
destroyed.
SECTION 6.11.  CITIZEN COMMITTEES.
   The Council may create citizen advisory committees, not to exceed a two-year
period, for the purpose of studying and investigating specific problems or
needs of any department, function, or interest of the city when no other
officer or board exists or has been created, the reasonable scope of the duties
of whom or which would include the making of such studies or investigations. 
Each such committee shall render its report to the Council and shall then cease
to exist unless the work of the committee is extended thereafter by the Council
for a period not exceeding one year.
SECTION 6.12.  PLANNING COMMISSION, ZONING COMMISSION.
   The Council may by ordinance create a Planning Commission and/or Zoning
Commission designating the duties and responsibilities thereof.
SECTION 6.13.  EMPLOYEE WELFARE BENEFITS.
   The Council shall have power to make available to elected officials,
administrative officers and/or employees of the city any recognized plan of
group life, hospital, health, accident insurance, or other employee benefit
plan, either independently of, or as a supplement to, any pension plan provided
by the city for its employees.  The Council may provide insurance for city
officers and employees for liabilities arising out of the lawful performance of
their duties.
SECTION 6.14.  PENSION PLAN.
   The Council may provide a pension plan for elected officials, administrative
officers and/or employees, either independently of, combined with, or
supplemental to, the Federal Social Security pension program.  The city pension
plan shall be based upon actuarial principles similar to those upon which the
pension plan for employees of the State of Michigan is based, but the benefits
of the city pension plan shall not be limited to or bound by such state plan.
SECTION 6.15.  ANTI-NEPOTISM.
   Unless the Council shall, by an affirmative vote of four (4) or more
members, determine that the best interests of the city shall be served and the
party considered by such a vote has met requirements for such a classified
position as are specified by Council, the following relatives of any elective
or appointive officer are disqualified from holding any appointive office or
employment during the term for which said elective or appointive officer was
elected or appointed:  spouse, child, parent, grandchild, grandparent, brother,
sister, half brother, half sister, or the spouses of any of them.  This shall
in no way disqualify such relatives or their spouses who are bona fide
appointive officers or employees for the city at the time of the election or
appointment of said official.
CHAPTER 7:
GENERAL FINANCE
SECTION 7.1.  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal and budget year of the city shall begin on the first day of July
of each year and end on the thirtieth day of June of the following year.
SECTION 7.2.  BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   On or before the first day of February of each year, each officer and
department head shall submit to the Mayor a complete statement of the financial
needs and expected revenues of his office or department for the next fiscal
year.  The Mayor shall assemble all the statements so submitted and prepare for
the Council a budget proposal for the next fiscal year.  Such budget proposal
shall be presented to the Council at its first regular meeting in April.  The
proposed expenditures set forth in such budget proposal shall not exceed the
expected revenues of the city for the next fiscal year by an amount greater
than the expected unencumbered funds, not transferred to any special account
under authority of Section
7.7 of this chapter, remaining at the end of the current fiscal year.
SECTION 7.3.  PUBLIC INSPECTION OF BUDGET PROPOSAL.
   The budget proposal of the Mayor together with his recommendations and its
supporting schedules and information shall be available for public inspection
in the office of theClerk, but shall not be removed therefrom.
SECTION 7.4.  BUDGET HEARING.
   A public hearing on the budget proposal shall be held not less than one week
before its final adoption, at such time as the Council shall direct.  Notice of
the public hearing shall be published by the Clerk at least one week in advance
thereof and the budget proposal shall be available in the office of the Clerk
during such week.
SECTION 7.5.  ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (a)   At a regular meeting held not later than the second Monday in June of
each year, the Council shall, by resolution, adopt a budget for the ensuing
fiscal year and shall make an appropriation of the money needed therefor.  Such
resolution shall designate the sum to be raised by taxation for the general
purposes of the city and for the payment of principal and interest on its
indebtedness.  Failure to adopt such resolution within the time herein set
shall not invalidate either the budget or the tax levy therefor.
   (b)   A copy of the appropriations for each fiscal year, certified by the
Clerk, shall be furnished to the Assessor within ten (10) days after the date
of the adoption of the budget resolution.
SECTION 7.6.  BUDGET CONTROL.
   (a)   Except for purposes which are to be financed by the issuance of bonds
or by special assessments, no money shall be drawn from the treasury of the
city, except in accordance with the budget in effect and the appropriation for
such purpose, nor shall any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred
without appropriation covering all payments which will be due under such
obligation during the fiscal year.
   (b)   Expenditures shall not be charged directly to any contingent or
general account; instead, the necessary amount of the appropriation from such
account shall be transferred to the proper budget item or account and the
expenditure then charged thereto.  The Council, upon the written recommendation
of the Mayor, and by the affirmative vote of not less than five (5) of its
members, may appropriate unappropriated funds or transfer any unencumbered
appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from any budget item or account,
department, or agency to another and make an appropriation thereof for the
purpose for which such transfer is made.  The Mayor shall be responsible for
the administration of the foregoing requirements in subsection (a) and (b) of
this section.
   (c)   During each month, the Mayor shall submit to the Council data showing
the relation between the estimated and actual revenues and expenditures to the
end of the preceding month; and, if it shall appear that the revenues are less
than anticipated, the Council may, by resolution, reduce appropriations, except
amounts required for debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be
necessary to keep expenditures within the revenues.
   (d)   Within thirty (30) days following the end of each fiscal year, the
Mayor shall file with the Council a schedule of all encumbrances upon the
budget appropriations existing at the end of the fiscal year, with his
recommendations thereon, and the Council shall provide for the payment of such
thereof as constitute valid claims against the city from corresponding budget
items appropriated in the then- current fiscal year.
SECTION 7.7.  SPECIAL ACCOUNTS.
   (a)   The Council may, by ordinance, establish and maintain accounts for
accumulating moneys to be used for acquiring, extending, altering, constructing
or repairing public improvements and for the purchase of equipment of any type,
in each case either for a specific item or items or for future unspecified
public improvements or equipment, or both.
   (b)   Appropriations to such accounts may be made by the Council either in
the annual appropriation resolution or, from time to time during the fiscal
year, from available funds, from whatever source derived, which are not
required for other appropriations or obligations of the city.  Such accounts
shall be continuing accounts and the balances therein at the end of each fiscal
year shall remain a part thereof.
   (c)   At the end of each fiscal year, the Council may, by an affirmative
vote of five (5) or more of its members, transfer any unencumbered budget
balance or any part thereof into one or more of the accounts authorized to be
created by this section.
   (d)   Moneys which are accumulated for the purpose of public improvements,
as set forth in subsection (a) hereof, shall be used only at the direction of
the Council, and only for the purpose provided in the original ordinance
establishing such account, unless their use for some other municipal purpose be
authorized by a majority vote of the electors of the city who vote on the
proposition to amend such ordinance to provide for a change in the use of the
moneys in such account.  Any such amendment may be submitted to the electors by
the Council or by initiatory proceedings provided in
Chapter 5 of this charter.  After the purpose of any such account has been
fulfilled, any balance remaining therein may be transferred by the Council to
any other special account or to the general fund of the city.
   (e)   Moneys which are accumulated for the purpose of purchasing equipment,
as set forth in subsection (a) hereof, shall be expended only for the purpose
provided in the ordinance establishing any such account, or as such ordinance
may be amended from time to time, and, when no longer required for such
purpose, such moneys or any part thereof may be transferred to the general fund
by a resolution of the Council.  No vote of the electors of the city shall be
required to authorize any such amendment, but the initiative procedure provided
in
Chapter 5 of this charter shall be available to the electors of the city.
   (f)   If moneys accumulated in any special fund authorized by this section
shall not be expended for the purpose for which they have been set aside and
accumulated for a periof of three (3) years after the entire amount needed
therefor has been accumulated, the amount of such fund shall revert to the
general fund of the city or may be expended for any public improvement in the
city or purchase of equipment for the city, if authorized to be so expended by
an affirmative vote of five (5) or more members of the Council, or by an
amendment of the ordinance creating the fund with the approval of the electors
of the city as provided in subsection (d) of this section.
SECTION 7.8.  WITHDRAWAL OF CITY MONEYS.
   (a)   Unless otherwise provided by law or by ordinance, all moneys drawn
from the treasury shall be drawn pursuant to the authority and appropriation of
the Council  The Council, upon the recommendation of the Mayor, where necessary
to expedite operating procedures, may authorize designated officers and
employees of the city to make minor disbursements from petty cash accounts,
which disbursements shall be accounted for and shall be audited by the City
Auditor.
   (b)   Checks for the disbursement of city funds shall be signed by the Clerk
and countersigned by the Treasurer, or as otherwise provided by ordinance.
   (c)   Checks may be issued prior to authorization by the Council for such
purposes and up to such amounts as the Council shall provide by ordinance.
SECTION 7.9.  CLAIMS AGAINST CITY, OTHER THAN FOR INJURIES.
   Procedures for the examination and payment of claims against the city, other
than for injuries, for which provision is made in Section
7.10, shall be as prescribed by law.  In the absence of any such law, the
Council shall prescribe such procedures by ordinance.
SECTION 7.10.  CLAIMS AGAINST CITY FOR INJURIES.
   (a)   Procedures and limitations for the examination and adjustment of
claims against the city for injury to persons and property shall be such as are
provided by law.  Such provisions and limitations of law are hereby extended to
and made applicable to and shall govern in cases of claims for injury to
persons and property arising out of all negligent acts of the city and its
officers, employees, and agents, for which the city may be liable under law,
except those which arise out of any proprietary function of the city.
   (b)   This section shall not be deemed to waive any defense of immunity
which the city may have from claims for damages arising out of negligence or
otherwise, but shall apply in all cases where such defense is not available to
the city.
SECTION 7.11.  DEPOSITORIES.
   The Council shall designate depositories for city funds in accordance with
law, and shall provide for the regular deposit of all city moneys.
SECTION 7.12.  INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   There shall be such annual and other accounting for all public moneys of the
city as is required by law.  If there be no such law, an independent audit
shall be made of all accounts of the city government at the close of each
fiscal year, and shall be completed within ninety (90) days thereafter. 
Special independent audits may be made at any time that the Council may
designate.  Such audits shall be made to the Council by a Certified Public
Accountant designated by it.  Each audit and reports supplemental thereto shall
be made public in the manner that the Council determines and copies of the
audit shall be placed in the office of the Clerk.  All city financial records,
accountings, and audits and other reports shall be public records, available
for inspection in the office of the Clerk and a statement of all revenues and
expenditures of public moneys shall be published and distributed as required by
law.
SECTION 7.13.  ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Mayor shall prepare an annual report of the affairs of the city, after
the completion of the annual audit.  The report shall include condensed
financial statements showing the results of all city operations, including
statements for each public utility owned or operated by the city.  Copies of
such report shall be made available for public inspection and distribution at
the office of the Clerk and by such other method as the Council may determine.
CHAPTER 8:
TAXATION
SECTION 8.1.  POWER TO TAX AND TAX LIMITS.
   (a)   The city shall have the power to annually levy and collect ad valorem
taxes, rents, tolls and excises for municipal purposes.
   (b)   The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be
the same as for state, county, and school purposes under the general law. 
Except as otherwise provided by this charter, city taxes shall be levied,
collected and returned in the manner provided by law.
   (c)   Exclusive of any levy for the payment of principal of, and interest
on, outstanding general obligation bonds and exclusive of any other levies
authorized by law to be made beyond charter tax rate limitations, the levy of
ad valorem taxes for general municipal purposes shall not exceed two (2) mills
on the assessed value of all real and personal property, which limitation shall
be effective for a minimum period of three (3) years following incorporation as
a city.  If necessary, the aforesaid tax rate limitation may be increased by
the Council by up to an additional one (1) mill every three (3) years following
incorporation as a city, to a maximum of five (5) mills.  Thus, the shortest
period of time within which the maximum tax rate limitation could be levied is
twelve (12) years following the date of incorporation.
   The tax rate limitations provided herein shall be effective unless a
proposition to approve an increase above the tax rate so limited is first
approved by a majority vote of the electors of the city voting on the
proposition.  No increase nor any combination of increases shall cause the
total tax rate in any one year, for municipal purposes, to exceed that
permitted by state law.
SECTION 8.2.  TAX DAY.
   Subject to the exceptions provided or permitted by statute, the taxable
status of persons and property shall be determined as of the thirty-first (31)
day of December of each year, which shall be deemed to be the tax day as
defined by state law, for all taxes levied in the city during the ensuing
calendar year.
SECTION 8.3.  PREPARATION OF THE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (a)   On or before the second Monday in March in each year, the Assessor
shall prepare and certify an assessment roll of all property in the city, in
the manner and form required by law.  Values of all property listed on such
assessment roll shall be estimated according to recognized methods of
systematic assessment.  The assessment rolls of the city shall show total
figures for the value of the land and of the improvements thereon.  On or
before the first Monday in March in each year, the Assessor shall give notice
of any change in the assessed value of any property on, or of the addition of
any property to, the assessment roll.  Such notice shall be given to the owner
thereof, as shown by such assessment roll, by first-class mail.  The failure of
the owner to receive any such notice shall not invalidate any assessment roll
or any assessment or levy of taxes thereon.
   (b)   No exemptions from taxation shall be allowed, except as expressly
required or permitted by law.
SECTION 8.4.  BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (a)   A Board of Review is hereby created, composed of three members who
have the qualifications for holding elective city office as set forth in this
charter and who are freeholders of property assessed for taxes in the city. 
The Council shall set the compensation of the members of the Board of Review,
which compensation shall be on a per diem basis.  No member of the Board of
Review shall hold any city office.
   (b)   The members of the Board of Review shall be appointed by the Mayor,
subject to approval of Council within twenty-one (21) days, and may be removed
for reasons of nonfeasance, misfeasance or malfeasance by a vote of five (5) or
more members of the Council.  The first members shall be appointed within
twenty (20) days immediately following the adoption of this charter, for terms
expiring June 30, one year hence, two years hence, and three years hence. 
Thereafter, one member shall be appointed during the month of May of each year
for a term of three years, commencing on July first following.
   (c)   The Board shall annually, on the first day of its meeting, select one
of its members chairman for the ensuing year.  The Assessor shall be Clerk of
the Board, and shall be entitled to be heard at its sessions, but shall have no
vote on any proposition or question.
SECTION 8.5.  DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF BOARD OF REVIEW.
   For the purpose of revising and correcting assessments, the Board of Review
shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as are, by
law, conferred upon and required of boards of review in townships, except as
otherwise provided in this charter.  At the same time, and in the manner
provided in the following section, it shall hear the complaints of all persons
considering themselves aggrieved by assessments.  If it shall appear that any
person or property has been wrongfully assessed or omitted from the roll, the
Board shall correct the roll in such manner as it deems just.  In all cases,
the roll shall be reviewed according to the facts existing on the tax day and
no change in the status of any property after said day shall be considered by
the Board in making its decisions.  Except as otherwise provided by law, no
person other than the Board of Review shall make any change upon, or addition
or correction to, the assessment roll.  The Assessor shall make a permanent
record of all proceedings of the Board and enter therein all resolutions and
decisions of the Board.  Such record shall be filed with the City Clerk on or
before the first day of May following the meeting of the Board of Review.
SECTION 8.6.  MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (a)   The Board of Review shall convene in its first session on the second
Monday in March of each year at such time of the day and place as shall be
designated by the Council and shall continue in session for at least six (6)
hours during each of at least three (3) successive days for the purpose of
considering and correcting the assessment roll prepared and presented by the
Assessor, and on such additional days as may be required to hear persons who
have given notice of desire to be heard within such three-day period.  The
Assessor shall order the publication of the time and place of the meeting of
the Board of Review.  Such publication shall be made not less than ten (10)
days prior to the first meeting of the Board in each year.
   (b)   In each case where the assessed value of any property is changed or
any property is added to the roll by the Board, or theBoard has resolved to
consider at its second session the increasing of an assessment or the adding of
any property to the roll, the Assessor shall give notice thereof to the owner
of any such property, as shown by such roll, by first-class letter, mailed no
later than the day following the end of the first session of the Board.  Such
notice shall state the date, the time, place, and purpose of the second session
of the Board.  The failure of the owner to receive such notice shall not
invalidate any assessment roll or any assessment or levy of taxes thereon.
   (c)   The Board of Review shall convene in its second session on the Tuesday
following the third Monday in March of each year, at such time of the day and
place as shall be designated by the Council and shall continue in session until
all interested persons have had an opportunity to be heard but in no case for
less than six (6) hours on the day that the Board convenes in its second
session.  At such second session, the Board may not increase any assessment,
except in those cases with respect to which the Board resolved at its first
session to consider such increase at its second session.  This provision shall
not apply to the addition of any omitted property to the roll.
SECTION 8.7.  ENDORSEMENT OF ROLL.
   After the Board of Review has completed its review of the assessment roll,
and not later than the first Monday in April, a majority of its members shall
endorse thereon and sign a statement to the effect that the same is the
assessment roll of the city for the year in which it has been prepared.  The
omission of such endorsement or statement shall not affect the valifity of such
roll.  In the event that the Board of Review shall fail or refuse to so review
the assessment roll of the city,
Editor’s note:
   The remainder of § 8.7, as well as §§ 8.8 and 8.9, and the beginning of §
8.10, are missing.
authorized city taxes, assessments, and charges spread thereon, or may be a
combined tax roll upon which county, school and other taxes may be spread for
collection under the general property tax act, in addition to city taxes,
assessments and charges as determined by the Council.  Upon receiving the
certification of the several amounts to be raised, or to be assessed,
reassessed, or charged as provided in Section 8.9 of this charter, the Assessor
shall spread upon said tax roll the several amounts determined by the Council
to be raised, charged, assessed or reassessed against persons and property.  He
shall spread the amount to be raised by general city tax, according to and in
proportion to the several valuations set forth in said roll.  To avoid
fractions in computation on any tax roll, the Assessor may add to the amount of
the several taxes to be raised thereon not more than the amount described by
law.  Any excess created thereby on any tax roll for the levy and collection of
taxes in the city shall belong to the city.
SECTION 8.11.  TAX ROLL CERTIFIED FOR COLLECTIONS.
   After spreading the city taxes and any assessments, reassessments and
charges, the Assessor shall certify the tax roll and shall annex his warrant
therto, directing and requiring the Treasurer to collect from the persons named
in said roll the several sums mentioned therein opposite their respective names
as a tax, assessment, reassessment or charge, and granting to him for the
purpose of collecting taxes, assessments, and charges on such roll, all of the
statutory powers and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the
collecting of taxes.
SECTION 8.12.  TAXES LIEN.
   On July 1 the amounts assessed on any interest in real property shall become
a lien upon such real property for such amounts and for all interest and
charges therein and all personal taxes shall become a first lien on all
personal property of such persons so assessed.
   The liens shall take precedence over all other claims, encumbrances and
liens to the extent provided by statute and shall continue until such taxes,
interest and charges are paid.
SECTION 8.13.  PERSONAL PROPERTY - JEOPARDY ASSESSMENT.
   If the Treasurer finds or reasonably believes that any person who is, or may
be, liable for taxes upon personal property, the taxable situs of which was in
the city on tax day, intends to depart or has departed from the city; or to
remove or has removed therefrom personal property which is or may be liable for
taxation; or to conceal or conceals himself or his property, or does any other
act tending to prejudice or to render wholly or partly ineffectual the
proceedings to collect such tax, he shall proceed to collect the same as a
jeopardy assessment in the manner provided by law.
SECTION 8.14.  TAXES DUE:  NOTIFICATION.
   City taxes shall be due on the first day of July of the year when levied. 
The Treasurer shall not be required to call upon the persons named in the city
tax roll, nor to make personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he shall
give written notice by first-class mail to the taxpayers of the city, made at
least ten (10) days prior to the first day of July in each year to the owners
of the property upon which taxes are assessed according to the names of such
owners and their addresses as indicated on the tax roll, which notice shall be
deemed sufficient for the payment of all taxes on said roll.  Failure on the
part of the Treasurer to give said notice shall not invalidate the taxes on
said tax roll nor release any person or property assessed from the penalty
provided in this charter in case of non-payment of the same.
SECTION 8.15.  COLLECTION OF TAXES.
   City taxes shall be due and payable on the first day of July of each year. 
From and after the 30th day of September, there shall be added one-half of one
per cent (1/2 of 1%) per month, or fraction thereof, to taxes remaining unpaid,
together with a collection fee of four (4%) per cent.  The added penalties and
interest herein provided shall belong to the city and shall constitute a charge
and shall be a lien against the property to which the taxes themselves apply,
collectible in the same manner as the taxes to which they are added.
SECTION 8.16.  FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO PAY PERSONAL PROPERTY TAXES.
   If any person shall neglect or refuse to pay any city tax on personal
property assessed to him, the Treasurer shall collect the same by seizing any
personal property of such person, wherever it may be found in the State of
Michigan, to an amount sufficient to pay such tax, and charges and interest
added thereto.  No personal property shall be exempt from such seizure.  He may
sell the property seized to an amount sufficient to pay such tax, together with
all charges, fees, penalties and interest added thereto, in accordance with
statutory provision.  The Treasurer may also sue the person to whom a personal
property tax is assessed, in accordance with the powers granted him by law.
SECTION 8.17.  COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   All taxes, assessments and charges upon real property on the tax roll,
together with collection charges and interest added thereto, remaining
uncollected by the Treasurer on the first day of March following the date when
the roll was received by him shall be subject to one of the following
procedures:
   (a)   The real property against which such taxes, assessments and charges
are assessed shall be subject to disposition, sale and redemption for the
enforcement and collection of the tax lien against the same in the method and
manner which may be provided by ordinance.  The Council may provide by
ordinance the procedure for the sale and redemption of real property for such
unpaid taxes, assessments and charges, together with collection charges and
interest added thereto, by judicial sale on petition filed in behalf of the
city.  Such procedure shall correspond substantially to the procedure provided
by law for the sale by the state of tax-delinquent real property and redemption
therefrom, except that the acts performed by state and county officers shall be
performed by appropriate city officers and that city tax sales shall be held
not less than thirty (30) nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the dates of
corresponding tax sales under the general law.
   (b)   If no ordinance is in effect pursuant to subsection (a) of this
section, such taxes, assessments and charges, together with any collection
charges and interest added thereto, shall be returned to the County Treasurer,
to the extent and in the same manner and with the like effect as provided by
law for returns by township treasurers of township, school and county taxes. 
The taxes, assessments and charges, together with any collection charges and
interest added thereto, which collection charges and interest shall be treated
and collected in the same manner as taxes returned to the County Treasurer, are
collected in accordance with law, and shall be and remain a lien upon the
property against which they are assessed until paid.
SECTION 8.18.  PROTECTION OF CITY LIEN.
   The city shall have power to acquire, by purchase, any premises within the
city at any tax or other public sale, or by direct purchase from the State of
Michigan or the fee owner when such purchase is necessary to protect the lien
of the city for taxes or special assessments, or both, on said premises and the
lien for other charges, collection charges and interest, and may hold, lease or
sell the same for purpose of securing therefrom the amount of such taxes,
special assessments, charges, collection charges and interest, together with
any incidental expense incurred in connection with the exercise of this power. 
Any such procedure exercised by the city in the protection of its tax lien
shall be deemed to be for public purpose.
SECTION 8.19.  STATE, COUNTY AND SCHOOL TAXES.
   For the purpose of assessing and collecting the taxes for the state, county
and school purposes, the city shall be considered the same as a township, and
all provisions of state law relative to the collection of and accounting for
such taxes shall apply.  For these purposes the Treasurer shall perform the
same duties and have the same powers as township treasurers under state law.
SECTION 8.20.  DISPOSITION OF REAL PROPERTY HELD BY CITY.
   When the city has acquired any title or interest in property to protect the
city’s tax lien thereon, the owner of any interest therein by fee title, as
mortgagee, or as vendor or vendee under a land contract, shall have the right
to purchase the city’s interest therein, upon payment to the city of the amount
of money which the city has invested therein in the form of taxes, special
assessments, charges, fees, penalties, interest and costs, paid by the city to
perfect its title in such property.  After the lapse of ninety (90) days after
the date that the city acquired title to any such property, the Council may
remove the same from the market by determining that such property is needed for
and should be devoted to public purposes, naming such purposes, or may sell the
same at a price which shall be not less than its market value, as determined
and certified to the Council by the Assessor and qualified appraisers appointed
by the Council  In any case where the city has acquired any title or interest
in real property, such title or interest shall be recorded with the Register of
Deeds of Genesee County.
CHAPTER 9:
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
SECTION 9.1.  GENERAL POWER RELATIVE TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Council shall have the power to make public improvements within the
city.  As to public improvements which are of such a nature as to benefit
especially any property or properties within a district, the Council shall have
the power to determine, by resolution, that the whole or any part of the
expense of any such public improvement shall be defrayed by special assessment
upon such property, in proportion to the benefits derived or to be derived. 
The cost of no improvement shall be defrayed by the special assessment method
unless initiated in one of the following eays:
   (a)   A petition filed with the City Clerk requesting that such improvement
be made and the cost thereof defrayed by special assessment upon the property
benefited and signed by fifty (50%) per cent of the owners of the property to
be assessed for such improvement.  Two or more owners of a single parcel shall
be counted as one owner.  Or;
   (b)   Upon the affirmative vote of seven (7) members of the Council.
SECTION 9.2.  DETAILED PROCEDURE TO BE FIXED BY ORDINANCE.
   (a)   The Council shall prescribe by general ordinance the complete special
assessment procedure concerning the initiation of projects, plans and
specifications, estimates of costs, notice of hearings, making and confirming
assessment rolls in advance of starting the improvement, and the correction of
errors therein, collection of special assessments, and any other matters
concerning the making of improvements by the special assessment method subject
to the provisions of this charter.
   (b)   When the city may, by law, participate in inter-governmental
improvements, the cost of which may be defrayed in whole or in part by special
assessments, the procedure therefor shall be as provided by the law permitting
the same.  If such procedure is not so provided, the procedure established by
and under authority of this chapter shall govern.
SECTION 9.3.  DISPOSITION OF EXCESSIVE SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The excess by which any special assessment proves larger than the actual
cost of the improvement and expenses incidental thereto may be placed in the
general fund of the city if such excess is five (5%) per cent or less of the
assessment, but should the assessment prove larger than necessary by more than
five (5%) per cent, the entire excess shall be refunded on a pro-rata basis to
the owners of the property assessed.  Such refund shall be made by credit
against future unpaid installments to the extent such installments then exist
and the balance of such refund shall be in cash.  No refunds may be made which
contravene the provisions of outstanding evidence of indebtedness secured in
whole or in part by such special assessment.
SECTION 9.4.  LIMITATION ON SUITS AND ACTIONS.
   No suit or action of any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the
purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any special assessment or
additional special assessment,
   (1)   unless, within thirty (30) days after the confirmation of the special
assessment roll, written notice be filed with the Clerk of intention to file
such suit or action, stating the grounds on which it is claimed such assessment
is illegal, and
   (2)   unless such suit or action shall be commenced within ninety (90) days
after the confirmation of the roll.
SECTION 9.5.  LIEN FOR AND COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Upon the confirmation of each special assessment roll, the special
assessments thereon shall become a debt to the city from the persons to whom
they are assessed and, until paid, be and continue to be a lien upon the
property assessed for the amount of such assessments and all interest and
collection charges which may accrue thereon.  Such lien shall be of the same
character and effect as that which is created by this charter for city taxes. 
For this purpose, the word “assessments” used in
Chapter 8 shall include special assessments authorized by this chapter.
SECTION 9.6.  HAZARDS AND NUISANCES.
   When any lot, or premises, building or structure within the city, because of
age or dilapidation, the accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontrolled
growing of noxious weeds, or because of any other condition or happening
becomes, in the opinion of the Council, a public nuisance, or hazard which is
dangerous to the health, safety or welfare of the inhabitants of the city or of
those residing or habitually going near such lot or premises or such building
or structure, the Council may, after investigation, give notice to the owner or
owners of the land upon which such nuisance or hazard exists or to the owner or
occupant of the land or the building or structure itself, specifying the nature
of the nuisance or hazard and requiring such owner or occupant to alter,
repair, tear down, abate, or remove the nuisance or hazard within a time to be
specified by the Council which shall be commensurate with the nature of the
nuisance or hazard.  Insofar as practicable, considering the nature of the
nuisance or hazard, the notice herein required shall be in writing and
delivered in person or by registered letter, return receipt requested, with
full postage prepaid thereon, addressed to the address set forth in the current
assessment roll of the city or the records of the Assessor.  Such notice shall
be given by the Clerk.  If, after diligent and reasonable effort to locate the
owner of the premises or his agent, he cannot be found, such notice shall be
given to the occupant of the premises, if any, and by posting upon the premises
in plain view of all persons going upon or passing near such premises.  If, at
the expiration of the time limit in said notice, the owner has not complied
with the requirements thereof, or in any case where the owner of the land or of
the building or structure itself is not known or cannot be found, the Council
may order such nuisance or hazard to be abated by the proper department or
agency of the city which is qualified to do the work required, or may do the
work by contract or by hire, and the cost of such abatement may be assessed
against the lot, premises, or description of real property upon which such
nuisance or hazard is located, by special assessment.
SECTION 9.7.  BOULEVARD AND STREET LIGHTING.
   The Council may provide a system of boulevard and/or street lighting for the
city or any part or parts thereof, and may assess the cost thereof on any
street for which such lighting is provided against the lands abutting thereon
if the property owners of a majority of the frontage on such streets, or part
thereof so to be improved, shall petition therefor.
SECTION 9.8.  ALL REAL PROPERTY LIABLE FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   All real property, including such as is exempt from taxation by law, shall
be liable for the cost of public improvements benefiting such property, unless
specifically exempted from special assessments by law.
SECTION 9.9.  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment for any public improvement shall be
credited to a special assessment account, and shall be used to pay the special
assessment portion of the cost of the improvement for which the assessment was
levied and of expenses incidental thereto, including the repayment of the
principal of and interest on money borrowed therefor, and to refund excessive
assessment, if refunds be authorized.
SECTION 9.10.  CERTAIN POSTPONEMENTS OF PAYMENTS.
   The Council may provide that any person who, in the opinion of the Assessor
and Council, by reason of poverty is unable to contribute toward the cost of
the making of a public improvement by special assessment, may execute to the
city an instrument creating a lien for the benefit of the city on all or any
part of the real property owned by him and benefited by any public improvement,
which lien will mature and be effective from and after the execution of such
instrument, shall be recorded with the Register of Deeds of Genesee County, and
shall not be discharged or released until the terms thereof are met in full. 
The Council shall establish the procedure for making this section effective.
CHAPTER 10:
BORROWING POWER
SECTION 10.1.  MUNICIPAL BORROWING POWER.
   Subject to the applicable provisions and limitations of state law, the city
may borrow money for any purpose within the scope of its powers and may issue
bonds or other evidences of indebtedness therefor.  Such bonds or other
evidences of indebtedness shall include but not be limited to the following
types:
   (a)   General obligation bonds for the payment of which the full faith and
credit of the city is pledged;
   (b)   Notes issued in anticipation of the collection of taxes;
   (c)   Calamity bonds, issued in case of fire, flood or other calamity for
the relief of the inhabitants of the city and for the preservation of municipal
property, in a sum not to exceed three-eights (3/8) of one (1%) per cent of the
assessed value of the real and personal property in the city, which shall
become due in not more than five (5) years.
   (d)   Special assessment bonds issued in anticipation of the payment of
special assessments made for the purpose of defraying the cost of any public
improvement, or in anticipation of the payment of any combination of such
special assessments; such special assessment bonds may be an obligation of the
special assessment district or districts or may be both an obligation of the
special assessment district or districts and a general obligation of the city;
   (e)   Mortgage bonds for the acquiring, owning, purchasing, constructing
improving, or operating of any public utility which the city is authorized by
this charter to acquire or operate, provided such bonds shall not impose any
liability upon such city but shall be secured only upon the property and
revenues of such public utility, including a franchise, stating the terms upon
which, in case of foreclosure the purchaser may operate the same, which
franchise shall in no case extend for a longer period than twenty (20) years
from the date or the sale of such utility and franchise on foreclosure; a
sinking fund shall be created in the event of the issuance of such bonds, by
setting aside such percentage of the gross or net earnings of the public
utility as may be deemed sufficient for the payment of the mortgage bonds at
maturity, unless serial bonds are issued of such a nature that no sinking fund
is required;
   (f)   Bonds issued at a rate not to exceed that provided by law to refund
money advanced or paid on special assessments imposed for water main
extensions;
   (g)   Revenue bonds as authorized by statute which are secured only by the
revenues from a public improvement and do not constitute a general obligation
of the city.
SECTION 10.2.  LEASE-PURCHASE CONTRACTS.
   Subject to applicable provisions and limitations of law, the city may enter
into lease-purchase contracts which provide for periodic rental or installment
payments with the right or option to purchase during or at the conclusion of
the term of the contract.  In such event, the Council shall appropriate for
each fiscal year an amount which is sufficient to pay the rental or installment
payment due during that year.
CHAPTER 11:
CONTRACTS
SECTION 11.1.  CONTRACTING AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL.
   (a)   The power to make and to authorize the making of contracts on behalf
of the city is vested in the Council and shall be exercised in accordance with
the provisions of law.
   (b)   All contracts, except as otherwise provided by ordinance in accordance
with the provisions of Section
11.2 hereof, shall be authorized by the Council and shall be signed on behalf
of the city by the Mayor and the Clerk.
SECTION 11.2.  PURCHASE AND SALE OF PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   The Council shall establish by ordinance the procedure for the purchasing
and sale of personal property.  Such ordinance shall provide for centralized
purchasing on behalf of the city.  The ordinance shall also provide the dollar
limit within which purchases and sales of personal property may be made without
the necessity of securing competitive bids, and the dollar limit and conditions
within which purchases and sales of personal property may be made without the
necessity of Council approval and signature by the Mayor and the Clerk.  No
purchase of personal property shall be made, unless a sufficient unencumbered
appropriation is available therefor, or for such amount of the purchase price
as shall be required to be paid during the current fiscal year of the city.
SECTION 11.3.  LIMITATION ON CONTRACTUAL POWER.
   (a)   The city shall not have power to sell, lease or dispose of any real
estate unless:
      (1)   The resolution authorizing the sale, lease or disposal thereof
shall be completed in the manner in which it is to be finally passed and has
remained on file with the Clerk for public inspection for twenty-eight (28)
days before the final adoption or passage thereof, with notice of intent to
sell, lease or dispose of such property published not less than fifteen (15)
days before the Council finally acts thereon, and unless
      (2)   Such action is approved by.the affirmative roll call vote of five
(5) or more members of the Council.
   (b)   No contract shall be made with any person who is in default to the
city.
   (c)   No exclusive contract shall be made with any person except for the
normal purchasing of supplies and equipment, the making and acquisition of
public improvements, and such as may be authorized by this charter.
   (d)   No extra compensation shall be paid to any public officer, agent,
employee or contractor after the service has been rendered or the contract
entered into.
   (e)   No contract shall be amended after it has been made, except upon
authority of five (5) or more members of the Council.
SECTION 11.4.  BUSINESS DEALING WITH CITY.
   An officer or employee of the city who intends to have business dealings
with the city, whereby he may derive any income or benefits other than such as
are provided as remuneration for his official duties or employment, shall file
with the Clerk a statement, under oath, setting forth the nature of such
business dealings, and his interest therein.  The statement shall be filed with
the Clerk not less than ten (10) days before the date when action may be taken
by the Council or any other agency of the city upon the matter involved.  The
statement shall be spread upon the proceedings of the Council for the meeting
at which it is received and published in full therewith.  In each case where
the type of dealings with the city is on a continuing basis involving more than
one or a sequence of transactions, described in the statement, each such
statement shall stand for and apply to such transactions for a period of one
year and may be renewed at the end of each one-year period for so long as such
transactions continue.  Each such renewal shall be spread upon the proceedings
of the Council and published as in the case of the original statement.
   In the event that the interest of any officer or employee of the city in any
business dealings with the city changes at any time, he shall file a statement
thereof, which shall be spread upon the proceedings of the Council and
published as herein required.  Approval of any such business dealings shall
require a concurring vote of five (5) members of the Council.  No member of the
Council may vote on any question upon which he has a direct or indirect
financial interest.  Any business dealings made in violation of this section
shall be void.
CHAPTER 12:
ELECTIONS
SECTION 12.1.  QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   Each person residing within the city who has the qualifications of an
elector in the State of Michigan, or who will have such qualifications as of
the time of the election in which he seeks to vote, shall be entitled to
register as an elector of the city, as provided for by the general state law.
SECTION 12.2.  ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   The election of all city officers as provided in this charter shall be on a
non-partisan basis.  The general election laws of the state shall apply to and
control, as near as may be, all procedures relating to registration and city
elections except as such general laws relate to political parties or partisan
procedure and except as otherwise provided in this charter.
SECTION 12.3.  REGULAR ELECTIONS.
   A regular city election shall be held on the Tuesday succeeding the first
Monday in November of every odd-numbered year.
SECTION 12.4.  PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   A city primary election shall be held on the Tuesday following the first
Monday in August of each odd-numbered year unless otherwise provided in this
charter.
SECTION 12.5.  SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   Special city elections shall be hald when called by resolution of the
Council, adopted at least sixty (60) days in advance of such election.  Any
resolution calling a special election shall set forth the purpose of such
election.
SECTION 12.6.  ELECTION COMMISSION.
   An election commission, consisting of the City Clerk, who shall be the
chairman, and four qualified electors of the city, is hereby created.  Said
electors, during their tenure in office, shall not be city officials or
employees or candidates for elective office in city elections.  The Council
shall make initial appointments to the election commission at least ninety (90)
days prior to the regular city election, two for terms of one year and two for
terms of three years.  Thereafter, appointments shall be for four-year terms.
   The election commission shall have charge of all activities and duties
required of it by law relating to the conduct of elections in the city.  In any
case where election procedure is in doubt, the election commission shall
prescribe the procedure to follow.
SECTION 12.7.  NOMINATING PETITIONS.
   A person desiring to qualify himself or another person as a candidate for
elective office under this charter shall file with the City Clerk a nominating
petition therefor, signed by not less than one-half of one (1/2 of 1%) per cent
of the vote for the office of Secretary of State in the city at the last
election at which Secretary of State was elected, but in no case less than ten
signatures.  Signers shall be registered electors of the city.  Blank
nomination petitions, in substantially the same form as required by law for
non-partisan nomination petitions, shall be prepared and furnished by the City
Clerk.
   Such petitions shall be filed with the City Clerk by 4:00 o’clock p.m. on
the seventh (7th) Tuesday prior to the odd-year primary election date. 
Nominating petitions for the purpose of filling a vacancy shall so state in
connection with the name of the office for which they are to be used.  No
person shall sign his name to a greater number of petitions for any one office
than there are candidates to be elected to said office.  Where any name appears
on more petitions than there are candidates to be elected to said office, such
name shall not be counted on any petition for that office.
SECTION 12.8.  LIMITATION ON CANDIDACY.
   No person shall qualify as a candidate for more than one elective office
under this charter in any given election.
SECTION 12.9.  APPROVAL OF PETITIONS.
   The Clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform with the
forms provided and maintained by him, and which considered together contain the
required number of valid signatures for candidates having those qualifications
required for the respective elective city offices by this charter.  When a
petition is filed by persons other than the person whose name appears thereon
as a candidate, it may be accepted only when accompanied by the written consent
of the candidate.  The Clerk shall within five (5) days after the filing of
petition notify in writing any candidate whose petition is then known not to
meet the requirements of this section, but the failure to so notify any
candidate shall in no way prevent a final determination that the petition does
not meet such requirements.  If he finds that any petition does not contain the
required number of genuine signatures of registered electors of the city or
district involved, he shall immediately notify the candidate in writing of the
insufficiency of his petition. No additional signatures on any petition shall
be received by the Clerk after the final date and time fixed for filing
nomination petitions.  Within five days after the last date for filing
petitions, the Clerk shall make his final determinations as to the validity and
sufficiency of each nomination petition and whether or not the candidate has
the qualifications required for the respective city office by this charter and
shall write his determinations thereof on the face of the petition and shall
notify in writing the candidate whose name appears thereon of his
determinations.
SECTION 12.10.  PROCEDURE AT PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   (a)   If, upon the expiration of the time for filing nomination petitions
for any elective city office, petitions have been filed for no more than twice
the number of candidates for such office to be elected at the next city
election, then no primary election shall be held in respect to such office, and
the Clerk shall publish notice of this fact.
   (b)   No person shall vote for more candidates for nomination for any office
at a primary election than there will be persons elected to that office at the
following election.
   (c)   Candidates in number to twice the number of persons to be elected to
each city office at the following election who receive the highest number of
votes at any such primary election shall be declared the nominees for election
to the respective office for which they are candidates.  The names of such
nominees, together with the names of persons for whom petitions have been filed
for office with respect to which no primary election was held, shall be
certified by the Clerk to the Election Commission to be placed upon the ballot
for the following regular city election.
SECTION 12.11.  FORM OF BALLOTS.
   The form, printing and numbering of ballots used in any city primary
election and election shall conform, as nearly as may be, to that prescribed by
law, except that no party designation or emblem shall appear thereon.  The
names of qualified nominees for each office shall be listed on the ballot under
a separate heading for each office and shall be so rotated on the ballots that,
insofar as possible, the name of each candidate will appear first on the ballot
under the office he seeks an equal number of times.
SECTION 12.12.  CANVASS OF VOTERS.
   A Board of Canvassers shall be provided in accordance with state law and
shall publicly canvass the election returns, determine the vote upon all
questions and propositions, and declare whether the same have been adopted or
rejected and what persons have been elected at such election.
SECTION 12.13.  RECALL.
   Every elective office of the city is subject to recall by the qualified
voters of the city in the manner and at the time provided by the general laws
of the State of Michigan.  A vacancy created by the recall of any elected
official shall be filled in the manner prescribed by law.
CHAPTER 13:
UTILITY FRANCHISES AND MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
SECTION 13.1.  PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISES.
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to
the right of the city:
   (1)   To repeal the same for misuse, or non-use, or for failure to comply
with the provisions thereof;
   (2)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant and service
maintenance thereof at the highest practical standard of efficiency;
   (3)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products,
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (4)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (5)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the Council
to be conducive to the safety, welfare, and accommodation of the public.
   (6)   To require the public utility to which any franchise is granted, to
permit joint use of its property and appurtenances located in the streets,
alleys, and public places of the city by the city and other utilities insofar
as such joint use may be reasonably practicable and upon payment of reasonable
rental therefor; provided that, in the absence of agreement, upon application
by the public utility, the Council shall provide for arbitration of the terms
and conditions of such joint use and the compensation to be paid therefor;
   (7)   To pay such part of the cost of improvement or maintenance of the
streets, alleys, bridges and public places of the city as shall arise from its
use thereof, and to protect and save the city harmless from all damages arising
from said use; and
   (8)   Require the public utility to file with the city such drawings and
maps of the location and nature of its facilities and as the Council may
request.
SECTION 13.2.  LIMITATIONS ON THE GRANTING OF FRANCHISES.
   No franchise shall be granted by the city for a terms exceeding thirty (30)
years and no exclusive franchise or contract in the nature of a franchise shall
ever be granted.  Each franchise shall include a provision requiring the
franchise to take effect at the end of an existing franchise.  An irrevocable
franchise and any extension or amendment of such franchise may not be granted
by the city, unless the ordinance granting such franchise has first received
the affirmative vote of at least three-fifths (3/5) of the electors of the city
voting thereon at a regular or special city election.  An irrevocable franchise
ordinance may be approved by the Council, for referral to the electorate, only
after a public hearing has been held thereon and after the grantee named
therein has filed with the Clerk his unconditional acceptance of all the terms
of the franchise.
SECTION 13.3.  PROCEDURE FOR GRANTING FRANCHISES.
   Every ordinance granting a franchise, license or right to occupy or use
streets, alleys, bridges or public places, shall remain on file with the Clerk
for public inspection in its final form for at least thirty (30) days before
the final adoption thereof, or the approval thereof for referral to the
electorate.
SECTION 13.4.  SALE OR ASSIGNMENT OF FRANCHISES.
   The grantee of a franchise may not sell, assign, sublet or allow another to
use the same, unless the Council gives its consent and approves the vendee,
assignee, subleasee or person using the franchise.  In the case of utilities
which supply electricity, gas and communication services within the city,
Council consent shall not be required in any case where the approval of the
Michigan Public Service Commission is given.  Nothing in this section shall
limit the right of the grantee of any public utility franchise to, in good
faith, mortgage its property or franchise nor shall it restrict the rights of
the purchaser, upon foreclosure sale, to operate the same, except that such
mortgage purchaser shall be subject to the terms of the franchise and
provisions of this chapter.
SECTION 13.5.  PLANS OF FACILITIES IN STREETS AND PUBLIC PLACES.
   The Council may, by ordinance, require, as a condition to the placing or
installment thereof, that each public utility conducting a business in the
city, file with the city a duplicate copy of layout plans of pipes, conduits,
and other facilities which are to be placed on, under or above the surface of
the city’s streets, alleys, bridges and public places.
SECTION 13.6.  GENERAL POWERS RESPECTING UTILITIES.
   The city shall possess and hereby reserve to itself all the powers granted
to cities by law to acquire, construct, own, operate, improve, enlarge, extend,
repair and maintain utility plants, systems and facilities which cities are
permitted by law to own and operate, either within or without its corporate
limits, including, but not by the way of limitation, public utilities for
supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage treatment and garbage disposal
facilities, or any of them, for the benefit of the municipality and the
inhabitants thereof; and also to sell and deliver water, light, heat, power,
gas, and other public utility services without its corporate limits to an
amount not to exceed the limitations set by law or in accordance with law.
SECTION 13.7.  MANAGEMENT OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   Each municipally owned utility shall be administered as a department of the
city government.  The Council upon the recommendation of the Mayor may provide
for the administration of two or more utilities by a single department.  The
city may require each utility owned by it to pay into the general fund of the
city from its earnings a sum annually equal to what it would have paid in
property taxes were it on the assessment roll as a non-municipally owned
utility.
SECTION 13.8.  RATES.
   The Council shall have the power to fix, from time to time, such just and
reasonable rates as may be deemed proper for supplying the inhabitants of the
city and others with such utility services as the city may provide.
SECTION 13.9.  UTILITY RATES, CHARGES AND COLLECTION.
   (a)   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for the collection of all
public utility rates and charges of the city.  Such ordinance shall provide:
      (1)   Whenever permitted by law, that the city shall have a s security
for the collection of such utility rates and charges a lien upon the real
property supplied by such utility, which lien shall become effective
immediately upon the supplying of such utility service and shall be enforced in
the manner provided in such ordinance;
      (2)   The terms and conditions under which utility services may be
discontinued in case of delinquency in paying such rates or charges.
   (b)   With respect to water, the city shall have all the powers granted to
cities by Act 178 of the Public Acts of 1939, of the State of Michigan.
SECTION 13.10.  DISPOSAL OF UTILITY PLANTS AND PROPERTY.
   Unless approved by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon at a
regular or special election, the city shall not sell, exchange, lease or in any
way dispose of any property, easement, equipment, privilege, or asset belonging
to and appertaining to any municipally owned utility.  All contracts,
negotiations, licenses, grants, leases or other forms of transfer in violation
of this section shall be void.  The prohibition of this section shall not apply
to the sale or exchange of any article of machinery or equipment of and city-
owned utility which are worn out, or useless, or which have been or which, with
advantage to the service, could be replaced by new and improved machinery or
equipment.
SECTION 13.11.  UTILITY ACCOUNTS.
   Transactions pertaining to the ownership and operation by the city of each
public utility shall be recorded in a separate group of accounts under an
appropriate fund caption, which accounts shall be classified in accordance with
generally accepted utility accounting practice.  Charges for all service
furnished to, or rendered by, other city departments or agencies, shall be
recorded.  An annual report shall be prepared to show fairly the financial
position of the utility and the results of its operation, which report shall be
available for inspection at the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 14:
TRANSITION SCHEDULE
SECTION 14.1.  STATUS OF TRANSITION SCHEDULE CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this chapter is to inaugurate the government of the City of
Burton under this charter and to provide for the transition from the former
Township of Burton to a home-rule government under the provisions of this
charter.  It shall constitute a part of the charter of the City of Burton only
to the extent and for the time required to accomplish that end.
SECTION 14.2.  ELECTION TO ADOPT CHARTER.
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the
territory comprising the proposed City of Burton as described in Section
1.2 of this charter, at a special election to be held on Tuesday, May 16,
1972.  All provisions for said election shall be made in the manner provided by
law.  If, at such election, a majority of the ballots cast are in favor of the
adoption of this charter, the Secretary of the Charter Commission shall do and
perform all other acts which are required by law to carry this charter into
effect and to consummate the incorporation of the City of Burton.
SECTION 14.3.  FORM OF BALLOT.
   The form of the ballot for the submission of this charter shall be as
follows:
   Instructions:  A cross (x) in the square  after the word “Yes” is in favor
of the proposed Charter, and a cross (x) in the square  after the word “No” is
against the proposed Charter.
   Shall the proposed Charter for the City of Burton drafted by the Charter
Commission elected on April 13, 1971, be adopted?
      Yes. 
      No. 
SECTION 14.4.  ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   (a)   At the election upon the adoption of this charter, the first elective
officers of the city under this charter, viz; a Mayor and seven councilmen,
shall be elected.  Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the nomination
and election of such first elective officers shall conform to the requirements
and procedures set forth in
Chapter 12 of this charter, but no primary shall be held in connection
therewith.  The last day and time for filing nomination petitions shall be
Tuesday, March 28, 1972, at 4:00 p.m.
   (b)   Election Commission -- The Charter Commission of the City of Burton
shall be the Election Commission for this election.  The Chairman of the
Charter Commission shall be Chairman of the Election Commission, and the
Secretary of the Charter Commission shall act as Secretary of the Election
Commission and shall perform such duties in connection with the work of the
Commission as are prescribed by the Commission and this charter.  Said
Secretary shall arrange for nominating petitions, for the publication and
posting of all notices required by law, and shall sign all such notices as
“Secretary of the Charter Commission and Election Commission, City of Burton”. 
Said Secretary shall, under the direction of the special Election Commission,
make all necessary provisions for the preparation and conduct of said election.
SECTION 14.5.  CANVASS OF VOTES.
   (a)   The results of the election provided for in this chapter shall be
canvassed by the County Board of Canvassers.
   (b)   If the canvass of the votes cast at such election shows this charter
to have been adopted, the votes cast for the first city officers shall then be
canvassed.  The persons receiving the highest number of votes cast for the
offices of Mayor and seven (7) councilmen shall be declared to have been
elected to the offices to which they were candidates for election.
   (c)   If the canvass of the votes cast at such election shows this charter
not to have been adopted, the votes cast for the office of Mayor only shall
then be canvassed.  The person receiving the highest number of votes cast for
that office shall be declared to have been elected to the office of de facto
Mayor in accordance with and possessed of the powers provided by law.
SECTION 14.6.  EFFECTIVE DATE OF CHARTER.
   If the canvass of the votes cast at such election shows this charter to have
been adopted, then said charter shall be filed with the Secretary of State in
accordance with law and shall take effect thereafter as the Charter of the City
of Burton on July 1, 1972, at which time the existence of the Township of
Burton shall cease and the authority of its officers over the territory
comprising the City of Burton shall cease and be superceded by that of the
officers of the City of Burton.
SECTION 14.7.  TERMS OF OFFICE OF FIRST CITY OFFICERS ELECTED.
   (a)   The term of office of each officer of the city elected at such
election shall commence at 8:00 p.m. on the effective date of this charter, and
the Mayor and each councilman shall hold the office to which he has been
elected until his successor has been elected and has qualified for the office
in accordance with the provisions of this charter.
   (b)   Thereafter, the successors of all such officers shall be elected at
the regular city elections provided by this charter, and shall hold office for
the term established thereby.
SECTION 14.8.  FIRST MEETING OF CITY OFFICERS ELECTED.
   On or before the effective date of this charter, each person who is elected
to an office of the city shall appear before the chairman of the Charter
Commission for the City of Burton and take and subscribe to his oath of
office.  The subscribed copy of each such oath shall be filed with the City
Clerk within ten (10) days after the effective date of this charter.  The first
officers of the city shall assemble at the City Hall (formerly the Burton
Township Hall) at 8:00 p.m. on July 1, 1972.  The meeting shall be called to
order by the chairman of the Charter Commission, who shall introduce the new
officers to each other and to the public, and call the Mayor to chair the
meeting until a President of the Council is chosen.  At such meeting, the
Council shall determine their order of business and do and perform such acts as
are required to establish the government of the city.
SECTION 14.9.  CONTINUATION OF APPOINTED OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, after the effective date of this
charter, all appointive officers and all employees of the City of Burton shall
continue in that city office or employment which they held prior to the
effective date of the charter until reappointed or replaced, and they shall in
all respects be subject to the provisions of this charter.  The compensation of
such personnel shall be that received by them as township employees, except as
otherwise provided by the Council.
SECTION 14.10.  TOWNSHIP ASSETS AND LIABILITIES.
   (a)   On the effective date of this charter, all of the financial and other
assets and property of the Township of Burton, including special assessments
levied and all delinquent taxes and other obligations owed to the township,
shall become the assets of the city, as the successor to such government,
subject to such encumbrances as may exist against any of them and the payment
of the principal of and the interest on any bonds which have been issued by the
said township, and for payment of any indebtedness incurred by it.  Such
financial assets shall be available for the use of the city.  Until funds are
appropriated by the city, the expenses of the government of the city shall be
paid out of the financial assets of the city received from the said township,
and shall be deemed to have been appropriated for the defraying of such
expenses.
   (b)   No right or liability, lease or franchise, or contract existing at the
time this charter became effective, and no suit or prosecution of any character
by or against said township shall be affected in any manner by any change
resulting from the incorporation of territory in said township as a city, but
the same shall stand or proceed as if no change had been made and shall run to
or against the city, as the case may be, as the successor municipality of the
territory in the said township.
   (c)   All trusts established for any municipal purpose of said township
shall be continued as trusts for the city in accordance with the terms thereof,
subject to the cy pres doctrine.
   (d)   The first Council shall provide for the defraying of the expenses of
incorporating the city, including such as were incurred by the County of
Genesee, and any other person or agency, whether governmental or private.
SECTION 14.11.  INTERIM TAXATION.
   The Council shall have authority to levy taxes in accordance with law and
subject to limitations provided by this charter, so to provide funds for
operation of the city government during that interim period that exists between
the varying fiscal years of the township and the city.
INDEX
ASSESSOR,
6.8
ATTORNEY,
6.5
BOARD OF REVIEW,
8.4 -
8.7
BUDGET,
7.2 -
7.6
BUSINESS DEALS WITH CITY,
11.4
CLERK,
6.4
   Deputies,
6.7
COUNCIL
   Contract authority,
11.1
   Meetings,
4.7
   Organization,
4.4
   Prohibition as to interference with employees,
4.8
   Utility rates,
13.8
ELECTIONS, Chapter 12
   Nominating petitions,
12.7
   Primary elections,
12.4,
12.10
   Regular elections,
12.3
   Special elections,
12.5
FINANCE, Chapter 7
FIRE DEPARTMENT,
6.10
JEOPARDY ASSESSMENT
   Personal property tax,
8.13
MAYOR
   Annual report,
7.13
   Authority,
4.5,
6.3
   Succession,
4.6
   Veto authority,
5.7
NEPOTISM,
6.15
OFFICERS,
3.1
   Administrative officers,
6.1
      Appointment,
6.2
   Eligibility for appointive office,
3.3
   Eligibility for elective office,
3.2
   Term of elected officers,
4.2
ORDINANCES
   Adoption,
5.3
   Effective date/emergency,
5.5
PENALTIES FOR VIOLATION,
1.6
POLICE DEPARTMENT,
6.9
POWERS OF CITY
   General powers,
2.1
   Permitted powers,
2.2
REAL ESTATE
   Sale of,
11.3,
13.10
REFERENDUM,
5.10 -
5.14
SALE OF REAL ESTATE (See REAL ESTATE)
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS, Chapter 9
TAX LIEN,
8.12
   Special assessments,
9.5
   Utility collection,
13.9
TREASURER,
6.6
   Deputies,
6.7
UTILITIES, Chapter 13
   Accounts,
13.11
   Rates,
13.8
VACANCIES IN OFFICE,
3.10
   Filling vacancies,
3.14
   Recall,
3.13,
12.13
   Removal from office,
3.12
   Resignations,
3.11
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.19   Authority to issue appearance tickets
§ 10.01   TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Burton, Michigan,
shall be designated as the Burton City Code and may be so cited.
§ 10.02   INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein or by law or implication required, the same
rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03   APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I, compatible with future legislation, shall apply
to ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04   CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code, other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers, are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05   DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain,
ordinary, and usual sense.  However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      CITY.  The City of Burton, Michigan.
      CITY COUNCIL.  The City Council of Burton, Michigan.
      CODE, THIS CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY CODE, or BURTON CITY
CODE.  This municipal code as modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of
new titles, chapters, or sections.
      COUNTY.  Genesee County, Michigan.
      MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
      MONTH.  A calendar month.
      OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath; and, in those cases, the words SWEAR and SWORN
shall be equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
      OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer,
office, employee, commission, or department of the municipality unless the
context clearly requires otherwise.
      PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver.  Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER, as applied to
any unincorporated entity, shall mean the partners or members thereof, and, as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
      PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
      SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
      SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE.  The State of Michigan.
      SUBCHAPTER.  A subsection of a chapter, designated in this code by a
heading in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the
chapter, setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the
heading.  Not all chapters have SUBCHAPTERS.
      WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
      YEAR.  A calendar year unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06   RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules unless that construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance.
   (A)   AND or OR.  Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants.  When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses.  Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term.  A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07   SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08   REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever, in a section, reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09   REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of the municipality exercising the powers, duties,
or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10   ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the word or
words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published.  No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
the error.
§ 10.11   OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12   REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last.  If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13   ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14   ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15   EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless declared to be an emergency ordinance as provided in Section
5.3(b) of the Burton City Charter, no ordinance shall become effective earlier
than 15 days after enactment. (See Charter Section
5.5.) All ordinances requiring publication shall not take effect until after
publication thereof.
§ 10.16   REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the ordinance repealing or
modifying it takes effect.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17   ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section.  In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18   SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the amending ordinances, if any, are listed
following the text of the code section.
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute. 
Example:  (M.C.L.A. § 15.231)
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.  Example:
   § 39.01  PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      Inspection of public records, see Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 15.231 et seq.
§ 10.19   AUTHORITY TO ISSUE APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following employees shall be responsible for the enforcement of the
ordinances and codes of the city and are hereby authorized and empowered to
issue and serve appearance tickets:
   (A)   Police officers, including the Chief, all lieutenants and sergeants;
   (B)   Director and Assistant Director of the Department of Public Works;
   (C)   Superintendent of the Inspection/Sewer Department;
   (D)   Sanitary sewer senior technician/operators;
   (E)   Sanitary sewer service maintenance;
   (F)   Superintendent of the Water Department;
   (G)   Superintendent/Foreperson of the Street Department;
   (H)   Zoning Administrator;
   (I)   Building Inspectors;
   (J)   Code Enforcement Officers; and
   (K)   Fire Chief and Assistant Fire Chief.
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   CITY GOVERNMENT
         
31.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AUTHORITIES
         
32.   FINANCE
         
33.   CITY POLICIES
CHAPTER 30:
CITY GOVERNMENT
Section
   
30.01   City Council meetings; location and notice
   
30.02   City primary election date
   
30.03   Administrative officers; compensation and benefits adopted
   
30.03.5   Contract employees
   
30.04   Code of Ethics
Cross-reference:
   Authority to issue appearance tickets, see §
10.19
§ 30.01   CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS; LOCATION AND NOTICE.
   (A)   All meetings, both regular and special, of the City Council shall be
held in the City Council Chamber located at 4303 S. Center Road, Burton, MI
48519; or the Senior Citizens Activity Center, 3410 S. Grand Traverse, Burton,
MI 48529; or the Police and Fire Administration Building, 4090 Manor Drive,
Burton, MI 48519.
   (B)   The location of all special and regular meetings of the City Council
shall be determined by the Mayor or Council and notice of the location of all
meetings shall be made in a timely manner in accordance with the provisions of
the City Charter and applicable state law.
   (C)   Nothing herein shall prevent the City Council from holding public
hearings and informational sessions at locations other than those set forth in
subsection (A) of this section, so long as no official Council action takes
place at those hearings or sessions.
§ 30.02   CITY PRIMARY ELECTION DATE.
   The city primary election shall be held on the Tuesday following the first
Monday in August in each odd-numbered year as provided in City Charter §
12.4.
§ 30.03   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS; COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The annual salary of the Clerk of the City of Burton shall be an
amount determined by the Mayor not in excess of the following amounts for the
periods set forth:
      (1)   July 1, 2021 — $70,000.
      (2)   December 31, 2021 — $72,000.
      (3)   December 31, 2022 — $75,000 until modified by ordinance.
   (B)   The annual salary of the Treasurer of the City of Burton shall be an
amount determined by the Mayor not in excess of the following amounts for the
periods set forth:
      (1)   Effective July 1, 2021 — $71,000.
      (2)   Effective December 31, 2021 — $73,000.
      (3)   Effective December 31, 2022 — $75,000 until modified by ordinance.
   (C)   The annual salary of the Assessor of the City of Burton shall be an
amount determined by the Mayor not in excess of the following amounts for the
periods set forth:
      (1)   July 1, 2021 — $80,000.
      (2)   December 31, 2021 — $83,000.
      (3)   December 31, 2022 — $86,000 until modified by ordinance.
   (D)   The annual salary of the Chief of Police of the City of Burton shall
be an amount determined by the Mayor in accordance with the following:
      (1)   December 17, 2018 — $70,169.55.
      (2)   Effective January 1, 2019 the base salary upon appointment shall be
$92,000.00.
      (3)   Effective December 31, 2019 and upon fulfillment of 12 months of
continuous service as Chief of Police, the salary shall not exceed $93,500.
      (4)   Effective December 31, 2020 and upon fulfillment of 24 months of
continuous service as Chief of Police, the salary shall not exceed $95,000.
   (E)   The annual salary of the Fire Chief of the City of Burton shall be an
amount determined by the Mayor not in excess of the following amounts for the
periods set forth:
      (1)   Effective July 1, 2021 — $73,000.
      (2)   Effective December 31, 2021 — $75,000.
      (3)   Effective December 31, 2022 — $78,000 until modified by ordinance.
   (F)   The compensation for the City Attorney of the City of Burton shall be
an amount determined by the Council not in excess of the following amounts for
the periods set forth: July 1, 2021 until modified by ordinance: $140 per hour.
   (G)   All administrative officers, except the City Attorney, shall receive
the following fringe benefits in addition to the annual salaries. The fringe
benefits to be provided to any administrative officer who is not employed on a
full time basis with the city shall be established and revised from time to
time by the City Council upon recommendation of the Mayor. The City Attorney
may participate in group life insurance, health care insurance and/or dental
insurance benefits at his or her own personal expense.
      (1)   Group life insurance.  April 1, 2004 until modified by ordinance:
         (a)   Employee: $120,000.00.
         (b)   Spouse: $12,000.00.
         (c)   Dependent: $6,000.00.
      (2)   Health care coverage.
         (a)   Except as provided in Subsection (G)(2)(g) below, the City of
Burton shall provide health care coverage for its administrators and their
families. The health care provider, the annual deductibles not funded by the
employer, and the co-pay requirements for medical services and prescriptions
shall be determined annually by resolution of the City Council and will be in
conformance with the requirements of Act 152 of 2011, as it may be amended from
time to time.
         (b)   Except as provided in Subsection (G)(2)(g) below health care
coverage benefits shall be effective for newly appointed administrators and
their families upon completion of 90 calendar days of employment,  except that
this 90 day waiting period shall be waived for any current full time City of
Burton employee who is appointed to an administrator’s position so as to
prevent any lapse in health care coverage for that appointee.
         (c)   Administrators with a minimum of 1 year of service electing not
to receive health care benefits which they would otherwise be entitled to
receive, shall instead be entitled to receive $1,500 annually once off the
health insurance plan for 12 consecutive months. All payments shall be
calculated on a pro rated basis.
         (d)   Except as provided in Subsection (G)(2)(g) below the employer
shall provide nonunion administrators who retire having a minimum of 15 years
of service with the City of Burton and who are otherwise qualified to draw
pension benefits by fulfilling either age and service requirements, or by
having a duty disability under the terms of the applicable pension plan, the
following health insurance coverages:
            1.   One hundred percent of the premium for the current single
coverage;
            2.   Eighty percent of the premium for 2 persons or couple; and
            3.   Sixty percent of the premium for a family coverage.
         (e)   Any administrator retiree receiving health care benefits from
the city shall be required, to apply for Medicare at its first availability. At
that point, the employer’s exposure to retiree health care premiums shall be
limited to the cost of the Medicare supplement (B). All of the employer’s
exposure comes from the retiree health care fund. In the event retiree becomes
deceased prior to being eligible for Medicare, the surviving spouse and
qualified dependents shall receive single coverage as provided above, until
either of the following occurs:
            1.   The surviving spouse remarries:
            2.   The surviving spouse becomes eligible for medicare; or
            3.   The surviving spouse has coverage elsewhere;
         (f)   Upon the appointment of an administrator the city shall only
negotiate an Employment Agreement if the terms differ from those set forth in
this ordinance. Such agreements shall be approved by the City Council prior to
the Administrator being sworn into office.
         (g)   Administrators receiving health care benefits through another
employer or a former employer at the time of that administrator’s date of
employment with the City of Burton shall not be provided with health care
coverage benefits by the City of Burton.
      (3)   Dental insurance. The City of Burton’s health care benefits shall
include dental insurance coverage for its administrators eligible for such
benefits. Specific coverages, costs and co-pays shall be determined annually by
resolution of the City Council, and will be in conformance with the
requirements of Act 152 of 2011, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Disability insurance. Administrators shall receive 100% payment of
salary and benefits for a period of 30 days while off work due to disability;
thereafter the benefit shall be 2/3 of the administrator’s regular salary for a
period not to exceed one year from the date of the first day of disability
leave.
      (5)   Paid sick and/or personal days. March 8, 2005 until modified by
ordinance: 10 days per calendar year. Unused sick/personal days will be
compensated at 100% of their monetary value.
      (6)   Pension benefits. All new administrators hired after July 1, 2006
shall be enrolled into a MERS Defined Contribution Plan with a 15% contribution
from the city. Individuals who are appointed to administrator positions from
existing employment with the city, and who were hired before July 2006 may,
however, be permitted to participate in the retirement system in which they
participated prior to promotion, on the same terms and conditions as may be set
by the city from time to time.
         (a)   Those administrative officers who elected to remain in the
defined contribution plan shall receive a pension deposit equal to the amount
calculated for the MERS participant less the wage differential for a MERS
participant. Administrative officers employed subsequent to the effective date
of March 1, 1992, shall be required to participate in a MERS retirement
program. Buying of other service is at the full expense of the employee. To the
MERS resolution of February 3, 1992 add FAC-3 effective August 1, 1992, and add
F50/25 effective January 1, 2001.
         (b)   All new administrators hired after July 1, 2006 shall be
enrolled into a MERS Defined Contribution Plan with a 15% contribution from the
city.
      (7)   Vacation leave.  March 1, 2004 until modified by ordinance:
eligible on current calendar year per seniority:
         (a)   Six months to 1 year: 1 working day per month maximum of 10
days.
         (b)   One year to 4 years: 15 working days.
         (c)   Five years to 7 years: 21 working days.
         (d)   Eight years to 11 years: 26 working days.
         (e)   Twelve years to 19 years: 28 working days.
         (f)   Twenty years to 25 years: 30 working days.
         (g)   New administrative officers hired after the adoption of this
section (March 7, 2004) shall receive a maximum of 15 vacation days to be taken
within the calendar year, with no monetary value. This subsection (7) schedule
will not apply to new administrative officers.
      (8)   Optical benefits. January 1, 2001 until modified by ordinance:
reimbursements for optical not to exceed $500 per year.
      (9)   Unused sick/personal days and vacation days.
         (a)   Vacation days and unused sick/personal days must be used by
December 31, 2004 or by December 31 of any subsequent calendar year in which
they are accumulated. Such days may not be carried over from year to year.
Vacation days unused during the calendar year shall be forfeited and there will
be no monetary compensation. Unused sick/personal days will be paid out as
indicated in subsection (G)(5) above.
         (b)   If an administrative officer leaves the City of Burton, whether
voluntarily or involuntarily, he or she will not be paid for unused vacation
and sick days. In the event the Mayor cancels a scheduled vacation or does not
approve a request for vacation due to the needs of operation, the Mayor in his
or her sole discretion may approve payment for such unused days at the end of
the calendar year.
      (10)   Holidays. Administrative officers shall be entitled to the
following paid holidays:
         (a)   New Years Day;
         (b)   Good Friday;
         (c)   Memorial Day;
         (d)   Independence Day;
         (e)   Labor Day;
         (f)   Thanksgiving Day;
         (g)   Day after Thanksgiving;
         (h)   Day before Christmas;
         (i)   Christmas Day;
         (j)   New Years Eve; and
         (k)   Two floater days.
   (H)   All Council persons shall receive the following fringe benefits in
addition to their annual salaries which are established in accordance with
provisions of §
31.02.
      (1)   Group life insurance. Group life term benefits in the amount of
$50,000 shall be kept in force during each council person’s term of office.
      (2)   Health care coverage.
         (a)   The City of Burton shall provide health care coverage for its
City Council persons and their families. The health care provider, the annual
deductibles not funded by the employer, and the co-pay requirements for medical
services and prescriptions shall be determined annually by resolution of the
City Council and will be in conformance with the requirements of Act 152 of
2011, as it may be amended from time to time.
         (b)   City Council persons otherwise entitled to receive health care
benefits who elect not to receive such benefits shall be entitled to an annual
payment of $1,500.
      (3)   Dental insurance. The City of Burton’s health care benefits shall
include dental insurance coverage for its City Council persons eligible for
such benefits. Specific coverages, costs and co-pays shall be determined
annually by resolution of the City Council in conformance with the requirements
of Act 152 of 2011, as it may be amended from time to time.
      (4)   Retirement benefits. The city’s annual retirement contribution for
each City Council person shall be in an amount equal to 15% of the current wage
of the Council until such time as this shall be modified by ordinance.
      (5)   Optical benefits. January 1, 2001 until modified by ordinance:
reimbursements for optical not to exceed $500 per year.
   (I)   Compensation for Board of Review persons shall be as set forth:
      (1)   Each member of the City of Burton’s Board of Review shall receive
compensation at the rate of $150 per diem.
      (2)   Members of the Board of Review shall not receive any fringe
benefits in addition to their per diem compensation.
(Ord. 2018-2-30.03, passed 2-4-2019; Ord. 2018-3-30.03, passed 2-4-2019; Ord.
2019-1-30.03, passed 1-22-19; Ord. 2021-4-30.03, passed 4-19-2021; Ord. 2021-5-
30.03, passed 5-17-2021; Ord. 2021-6-30.03, passed 6-21-2021)
§ 30.03.5    CONTRACT EMPLOYEES.
   The Mayor may from time to time appoint interim or other contract employees
for specified duties for specified periods of time subject to the execution of
an employment agreement. Such employment shall not commence until such time as
an employment agreement shall be approved by the City Council.
§ 30.04   CODE OF ETHICS.
   (A)   All city employees and elected and appointed officers shall:
      (1)   Put loyalty to the highest moral principles and to country above
loyalty to persons, party, or government department;
      (2)   Uphold the Constitution, laws, and regulations of the U.S. and of
all governments therein and never be a party to their evasion;
      (3)   Give a full day’s labor for a full day’s pay; giving earnest effort
and best thought to the performance of duties;
      (4)   Seek to find and employ more efficient and economical ways of
getting tasks accomplished;
      (5)   Never discriminate unfairly by the dispensing of special favors or
privileges to anyone, whether for remuneration or not; and never accept, for
himself or herself or for family members, favors or benefits of such substance
as to induce action under circumstances which might be construed by reasonable
persons as influencing the performance of governmental duties;
      (6)   Make no private promises of any kind binding upon the duties of
office, since a government employee has no private word which can be binding on
public duty;
      (7)   Engage in no business with the city, either directly or indirectly,
which is inconsistent with the conscientious performance of governmental duties
or with the City Charter or state law;
      (8)   Never use any information gained confidentially in the performance
of governmental duties as a means of making private profit;
      (9)   Expose corruption wherever discovered; and
      (10)   Uphold these principles, ever conscious that public office is a
public trust.
   (B)   Prohibited Acts.
      (1)   Gratuities.
         (a)   No city officer, official or employee of the city shall solicit,
accept or receive, directly or indirectly, any gift whether in the form of
money, service, loan, travel, entertainment, hospitality, thing or promise, or
in any other form, under circumstances in which it can be reasonably be
inferred that the gift is intended to influence him or her in the performance
of their official duty/duties or is intended as a reward for any official
action on their part.
         (b)   This section is not intended to cover the following:
            1.   This section shall not prohibit a city officer, official,
candidate or employee from accepting minor gifts such as meals, awards, pens,
pencils, and other token items valued at $25 or less when the gift is extended
during the course of city business and no return promise is made by the
recipient.
            2.   This section shall not prevent any officer, official or
employee from accepting their regular compensation.
            3.   This section shall not prohibit nor discourage gifts and
charitable donations of money, goods or services which are given or donated to,
for, or on behalf of the City of Burton or for the public good.
      (2)   Preferential treatment. No city officer, official or employee of
the city shall use or attempt to use their official position to unreasonably
secure, request or grant, any privileges, exemptions, advantages, contracts, or
preferential treatment for themselves or others.
CHAPTER 31:
BOARDS, COMMISSIONS, AND AUTHORITIES
Section
   
31.01   Planning Commission
   
31.02   Officers Compensation Commission
   
31.03   Downtown Development Authority
§ 31.01   PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is established a city Planning Commission which shall perform
its duties and exercise its powers in accordance with Public Act 33 of 2008,
being the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, as amended.  In addition to the
duties and powers established in Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended, the city
Planning Commission shall perform all functions and duties delegated to it by
Chapter 157 of this code and shall perform those further and additional
functions as from time to time may be determined by the City Council.
   (B)   (1)   The Planning Commission shall consist of 9 members, 3 of whom
shall be ex officio members who shall have full voting rights. The 3 ex officio
members shall be the Mayor, the chief administrative official of the city or a
person designated by the chief administrative official, and 1 member of the
Burton City Council to be selected by resolution of the Council.
      (2)   The remaining 6 members of the Planning Commission shall be
appointed by the Mayor and shall be subject to the approval of the Burton City
Council by majority vote. All appointed members of the Commission may be
compensated at a rate to be determined by the City Council.
      (3)   All members of the Planning Commission shall be electors of the
city.
   (C)   (1)   The terms of the 3 ex officio members of the Planning Commission
shall be as follows:
         (a)   The term of the Mayor shall correspond to his or her term as
Mayor.
         (b)   The term of the chief administrative official shall expire with
the term of the Mayor that appointed him or her as chief administrative
official.
         (c)   The term of the member of the City Council shall expire with his
or her term on the Council.
      (2)   If a vacancy occurs on the Planning Commission, the vacancy shall
be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as provided for an original
appointment.
      (3)   A member shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed.
   (D)   The membership of the Planning Commission shall be representative of
important segments of the city, and shall to the extent practicable be
representative of the entire geography of the city.
   (E)   (1)   The members of the Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson
and secretary from its members, except that the 3 ex officio members may not
serve as chairperson. Term of office shall be 1 year.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall adopt by-laws for the transaction of
business, and shall keep a public record of its resolutions, transactions,
findings and determinations.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the
City Council concerning its operations and the status of planning activities.
   (F)   (1)   The City Council may remove a member of the Planning Commission
for misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office after written charges
have been provided to the Commissioner and after a public hearing has been
conducted.
      (2)   The failure to disclose a conflict of interest, or voting upon a
matter when a Commissioner has a conflict of interest which would have
otherwise disqualified him or her from voting, shall constitute malfeasance in
office.
§ 31.02   OFFICERS COMPENSATION COMMISSION.
   (A)   There is created a city Officers Compensation Commission which shall
determine the salaries of all elected city officials.
   (B)   The term of office of each Commissioner shall be 7 years, provided
that the members first appointed shall be appointed for terms of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5,
6, and 7 years.  All first members shall be appointed within 30 days subsequent
to the effective date of this section.  Hereafter, 1 member shall be appointed
before October 1 of each successive year for a term of office which shall
commence on November 1 of each successive year.
   (C)   No member or employee of the legislative, judicial, or executive
branch of any level of government or members of the immediate family of such a
member or employee shall be eligible to be a member of the Officers
Compensation Commission.
   (D)   The Commission shall, by resolution, determine the salaries of the
elected officials of the city which shall be the salaries of those officials.
   (E)   The Commission shall file its resolution of compensation with the City
Clerk within 3 days of its adoption.  The City Council may reject the
resolution of compensation by a resolution of rejection adopted by a 2/3 vote
of the members elected to and serving on the City Council.  The resolution of
compensation shall become effective 30 days after the filing of the resolution
with the City Clerk unless rejected by the City Council.  If rejected, the
existing salaries of elected officials shall prevail.
   (F)   Any expense allowance or reimbursement paid to elected officials in
addition to the salary determined by the Commission shall be for expenses
incurred in the course of city business and accounted for to the city.
   (G)   The Officers Compensation Commission shall meet for not more than 15
session days in 1978 and every odd-numbered year thereafter and shall make its
determination within 45 calendar days of its first meeting.  A majority of the
members of the Commission constitutes a quorum for conducting the business of
the Commission.  The Commission shall take no action or make determination
without a concurrence of a majority of the members appointed and serving on the
Commission.  The Commission shall elect a chairperson from among its members. 
The members shall receive no compensation but shall be entitled to actual and
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
   (H)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SESSION DAY.  Any calendar day on which the Commission meets and a quorum
is present.
§ 31.03   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   (A)   There is established the city Downtown Development Authority No. 1
pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 -
125.1680.
   (B)   The boundaries of the Downtown District within which the Authority
shall exercise its powers are designated.
   (C)   The Authority shall be under the support and control of a Board
consisting of the Mayor of the city and 8 members who shall be appointed by the
Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council.  Not less than 5 members of
the Board shall have an interest in property located in the district, and at
least 1 member of the Board shall be a resident in the district.
   (D)   The Authority shall have those powers as are now or may hereafter be
conferred on authorities established under Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1601 - 125.1680.
   (E)   The activities of the Authority shall be financed from 1 or more
sources as may be authorized pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1601 - 125.1680.
   (F)   Upon completion of the purposes for which this Authority was
organized, this Authority shall be dissolved by ordinance.  All property and
assets of the Authority remaining after the satisfaction of the obligations of
the Authority shall belong to the city.
CHAPTER 32:
FINANCE
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Authority to sign checks and drafts
   
32.02   Authority to participate in Fire Insurance Withholding Program
Purchasing; Expenditures
   
32.15   Appropriated funds; budgeted expenditures
   
32.16   Items over $25
   
32.17   Items under $25
   
32.18   Competitive bids
   
32.19   Sale of city property
   
32.20   Report of expenditures
   
32.21   Service and supply contracts
Cross-reference:
   Revenue bonds for construction of water and sewer systems, see Ord. No. 87
(C) set forth in the Table of Special Ordinances
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01   AUTHORITY TO SIGN CHECKS AND DRAFTS.
   (A)   The following administrative officers are authorized to sign all
checks and drafts drawn on the accounts of the city:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The Clerk; and
      (3)   The Treasurer.
   (B)   It shall be necessary to have the signatures of 2 of the above
administrative officers on all checks and drafts of the city.
§ 32.02   AUTHORITY TO PARTICIPATE IN FIRE INSURANCE WITHHOLDING PROGRAM.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 216 of 1998, as amended, the city shall
participate in the Fire Insurance Withholding Program.
   (B)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee of the Fire Department shall be
the Administrator of the Program for the city.
   (C)   The escrow account for the receipt of funds received pursuant to the
Program, initially established by resolution of the City Council, April 27,
1988, shall be maintained.
   (D)   (1)   For non-residential property damaged by fire or explosion, the
city shall receive 25% of the actual cash value of the insured real property at
the time of the loss, or 25% of the final settlement, whichever is less.
      (2)   For residential property damaged by fire or explosion, the funds
withheld from the property owner’s insurance settlement shall be the same as
for non-residential property, except that the amount to be paid by the city
shall not exceed $6,000, adjusted annually beginning June 1, 1999, in
accordance with the Consumer Price Index.
   (E)   All proceeds shall be retained in the escrow account referenced in §
93.32 and either paid to the insured or used to secured, repair or demolish the
damaged or destroyed structure, as provided by Public Act 216 of 1988, as
amended.
PURCHASING; EXPENDITURES
§ 32.15   APPROPRIATED FUNDS; BUDGETED EXPENDITURES.
   (A)   Following adoption of the city budget by the Council and appropriation
of funds pursuant thereto, the Mayor is authorized to make purchases for the
city and expend funds pursuant to operation of the city without prior
authorization of the Council; provided, that the total of those expenditures up
to the time of making the expenditure does not exceed the amount budgeted for
the purpose of the expenditure and does not exceed the amount previously
allocated by the Council.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any of the provisions contained herein, any amount
paid for services rendered by the City Attorney shall be reviewed and approved
by the City Council, by resolution, prior to payment.
§ 32.16   ITEMS OVER $25.
   (A)   Prior to making of any expenditure in excess of $25, the Mayor shall
issue a written order directing the payment of the expenditure, which order
shall identify the item in the budget to which the expenditure shall be
charged.
   (B)   Checks for the disbursement of city funds issued pursuant to the
Mayor’s order shall be signed by the Clerk and countersigned by the Treasurer
unless either of them shall be absent or otherwise unable to sign the checks,
in which event the signature of any 2 of the following persons shall permit the
issuance of a check in disbursement of funds:
      (1)   The Mayor;
      (2)   The Clerk;
      (3)   The Treasurer;
      (4)   The Deputy Clerk; and
      (5)   The Deputy Treasurer.
§ 32.17   ITEMS UNDER $25.
   Expenditures of city funds of $25 or less may be made by check or by cash
from petty cash for city expenditures without prior order of the Mayor by any
of the following persons:
   (A)   The Mayor;
   (B)   The Clerk;
   (C)   The Treasurer;
   (D)   The Deputy Clerk;
   (E)   The Deputy Treasurer; and
   (F)   One regular full time clerical employee designated by the Mayor.
§ 32.18   COMPETITIVE BIDS.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   The Mayor may order the expenditure of funds for purchase
of items included within a budget classification, which classification has been
previously budgeted and for which funds have been allocated by the Council, in
any amount up to and including $5,000 without taking competitive bids therefor.
         (b)   Purchases of such budgeted items in excess of $5,000, but not in
excess of $10,000 shall not be made except following the taking of competitive
bids therefor; however, the Mayor shall not be obligated to accept the lowest
bid, or any bid, but may accept the bid which is in the judgment of the Mayor
the lowest responsible bid most capable of satisfying the needs of the city.
         (c)   Purchases of such budgeted items in excess of $10,000 shall be
made only after sealed competitive bids are received by the Mayor; however, the
Mayor shall not be obligated to accept the lowest bid, or any bid, but may
accept the bid which is in the judgment of the Mayor the lowest responsible bid
most capable of satisfying the needs of the city.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the requirements for competitive bids contained
in sub-paragraphs (b) and (c) above, such goods or services, previously
budgeted and for which funds have been allocated by the Council may instead be
purchased by way of a cooperative purchasing process with other governmental
units or agencies such as (by way of example) MiDeal, GSA, or National Joint
Powers Alliance  (NJPA).
      (2)   Award to other than the low bidder. From the bidders so determined
to be responsible, the Mayor shall award the contract to the lowest such
bidder; provided, that in determining the lowest bid, the Mayor shall consider
the bonafide business location of the bidder. If the lowest responsible bidder
is not located within the city limits of Burton, and the lowest bid of the
responsible bidders located within the city limits of Burton does not exceed
that of the lowest non-local bidder by more than 5%, then the Mayor may
determine the lowest local bidder to be the lowest responsible bidder, and make
the award to such local bidder accordingly, subject to the approval of the City
Council.
      (3)   In those instances when sealed competitive bids are required by the
terms of this ordinance, the President of the City Council or his or her
designee or alternate designee, shall be notified at least 24 hours in advance
of the date, time and place of the opening of the sealed competitive bids
received. The Mayor or the Mayor’s designee shall open the sealed bids at the
designated time and place, irrespective of whether or not any member of the
City Council is present for the opening.
      (4)   At the time the Mayor submits a resolution authorizing the
expenditure of funds to the Council for consideration, a summary of the
competitive bidding process, including the bids and bid tabulation sheets, will
accompany the resolution along with a copy of the proposed contract. The
proposed contract shall include the details of any required insurance and
bonding but the actual insurance certificates or bonds need not be attached.
      (5)   In the case where the particular item required by the city is only
supplied by 1 known supplier, or in the case of an emergency requiring
immediate purchase of an item, no bids shall be necessary.
   (B)   Whenever competitive bids shall be required by the terms of this
ordinance, the Mayor may select the method and procedure for taking bids as
shall in his or her best judgment encourage bonafide bidding by suppliers of
the product or service.
      (1)   The Mayor or his or her designee shall place a synopsis of a
request for bids on the official City of Burton website for all goods and
services exceeding $10,000 which the city seeks to purchase.
      (2)   The requirement that purchases in excess of $5,000 but less than
$10,000 be made only after competitive bids therefor are received shall not
apply to those goods and services which may be purchased by way of a
cooperative purchasing process with other governmental units or agencies such
as MiDeal or GSA. Further, such purchases of goods and services at cooperative
pre-bid pricing are also exempt from competitive bidding requirements provided
the vendors are properly registered with the city.
   (C)   (1)   All persons wishing to bid on any contract with the City of
Burton, shall be registered as a vendor with the city. Registration may be
completed online or by obtaining the necessary forms at the Burton City Hall,
and by paying the registration fee which is hereby established at $25 per year,
which fee may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   No contract shall be made with any person who is in default to the
city.
      (3)   No contract shall be made with any officer or employee of the city
unless the officer or employee has fully complied with the requirements of
Section 11.4 of the Charter.
   (D)   Contracts authorized by Council shall be signed by the Mayor and the
Clerk within 10 days of Council approval provided all of the insurance and
bonding requirements have been met.
§ 32.19   SALE OF CITY PROPERTY.
   (A)   Personal  property.  Personal property owned by the city which is no
longer needed by the city may be sold by order of the Mayor without the taking
of bids if the sale price of the item is $500 or less, and if the sale price is
in excess of $500, may be sold by the Mayor after taking of bids, sealed or
unsealed.  Trade-ins of city equipment upon the purchase of new or used
equipment needed by the city may be made by the Mayor on behalf of the city,
and no bids shall be required if the total cash to be expended by the city in
excess of any trade-in allowance shall not exceed $500.  If the total cash to
be expended by the city in excess of any trade-in allowance is in excess of
$500, but not in excess of $2,000, competitive bids shall be required as
hereinbefore set forth for expenditures.  If the total cash to be expended by
the city in excess of any trade-in allowance is in excess of $2,000, sealed
competitive bids shall be required as hereinbefore set forth for expenditures.
   (B)   Real property.
      (1)   Process applicable to all sales of real property, except as
provided by subsections (B)(2) and (B)(3) below.
         (a)   The city’s Department of Public Works shall prepare and maintain
a map identifying real property owned by the city. The map will be maintained
at the City Clerk’s office.
         (b)   The city’s department heads and the Chairman of the Parks and
Recreation Committee shall review the map of city-owned property in December of
each year and identify those parcels necessary for public purposes which shall
not be offered for sale.
         (c)   The City Council shall review the map, including the parcels
identified as necessary for public purposes and shall consider adoption of a
Resolution of Intent To Sell Real Estate in January of each year. This
Resolution shall identify the manner and method of sale including the specific
notice procedures and date for the bid opening attached to the sale. This
Resolution shall further establish a pre-approved cash sale price for each
parcel to be offered for sale. This pre-approved cash sale price shall serve as
the minimum bid price for those parcels being offered for sale on a sealed bid
basis.
            1.   a.   For newly acquired properties (i.e. those properties
acquired by the city within the preceding 12 months period) which have never
been offered for sale by the city, the Council shall conduct a sealed bid sale.
Properties offered for sale by sealed bids shall be sold to the highest
qualified bidder meeting all bid requirements and other terms and conditions of
the sale, but the city shall retain the right to reject any and all bids.
               b.   Any bids approved by the Council shall require 2 approvals
in accordance with
Section 11.3 of the Burton City Charter.
            2.   a.   For all other properties, including those properties
which have been previously offered for sale by sealed bid sale, but which did
not sell, the Resolution shall establish a date for the acceptance of
Conditional Purchase Agreements at the pre-approved cash-sale price. All such
Conditional Purchase Agreements shall thereafter be considered by the City
Council.
               b.   Any Conditional Purchase Agreements approved by the Council
shall require 1 affirmative vote of 5 or more members of the Council.
            3.   All sealed bids and Conditional Purchase Agreements shall be
accompanied by a deposit of 5% of the price being offered for the property.
Such deposit may be made by certified check, cashier’s check, or money order
made payable to the City of Burton.
         (d)   The city may elect to retain the services of qualified
appraisers or real estate professionals to assist in the sale of specific
properties, and all fees and commissions charged shall be included as costs of
sale.
      (2)   Procedures applicable to specific parcels.
         (a)   Notwithstanding the provisions in subsection (B)(1), above, the
following real property may be sold by the city without any further
notification or advertisement, and at any price, except as may be required by
Council as a condition of approval of a Resolution Authorizing Sale:
            1.   Property having a true cash value of $7,500 or less;
            2.   Residential lots which because of size or other factors are
unbuildable;
            3.   Unimproved residential lots having a true cash value of
$15,000 or less when an abutting property owner is the proposed purchaser.
         (b)   Any lot within a platted subdivision where the city has, by
resolution, established an approved sale price with pre-approved terms and
conditions, may be sold at the pre-approved price in accordance with the pre-
approved terms and conditions.  The resolution adopted by the City Council
December 15, 2008, establishing terms, conditions and prices for lots within
the Trail Ridge Estates Subdivision is hereby ratified and shall remain in full
force and effect until such time as it shall be modified by resolution of the
City Council.
         (c)   Notwithstanding the provisions in subsections (B)(1) or (B)(2)
(a), all properties may be sold without further advertisement or bid at a price
equal to or greater than its current state equalized value.
         (d)   Notwithstanding the provisions in subsections (B)(1) or (B)(2)
(a), all properties may be sold by auction sale or by sealed bids. Properties
proposed to be sold pursuant to bid sale shall be posted with notice of the
sale, including the date thereof, and all terms and conditions of such sale,
shall be published at least once in any newspaper of general circulation within
the city.
         (e)   The sealed bid sale required by subsection (B)(1)(c)1.a. may be
deemed unnecessary by the Council in the Resolution of Intent to Sell Real
Estate for reasons such as an insufficient number of properties available for
sale or any other reasons deemed sufficient by the Council. Furthermore, the
Council may approve the sale of any real property within the city by the
adoption of a Resolution Authorizing Sale upon such terms and conditions as
deemed to be in the best interest of the city.
      (3)   Any property acquired by the city to protect the city’s tax lien
thereon shall be sold in strict conformance with the provisions found in
Section 8.20 of the Official Charter of the City of Burton.
      (4)   No contract for the sale of property shall be made with any person
who is in default to the city.
§ 32.20   REPORT OF EXPENDITURES.
   At each meeting of the Council, the Mayor shall provide the Council members
with a list of all expenditures made prior to 1 week before the time of the
Council meeting and since the last previous report of expenditures.
§ 32.21   SERVICE AND SUPPLY CONTRACTS.
   The Mayor may enter into contracts for the supplying of any service to the
city or the supplying of any personal property to the city for any period up to
1 year without prior authorization of the Council, which service or item of
personal property has been budgeted for and funds allocated; provided that if
the total sum to be expended over the term of the contract shall exceed $500,
then the bidding procedure required for expenditures shall be complied with.
CHAPTER 33:  CITY POLICIES
Section
   
33.01   Display of flags on city owned property
§ 33.01  DISPLAY OF FLAGS ON CITY OWNED PROPERTY.
   (A)   Flags may be displayed on city owned property subject to the
following:
      (1)   The American flag, the State of Michigan flag, the City of Burton
flag, and the POW-MIA flag (and United States Armed Forces flags) shall be
permitted to be displayed on any city owned property;
      (2)   No flag not specifically referenced in subsection (1) shall be
displayed on any city property.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a civil infraction and shall
further result in the immediate removal of the offending flag by City
Department of Public Works, Code Enforcement, or Police Department.
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
         
51.   WATER
         
52.   SEWERS
CHAPTER 50:
GENERAL UTILITY PROVISIONS
Section
Utility Malfunctions or Hazardous Conditions
   
50.01   Reimbursement of city expenses
   
50.02   Authority of department heads to establish charges
   
50.03   Hardship deferment of utility service charges
UTILITY MALFUNCTIONS OR HAZARDOUS CONDITIONS
§ 50.01   REIMBURSEMENT OF CITY EXPENSES.
   (A)   All public utility companies operating within the city shall be
responsible to reimburse, at a rate established by resolution of the City
Council, for the cost incurred for services rendered by the city, its agents,
officers, and employees, for the protection of public safety, as the result of
the response to a possible hazard created by the operation of those public
utility companies’ facilities.
   (B)   The Treasurer of the city shall submit a billing to a public utility
company, which invoice shall be due within 30 days of the date of the billing.
§ 50.02   AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENT HEADS TO ESTABLISH CHARGES.
   (A)   The department heads of the government services of the city are
authorized to establish fees and charges for services rendered for the
utilization of city employees and equipment, in the event of their use for a
facility malfunction of a public utility or hazardous condition created through
normal operation, after acceptance and approval of City Council.
   (B)   These fees and charges shall be established by the department heads,
based upon their total cost of operation within their respective departments. 
These fees and charges shall include, but not be limited to, increases due to
negotiated raises, periodic increases in the cost of living, and those
associated with the purchase and maintenance of equipment utilized during the
rendering of services to the public utility company.
§ 50.03   HARDSHIP DEFERMENT OF UTILITY SERVICE CHARGES.
   (A)   A Utility Services Hardship Committee is hereby established, which
committee shall have the authority to defer or waive in whole or in part,
certain service charges for service work performed by the city, or, at the
city’s direction, upon a finding of a financial hardship.
   (B)   The Utility Services Hardship Committee shall consist of 3 members.
The first member of the Committee shall be the President of the City Council,
and he or she shall serve as the Chairperson of the Committee. The second
member shall be the Director of the city’s Department of Public Works. The
third member shall be appointed by the City Council after recommendation of the
Mayor. This member of the Committee shall hold office until the first regular
meeting of the City Council in January of each year or until a successor is
appointed, whichever is later.
   (C)   Any landowner or land contract vendee who would be otherwise required
to be financially responsible for any repair work, maintenance or replacement
of any sanitary sewer, water or storm water facility, line, meter, hydrant,
connection or otherwise, and who shall believe that he or she is financially
unable to pay such costs, may apply to the Utility Services Hardship Committee
by application form provided by the Committee through the office of the City
Clerk, for a deferment or waiver of the costs.
      (1)   The application shall be signed by the applicant under oath or by
an adult child on behalf of a parent.
      (2)   The application shall be accompanied by all relevant financial
records of the applicant including but not necessarily limited to the
following:
         (a)   A copy of the applicant’s last federal tax return;
         (b)   A summary of the applicants income and sources of income;
         (c)   A summary of all bank accounts and interests in stocks, bonds
and real estate.
      (3)   The application, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 15.243(1)(a) shall not be
made available for public inspection unless released by action of the City
Council or except by court order.
   (D)   Upon the submission of an application pursuant to this section, the
Clerk shall notify the Committee Chairperson, and the Chairperson shall then
establish a date and time for a hearing on the merits of the application. The
Clerk shall give written notice of the date and time of the hearing to the
applicant by first class mail.
   (E)   In the event that a majority of the Committee shall affirmatively
determine that as a result of a financial hardship of the applicant,
considering the total financial resources of the applicant, the present and
anticipated income of the applicant, the age and physical condition of the
applicant, and any other factor as the Committee shall feel appropriate in
determining the financial ability of the applicant to pay the costs which he or
she would otherwise be required to pay, the Committee may grant a total or
partial waiver of the costs, or, may grant a total or partial deferment of the
costs as the Committee shall deem advisable and reasonable.
      (1)   In the event that any portion of the costs are deferred the
Committee shall establish the terms upon which the costs are to be paid, and
may take a lien or mortgage security interest on the real property of the
applicant for the sum deferred.
      (2)   Interest shall accrue on all costs deferred at the rate of 6% per
annum unless the Committee shall reduce or waive this interest as it shall deem
advisable and reasonable.
CHAPTER 51:
WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Fiscal year
   
51.003   Metering; rates
   
51.004   Separate premises or unit
   
51.005   No free service; unlawful use
   
51.006   System use; compliance required
   
51.007   Control and supervision
Use of System
   
51.020   Damage to system prohibited
   
51.021   Obstruction of hydrant or fixture prohibited
   
51.022   Unauthorized turn-on or turn-off prohibited
   
51.023   Unauthorized connection prohibited
   
51.024   Contamination prohibited
   
51.025   Equipment damage due to neglect; owner responsibility
   
51.026   Terminated service
   
51.027   Subdivision of single dwelling; separate meter
   
51.028   Water pass-through or resale prohibited
   
51.029   Endangered supply; emergency use restrictions; notice
Construction and Connections
   
51.040   Watermain installation; plan approval required
   
51.041   County standards adopted by reference; installation and materials;
specifications
   
51.042   Maintenance responsibility
   
51.043   Connection; permit application required
   
51.044   Fire protection pipes; connection for potable use restricted
   
51.045   Application for connection outside city
   
51.046   Temporary service
   
51.047   Service shut-off; liability disclaimer
   
51.048   Turn-on; damage to facilities; liability disclaimer
   
51.049   Electrical ground connections to water pipes; disclaimer; service
discontinuance
Meters
   
51.060   Location
   
51.061   Tampering prohibited
   
51.062   Meter reading; right of entry
   
51.063   Testing
   
51.064   Bypass prohibited
   
51.065   Special meter reading; charge
   
51.066   Lawn meters; sewer charge
   
51.067   Meters property of Department
Private Water Supply; Wells
   
51.080   Well water for human consumption; certificate required
   
51.081   Lease or use of structure with uncertified water supply prohibited
   
51.082   Wells; application for inspection
   
51.083   Unwholesome well a nuisance; abatement
   
51.084   Interference with inspection or abatement prohibited
   
51.085   Water meters on private supply
   
51.086   Private water supply; prevention of entrance to public supply
Cross-Connections
   
51.100   State rules adopted by reference
   
51.101   Right of inspection; right of entry
   
51.102   Violations; service discontinuance
   
51.103   Protection of potable supply; label non-potable water outlet
Fire Hydrants
   
51.115   Fire hydrants; specifications
   
51.116   Unauthorized use; obstruction prohibited
   
51.117   Repair or replacement; expense
   
51.118   Fire hydrant fee; disposition
   
51.119   (Reserved for future use)
   
51.120   Fire hydrant availability; assessment fee
Rates and Charges
   
51.135   Connection charges
   
51.136   Inspection and approval fees
   
51.137   Unit classification of premises
   
51.138   (Reserved for future use)
   
51.139   Temporary vacancy
   
51.140   Multiple units on single meter
   
51.141   Emergency repairs; expense
   
51.142   Right of termination; right to dispute; notice; nuisance; outstanding
invoice
   
51.143   Billing; delinquent payment; discontinued service
   
51.144   Lien of delinquent accounts; rental property responsibility
   
51.145   Service rates
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.160   Application of regulations to county or other supplier to city
   
51.161   Enforcement action
   
51.162   Violations by minor or employee; responsibility
   
51.163   Fee amendments
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARGES FOR WATER SUPPLY SERVICES or CHARGES.  The amount charged to each
premises in the city for water supply services.
   CITY.  The City of Burton, Michigan.
   CONNECTION FEE or AVAILABILITY FEE.  The amount charged at the time and in
the amount hereinafter provided, to each premises in the city for connecting
directly or indirectly to the system.
   COUNCIL.  The City Council, the legislative and governing body of the city.
   COUNTY.  The County of Genesee, Michigan.
   DEPARTMENT.  The City Water Department or an authorized division, employee,
or representative as designated thereby.
   DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM or SYSTEM.  The water supply system as now or hereafter
established and constructed by the county, to serve the residents of the city.
   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL FEE.  The amount charged to each applicant by the
district at the time an application is made to the city to connect the premises
in the city to the water distribution system to cover the cost of the water
meter, the cost of installing the line from the main to the property line, the
cost of the corporation stop and curb box, curb stop, and pipe, the cost of
inspection and approving the physical connection from the curb box to the
meter, and the issuance of a connection permit.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, association, public or private corporation,
or public agency or instrumentality.
   PREMISES.  Each lot or parcel of land, building, or premises having any
connection to the water system of the city or the sewage disposal system of the
city.
   TAP, METER, INSPECTION AND APPROVAL FEE. The amount charged to each
applicant by the county or city at the time an application is made to the city
to connect the premises in the city to the water distribution system to cover
the cost of the water meter, the cost of installing the line from the main to
the property line, the cost of the corporation stop and curb box, curb stop,
and pipe, the cost of inspection and approving the physical connection from the
curb box to the meter, and the issuance of a connection permit.
   UNIT.  Any premises or portion of premises to which there is available or
delivered that quantity of water ordinarily used in or needed for the occupancy
of a residence building by a single family.
   WATER CONNECTION.  The part of the water distribution system connecting the
watermain with the premises served.
   WATER SUPPLY DISTRICT or DISTRICT.  The county loop, and city water supply
system in the city, established and constructed by the county or city,
including all extensions, enlargements. and improvements thereto in the area
served by the system in the city.
   WATER SUPPLY SERVICES.  The transportation, metering, pumping, and delivery
of potable water to the properties now or hereafter connected directly or
indirectly to the water supply system.
   WATERMAIN.  The part of the water distribution system located within the
easement lines of streets designed to supply more than 1 water connection.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.002   FISCAL YEAR.
   The system shall be operated upon the basis of a fiscal year beginning on
July 1 of each year and ending on June 30 of the next year.
§ 51.003   METERING; RATES.
   (A)   Water to be furnished by the water supply system shall be measured by
meters installed and controlled by the Department; each premises shall be
charged for water at a rate established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The rates shall be estimated to be sufficient to provide for the
payment of the expenses of administration and operation, and the expenses for
the maintenance of the system necessary to preserve the same in good repair and
working order, to comply with Federal and State Safe Drinking Water Acts and
related regulations, to provide for the payment of the interest upon the
principal of any bonds authorized to be issued as and when the same become due
and payable, to build up a reserve for depreciation of the existing system and
for improvements, betterments, and extensions thereto other than those
necessary to maintain the same in good repair and working order as hereinbefore
provided in this section. The charges for water supply services in effect at
the time of adoption of this section shall continue in effect until revised by
the Council.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Service rates, see §
51.145
§ 51.004   SEPARATE PREMISES OR UNIT.
   Each lot, parcel of land, or building, or any portion thereof, occupied or
used for a separate purpose or by a separate tenant or family, shall be
considered as a separate premises or unit, for the purpose of this ordinance.
§ 51.005   NO FREE SERVICE; UNLAWFUL USE.
   (A)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm,
corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality. The
city shall pay for all water used by it at the established rates, from the
current funds of the city. It shall be unlawful for any person to take or use
water from any water main, water service pipe, or stop cock connected
therewith, except for use in connection with the premises for the supplying of
which that service pipe was installed, without first having obtained a permit
for that use from the Department and without first having paid for that permit
the sum established.
   (B)   Any person who owns or who is in lawful possession of any premises
where water has been unlawfully turned on shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.006   SYSTEM USE; COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   The system shall be used for the transportation and delivery of potable
water only.  Connections to the system, directly or indirectly, and the use of
water therefrom for all purposes shall be only in compliance with this
ordinance and with the standards and regulations of the county and the city
applicable thereto, all of which shall apply.
§ 51.007   CONTROL AND SUPERVISION.
   (A)   The operation, maintenance, and management of the water distribution
system of the city shall be under the exclusive control of the Department, and
no person or persons other than agents or employees of the Department shall
tap, change, obstruct, interfere with, open or close valves, or in any way
disturb the system of watermains.  The city shall collect the connection fee or
availability fee pursuant thereto.
   (B)   All extensions and alterations to the system of watermains shall be
made under the supervision of the Department.
USE OF SYSTEM
§ 51.020   DAMAGE TO SYSTEM PROHIBITED.
   No person shall deface, damage, obstruct, or commit any act tending to
deface, damage, or obstruct in any manner any building, machinery, pipes,
mains, fittings, fire hydrants, or apparatus, or other fixtures connected with
the system.
§ 51.021   OBSTRUCTION OF HYDRANT OR FIXTURE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit any dirt, snow, or
other foreign material in or in front of any fire hydrant or in or over any
valve box or curb stop box, or commit any act tending to obstruct the use
thereof, or in any way injure any fixture connected with the system.
§ 51.022   UNAUTHORIZED TURN-ON OR TURN-OFF PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, other than an authorized employee of the Department, shall
turn on or off any water service at the curb stop and let water into the
premises connected without permission of the Department.
   (B)   Any person who owns or who is in lawful possession of any premises
where water has been unlawfully turned on shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 51.023   UNAUTHORIZED CONNECTION PROHIBITED.
   Only authorized city employees or persons or firms authorized by the
Department shall tap or make connection to the water supply district or
distribution system of the water system.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.024   CONTAMINATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to introduce any foreign
chemical or potential sources of bacteriological or chemical contamination into
the system.
§ 51.025   EQUIPMENT DAMAGE DUE TO NEGLECT; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any damage which occurs to any building, machinery, pipes, mains, fittings,
curb stop boxes, fire hydrants, water meters, or apparatus, or other fixtures
connected with the system resulting from attempted illegal alteration or
carelessness of the owner, agent, or tenant, or from neglect of either of them
to properly secure and protect the meter, as well as any damage which may be
wrought by frost, hot water or steam backing up from a boiler, shall be paid by
the owner of the property to the city upon presentation of the bill; and in
cases where the bill is not paid, the water shall be shut off and it shall
remain off until all charges have been paid to the city.
§ 51.026   TERMINATED SERVICE.
   Where the water has been turned off by the Department for any reason, no
person or persons, except authorized employees of the Department, may turn it
on again.  Whenever a violation has occurred, the Department may terminate the
water at the corporation stop.  Before water can be turned on, the owner shall
pay in advance all expenses due and owing to the Department.
§ 51.027   SUBDIVISION OF SINGLE DWELLING; SEPARATE METER.
   Where a building originally built as a single dwelling and fitted with 1
service pipe is thereafter subdivided by sale or otherwise, each subdivision as
created must be connected to the water system by a separate meter within 30
days after that division, or special arrangements made to cover the
subdivisions.
§ 51.028   WATER PASS-THROUGH OR RESALE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall take or allow city water to pass between premises
other than his or her own, and no person shall sell or allow to be sold any
city water from his or her own premises for any purpose, unless he or she has
been licensed for that type of sale by the city.
   (B)   No connection through which water may pass from 1 premises to another
shall be maintained or constructed, though the ownership of both premises may
be the same, unless prior approval is obtained from the Department, and the
connection meets all applicable ordinance codes.
§ 51.029   ENDANGERED SUPPLY; EMERGENCY USE RESTRICTIONS; NOTICE.
   (A)   Whenever the Mayor (or the highest ranking operating official) of the
city receives notification, that the supply or pressure demand of water cannot
be accommodated and general welfare is likely to be endangered, or conditions
within the water system of the city are likely to endanger the general welfare
of the consumers, the Mayor (or the highest ranking operating official) shall
determine that a state of emergency exists and prescribe the following
regulations, which shall apply for all properties collected to the city water
system:
   Sprinkling of lawns and landscaping and all outdoor water use shall only be
allowed for properties with even-numbered addresses on even-numbered dates
within a month and for properties with odd-numbered addresses on odd-numbered
dates within a month.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor (or the highest-ranking operating official)
receives notification that provisions in subsection (A) are not sufficient, or
conditions within the water system are likely to endanger the general welfare
of the consumers, the following emergency regulations shall apply for all
properties connected to the city water system:
   Sprinkling of lawns and landscaping and all outdoor water use shall not be
allowed.
   (C)   The city, within 24 hours of notification, shall cause these
regulations to be posted at the city's public offices and publicly announced by
means of broadcasts or telecasts by the stations with a normal operating range
covering the city, and may cause the announcement to be further declared in
newspapers of general circulation when feasible.
      (1)   The regulations shall become effective immediately after notice of
enforcement of the ordinance as posted at the city offices.
      (2)   Upon notification from the Keregnondi Water Authority and in
conjunction with the Drinking Water and Radiological Protection Division of the
State Department of Environmental Quality that the emergency regulations are no
longer necessary, the city shall cause a public announcement lifting the water
restrictions.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
CONSTRUCTION AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.040   WATERMAIN INSTALLATION; PLAN APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Any person, firm, or corporation installing watermains at his, her, or their
own expense shall submit plans and specifications for this work to the
Department for its approval.  After the plans and specifications have been
approved by the Department, the work shall be done under the supervision of the
Department.  All work and testing done must meet city specifications.  The
provisions of this section shall also apply to any installation of watermains
outside the corporate limits of the city where permission has first been
granted by the Department to connect those mains to the existing distribution
system.
§ 51.041   COUNTY STANDARDS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE; INSTALLATION AND MATERIALS;
SPECIFICATIONS.
   The installation and materials specifications and standards shall be set by
the city in accordance with the Genesee County Drain Commissioner Division of
Water and Waste Services standards and specifications, which are hereby adopted
by reference and may be changed by the GCDC from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.042   MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The corporation stop, the service pipe from the main to the service stop,
the service stop, and the curb box will be provided in place and maintained by
the Department after payment of the fee charge for a water permit as provided
within.  The service pipe from the service stop to the building shall be
installed and properly maintained by the owner or a licensed contractor.  The
owner shall be responsible to keep the curb box free from dirt, stones, misuse,
and for repair or replacement as deemed necessary by the Department.  The cost
for such a repair shall be the cost of materials and a service charge as
established by resolution of Council.
§ 51.043   CONNECTION; PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Before any connection is made to any watermain, application for a permit
must be made in writing by the owner of the premises to be served, or by his,
her, or their authorized representative, at the Treasurer’s office.  The
application shall be made on forms provided by the Department.
§ 51.044   FIRE PROTECTION PIPES; CONNECTION FOR POTABLE USE RESTRICTED.
   Where pipes are provided for fire protection on any premises or where hose
connections for fire apparatus are provided, no connection for domestic or
potable use shall be allowed unless the Department determines flows are
consistently adequate as to provide a bacteriologically safe product; in all
other cases, a separate water service shall be provided for potable use.
§ 51.045   APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION OUTSIDE CITY.
   Application for connection outside the city shall provide, among other items
that the consumer of water in territory outside of the city shall make an
application in writing for the supply of water and shall deposit with that
application an amount to secure payment of all bills against the depositor. The
applicant shall purchase a water meter from the Department this meter shall be
under the control of the Department during the time that water may be so
supplied.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.046   TEMPORARY SERVICE.
   Temporary water service may be applied for purposes that, due to their
nature, will not be used permanently.  The applicant shall be required to pay
in advance the estimated cost of providing and discontinuing facilities
necessary to provide this water service.  The applicant shall also deposit an
amount sufficient to cover all water usage for that time or until the applicant
establishes credit.  The applicant shall pay rates as referred to in §
51.003.
§ 51.047   SERVICE SHUT-OFF; LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   Should it become necessary to shut off water from any section of the system
because of any accident or for the purpose of making repairs or extensions, the
Department will endeavor to give timely notice to the consumers affected
thereby and will, so far as practical, use reasonable efforts to prevent
inconvenience and damage arising from any such causes; but the failure to give
this notice shall not render the Department or the city responsible or liable
in damages for any inconvenience, injury, or loss which may result therefrom.
§ 51.048   TURN-ON; DAMAGE TO FACILITIES; LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   The city and Department shall not be liable for any damages to customers’
property or facilities when water is turned on, either when turned on
originally or when turned on after a temporary shutdown.  The city and
Department shall not be responsible for damages done to customers’ property or
plumbing caused by poor construction or deterioration.
§ 51.049   ELECTRICAL GROUND CONNECTIONS TO WATER PIPES; DISCLAIMER; SERVICE
DISCONTINUANCE.
   Ground wire attachments of electric service upon water pipes are understood
to be desirable in the interest of safety to the users of the electric
current.  The Department does not install such connections, derives no benefit
from them, may be damaged by them, and tolerates them only because of their
reputed importance in providing electric service safely.  The city or
Department assumes no responsibility or obligation in connection with the
installation of water pipe ground connections or for the maintenance of the
integrity or continuity of any ground attachment or connection made to the
water pipe connection.  The Department shall, if damage is occurring to the
system, discontinue water service and require that corrective action be taken
before water service is restored.
METERS
§ 51.060   LOCATION.
   Water meters shall be set in an accessible location and in a manner
satisfactory to the Department.  Where the premises contains no basement or
cellar, the meter shall be installed in a location which shall be approved by
the Department.  Where it is necessary to set the meter in a pit, the pit shall
be built at the expense of the owner as directed by the Department to its
satisfaction.
§ 51.061   TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall change, set, or disconnect the meter on any premises
served by the system without the permission of the Department.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or firm to tamper with, remove,
bypass, or reverse, injure the seal, or otherwise tamper with any metering
equipment set by the city.
§ 51.062   METER READING; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Department, at all reasonable business hours, shall have the right to
enter the premises where these meters are installed for the purpose of reading,
testing, removing, or inspecting.  No person shall hinder, obstruct, or
interfere with an employee in the lawful discharge of his or her duties in
relation to the maintenance and reading of these meters.  The Department shall
have the right to shut off the supply of water to any premises where admittance
has been refused.
§ 51.063   TESTING.
   (A)   A customer may request the Department to test the meter serving his or
her premises.  The Department shall require the customer to make a deposit as
set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from time to time, to cover
the cost of the test.  The deposit will be returned if the meter is found to
register more than 3% fast.  The customer has the right to have the test
conducted in his or her presence or in the presence of his or her
representative.  A written report showing the results of the test will be
delivered to the customer within 10 days after completion of the test.  When a
meter is found to be registering more than 3% fast, the customer will receive a
refund of the overcharge for the period the meter was in use, but not exceeding
6 months.
   (B)   When the meter is found to be registering more than 3% slow, the
customer shall receive a bill for the undercharge for the period the meter was
in service, but not to exceed 6 months.  If a meter does not register, the
Department will estimate consumption on the basis of former consumptions and
shall bill accordingly.
§ 51.064   BYPASS PROHIBITED.
   All water furnished by the city must pass through the meter.  No bypass or
connection around the meter will be permitted unless authorized by the
Department for testing purposes.
§ 51.065   SPECIAL METER READING; CHARGE.
   There may be a special meter reading charge each time a customer shall
request a meter reading at a time other than the usual and normal reading.  A
service charge as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from time
to time, shall be charged unless the special meter reading reveals a defect in
the meter or error in the previous read, then no charge shall be made.  If the
special meter reading reveals a defect in the meter or error in the previous
read, then no charge shall be made.
§ 51.066   LAWN METERS; SEWER CHARGE.
   Lawn meters, used for outside irrigation purposes only, can be purchased
from the Department upon approval.  All costs of labor and materials and
equipment shall be borne by the owner.  Lawn meters shall be free of any sewage
treatment charges.  Lawn meter applications must meet or exceed all cross-
connection requirements.
§ 51.067   METERS PROPERTY OF DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   All water meters connected to the system shall become and remain the
property of the Department and will at all times be under control of the
Department.
   (B)   The Department shall determine the water meter size for the service.
Where application is made for a larger than normal meter, the Department shall
determine if a meter of that size will be permitted.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY; WELLS
§ 51.080   WELL WATER FOR HUMAN CONSUMPTION; CERTIFICATE REQUIRED.
   No person, being the owner or occupant of any dwelling, house, factory, or
place of business in the city, shall use or furnish or permit to be used for
human consumption by his or her family, guests, servants, or employees, or by
any person in that dwelling, house, factory, or place of business, any water
supplied from any spring nor from any well unless that well shall have been
inspected by or under the direction of the County Department of Public Health
and unless the County Department of Public Health shall have caused a
certificate to be issued showing that the supply of water from that well is fit
for human consumption.
§ 51.081   LEASE OR USE OF STRUCTURE WITH UNCERTIFIED WATER SUPPLY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, being the owner or in charge of any
dwelling, house, factory, or place of business in the city, to lease or
continue to lease the same to another person for use, or to permit the use of
that dwelling, house, factory, or place of business by another person if the
water supply intended for human consumption by the occupants of that dwelling,
house, factory, or place of business shall not be supplied from the system or
from a well the water of which shall have been inspected by or under the
direction of the Department of Public Health and a certificate issued by the
Department of Public Health showing that the water supply is fit for human
consumption.
§ 51.082   WELLS; APPLICATION FOR INSPECTION.
   Any person desiring to use water supplied from any well may have the same
inspected by or under the direction of the Department of Public Health by
making an application in writing and filing the same with the Department of
Public Health and giving the location in the city of that well.
§ 51.083   UNWHOLESOME WELL A NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Any well designed for the supply of water for human consumption which may,
after the inspection by the Department of Public Health or its duly authorized
representatives, be found to be unwholesome and contaminated with disease
germs, is hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance and dangerous to the
public health of the city.  The Director of Public Health is hereby authorized
and empowered to abate this nuisance, or direct the same to be abated, by
destroying the well or in any manner that may, in the opinion of the Director
of Public Health, be proper to prevent the further use of the water supply from
that well, and any person participating in the abatement proceedings shall
incur liability therefor.
§ 51.084   INTERFERENCE WITH INSPECTION OR ABATEMENT PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to interfere with the Department of
Public Health or its duly authorized representatives in the inspection of the
water supply of any premises in the city, or to prevent such an inspection, or
to prevent the abatement of a nuisance created by an unwholesome and
contaminated water supply.
§ 51.085   WATER METERS ON PRIVATE SUPPLY.
   (A)   Water meters for the purpose of billing sewer can be installed on
private water supplies and shall be available from the Department upon
approval.
   (B)   (1)   The owner shall be responsible for setting the meters in an
approved location.  Upon completion of setting the meter, the owner shall
notify the Department that the work has been completed.  A representative of
the Department will make an inspection of the installation, and, upon approval,
will authorize a metered billing to take place, from the date of inspection.  A
pro-rated charge shall be imposed for any part of a billing month prior to the
customer receiving a meter.
      (2)   In addition to the cost of the meter installation, each user shall
pay the charges for miscellaneous service and monitoring as determined by the
Department.
      (3)   In addition, there shall be a monthly service charge as set by the
City Council, and amended by resolution from time to time, billed yearly for
reading the meter.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.086   PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY; PREVENTION OF ENTRANCE TO PUBLIC SUPPLY.
   (A)   No private water supply shall be used for any purposes in the city
until the owner or occupant of the premises to receive the private water supply
shall first take all necessary steps to eliminate any possibility of the
entrance of water from the private water supply into the public water system. 
In this regard, there shall be a system approved by the Department, i.e.,
complete air break between pipes, lines, and fixtures of both systems, check
valves, or backflow  apparatus as shall be approved by the State Department of
Public Health to eliminate any transfer of water between systems.
   (B)   There shall be periodic inspections of the systems to ensure the
safety of the system.  There shall be a fee per inspection, as set by the City
Council, and amended by resolution from time to time.
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.100   STATE RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The city adopts by reference the water supply cross-connection rules
of the State Department of Environmental Quality, being M.A.C. R325.11401 -
R325.11407.  A complete copy of this code is available for public use and
inspection at the office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   The city adopts by reference the water supply cross-connection rules
as defined in the Safe Drinking Water Act, Public Act 399 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 325.1001 - 325.1023, and cross- connection rules as published by
the State Department of Public Health.  A complete copy of this code is
available for public use and inspection through the office of the City Clerk.
   (C)   The city hereby adopts The City of Burton Cross-Connection Control
Program, as required by Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and the
Safe Drinking Water Act, Public Act 399 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. 325.1001 –
325.1023. The City of Burton Cross-Connection Control Program contains certain
provisions to regulate the connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances
through which backflow of nonpotable water flows into the public drinking water
supply. A complete copy of this program is available for public use and
inspection through the office of the City Clerk.
§ 51.101   RIGHT OF INSPECTION; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   It shall be permissible for the city or county employees to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply
where cross-connections with the public water supply are deemed possible.  The
frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards
involved shall be as established by the city and as approved by the State
Department of Public Health.
   (B)   The representative of the city or county employees shall have the
right to enter, at any reasonable time, any property served by a connection to
the public water supply system in the city, for the purpose of inspecting the
piping system or systems thereof for cross-connections.  On request, the owner,
lessees, or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection
agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on the
property.  The refusal of this information or refusal of access, when
requested, shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the presence of a cross-
connection.
§ 51.102   VIOLATIONS; SERVICE DISCONTINUANCE.
   The city and the county are hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this ordinance exists and to take those other precautionary
measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply system.  Water service to the property shall not be
restored until the cross- connection has been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this ordinance.
§ 51.103   PROTECTION OF POTABLE SUPPLY; LABEL NON-POTABLE WATER OUTLET.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this ordinance and by the State Plumbing Code.  Any water outlet which could
be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the
potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:  “Water Unsafe for
Drinking.”
FIRE HYDRANTS
§ 51.115   FIRE HYDRANTS; SPECIFICATIONS.
   No hydrant shall be installed in the city unless having met the city's
engineering specifications and having received approval from the Department.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.116   UNAUTHORIZED USE; OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, except an employee of the city in the performance of his or
her duties, shall open or use any fire hydrant, including hydrants located on
private property or located outside the city and serviced by city water, except
in case of an emergency, without first being specifically authorized by the
Department and paying those charges as may be prescribed by Council and amended
by resolution from time to time.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall in any manner obstruct or
prevent free access to any fire hydrant by placing or storing, temporarily or
otherwise, any object or materials of any kind within 20 feet of the same.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.117   REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT; EXPENSE.
   The Department shall repair or replace fire hydrants on private property
when it has been determined that neglect has occurred in the maintenance of the
hydrant or hydrants. The cost of this work shall be borne by the owner at rates
set by Council and amended by resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.118   FIRE HYDRANT FEE; DISPOSITION.
   A fire hydrant fee, if established by resolution of the Council shall be
used to offset the cost of hydrant maintenance, repair, and replacements. The
fee shall also cover tho oversizing of water mains to ensure system capacity
can meet minimum fire demands.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.119   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 51.120   FIRE HYDRANT AVAILABILITY; ASSESSMENT FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING.  Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering
any use or occupancy.
      PREMISES.  Any lot or group of lots located and identified as such in any
recorded plat and assessed as a single parcel, and any metes and bounds
description identified as a separate parcel by the City Assessor for the
purposes of ad valorem taxes.
   (B)   (1)   Premises within the city. A fire hydrant assessment for all
premises within the city may be established and amended from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   Premises outside the city. A fire hydrant assessment for all
premises outside of the city where the city does furnish water to the premises
and receives a fire hydrant assessment or invoice from another municipality is
hereby established.
      (3)   Assessment. The fire hydrant assessment is hereby set in the amount
per year as set by the City Council, but may be amended from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 51.135   CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Initial fees required. Owners of premises in which public municipal
water is used or who hereafter improve the premises by the erection of a
building shall pay a connection charge, or advance construction charge, and a
tap-in fee computed on the basis of unit factors, as established on the
Equivalent User Table-Appendix A or Appendix B as established by resolution of
Council and amended from time to time, at the time a connection permit or
construction permit is issued.
   (B)   Tap-in fees.
      (1)   Indirect connection. Where premises are connected indirectly to a
public water main installed at the expense of the owner or by special
assessment or at the expense of the subdivider or the developer of the premises
or by the city, when cost recovery is to be made by a construction charge,
established by resolution of the City Council and not at the unreimbursed
expense of the city, the connection charge shall be as set by the City Council,
and amended by resolution from time to time.
      (2)   Direct connection.  Where the premises are connected directly to a
public watermain installed at the expense of the city, or by a developer of
property other than the premises to be connected, the connection charge for
each user shall be as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from
time to time.
   (C)   Expansion. The owner of any premises within the city who shall expand
the use or change the nature of the use of any premises subsequent to the
calculation and imposition of the initial connection charge as provided by this
section, prior to the issuance of a building permit, if required, shall be
assessed an additional connection charge in accordance with this ordinance, as
amended, in the event it is determined that the expansion or change in use
results in an increase of the premises' REU factor as expressed on the
Equivalent User Table-Appendix A or Appendix B as set by resolution of Council
and amended from time to time.
   (D)   Construction fees.  Where the premises are connected directly to the
public watermain installed at the expense of the city, there shall be a
construction charge equal to 50% of the cost of an 8-inch watermain.  The cost
of construction of an 8-inch watermain shall be determined by bid, or the
average cost of that type of construction, including all appurtenances, as
experienced by the city within the previous 12-month period, or last known
costs from a previous time period beyond the 12-month period adjusted by the
Consumer Price Index of the U.S. Department of Labor.  The amount of the
construction charge shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (E)   Installation costs.  All installation costs for connection to the city
watermains shall be the responsibility of the owner or developer of the
premises to be served.  When service to a premises requires an extension of a
public watermain, the advance construction charge shall be paid by the property
owner or developer, based upon an estimate by the Department of Public Works. 
Any surplus shall be returned to the property owner or developer and any
deficit shall be paid by the property owner or developer, immediately upon the
determination of the actual costs of construction for that public watermain.
   (F)   Installment payment; unpaid charges; lien.  The owner of premises in
which water is used as of the date when public water is made available to the
premises may elect to pay the tap-in-fee and construction charge by installment
payments, by paying 25% of the total computed connection charge and
construction charge when the connection permit is issued and the balance shall
be paid in 10 equal annual payments, together with interest at 10% per annum on
the declining balance from the date when the connection permit is issued.  The
first installment and accrued interest shall be due and payable on the next
July 1, which is more than 3 months after the date when the connection permit
is issued, and subsequent installments with accrued interest shall be due and
payable on July 1, annually thereafter, and all installments with accrued
interest shall be subject to the same interest and penalties as the city taxes
on the premises.  The balance of any connection charge or construction charge
remaining unpaid may be paid in cash at any time before due, together with
accrued interest to the date of payment.  The balance due on a connection
charge or construction charge for a given premises shall be paid in full at the
time the premises change ownership.  The foregoing charges shall be in addition
to any charges which may be due and payable at the time for the actual cost of
making connection to the system and for transporting water from the facilities
of the system to the point of use on the premises.  All unpaid installments and
water usage charges shall be a lien against the land, collectable in the same
manner as real property taxes assessed by the city.
(Ord. 2018-51, passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.136   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL FEES.
   (A)   Owners of premises in which municipal water is used and for which
direct connection to the system is available, as of the effective date hereof,
shall pay an inspection and approval fee in the amounts as set by the City
Council, and amended by resolution from time to time, at the time application
is made for a permit to connect the premises to the system.
   (B)   Any owner of premises for which direct connection to the system is
available, but in which water is not now used, as of the effective date hereof,
who thereafter improves the same by erection of a building thereon, shall pay
an inspection and approval fee as set forth above.
   (C)   The fees set forth in subsections (A) and (B) above are applicable if
the connection to the municipal water system is accomplished by a contractor
licensed to install water connections by the city.  If the installation is
completed by the property owner, there shall be paid an additional fee as set
by the City Council, and amended by resolution from time to time, for each
inspection of the connection.
§ 51.137   UNIT CLASSIFICATION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   The number of units to be assigned to any particular premises used for
any purpose or purposes shall be determined on the basis of the Equivalent User
Table-Appendix A or Appendix B as set by resolution of Council and amended by
resolution from time to time. If the circumstances justify, more than 1 unit
may be assigned to a single-family dwelling. No less than 1 unit shall be
assigned to each premises, but units in excess of 1 may be computed and
assigned to the nearest whole unit. If subsequent changes in use of a premises
increases or decreases the unit classification, the number of units assigned to
the premises may be increased or decreased.
   (B)   No change in subsequent use of any premises shall result in a decrease
of unit assignment to less than 1.  No refund of fees previously paid shall be
made should a decrease in units result from such a change of use or
discontinuance of use.  Should a change in use or addition to the previously
existing and serviced premises result in an increase in the number of units,
the increased fees shall be paid in full prior to the use and service of the
premises.  Fees may not be financed as provided in §
51.135(F).
(Ord. 2018-51, passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.138   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 51.139   TEMPORARY VACANCY.
   In the case of a temporary vacancy of any premises, water shall be turned
off at the service stop. There shall be a turn-off and turn-on fee as
established by Council. Partial months shall be billed as full months.
(Ord. 2019-7-51, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 51.140   MULTIPLE UNITS ON SINGLE METER.
   Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, in the situation where a
single water service, with 1 water meter, is used to supply multiple household
or dwelling units, the amount of the monthly billing for that water service
shall not be less than an amount determined by multiplying the total number of
household or dwelling units (whether occupied or not) located on the property
receiving the water service by the minimum charge per month, as established in
§
51.003.  At no time shall the multiple unit base fee be less than the monthly
readiness to serve charge for equivalent sized meters, as determined in the
water rate fee schedules applying to the respective water systems.
§ 51.141   EMERGENCY REPAIRS; EXPENSE.
   The Department, in case of emergency, may repair any service pipes. Charges
for the repairs will be the responsibility of the premises served and will be
billed at actual time and material costs, including overhead and equipment
rental, plus an administrative fee as established by Council and amended by
resolution from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
§ 51.142   RIGHT OF TERMINATION; RIGHT TO DISPUTE; NOTICE; NUISANCE;
OUTSTANDING INVOICE.
   (A)   (1)   Termination notice.  The Department shall have the right to
discontinue water service anytime after a 14-day written notice has been issued
and mailed by regular first class mail to the owner of the premises thereof for
any violations of this ordinance.
      (2)   The owner of the premises shall have the right to dispute the
accuracy of the billing by personally appearing at the City of Burton
Department of Water and Sewer within the grace period after the due date, as
more full set forth in §
51.143(C).
      (3)   All such disputes shall be heard and determined by the city within
3 business days from the receipt of the appeal.
   (B)   Service to public nuisance.  The Department shall have the right to
terminate water service to any premises declared to be a public nuisance or
public hazard and in situations of noncompliance with other city regulations or
code or ordinance violations.
   (C)   Moved with outstanding invoice.  The Department shall have the right
to refuse or discontinue water service to any person if that person has failed
to pay an outstanding invoice at a previous premises.
§ 51.143   BILLING; DELINQUENT PAYMENT; DISCONTINUED SERVICE.
   (A)   The following billing cycles are hereby established:
      (1)   Charges for water services supplied to commercial and industrial
accounts shall be billed monthly.
      (2)   Charges for residential accounts shall be billed quarterly.
      (3)   Charges for certain rental property shall be billed monthly where
the owner has rented the premises to another person, and where following
conditions are all satisfied:
         (a)   The owner submits satisfactory evidence that the premises has
been rented to another; and
         (b)   The owner has caused an affidavit of non-responsibility to be
filed with the City Treasurer; and
         (c)   The owner has tendered a deposit initially established at $225
which may hereafter be amended from time to time by resolution of the City
Council;
         (d)   The owner has elected to have the premises billed monthly and
paid the annual fee therefor, which fee is initially established at $45 for the
first year and $30 annually thereafter, and which fee may hereafter be amended
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   If any changes are not paid on or before the due date, then a penalty
of 10% shall be added and continuing outstanding balances shall be subject to
the same interest as city taxes on the premises.
   (C)   The city shall terminate water service in accordance with the
following procedure:
      (1)   For residential accounts shall be discontinued in the event any
charges shall not be paid within 60 days after the due date.
      (2)   For commercial industrial and residential rental properties where
meters are read monthly, services shall be discontinued in the event any
charges shall not be paid within 30 days after the due date.
      (3)   The city shall mail notice of water shut off to the occupant not
less than 14 days prior to the scheduled shut off date. However, failure of the
city to mail such notice shall not delay service termination as set forth in
subsections (C)(1)  and (2) above.
      (4)   In the event the owner or occupant responsible for payment of the
water bill of the premises has filed a dispute as to the accuracy of the
billing pursuant to §
51.142(A)(2) then services shall not be discontinued until a determination has
been made regarding the dispute.
      (5)   In the event of demonstrated hardship a property owner or occupant
responsible for payment of the water bill may apply to the Mayor for an
extension of time to pay an outstanding bill. The Mayor may grant such an
extension, or set up payments on the account, but in no event shall an account
be forgiven or reduced unless there has been a demonstrated error in the
calculation of the bill.
   (D)   Service so discontinued shall not be restored until all sums due and
owing, including penalties and interest, shall be paid in full plus a shut off
processing fee initially established at $40 applicable at the time of the
issuance of the shut-off order and irrespective whether or not service was
actually terminated and water turn-on fee initially established at $40, which
fees may hereafter be amended from time to time by resolution of the City
Council.
(Ord. 2019-7-51, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 51.144   LIEN OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; RENTAL PROPERTY RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The foregoing charges, including penalties and interest accrued to any
premises shall be a lien on the premises, and on May 1 and/or October 1 of each
year the City Treasurer shall certify to the City Assessor any charges which
have been delinquent for 6 months or more, who shall enter the same upon the
next tax roll against the premises, and the charges and penalties and interest
accrued thereon shall be collected and this lieu enforced in the same manner as
provided in respect to city taxes assessed upon the roll.
   (B)   Whenever the owner of property serviced by either or both city sewer
and water systems shall have the premises rented or leased to another, tho
property owner may file an affidavit of non- responsibility with the City
Treasurer, together with a deposit which shall be held as a guarantee of
payment of all charges, including shut-off and turn on fees. Any portion of the
deposit not used for the payment of delinquent charges shall be returned to the
depositor (as reflected in the affidavit of non-responsibility) upon
discontinuance of service to the property, or may be transferred to the credit
of a future occupant by written request to transfer received from the
depositor.
      (1)   Deposits shall not bear interest, and in the event that a deposit
has been made which is unclaimed by the original depositor within 5 years
following discontinuance of service to the tenant(s) reflected on the
affidavit, and the city has not received a written request to transfer the
deposit to a successor tenant, then the city may forfeit the deposit and
transfer the deposit to the water fund or sewer fund of the city.
      (2)   In the event the city is notified of a change of ownership or
occupancy at a promises where an affidavit of non-responsibility has been
filed, the city shall require tho successor owner or occupant to place a new
deposit with the city unless the original depositor shall have transferred the
deposit to the owner or successor occupant by a written transfer. The city
shall not be obligated to return an original or successor owner or occupant's
deposit unless the person entitled thereto shall apply to the City Treasurer
for the return thereof.
   (C)   (1)   The filing of an affidavit of non-responsibility and deposit
shall preclude the city from placing a lien upon the premises in accordance
with M.C.L.A. § 123.165 for usage charges, although property owners shall,
however, remain liable for all tap-in (connection) charges for the use of the
city water and sewer supply systems and these charges may be entered upon the
tax roll, and shall remain liable for all water and sewer fees during the time
(s) when the property is not occupied by a tenant or an approved affidavit has
not been accepted and is not on file with the city.
      (2)   The filing of an affidavit of non-responsibility shall further have
the effect of waiving liability for usage charges as to the property owner for
that property for so long as the affidavit and deposit remain on file with the
city and all.
   (D)   An affidavit of non-responsibility shall be in the form as prescribed
by the City Treasurer and shall, in addition to the signature of the owner, be
executed by the person(s) in possession of the premises and using the services.
   (E)   There shall be 2 categories of affidavits of non-responsibility and
the property owner or occupant responsible for payment of the water bill may
elect to file either for neither of the 2 alternatives.
      (1)   (a)   An affidavit of non-responsibility with request for monthly
billing shall be accompanied by a deposit initially established at $225. In
addition to the deposit the property owner or tenant shall pay an annual fee to
the city initially established at $45 for the first year, and $30 for each year
thereafter that the affidavit of non-responsibility remains on file with the
city. Failure to pay the annual fee will cause the affidavit of non-
responsibility to become null and void immediately and without notice to the
property owner or to the tenant.
         (b)   Whenever an affidavit of non-responsibility with request for
monthly billing shall be properly filed with the required deposit and affidavit
fee, then the city will read the water meter of the premises monthly. The city
will further submit monthly billings to the tenant at the subject premises and
discontinue waster service if the bill is not paid in full after 30 day a from
its due date in accordance with the procedure established in §
51.143(C).
      (2)   (a)   An affidavit of non-responsibility with request for quarterly
bill shall be accompanied by a deposit initially established at $675 and is
intended by resolution of Council from time to time, There shall be no fee for
the filing of this type of affidavit.
         (b)   Whenever an affidavit of non-responsibility with request for
quarterly billing shall be properly filed with the required deposit, the city
will read the water meter and bill usage fees quarterly. Service discontinuance
shall be in accordance with §
51.143(C)(1).
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019; Ord. 2019-7-51, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 51.145   SERVICE RATES.
   (A)   All charges, fees and deposits for water service to each premises
within the city connected with the water supply system shall be established by
the City Council, and amended by resolution from time to time.
   (B)   All water used shall be at the uniform commodity charge as set by the
City Council, and amended by resolution from time to time.
   (C)   (1)   No free service shall be furnished by the system to the city or
to any person, firm, or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency
or instrumentality.
      (2)   The city shall be for all water used by it at the foregoing rates.
(Ord. 2019-5-51, passed 5-6-2019)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.160   APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS TO COUNTY OR OTHER SUPPLIER TO CITY.
   This ordinance shall be applicable whether the water supply shall originate
through the county or any other supplier as the supplier to the city.
§ 51.161   ENFORCEMENT ACTION.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall be enforceable through the bringing
of appropriate action for injunction, mandamus, or otherwise in any court
having jurisdiction.  Any violation of this ordinance is deemed to be a
nuisance per se.
§ 51.162   VIOLATIONS BY MINOR OR EMPLOYEE; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The parents, guardians, or other persons having control of any minor child
shall be held liable for the violation of any of the provisions of this
ordinance by any such minor child, and the persons owning or occupying any
premises shall be held responsible for the acts of their servants and other
persons employed by them or harbored by them in and about the premises for any
violations of the provisions of this ordinance.
§ 51.163   FEE AMENDMENTS.
   All fees and deposits established in
Chapter 51 may, from time to time, be amended by resolution of the City
Council.
CHAPTER 52:
SEWERS
Section
   
52.001   Purpose
   
52.002   Definitions
   
52.003   Connection required
   
52.004   Waste discharge prohibited except through approved connection
   
52.010   Generally; requirement; fees; inspection
   
52.011   Industrial user permits
   
52.012   General user permits
   
52.013   Permit application deadlines
   
52.014   Permit application requirements
   
52.015   Permit duration
   
52.016   Permit appeals
   
52.030   Permits
   
52.031   Plans and specifications required; construction permits
   
52.032   Installation and connection costs to be borne by owner
   
52.033   Building sewer inspection
   
52.034   Capacity required
   
52.035   Pretreatment of any discharge may be required
   
52.036   Grease, oil and sand interceptors
   
52.037   Contractor license required
   
52.038   Permit required
   
52.039   Building sewer expense; owner responsibility
   
52.060   Septic tanks unlawful
   
52.061   Compliance with health department
   
52.062   Disposal and dumping
   
52.063   Sewer available
   
52.064   Compliance with laws and regulations
   
52.080   Connection charges adopted
   
52.081   Connection charge payment; charges a lien
   
52.082   Hardship deferment of connection charges
   
52.083   Treatment charges; basis
   
52.084   Classification of users
   
52.085   Treatment charges; billing and payment; lien
   
52.086   Amendment of connection and treatment charges
   
52.087   Charges; no premises exempt
   
52.100   Affidavit
   
52.101   Deposit required
   
52.102   Interest/transfer of deposit
   
52.103   Change of owner or occupancy
   
52.120   Inspection, surveillance and monitoring; right of entry
   
52.121   Notice of violation
   
52.122   Penalties
   
52.123   Nuisance
   
52.124   Reimbursement
   
52.125   Judicial relief
   
52.126   Severance of water supply system
   
52.150   Appellate review
   
52.160   Liability
   
52.165   Severability
   
52.170   Savings clause
   
52.175   Conflict with Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO
§ 52.001   PURPOSE.
   (A)   This ordinance is being adopted concurrently with Ordinance No. 2014-
1-SO, a comprehensive sewer use ordinance adopted as a special ordinance and on
file at the City of Burton Clerk’s office.
   (B)   This ordinance establishes uniform requirements for discharges by
users located within the City of Burton to the Genesee County POTW, and to
enable the City of Burton and the County Agency to comply with applicable state
and federal laws as required by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (also
known as the “Clean Water Act”), as amended, 33 USC 1251, et seq.; the General
Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR part 403); Part 31 of Act 451 of the Public
Acts of Michigan of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq., as amended ("Water
Resources Protection"); and the rules, Michigan Administrative Code, R, §§
323.2301 et seq., as amended, promulgated pursuant to Sections 3103, 3106 and
3109 of Part 31 of Act 451 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1994, as amended.
   (C)   This ordinance prohibits the discharge of pollutants from within the
City of Burton into the Genesee County POTW that do not meet applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements; that would interfere with the
operation of the POTW; that would pass through the POTW into the receiving
waters or the atmosphere, the environment, or otherwise be incompatible with
the POTW; that would inhibit or disrupt the POTW's processing, use, or disposal
of sludge; that would cause health or safety problems for POTW workers; or that
would result in a violation of the POTW's NPDES permit or of other applicable
laws and regulations.
   (D)   This ordinance is intended to improve the opportunity to recycle and
reclaim wastewaters and sludges from the Genesee County POTW, as required by
law.
   (E)   This ordinance regulates the discharge of wastewater and/or pollutants
to the POTW, and provides the authority to enforce the requirements of this
ordinance through the issuance of permits and other means as provided by this
ordinance.
   (F)   This ordinance authorizes and requires all inspection, monitoring,
reporting and enforcement activities as necessary to insure compliance with
applicable pretreatment standards and requirements and other applicable laws
and regulations.
   (G)   This ordinance provides for the equitable distribution and recovery of
costs from users of the Genesee County POTW sufficient to administer regulatory
activities, and to meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, improvement
and replacement of the POTW.
   (H)   This ordinance applies to any person that discharges to the Genesee
County POTW from within the City of Burton. This ordinance also applies to any
person owning, using, constructing or maintaining any private system or
facility intended or used for the disposal of sewage or wastewater within the
City of Burton.
   (I)   This ordinance designates, empowers and authorizes the Genesee County
POTW to act as the agent and representative of the City of Burton for purposes
of administering and enforcing this ordinance within the City of Burton. This
includes, but is not limited to, the power and authority of the POTW, as deemed
necessary by the POTW, to immediately and independently investigate, enforce,
and prosecute (administratively or judicially, and civilly or criminally) any
violation of this ordinance or of any notice, order, permit, decision or
determination promulgated, issued or made by the POTW under this ordinance, and
to otherwise implement the requirements of this ordinance.
   (J)   This ordinance makes it unlawful for any person to discharge any
wastewater or pollutant to the POTW or to any storm sewer or natural outlet
within the City of Burton, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city,
except in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance and other applicable
laws and regulations. If any user discharges or proposes to discharge
wastewaters or pollutants that are prohibited or limited by this ordinance, the
POTW may take any action as provided by this ordinance or other applicable laws
or regulations to assure and require compliance with the provisions of this
ordinance.
§ 52.002   DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the following terms
shall have the following meanings as used in this ordinance:
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SEWER.  A public sewer or combined sewer within 200 feet of
a property line.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system of a building which receives the discharge from wastewater and other
drainage pipes inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building
sewer. The building drain shall be deemed to begin 5 feet outside the inner
face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal (such as a grinder pump). The building sewer shall
be deemed to begin 5 feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   CITY.  The City of Burton, Genesee County, United States acting by and
through its duly authorized agents, deputies and representatives.
   CITY SEWER.  The City of Burton arm of the Genesee County Sanitary Sewage
Disposal System No. 1 or any other sewer as to which the city has or shall have
possession, control and operating responsibility.
   COMMERCIAL USER.  For purposes of system charges, any aggregation of space
or area occupied for a distinct purpose such as a retail store, office,
laundry, restaurant, or other like units, which is equipped with 1 or more
water fixtures draining into the wastewater disposal system, separate and
distinct from other units of service.
   CONNECTION FEE or AVAILABILITY FEE. The amount charged at the time and in
the amount hereinafter provided, to each premises in the city for connecting
directly or indirectly to the system.
   COUNCIL.  The City Council of the City of Burton.
   COUNTY.  Genesee County, Michigan.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of Public Works of the city.
   DISCHARGE. The introduction of waste, wastewater, effluent or pollutants
into the POTW, whether intentional or unintentional, and whether directly (such
as through an approved sewer connection or other approved discharge point as
authorized by this ordinance or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO) or indirectly
(including, but not limited to, sources such as inflow and infiltration).
   DOMESTIC USER.  A user that discharges only segregated normal strength
domestic waste into the POTW.
   DOMESTIC WASTE.  Wastewater (or water-carried waste) of human origin
generated by personal activities from toilet, kitchen, laundry, or bathing
facilities, or by other similar facilities used for household or residential
dwelling purposes (“sanitary sewage”). DOMESTIC WASTE shall not include any
waste resulting from industrial or commercial processes, including, without
limitation, any hazardous or toxic pollutants. Wastes emanating from sources
other than residential dwelling units which are to be considered domestic
wastes shall be of the same nature and strength and have the same flow rate
characteristics.
   DWELLING UNIT. For purposes of assigning Residential Equivalent Units, a
“dwelling” unit shall contain, at a minimum, sleeping facilities, a toilet, a
bath or shower, and a kitchen.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, serving, or dispensing
of food, from the handling, storage, processing or sale of produce, or from the
canning or packaging of food. It is composed largely of putrescible organic
matter and its natural or added moisture content.
   GENERAL USER PERMIT.  A permit issued to any user other than a significant
industrial user as provided by this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO to
control discharges to the POTW and to ensure compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements.
   GENESEE COUNTY SEWER USE ORDINANCE.  Ordinance No. 0605 adopted by the
Genesee County Board of Commissioners on November 21, 2006, as amended from
time to time.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.  Any nondomestic user that, by any means, contributes,
causes or permits the contribution, introduction or discharge of wastewater or
pollutants into the POTW, whether intentional or unintentional, and whether
directly or indirectly.
   INDUSTRIAL USER PERMIT.  A permit issued to a significant industrial user,
or to such other user as determined appropriate by the POTW Manager, as
provided by this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO to control discharges to
the POTW and to ensure compliance with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   INSPECTION FEE.  The amount charged to each applicant by the local unit and/
or the POTW at the time an application is made to the local unit and/or the
POTW solely for permission to connect to the public sewer. This sewer
connection inspection fee includes, but is not limited to, covering the routine
cost of inspecting and approving the physical connection of a building sewer
and service connection to the public sewer, and the issuance of a sewer
connection permit.
   INSPECTOR.  Any person (and the person’s authorized representatives)
designated by the POTW, or local unit to observe the construction of and
connection of building sewers to the public sewer system, to ensure conformance
with the sewer connection requirements of this ordinance, and to otherwise act
as provided by this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
   LATERAL SEWER.  That portion of the sewer system located under the street or
within the public right-of-way from the property line to the trunk line and
which collects sewage from a particular property for transfer to the trunk
line.
   LOCAL UNIT.  The City of Burton, Michigan, acting by and through its duly
authorized agents, deputies and representatives.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any naturally formed outlet into a watercourse, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or groundwater.
   POLLUTANT.  Includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any material that is discharged into water or other liquid,
including, but not limited to, dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, medical wastes, chemical wastes,
biological materials, radioactive materials, wrecked or discharged equipment,
rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, and agricultural waste.
      (2)   Properties of materials or characteristics of wastewater,
including, but not limited to, pH, heat, TSS, turbidity, color, BOD, COD,
toxicity, and odor.
      (3)   Substances regulated by categorical standards.
      (4)   Substances discharged to the POTW that are required to be monitored
by a user under this ordinance, that are limited in the POTW’s NPDES permit, or
that are required to be identified in the POTW’s application for an NPDES
permit.
      (5)   Substances for which control measures on users are necessary to
avoid restricting the POTW’s residuals management program; to avoid operational
problems at the POTW; or to avoid POTW worker health and safety problems.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS). The complete sewage disposal,
transportation and treatment system of Genesee County, Michigan, as defined by
the Act, the County Public Improvement Act, and this ordinance and Ordinance
No. 2014-1-SO, including any devices, processes and systems used in the
storage, treatment, recycling or reclamation of wastewater, sewage or sludge,
as well as sewers (including all main, lateral and intercepting sewers), pipes
and other conveyances used to collect or convey wastewater or sewage to the
treatment works, as now or hereafter added to, extended or improved. The term
POTW shall also include any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from
persons who are, by contract or agreement with the County Agency, users of the
POTW. References in this ordinance to approvals, determinations, reviews, etc.,
“by the POTW” shall mean by the County Agency, the POTW Manager, or their
authorized representatives. The term “POTW” may also be used to refer to the
GCWWSD (acting through the County Agency) as the entity that has jurisdiction
over the discharges to, and discharges from, the POTW (the “control
authority”), as appropriate to the context in which the term is used.
   POTW MANAGER or MANAGER.  The person designated by the County Agency as
being responsible to administer the POTW’s Industrial Pretreatment Program, and
who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities as provided by this
ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO. References to “POTW Manager” or
“Manager” shall include the Manager’s authorized representatives.
   PREMISES.  A lot, tract, or parcel of land, or a building or structure,
having any connection, directly or indirectly, to the POTW, or from which there
is a discharge to the POTW.
   PRETREATMENT.  The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater before or instead of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into the POTW. The reduction or alteration may be obtained by
physical, chemical, or biological processes; process changes; or other means,
except for the use of dilution (unless expressly authorized by any applicable
pretreatment standard or requirement and the POTW Manager). Appropriate
pretreatment technology includes control equipment, such as equalization tanks
or facilities, for protection against surges or slug loadings, subject to
applicable requirements of local, state and federal laws and regulations.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENT.  Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on a
nondomestic user.
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD.  Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits
promulgated in accordance with Section 307(b) and (c) of the Act or Part 31 of
Act 451 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq.,
including general and specific prohibitive discharge limits and local limits
established in this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO pursuant to MAC R
323.2303, and categorical standards.
   PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  A cesspool, septic tank, or similar
device which discharges to a suitable drainage field.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   SEPTIC TANK.  A watertight receptacle receiving sewage and having an inlet
and outlet designed to permit the separation of suspended solids from sewage
and to permit such retained solids to undergo decomposition therein.
   SEWAGE.  A combination of the water-carried waste from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments.
   SEWER. Any pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying wastewater or drainage
water.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER or SIU.  Any nondomestic user:
      (1)   Subject to categorical pretreatment standards; or
      (2)   Any other nondomestic user that:
         (a)   discharges to the POTW an average of 25,000 gallons per day or
more of process wastewater (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler
blow-down wastewater);
         (b)   contributes a process waste stream that makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
         (c)   is otherwise designated by the POTW as a significant industrial
user on the basis that the user has a reasonable potential to adversely affect
the operation of the POTW, to violate any pretreatment standard or requirement,
or because the POTW determines that an Industrial User Permit for the user’s
discharge is required to meet the purposes and objectives of this ordinance and
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
   The POTW Manager may determine that a user that meets the criteria of
subsections (2)(a) and (2)(b) of this definition above is not currently a
significant industrial user, if the Manager finds that the user has no
reasonable potential to adversely affect the operation of the POTW, to violate
any pretreatment standard or requirement, or that an Industrial User Permit is
not required to meet the purposes and objectives of this ordinance and
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO. A determination that a user is not a significant
industrial user (or that a permit is therefore not required) shall not be
binding and may be reversed by the Manager at any time based on changed
circumstances, new information, or as otherwise determined necessary by the
Manager to meet the purposes and objectives of this ordinance and Ordinance No.
2014-1-SO.
   STATE.  The State of Michigan. The term shall include, where applicable, any
administrative agency of the state having jurisdiction in the subject matter of
this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, including (but not limited to) the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (DEQ).
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN.  A sewer or drain, either natural or artificial,
intended to carry storm water, snowmelt, and surface runoff and drainage, but
not wastewater.
   TAP, METER, INSPECTION AND APPROVAL FEE. The amount charged to each
applicant at the time an application is made to the city to connect the
premises in the city to the sewer distribution system to cover any cost of
connection including the cost of the water meter, the cost of installing the
line from the main to the property line, the pipe, the cost of inspection and
approving the physical connection and the issuance of a connection permit.
   THIS ORDINANCE.  The ordinance adopted as Ordinance No. 2014-2-53 and
subsequently codified as
Chapter 52 of the Codified Ordinances of the City of Burton as distinguished
from the more comprehensive sewer use ordinance adopted as Ordinance No. 2014-
1-SO adopted concurrently with this ordinance and adopted as a special
ordinance.
   UNIT.  The measure of potential sewage production which is equivalent to the
quantity of sewage produced by or emanating from a single-family residence
occupied by any average family.  The number of units assigned to premises of
various types shall be as set forth in the Table of Unit Factors as referenced
in the City of Burton Fee Schedule book.
   USER.  Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution,
introduction or discharge of wastewater into the POTW, whether intentional or
unintentional, and whether directly or indirectly.
   USER PERMIT.  An Industrial User Permit or a General User Permit.
(Ord. 2018-52, passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2019-6-52, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 52.003   CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of any house, building, structure, premises, or property used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
county and/or the local unit, and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-
way, in which there is located, or may in the future be located, a public sewer
or combined sewer within 200 feet of the property line, is hereby required, at
the owner’s expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance
with the provisions of this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, when given
official notice to do so, provided that such connection shall not be required
to be made less than 6 months nor more than 18 months after the sewer is made
available for connection thereto.
§ 52.004   CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owner of any house, building, structure, premises, or property used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
county and/or the local unit, and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-
way, in which there is located, or may in the future be located, a public sewer
or combined sewer within 200 feet of the property line, is hereby required, at
the owner’s expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to
connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance
with the provisions of this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, when given
official notice to do so, provided that such connection shall not be required
to be made less than 6 months nor more than 18 months after the sewer is made
available for connection thereto.
§ 52.010  GENERALLY; REQUIREMENT; FEES; INSPECTION.
   No building sewer shall be directly connected to any county sewer by any
person without first obtaining a permit therefor from the county and from the
city. The city approval shall be first obtained from the city upon payment of
sewer connection charges as provided in this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-
1-SO. There shall be a connection and installation inspection fee as set by the
City Council, and amended by resolution from time to time. The inspection fee
above described shall be charged only 1 time if the approval is given at the
time the first inspection is made; if, however, the customer shall call for a
final inspection and the installation and connection is not properly made and
must be corrected, then the customer shall pay the above inspection fee for
each inspection made. The party to whom the permits are issued shall be
responsible for notifying the City Sewer Inspection Office at least 24 hours in
advance of the date and time when the connection is made so that proper
inspection of the same can be made.
§ 52.011  INDUSTRIAL USER PERMITS.
   It is unlawful for any significant industrial user (SIU), or any other user
as determined necessary by the POTW Manager to carry out the purposes of this
ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, to discharge to the POTW without an
Industrial User Permit as provided by this section.
§ 52.012  GENERAL USER PERMITS.
   The POTW Manager may require any user other than a SIU to obtain a General
User Permit to discharge to the POTW, subject to such terms and conditions as
are determined necessary and appropriate by the POTW to achieve the purposes,
policies and objectives of this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
   (A)   A General User Permit may contain, but shall not be required to
contain, any of the terms and conditions that would apply to an Industrial User
Permit issued to a SIU as provided by this section to comply with the general
and specific discharge prohibitions of this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-
SO, including, but not limited to, discharge limitations, and requirements
regarding sampling and monitoring; pretreatment; pollution prevention,
minimization or reductions plans; accidental discharge, spill prevention, and
containment requirements; flow equalization; and implementation of best
management practices or a best management practices plan.
   (B)   To the extent determined appropriate by the POTW Manager on a case-by-
case basis, a General User Permit issued under this subsection shall be subject
to provisions otherwise applicable to permits for SIUs. However, all General
User Permits shall be non-transferable, and are subject to the permit fee and
permit appeals provisions of this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any user required by the POTW Manager to obtain a
General User Permit to discharge to the POTW without a General User Permit as
provided by this section.
   (D)   Failure to comply with a General User Permit issued under this
subsection constitutes a violation of this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-
SO.
§ 52.013  PERMIT APPLICATION DEADLINES.
   Each user must file an application for a User Permit on the form provided by
the POTW within the following deadlines:
   (A)   Existing SIUs: Any SIU discharging into the POTW as of the effective
date of this ordinance shall submit a completed permit application form to the
POTW as provided by this section within 60 days of being so directed and
provided a form by the POTW.
   (B)   Proposed New SIUs: Any SIU proposing to commence (or recommence)
discharging into the POTW after the effective date of this ordinance shall, at
least 90 days prior to the anticipated date on which discharging will commence,
request a permit application form and submit the completed application to the
POTW.
   (C)   Categorical Users Subject to New Standard: A user which becomes
subject to a new or revised national categorical pretreatment standard, and
which has not previously submitted an application for a permit as required
herein, shall apply to the POTW for an Industrial User Permit within 90 days
after the promulgation of the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard. The POTW may also initiate this action; however, the failure of the
POTW so to do shall not relieve a user of its obligation to obtain a permit.
   (D)   Other Users: Any other user directed by the POTW to complete and
submit a User Permit application shall do so within 60 days of being so
directed by the POTW and provided a form by the POTW.
§ 52.014  PERMIT APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All users shall submit the information required by this ordinance and
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO on the User Permit application form supplied by the
POTW (or attached thereto) at a level of detail and in units and terms as
determined necessary by the POTW to adequately evaluate the application,
accompanied by payment of a permit application review fee. A separate
application and supporting documentation shall be submitted for each separate
location for which a User Permit is required.
   (B)   For detailed permit application requirements, regulations, conditions,
and modifications refer to Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, on file at the City of
Burton Clerk’s office.
§ 52.015   PERMIT DURATION.
   (A)   Industrial User Permits shall be issued for a specified time period,
not to exceed 5 years, subject to modification, reissuance, suspension or
revocation as provided by this section. At the discretion of the POTW, an
Industrial User Permit may be issued for a period less than 5 years and may be
stated to expire on a specific date.
   (B)   General User Permits may be issued for any time period determined
appropriate by the POTW Manager, subject to modification, reissuance,
suspension or revocation as provided by this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-
1-SO.
§ 52.016   PERMIT APPEALS.
   The permit appeal process is governed by Division 7, section 14 and Division
18 of Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, on file at the City of Burton Clerk’s Office.
§ 52.030   PERMITS.
   There shall be three classes of building sewer connection permits: (1)
residential, (2) commercial, and (3) industrial. In each case the owner or the
owner’s agent shall apply to the City of Burton to obtain a connection permit
from the City of Burton on the form furnished by the City of Burton. The
connection permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications or other information considered necessary and appropriate in the
judgment of the City of Burton. The owner or the owner’s agent shall also make
application to the POTW on a special form furnished by the POTW. The
applications to the City of Burton and the POTW shall be on payments of such
fees as established from time to time by the City of Burton and the County
Agency. The established County Capital Improvement Fee and applicable local
connection fees shall be paid to the City of Burton and the POTW, respectively,
at the time the application is filed. No person shall uncover, make any
connections with or open into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or any
appurtenance thereof without first obtaining a written connection permit from
the City of Burton and the POTW. Agents of the City of Burton, the POTW,
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency shall have the right to enter all properties for the purpose of
inspecting and copying all records which are required to be kept pursuant to
this section and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
§ 52.031   PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS REQUIRED; CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   (A)   All applicants for sewer connection permits shall first submit to the
City of Burton and the POTW plans and specifications of all plumbing
construction within the building or premises and such plans and specifications
shall meet the requirements of the state plumbing code, this ordinance, and
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, the County Sewage Disposal District Number 1
regulations, and all provision, rules and regulations of the State Department
of Health. In any case where there is a conflict between the requirements of
the plumbing code and the requirements of Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO then and in
that event, the requirements of Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO shall prevail.
   (B)   Complete engineering plans for all proposed plumbing construction and
extensions to the system shall be submitted to the Director for review and
approval. No sewers shall be constructed until the plans have been approved by
the Director and all fees have been paid.
   (C)   After such plans and specifications have been approved by the City of
Burton and the POTW a construction permit may be issued, subject to a final
inspection and approval by the City of Burton and the POTW when construction is
completed and ready for connection with the public sewer system.
§ 52.032   INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION COSTS TO BE BORNE BY OWNER.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner or the person installing
the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the City of Burton and the
POTW from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
§ 52.033   BUILDING SEWER INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the City of Burton when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection shall be made under the supervision of the City of Burton Water
Department and shall be subject to the review and approval of Genesee County
Water and Waste and the city.
(Ord. 2019-6-52, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 52.034  CAPACITY REQUIRED.
   No connection to a public sewer will be required or allowed unless there is
capacity available (in both wastewater volume and strength) in all downstream
sewers, pump stations, interceptors, and force mains, including, but not
limited to, adequate capacity to accept, treat and dispose of BOD, TSS, or
similar materials as required by applicable local, state or federal laws, rules
or regulations, as determined by the City of Burton and the POTW.
§ 52.035  PRETREATMENT OF ANY DISCHARGE MAY BE REQUIRED.
   Pretreatment of any discharge to the public sewer, including, but not
limited to, grease, oil, and sand interceptors, shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Manager, they are necessary.
§ 52.036  GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   A grease, oil and sand interceptor (trap) shall be installed and maintained
in continuously efficient operating condition at the expense of the property
owner when, in the determination of the City of Burton or POTW Manager, an
interceptor is necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts or any flammable waste, sand, or other harmful
ingredient. An interceptor shall be required for every restaurant, fast food
outlet, automotive repair shop or garage, car wash, or any other type of
establishment or use as determined necessary by the City of Burton or POTW
Manager. An interceptor shall not be required for a single-family detached
residential or multiple-family residential dwelling unit when used solely for
residential living purposes. All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity
approved by the City of Burton and the POTW Manager, and shall be located so as
to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Interceptors
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperature, and shall be of substantial construction,
watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers which when in place shall
be gas-tight and water-tight.
§ 52.037  CONTRACTOR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall perform the work of making house connections or building
sewer connections on the premises of another unless he or she shall be licensed
in accordance with §§
112.25 through
112.37 of the City of Burton Code of Ordinances.
§ 52.038  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use,
alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof, without being
licensed to do this type of work by the city, and without first obtaining a
written permit from the city or its agent.
§ 52.039  BUILDING SEWER EXPENSE; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   All cost and expense incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner shall indemnify the
county or the city from any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
§ 52.060   SEPTIC TANKS UNLAWFUL.
   Except as provided in this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, it shall
be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank,
cesspool or other facility intended or used for disposal of sewage.
§ 52.061   COMPLIANCE WITH HEALTH DEPARTMENT.
   All septic tanks, the connection thereto, the septic tank fields, the
location thereof, and the drains in connection therewith shall be in accordance
with and in compliance with the rules, regulations, and requirements and
provisions of the County Health Department.
§ 52.062   DISPOSAL AND DUMPING.
   No waste originating from a cleanout of any septic tank, seepage pit, or
cesspool used for the purposes of collecting human excrement and/or domestic,
industrial, or commercial waste shall be disposed of or dumped except into a
designated and approved septage receiving station, consistent with all
applicable local and state laws and regulations. Dumping or discharging such
waste into a public sewage collection system (including, but not limited to,
into a manhole) is expressly prohibited.
§ 52.063   SEWER AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in this section, a direct
connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with this ordinance
and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO; and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
§ 52.064   COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all local, county, state, and federal requirements. No
permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal systems employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
determined necessary by the City of Burton and County or State health
officials, as applicable. No septic tank, cesspool, subsurface disposal
facility or other private sanitary sewer system shall be permitted to discharge
to any public sewer or natural outlet.
§ 52.080   CONNECTION CHARGES ADOPTED.
   (A)   Charge established. Each user whose premises are hereafter connected
directly to a public sanitary sewer shall pay to the city a connection charge
as provided in this ordinance and based on the unit factors shown on the
Equivalent User Table-Appendix A or Appendix B as set by Council, and amended
by resolution time to time.
   (B)   Tap-in-fees.
      (1)   Indirect connection. Where the premises are connected indirectly to
a public sanitary sewer which sewer bas been installed at the expense of the
owner or by special assessment or at the expense of the subdivider or developer
from whom the owner purchased, or by the city, when cost recovery is to be made
by a construction charge as established by resolution of the City Council and
not at the unreimbursed expense of the city, the connection charge for each
connection shall be as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from
time to time.
      (2)   Direct connection. Where the premises are connected directly to a
public sanitary sewer installed at the expense of the city, or by a developer
of property other than the developer of the premises to be connected, the
connection charge for each user shall be as set by the City Council, and
amended by resolution from time to time.
      (3)   Expansion or change of use prior to building permit. The owner of
any premises within the city who shall expand the use or change the nature of
the use of any premises subsequent to the calculation and imposition of the
initial connection charge as provided by this section, prior to the issuance of
building permit, if required, shall be assessed an additional connection charge
in accordance with this section, as amended, in the event it is determined that
the expansion or change in use results in an increase of the premises' REU
factor as expressed on the Equivalent User Table-Appendix A or Appendix B as
set by Council and amended by resolution time to time.
   (C)   Construction fees.
      (1)   Where the premises are connected directly to the public sanitary
sewer installed at the unreimbursed expense of the city, there shall also be a
construction charge equal to 50% of the cost of an 8-inch sanitary sewer spread
upon the property to be serviced by the sanitary sewer in accordance with a
method to be established by the City Council. The construction charge shall be
determined by bid or the average cost of the construction, including all
appurtenances, as experienced by the city within the previous 12-month period
or last known costs from a previous time period beyond 12-month period adjusted
by the Consumer Price Index of the U.S. Department of Labor. The amount of the
construction charge shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
      (2)   All installation costs for connection to the city sewer mains shall
be the responsibility of the owner or developer of the premises to be served.
When service to a premises requires an extension of a public sanitary sewer,
the estimated cost of installation shall be paid in advance by the property
owner or developer, based upon an estimate of the Department of Public Works.
Any surplus shall be returned to the property owner or developer and any
deficit shall be paid by the property owner or developer, immediately upon the
determination of the actual costs of construction for that public sanitary
sewer.
   (D)   Saddle tap fee. Where the premises are connected directly to a lateral
or interceptor or trunk sewer line where the owner has requested such special
connection and has received approval therefor by the Director, the connection
charge for each such saddle tap shall be as set by the City Council, and
amended by resolution from time to time, in addition to the city’s construction
and installation costs, and in addition to such tap fees as would otherwise be
applicable.
(Ord. 2018-52, passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2019-6-52, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 52.081   CONNECTION CHARGE PAYMENT; CHARGES A LIEN.
   (A)   The foregoing connection and construction charges shall be paid in
full at the time of application for the building permit for any new structure,
addition to an existing structure, or change of use within an existing
structure; provided, however, that where a structure connected to the sewer was
occupied prior to the effective date of this ordinance, the user shall have the
option of paying installments as follows:
      (1)   The minimum sum of 25% of the total computed connection and
construction charge for multiple unit connection shall be paid when the
connection permit is issued by the city, and the balance shall be paid in 30
equal installments together with interest at 6% per annum of the declining
balance from the date when the connection permit is issued.
      (2)   The first installment and accrued interest shall be due and payable
on the next December 1, which is more than 3 months after the date when the
connection permit is issued, and subsequent installments with accrued interest
shall be due and payable on December 1, annually thereafter, and all
installments with accrued interest shall be subject to the same interest, fees,
and penalties as the city taxes on the premises.
      (3)   The balance of any connection charge or construction charge
remaining unpaid may be paid in cash at any time with accrued interest to the
date of payment. The balance due on a connection charge and construction charge
for a given premises shall be paid in full at the time the premises changes
ownership.
   (B)   Interest shall not commence until connection to the sewer shall be
made. However, the connection charge shall be the connection charge which is
established by ordinance on the date of connection rather than the date of
application.
   (C)   All connection charges and all installments thereof, together with
interest, fees, and penalties, shall constitute a lien upon the premises
connected to the sewer; and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as
are liens for city taxes.
§ 52.082   HARDSHIP DEFERMENT OF CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      HARDSHIP. A financial hardship which in the judgment of the majority of
the Hardship Committee shall make it difficult or financially harsh upon a
landowner to pay the tap-in charge imposed by city ordinance for connection to
the public sanitary sewer system of the city. The Committee in making its
determination may consider the total financial resources of the landowner, the
present and anticipated income of the landowner, the age and physical condition
of the landowner, and other factors as the Committee shall feel appropriate in
determining the financial ability of the landowner to pay the cost of
connecting to the public sanitary sewer system within the city to which the
landowner is required by law to connect.
   (B)   A Hardship Committee is hereby established, which shall consist of 3
members appointed by the City Council after recommendation of the Mayor. Each
member of the Committee should be a resident of the city and shall hold office
until the first regular meeting of the City Council in January of each year or
until a successor is appointed, whichever is later.
   (C)   Any landowner who is required to connect to the public sanitary sewer
system available for connection to the landowner's property, as defined by
state law or city ordinance, who shall believe that he or she is financially
unable to pay the tap-in charge or other costs of connection, may apply to the
Hardship Committee by application form provided by the Committee through the
office of the City Clerk, for deferment of the connection and/or tap-in charge.
The application shall be signed by the applicant under oath or by an adult
child on behalf of a parent.
   (D)   The Committee may establish a date of earing which shall be a private
hearing between the Committee and the applicant, and the Committee may decide
at the hearing or any adjourned date to grant a total or partial deferment of
the connection and/or tap-in charge under those conditions as the Committee
shall deem advisable and reasonable.
   (E)   The Committee may provide for temporary deferment of payment of
connection and/or tap-in charges or other costs of connection or may provide
for deferment until death or sale or transfer of the landowner's parcel and may
take a lien and mortgage security on the real property of the landowner for
whom the deferment in payment of the tap-in or other costs of connection is
granted.
   (F)   If the applicant shall be purchasing the property under land contract
or if the property shall be first subject to a first mortgage, then the
Hardship Committee may require the applicant to obtain the consent of the
vendor of the land contract or the mortgagee of the mortgage to the imposition
of the lien and require that the lien shall be paramount security or equal
security to the interest of the vendor or the first mortgage; or the Hardship
Committee may waive this requirement and not require the applicant to obtain
the consent of the land contract vendor or mortgagee, in which event any lien
of the city for the advancement of tap-in charges will be secondary to the
interest of the vendor or mortgagee. Interest shall run on all such deferments
at the rate of 6% per annum unless the Hardship Committee shall reduce or waive
this interest as it shall deem advisable and reasonable.
   (G)   The hardship application and the findings of the Committee shall not
be open for inspection of the public unless released by action of the City
Council or except by court order.
   (H)   Following the determination of the Committee, the landowner will
promptly arrange to make the connection to the sanitary sewer, regardless of
what decision the Committee shall make, either in favor of deferment or not. In
no event shall filing of an application for hardship avoid or delay the
obligation to make connection to the sanitary sewer as required by state law or
city ordinance.
(Ord. 2019-6-52, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 52.083   TREATMENT CHARGES; BASIS.
   (A)   Each user whose premises are heretofore or hereafter connected to a
public sewer shall pay to the city a monthly charge for sewage disposal and
treatment as provided in this ordinance.
   (B)   Where individual water meter readings are available from meters
approved by the Director, measuring water from public or private supplies, the
readings shall boused as a basis for payment. When water meter readings are not
available, a flat rate charge shall be made on the basis of equivalent units
and shall be based on the Equivalent User Table Appendix A or Appendix B as set
by Council and amended by resolution from time to time.
   (C)   The total charge for service to each user shall be determined by
taking the sum of the individual charge determined as follows:
   (D)   Individually metered users' monthly charges as set by the City
Council, and amended by resolution from time to time.
   (E)   Individually unmetered users' monthly charges as set by the City
Council, and amended by resolution from time to time.
   (F)   Industrial pollutant loading charges to be levied by Genesee County
Water and Waste to be made when industrial waste strength exceeds the limits as
adopted by the Genesee County Board of Water Commissioners.
   (G)   In addition to the above charges, each user shall pay the charges for
miscellaneous service and monitoring as determined by the Genesee County Water
and Waste. All funds received as a result of the miscellaneous charges will be
credited to the system revolving fund.
   (H)   Any person who is responsible for discharging prohibited material
shall be charged the actual expense incurred by the Genesee County Water and
Waste for the handling, treatment, and removal of that material in the system,
including an administrative fee as established by Council and amended from time
to time by resolution.
   (I)   Any person who is responsible for damage to the system shall be
charged the full cost of repair of the damage. The cost shall include, but not
be limited to, labor, equipment, materials, administrative expense, interest on
borrowed funds, engineering, legal, or other professional fees, and charges to
the Genesee County Water and Waste by other utilities.
(Ord. 2019-6-52, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 52.084  CLASSIFICATION OF USERS.
   (A)   Users of the system shall be divided into classes. Classes shall be
groups of users for which the wastewater characteristics are approximately
equal and services provided are essentially the same. Initially, there shall be
established 2 classes of users, as follows:
      (1)   Non-industrial user class, and
      (2)   Industrial user class.
   (B)   The user charges shall result in the distribution of the costs of
operation and maintenance of the system to each user class in proportion to the
user’s contribution of the total wastewater loading. Factors such as strength,
volume, and delivery flow rate characteristics shall be included to ensure a
proportional distribution of the costs. The Director may establish additional
classes as determined to be necessary.
   (C)   Charges for sewer service during a selected 3-month summer period will
be a maximum of that charge determined from individual water meter readings at
single- family residential customers based on a formula adapted by Council
resolution and amended from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-6-52, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 52.085  TREATMENT CHARGES; BILLING AND PAYMENT; LIEN.
   (A)   Due date; penalty and interest for delinquency. Charges for water and
sanitary sewer services supplied shall be billed monthly or quarterly as the
City Council shall determine. If any charges are not paid on or before the due
date, then a penalty of 10% shall be added thereto and continuing outstanding
balances shall be subject to the same interest as city taxes on the premises.
In the event that the charges for any of these services furnished to any
premises shall not be paid within 60 days after the due date thereof, then all
services furnished by the water supply system shall be discontinued. Service so
discontinued shall not be restored until all sums then due and owing, including
penalties, shall be paid, plus a water turn-on charge as set by the City
Council, and amended by resolution from time to time.
   (B)   Lien of delinquent accounts. The foregoing charges, including
penalties and interest, payable for sewage disposal and treatment service to
any premises shall be a lien on the premises, and on May 1 and/or October 1 of
each year, the person or agency charged with the collection of these charges
shall certify to the City Assessor any charges which have been delinquent for 6
months or more, who shall enter the same upon the next tax roll against the
premises, and the charges and penalties shall be collected and the lien
enforced in the same manner as provided in respect to city taxes assessed upon
the roll. Provided, however, that when a tenant is responsible for the payment
of charges for service to any premises, and the city is so notified in writing.
   (C)   With a true copy of the lease of the affected premises (if there be
one) attached, then no such charge shall become a lien against the premises
from and after the date oft he notice. However, in the event of the filing of
such a notice, no further service shall be rendered to the premises until a
cash deposit equal to twice the average monthly or quarterly bill to the
premises shall have been made as security for payment of charges for service to
the premises.
(Ord. 2019-8-52, passed 8-19-2019)
§ 52.086  AMENDMENT OF CONNECTION AND TREATMENT CHARGES.
   The sewer connection charges specified may be amended by resolution of the
City Council.
§ 52.087  CHARGES; NO PREMISES EXEMPT.
   No premises, public or private, shall be exempt from payment of the
connection charges and sewage disposal and treatment charges hereinbefore
established. The city shall pay all charges of this type with respect to city
property connected to public sewers.
§ 52.100   AFFIDAVIT.
   Whenever the owner of residential property serviced by either or both city
sewer and water systems shall have the premises rented or leased to another,
the property owner may file an affidavit of non-responsibility with the City
Treasurer, then the City Treasurer may waive collections of usage charges and
deposits from the property owner. An affidavit of non-responsibility shall be
in the form as prescribed by the City Treasurer and shall, in addition to the
signature of the owner, be executed by the person in possession and using the
services, and the person in possession shall agree therein to be responsible
for payment of all deposits and usage charges. The property owner shall,
however, remain liable for an connection and/or tap-in charges for the use of
the city water and sewer supply systems. The property owner shall remain liable
for all water and sewer fees during the time(s) when the property is not
occupied by a tenant or an approved affidavit has not been accepted and is not
on file with the city.
(Ord. 2019-6-52, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 52.101   DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Whenever an affidavit of non-responsibility has been filed with the City
Treasurer as to certain premises, a deposit as set by the City Council, and
amended by resolution from time to time, per residential single-family dwelling
unit shall be made with the City Treasurer at the time of application for
connection to the public sewer and water systems. This deposit shall be held as
a guarantee of payment of all or any portion of the deposit for payment of any
delinquent charges or later turn-on charges in the event services have been
discontinued for nonpayment. The deposit not used for the payment of delinquent
service charges shall be returned to the depositor upon discontinuance of
service to the property or may be transferred to the credit of a future
occupant by written request to transfer received from the depositor.
§ 52.102   INTEREST/TRANSFER OF DEPOSIT.
   Deposits shall not bear interest, and in the event that a deposit has been
made which is unclaimed by the original depositor within 5 years following
discontinuance of service to the original depositor and the city has not
received a written request to transfer the deposit to a successor user, then
the city may forfeit the deposit and transfer the deposit to the water and
sewer fund of the city.
§ 52.103   CHANGE OF OWNER OR OCCUPANCY.
   In the event the city is notified a change of owner or occupancy occurred on
a premises where a non-responsibility affidavit has been filed, the city may
require the successor owner or occupant to place a new deposit with the city in
the amount as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from time to
time, per residential single-family dwelling unit unless the original depositor
shall have transferred the deposit to the successor owner or occupant by a
written transfer. The city shall not be obligated to return any original
successor owner or occupant's deposit unless the person entitled thereto shall
apply to the City Treasurer for the return thereof.
(Ord. 2019-6-52, passed 1-22-2019)
§ 52.120  INSPECTION, SURVEILLANCE AND MONITORING; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   The City of Burton and POTW are authorized to carry out all
inspection, surveillance, sampling and monitoring activities and procedures, as
necessary to determine, independent of information supplied by users or any
other persons, compliance or noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements, with this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO,
and with other applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   The POTW Manager and other authorized representatives of the POTW and/
or the City of Burton bearing proper credentials and identification are
authorized to enter a nondomestic user’s premises (and any other user’s
premises, as determined necessary by the POTW Manager) to conduct inspection,
surveillance and monitoring activities as necessary to determine compliance
with this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
   (C)   Refusal to allow entry. If a user refuses to permit access (or
unreasonably delays access) to an authorized POTW or City of Burton
representative or to permit the representative to obtain, take, and remove
samples or make copies of documents or undertake other authorized inspection,
surveillance and monitoring activities as provided by this ordinance and
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, the POTW Manager may order the termination of the
discharge of wastewater to the POTW; order the user to permit access within a
time certain; issue the user a notice of violation of this section; or take
other appropriate action as provided by this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-
1-SO and other applicable laws and regulations (including, but not limited to,
seeking the issuance of a search warrant). Further, the refusal to permit
access (or causing an unreasonable delay in access) as provided by this section
shall constitute a violation of this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
§ 52.121  NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating a provision of this ordinance and/or
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO may be served with written notice stating the nature of
the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory
correction of the violation. The person shall, within the period of time stated
in notice, permanently cease all violations.
   (B)   Failure to comply with any requirement of a notice of violation shall
constitute a separate violation of this ordinance and/or Ordinance No. 2014-1-
SO.
§ 52.122  PENALTIES.
   (A)   Violation; municipal civil infraction. Except as otherwise provided by
this ordinance and/or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, and notwithstanding any other
provision of the Genesee County’s or the Codified Ordinances of City of Burton,
a person who violates any provision of this ordinance (including, without
limitation, any notice, order, permit, decision or determination promulgated,
issued or made by the POTW under this ordinance) is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $1,000
per day for each infraction and not more than $10,000 per day for each
infraction, plus costs and other sanctions.
   (B)   The penalties may be increased for repeat offenses pursuant to
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
   (C)   Violation; Criminal penalties. Any person who (1) at the time of a
violation knew or should have known that a pollutant or substance was
discharged contrary to any provision of this ordinance or Ordinance No. 2014-1-
SO, or contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision or determination
promulgated, issued or made by the POTW or City of Burton under this ordinance
or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO; or (2) intentionally makes a false statement,
representation, or certification in an application for, or form pertaining to a
permit, or in a notice, report, or record required by this ordinance or
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, or in any other correspondence or communication,
written or oral, with the POTW or City of Burton regarding matters regulated by
this ordinance and/or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO; or (3) intentionally falsifies,
tampers with, or renders inaccurate any sampling or monitoring device or record
required to be maintained by this ordinance or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO; or (4)
commits any other act that is punishable under state law by imprisonment for
more than 90 days; shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of $500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for up to
90 days, or both in the discretion of the court.
   (D)   Continuing violation. Each act of violation, and each day or portion
of a day that a violation of this ordinance or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO (or of
any permit, order, notice or agreement issued or entered into under this
ordinance or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO) exists or occurs, constitutes a separate
violation subject to the fines, penalties and other sanctions and remedies as
provided by this ordinance and Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO.
§ 52.123  NUISANCE.
   A violation of this ordinance or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, or of any permit,
order, notice or agreement issued or entered into under this ordinance or
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, is deemed to be a public nuisance and shall be
corrected or abated as directed by the County Agency or the City of Burton. In
addition to any other legal or equitable remedies available under the law, any
person creating a public nuisance shall be subject to the provisions of state
law, this ordinance, Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, the Genesee County Sewer Use
Ordinance, or other ordinance of the City of Burton governing such nuisances,
including reimbursing the County Agency and/or the City of Burton for any costs
incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance, as applicable.
§ 52.124  REIMBURSEMENT.
   Any person who discharges to the POTW, including, but not limited to, any
person who causes or creates a discharge that violates any provision of this
ordinance or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, produces a deposit or obstruction, or
otherwise damages, injures, or impairs the POTW or local unit, or causes or
contributes to a violation of any federal, state or local law governing the
POTW or local unit, whether any such act is intentional or unintentional, shall
be liable to and shall fully reimburse the POTW and/or City of Burton for all
expenses, costs, losses or damages (direct or indirect) payable or incurred by
the POTW and/or City of Burton as a result of any such discharge, deposit,
obstruction, damage, injury, impairment, violation, exceedence, noncompliance,
or act. Costs that must be reimbursed are set forth in Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO
on file at the City of Burton Clerk’s office.
§ 52.125  JUDICIAL RELIEF.
   The City of Burton may institute legal proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction to seek all appropriate relief for violations of this ordinance or
of any permit, order, notice or agreement issued or entered into under this
ordinance or Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO. The action may seek temporary or
permanent injunctive relief, damages, penalties, costs, and any other relief,
at law or equity, that a court may order. The City of Burton may also seek
collection of surcharges, fines, penalties and any other amounts due.
§ 52.126  SEVERANCE OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   If a user violates or continues to violate any provision of this ordinance
water service provided directly or indirectly to the user by the County and/or
the City of Burton may be severed. If severed, the water service shall
recommence only after the user has satisfactorily demonstrated the user’s
ability to comply with all applicable provisions of this ordinance and/or
Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, and only at the user’s sole expense.
§ 52.150  APPELLATE REVIEW.
   Any person aggrieved by a Notice of Violation (NOV), a Cease and Desist
Order (C&D), an Order To Pre-treat (OTP), an Order to Affirmatively Respond
(OAR), or an Order to Terminate Service (OTS), or other action taken by the
City of Burton or the POTW Manager under this ordinance or under Ordinance No.
2014-1-SO may request review and reconsideration by the POTW Manager or may
appeal to the POTW Board of Appeals as provided by Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO. If
review and reconsideration or appeal is not properly and timely requested in
connection with an action as provided by Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO, the action
shall be deemed final.
§ 52.160  LIABILITY.
   Neither the POTW nor the City of Burton shall be responsible for
interruptions of service due to natural calamities, equipment failures, or
actions of the system users. It shall be the responsibility of the customer
that all connected equipment remain in good working order so as not to cause
disruption of service of any sewer or treatment plant equipment.
§ 52.165  SEVERABILITY.
   Sections of this ordinance shall be deemed severable and should any section,
clause or provision of this ordinance be declared to be invalid, the same shall
not affect the validity of the ordinance as a whole or any part thereof other
than the part so declared to be invalid.
§ 52.170  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   The amendment or repeal by this ordinance of any ordinance or ordinance
provision shall have no effect upon prosecutions commenced prior to the
effective date of this ordinance or prosecutions based upon actions taken by
any person prior to the effective date of this ordinance. Those prosecutions
shall be conducted under the ordinance provisions in effect prior to the
effective date of this ordinance.
§ 52.175  CONFLICT WITH ORDINANCE NO. 2014-1-SO.
   The provisions of Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO shall control in the event of any
inconsistency or conflict between Ordinance No. 2014-1-SO and any other
provision of any other ordinance of the City of Burton.
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70:
TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Michigan Motor Vehicle Code adopted
§ 70.01   MICHIGAN MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   (1)   The Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1
et seq., as amended, together with all subsequent amendments thereto, is hereby
adopted by reference for the City of Burton.
      (2)   Pursuant to the authority granted with the adoption of 2012 PA 7,
the City of Burton specifically adopts Section 625(1)(c) of the Michigan
Vehicle Code by reference.
   (B)   References in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code to “local authorities”
shall mean the City of Burton.
   (C)   (1)   The penalties as provided by the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code are
adopted by reference, provided however, that the penalty, except as provided in
sub-paragraph (C)(2) below, shall not exceed a period of incarceration in
excess of 93 days.
      (2)   Pursuant to the authority granted with the adoption of 2012 PA 7, a
violation of Section 625(1)(c) of the Motor Vehicle Code as adopted above shall
be punishable by 1 or more of the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 360 hours.
         (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days.
         (c)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
   (D)   A violation of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code shall be numbered 58-9,
followed by the section citation of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, or,
alternatively a violation may be numbered 70.01 followed by the section
citation of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code. The designation of 58-9 or 70.01
preceding the code section citation shall indicate that the violation is being
prosecuted pursuant to city ordinance, not state law.
CHAPTER 71:
PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking between roadway edge and sidewalk prohibited
   
71.02   Parking for purpose of sale prohibited
   
71.03   Obstruction of mailbox prohibited
   
71.04   Parking in fire lane prohibited
§ 71.01   PARKING BETWEEN ROADWAY EDGE AND SIDEWALK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park or stand a vehicle in that portion of the highway,
road, street, avenue, alley, and the like, between the curb, the edge of the
gravel roadway, or the edge of the improved shoulder of an asphalt roadway and
nearest sidewalk line or right-of-way line, unless authorized by resolution by
the City Council.
§ 71.02   PARKING FOR PURPOSE OF SALE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall stand or park a motor vehicle,
trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft on public or private property
zoned for commercial or industrial use, for the purpose of offering or
advertising the same for sale.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, proof that a sign was in or on a
standing or parked vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft, and
which sign was capable of drawing attention to same, and which sign was clearly
visible to any person located off the property, shall create a presumption that
the sign was for the purpose of offering the motor vehicle, trailer,
recreational vehicle, or watercraft for sale.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, proof that the subject motor
vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft was standing or parked in
violation of this section, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time, the registered owner of same, shall create a
presumption that the defendant was the person who parked the motor vehicle,
trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft, when the violation occurred.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to currently licensed motor vehicle,
trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft sales lots.
   (E)   A city code enforcement officer or police officer may, at the owner’s
expense, impound any vehicle, if it remains standing or parked in violation of
this section.  In addition to the costs of towing and storage of the vehicle,
the owner shall be responsible for payment of the expense incurred by the city
in the administration and enforcement of this section.
§ 71.03   OBSTRUCTION OF MAILBOX PROHIBITED.
   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle, except when necessary to
avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the directions
of a police officer or traffic-control device, within 20 feet of any letterbox
or mailbox or other receptacle intended or used for the receipt or delivery of
mail.
§ 71.04   PARKING IN FIRE LANE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall block any fire vehicle fire lane with an unattended motor
vehicle upon the lands of any public or private building which shall have a
designated emergency fire vehicle fire lane established by the Fire Chief of
the city and posted with signs at least every 200 feet which designate the area
as a fire lane.
CHAPTER 72:
GOLF CARTS
Section
   
72.01   Purpose
   
72.02   Definitions
   
72.03   Operation of golf carts on city streets
   
72.04   Parking regulations
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01  PURPOSE.
   These regulations are intended to secure the public peace, health and safety
of the residents and property owners of the City of Burton by the regulation of
the use of golf carts on public roads within the city and to provide penalties
for the violation of these provisions.
(Ord. 2021-8-72.01, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 72.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed for transportation while playing the game of
golf. Off-road vehicles, such as Gators, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), a
multitrack or multi-wheel drive vehicle, dune buggy, or like-vehicles are not
considered golf carts.
   MAINTAINED PORTION. That portion of a road improved, designated or
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, or be in actual physical control of the operation
of the golf cart.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of a golf cart.
   ROAD, ROADWAY, STREET AND RIGHT-OF-WAY. The terms are interchangeable.
   STREET. A road, roadway, street or right-of-way within the City of Burton
street system, but does not include a private road.
   SUNSET and SUNRISE. That time determined by the National Weather Service on
any given day.
(Ord. 2021-8-72.01, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 72.03  OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on city streets, subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on any street unless he or she
is at least 16 years old and is licensed to operate a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with the signal requirements
of M.C.L.A. § 257.648, as amended, that apply to the operation of a vehicle.
   (C)   All golf carts are required to have a red reflector on the rear of the
golf cart that shall be visible from all distances up to 500 feet when in front
of lawful low beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
   (D)   The operator of a golf cart shall obey by all sections pertaining to
traffic in the Michigan Vehicle Code and the Uniform Traffic Code.
   (E)   A person operating a golf cart upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (F)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on a state trunk line highway.
This subsection does not prohibit a person from crossing a state trunk line
highway when operating a golf cart on a street of the city, using the most
direct line of crossing.
   (G)   Where a usable and designated path for golf carts is provided adjacent
to a road or street, a person operating a golf cart shall be required to use
that path. A golf cart shall not be operated on a sidewalk constructed for the
use of pedestrians.
   (H)   A person operating a golf cart shall not pass between lines of traffic
but may pass on the left of traffic moving in his or her direction in the case
of a two-way street, or on the left or right of traffic, in an unoccupied lane,
in the case of a one-way street.
   (I)   A golf cart shall be operated at a speed not to exceed 15 miles per
hour and shall not be operated on a roadway or street with a speed limit of
more than 30 miles per hour except to cross that roadway or street.
   (J)   A golf cart shall not be operated on the streets of the city during
the time period from one-half hour before sunset to one-half hour after
sunrise.
   (K)   A golf cart shall not be used to carry more persons at one time than
the number for which it is designed and equipped.
   (L)   Golf carts shall not be operated on a road or street in a negligent
manner, endangering any person or property, or obstructing, hindering, or
impeding the lawful course of travel of any motor vehicle or the lawful use by
any pedestrian of public streets, sidewalks, paths, trails, walkways or parks.
   (M)   This section does not apply to a police officer, city officials,
employees, contractors or volunteers in the performance of city duties.
(Ord. 2021-8-72.01, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 72.04  PARKING REGULATIONS.
   The parking, stopping, and standing regulations provided in the City Code,
which may be adopted by reference therein, shall also apply to golf carts
operated in the city, as if they are motor vehicles under those provisions.
(Ord. 2021-8-72.01, passed 7-8-2021)
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this chapter shall be
responsible for a civil infraction. The penalty for the first offense shall be
$100. For any second or subsequent repeat offense, the fine shall be no more
than $250.
   (B)   A court may order a person who causes damage to the environment, a
road, or other public property as a result of the operation of a golf cart to
pay full restitution for that damage above and beyond the penalties paid for
civil infractions.
(Ord. 2021-8-72.01, passed 7-8-2021)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
93.   COST RECOVERY
CHAPTER 90:
STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Access to and Use of Rights-of-Way for Telecommunications Facilities
   
90.001   Purpose
   
90.002   Conflict
   
90.003   Definitions
   
90.004   Permit required
   
90.005   Permit issuance
   
90.006   Construction or engineering permit
   
90.007   Conduit or utility poles
   
90.008   Route maps
   
90.009   Damage; restoration
   
90.010   Maintenance fee
   
90.011   Modification of existing fees
   
90.012   Disposition of funds; annual report
   
90.013   Cable television operators
   
90.014   Existing rights
   
90.015   Compliance with Act
   
90.016   Reservation of powers
   
90.017   Civil infraction citation; authorized officials
Use of Rights-of-Way; Construction
   
90.030   Structures in rights-of-way; permit required
   
90.031   Permit application
   
90.032   Proof of insurance; indemnification
   
90.033   Work; city requirements apply; fees
   
90.034   Noncompliance; cease and desist order; appeal
Driveway Culverts
   
90.050   Driveway or other obstruction; culvert pipe required; specifications
   
90.051   Construction of driveway or other obstruction; permit required;
installation
   
90.052   Pavement without curbs; pipe installation required
   
90.053   Installation by city; costs of installation
Vacation of Public Ways
   
90.065   Intent to vacate; notice of hearing
   
90.066   Written objections
   
90.067   Vacation; recording of resolution
   
90.068   Easement and right of use preserved
   
90.069   Vacation petition; fee
Sidewalks
   
90.080   Snow and ice; removal required
   
90.081   Sidewalk and crosswalk construction; permit; regulations
Sanitary Sewer and Water Main Installation
   
90.095   Installation in highways; minimum requirements
   
90.096   Tunneling beneath roads; supplemental requirements
   
Appendix A:   Lot Terms
   
90.098   Consumption of alcohol on public streets, sidewalks and parking lots;
a municipal civil infraction
ACCESS TO AND USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
§ 90.001   PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this ordinance are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002 (“the Act”), and other applicable law, and
to ensure that the city qualifies for distributions under the Act by modifying
the fees charged to providers and complying with the Act.
§ 90.002   CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed in a manner so as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
§ 90.003   DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT.  The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, as amended from time to time.
      CITY COUNCIL.  The City Council of this city, or its designee.  This
section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Council.
      MAYOR.  The Mayor of this city, or his or her designee.
      PERMIT.  A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
ordinance to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in
the city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this ordinance shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following:
      AUTHORITY.  The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC.  The State Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumer
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term COMMISSION
in the Act.
      PERSON.  An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement, or waterway.  PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state, or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES.  The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals. 
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of Title III of the
Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. pt. 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, 2-way communication device.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER or PROVIDER. A person or an affiliate of the
person each of which for compensation provides 1 or more telecommunication
services.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES or SERVICES. Services regulated or unregulated,
offered to customers for the transmission of 2-way interactive communication
and associated uses. A TELECOMMUNICATION SERVICE is not a public utility
service.
§ 90.004   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required.  Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this ordinance.
   (B)   Application.  Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act. 
A telecommunications provider shall file 1 copy of the application with the
City Clerk, 1 copy with the Mayor, and 1 copy with the City Attorney.  Upon
receipt, the City Clerk shall make 2 copies of the application and distribute a
copy to the Director of the Department of Public Works and the Treasurer of the
city.  Applications shall be complete and include all information required by
the Act, including without limitation a route map showing the location of the
provider’s existing and proposed facilities in accordance with § 6(5) of the
Act.
   (C)   Confidential information.  If a telecommunications provider claims
that any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 - 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider
shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee.  Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a 1-time nonrefundable application fee in
the amount as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from time to
time.
   (E)   Additional information.  The Mayor may request an applicant to submit
additional information which the Mayor deems reasonably necessary or relevant. 
The applicant shall comply with all such requests in compliance with reasonable
deadlines for the additional information established by the Mayor.  If the city
and the applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional information
requested by the city, the city or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as
provided in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits.  Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under § 251 of the
State Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, § 251, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the city to
telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the State
Telecommunications Act but after 1985, shall satisfy the permit requirements of
this ordinance.
   (G)   Existing providers.  Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of- way in the city as of
that date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under §
251 of the State Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, § 251, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit in
accordance with the requirements of this ordinance.  Pursuant to § 5(3) of the
Act, a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
subsection is not required to pay the application fee required under subsection
(D) above.  A provider under this subsection shall be given up to an additional
180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as
provided in § 5(4) of the Act.
§ 90.005   PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Approval or denial.  The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Mayor.  Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act,
the Mayor shall approve or deny an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit under
§
90.004(B) of this code for access to a public right-of-way within the city. 
Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act, the Mayor shall notify the MPSC when the Mayor
has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the date on
which the application was filed and the date on which the permit was granted or
denied.  The Mayor shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit.  If an application for permit is approved, the Mayor
shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2), and 15
of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions.  Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the Mayor may impose
conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be limited to
the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement.  Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on subsection (C) above, the Mayor may require that a bond be posted
by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit.  If a bond is
required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the public
right- of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
§ 90.006   CONSTRUCTION OR ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under §
90.004 of this code, as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-
way.  No fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
§ 90.007   CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this ordinance does not give a
telecommunications provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
§ 90.008   ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
city.  The route maps should be in [paper or electronic] format unless and
until the Commission determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the
Act.
§ 90.009   DAMAGE; RESTORATION.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the
street surface and all installations under, over, below, or within the public
right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
§ 90.010   MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the nonrefundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
90.004(D) above, a telecommunications provider with telecommunications
facilities in the city’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance
fee to the Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
§ 90.011   MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   Modification of existing fees.  In compliance with the requirements of
§ 13(1) of the Act, the city hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees
charged to telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective
date of the Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to
an amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act,
which shall be paid to the Authority.  In compliance with the requirements of
Section 13(4) of the Act, the city also hereby approves modification of the
fees of providers with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way
within the city’s boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees
required under § 8 of the Act.  The city shall provide each telecommunications
provider affected by the fee with a copy of this ordinance, in compliance with
the requirement of § 13(4) of the Act.  To the extent any fees are charged
telecommunications providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act,
or which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, that imposition is hereby
declared to be contrary to the city’s policy and intent, and upon application
by a provider or discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having
been charged in error.
   (B)   Savings clause.  Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is
found to be invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under
subsection (A) above shall be void from the date the modification was made.
§ 90.012   DISPOSITION OF FUNDS; ANNUAL REPORT.
   (A)   Use of funds.  Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by
the city from the Authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way
related purposes.  In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by
the city from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund or
the Local Street Fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951.
   (B)   Annual report.  Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the Mayor shall file
an annual report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds
annually distributed by the Authority.
§ 90.013   CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable television
operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
§ 90.014   EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this ordinance shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
§ 90.015   COMPLIANCE WITH ACT.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
ordinance is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the
provisions hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that
purpose.
   (B)   The city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231, 215.246, as provided in §
90.004(C) of this code;
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
90.004(F) of this code;
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing those providers from the application
fee, in accordance with §
90.004(G) of this code;
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of- way within the city, in
accordance with §
90.005(A) of this code;
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
90.005(A) of this code;
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
90.005(A) of this code;
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
90.005(B) of this code;
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
90.005(C) of this code;
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
90.005(D) of this code;
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
90.006 of this code;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this ordinance, in accordance with §
90.011(A) of this code;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
90.012(B) of this code; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
90.013 of this code.
§ 90.016   RESERVATION OF POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this ordinance shall not limit the city’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
§ 90.017   CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION; AUTHORIZED OFFICIALS.
   Any violation of §§
90.001 through
90.016 of this codified ordinance shall be deemed a municipal civil infraction.
USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY; CONSTRUCTION
§ 90.030   STRUCTURES IN RIGHTS-OF-WAY; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, persons, firm, or corporation shall construct, place, install,
use, or maintain any structure, either above or below the surface, within the
boundaries of the right-of-way of a street, road, or highway under the
jurisdiction of the city without first having obtained a permit therefor as
hereinafter provided.
§ 90.031   PERMIT APPLICATION.
   Any person desiring to utilize the right-of-way of any street, road, or
highway under the jurisdiction of the city shall submit an application for a
permit to do so to the Department of Public Works for the city.  The
application shall be on a form provided therefor by the Department of Public
Works.  No permit shall be granted to any person, persons, firm, or corporation
unless all of the provisions of this ordinance are complied with.
§ 90.032   PROOF OF INSURANCE; INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The applicant for a permit under the provisions of this ordinance
shall supply to the Department of Public Works for the city, proof of general
liability insurance in the amount as set by the City Council, and amended by
resolution from time to time, which insurance shall name the city as an
additional named insured.
   (B)   If the property adjacent to the right-of-way where the work is to be
performed is owned by the applicant, or if the applicant owns a land contract
vendee’s interest in the premises, and if the premises adjacent to the subject
right-of-way is the applicant’s primary residence, the applicant, in lieu of
supplying proof of general liability insurance, may instead supply proof of
current homeowner’s insurance including general homeowner’s liability coverage.
   (C)   The applicant for a permit under the provisions of this ordinance
shall also execute a form to be provided therefor by the Department of Public
Works, which shall provide that the applicant agrees to release, indemnify, and
save harmless the city, its agents, principals, and employees from any and all
liability or damage claims to public or private property or personal injury
arising by reason of any work performed by the applicant or his or her agents,
servants, or employees within the right-of-way of any public street, road, or
highway under the jurisdiction of the city.
§ 90.033   WORK; CITY REQUIREMENTS APPLY; FEES.
   (A)   All work performed within the right-of-way of any street, road, or
highway under the jurisdiction of the city shall be in accordance with the
requirements of the Department of Public Works for the city.
   (B)   The permit and inspection fees shall be as from time to time
determined by the City Council.
§ 90.034   NONCOMPLIANCE; CEASE AND DESIST ORDER; APPEAL.
   (A)   If, after issuance of a permit, the Department of Public Works for the
city determines that the permit holder has not complied with any of the
regulations or requirements of the Department of Public Works, the Director of
the Department of Public Works shall issue a cease and desist order requiring
the permit holder to immediately terminate all operations as provided for in
the permit until such time as all of the regulations of the Department of
Public Works are complied with and the cease and desist order is rescinded.
   (B)   If the permit holder is aggrieved by the determination of the Director
of the Department of Public Works, he or she may appeal to the City Council.
   (C)   The permit holder may not continue operations while the appeal to the
City Council is pending.
DRIVEWAY CULVERTS
§ 90.050   DRIVEWAY OR OTHER OBSTRUCTION; CULVERT PIPE REQUIRED;
SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to construct or
maintain a driveway, approach, or other obstruction leading from any street to
a lot or parcel of land abutting thereon which may in any way obstruct or
interfere with the free and continuous flow or passage of water in, through, or
along any public gutter, watercourse, or drain in the street, without first
placing in the bottom of that gutter, watercourse, or drain, a metal culvert
pipe as herein provided and maintaining the same safe and unobstructed. 
Responsibility for keeping any such driveway or other drainage pipe open and
free of dirt or obstruction shall be upon the property owner.
   (B)   Any culvert pipe installed in any public street shall be approved by
the Department of Public Works and shall be of cast iron, steel, or iron or
steel alloy not less than 12 inches in internal diameter, or larger if required
by the Department of Public Works, shall have a continuous length of not less
than 14 feet nor more than 42 feet, shall be installed in a manner approved by
the Department of Public Works in a location, at a grade, and at an elevation
so that it will not obstruct or interfere with the free and continuous flow or
passage of water in the direction designated by the established grade of the
gutter, watercourse, or drain, and shall be covered with material of the same
character as the traveled portion of the roadway adjacent or other approved
material suitable for the use intended; provided, that the Department of Public
Works may grant special permission to install a metal culvert pipe less than 14
feet or more than 42 feet in length, if, in its judgment, conditions justify
installation of that lesser or greater length.
§ 90.051   CONSTRUCTION OF DRIVEWAY OR OTHER OBSTRUCTION; PERMIT REQUIRED;
INSTALLATION.
   Whenever any person shall desire to construct a driveway or obstruction in a
gutter of the character mentioned in §
90.050 of this code, he or she shall make application to the Department of
Public Works for a permit for that installation.  If there appears to be no
objection to the installation by the applicant, the Department of Public Works
will issue a permit for the installation in the manner provided in §
90.050 hereof and shall make a record of the permit.  Should the applicant
desire to have the work done by the city, he or she will be required to make
application to the Department of Public Works and to pay to the City Treasurer
a sum equal to the cost of materials, labor, supervision, and administration,
as determined by the Department of Public Works.  Upon payment to the City
Treasurer of this sum, the city will, as soon thereafter as convenient, install
the pipe and cover same with some material suitable for the use intended.  The
material used in construction of all driveways or culverts built by the city
shall remain the property of the city.  If at any time the character of any
street is changed so that a driveway or culvert is no longer required, then all
material used in the driveway or culvert constructed by the city shall be
salvaged by it, and all material shall be removed from the site by the city.
§ 90.052   PAVEMENT WITHOUT CURBS; PIPE INSTALLATION REQUIRED.
   Whenever any street, land, or alley in the city has been graveled or paved
without curbs, it shall be the duty of the Director of Public Works to serve or
cause to be served a written notice upon the owner or agent of any lot or
parcel of land abutting that street which has a driveway approach or other
obstruction leading from the lot or parcel of land to the traveled portion of
the street, requiring him, her, or them to install pipes in all such driveways,
approaches, or obstructions in accordance with §§
90.050 and
90.051 of this code, within 10 days after the completion of the work of
graveling or paving that street.  It shall further be the duty of the Director
to serve or cause to be served the notice as above mentioned upon the owner or
agent of any lot or parcel of land abutting any street in the city which has
been graveled or paved, who has not complied with the conditions specified in
§§
90.050 and
90.051 hereof.  In case the Director or other authorized agent or employee
shall be unable to find, within the city, the owner or agent of any such lot or
parcel of land abutting that street, then the notice may be served by posting
in some conspicuous place on the lot and premises.
§ 90.053   INSTALLATION BY CITY; COSTS OF INSTALLATION.
   (A)   In case the owner or agent of any lot or parcel of land, when ordered
by the Director of Public Works in the manner set out above, shall refuse or
neglect to install pipes from the date of service of the notice provided for in
§
90.052 of this code, the City Council may cause the driveway, approach, or
obstructions to be constructed and installed and assess the cost thereof in a
special assessment on the lot or parcel of land benefitted, this assessment to
be made and collected in the same manner as provided for in the City Charter
for the making and collecting of special assessments, and this tax shall be and
remain a lien upon the lot or parcel of land until the same is paid, the same
as all other assessments.
   (B)   Whenever either a property owner or the city shall improve any street
which construction shall require the installation of any driveway culvert or
the removal and restoration of an existing driveway culvert and driveway
approach and any work upon the area between the edge of the street right-of-way
and the improved portion of the street, then in all such cases:
      (1)   The cost of replacing an existing driveway culvert with a new
driveway culvert and the cost of a new driveway culvert shall be paid by the
property owner;
      (2)   The city shall not be required to pay any cost of paving or
repairing any driveway approach on any portion of the roadway right-of-way,
that being the responsibility of the property owner; and
      (3)   The city shall assume the cost of regrading to a finish grade the
shoulders, ditch, and that portion of the land within the roadway right-of-way,
but the city shall not be required to reseed or resod any such area, that being
the responsibility of the property owner.
   (C)   Whenever the city shall have replaced any driveway culvert with a new
culvert following roadway construction or improvement thereof, if the property
owner shall neglect to pay the cost of that culvert then the city may assess
the cost against the property in the same manner as provided in this section.
VACATION OF PUBLIC WAYS
§ 90.065   INTENT TO VACATE; NOTICE OF HEARING.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council shall deem it advisable to vacate,
discontinue, or abolish any street, alley, or public ground, or any part
thereof, it shall, by resolution, so declare, and in the same resolution shall
appoint a time not less than 4 weeks thereafter, when it shall meet and hear
objections thereto; notice of this meeting shall be published at least once not
less than 4 weeks before the time appointed for the meeting in a newspaper
circulated within the city.
   (B)   In addition to publication of the notice as set forth in subsection
(A) of this section, notice by first class U.S. mail shall be sent to each
property owner, as shown by the most recent tax assessment roll, owning
property or assessed for taxes on property abutting any portion of the street,
alley, or public ground proposed to be vacated, discontinued, or abolished. 
The notice shall be mailed at least 14 days prior to the set date for the
meeting.  Notice mailed to the person, firm, or corporation shown on the city
tax assessment roll shall be sufficient to satisfy this requirement, and if the
person whose name appears on the tax assessment roll shall have previously
signed a petition to the city requesting the vacation, discontinuance, or
abolishment, then no mailed notice shall be required to that petitioner.
§ 90.066   WRITTEN OBJECTIONS.
   Objections to the proposed vacation, discontinuance, or abolishment may be
filed with the City Clerk in writing prior to the meeting thereon, and if any
such objection shall be filed, the street, alley, or public ground, or any part
thereof, shall not be vacated, discontinued, or abolished, except by concurring
vote of 2/3 of the City Council members attending the meeting and voting
thereon.
§ 90.067   VACATION; RECORDING OF RESOLUTION.
   Whenever any street, alley, or public ground shall be vacated, discontinued,
or abolished by resolution of the City Council at the meeting called for that
purpose, or at any later adjourned meeting of the Council when the purpose of
the adjournment was for further study of the proposal and the date of the
adjourned meeting was publicly stated at the original meeting or later
adjournment thereof, then a copy of the resolution shall be filed in the office
of the County Register of Deeds and also with the State Treasurer.  The
recording shall contain an accurate description of the lands comprising any
such street, alley, or public ground or part thereof which is vacated,
discontinued, or abolished, and the resolution shall be prima facie evidence of
all matters contained therein.
§ 90.068   EASEMENT AND RIGHT OF USE PRESERVED.
   The vacation, discontinuance, or abolishment of any street, alley, or public
place shall not terminate any existing easement rights for public utilities
unless specifically so stated in the resolution, and the city does herewith
specifically reserve for itself or its agent the right of use of any such
street, alley, or public ground for use for future public utilities of storm or
sanitary sewer and public water supply, which future right of usage shall
include sufficient ground within the original street, alley, or public ground
to permit original construction of these public utilities and continued
maintenance thereafter, which right of use shall continue for an unlimited time
thereafter.  These rights of use reserved to the city or its agents shall
continue regardless of the vacation, discontinuance, or abolishment unless
specifically stated otherwise in the resolution of the Council.
§ 90.069   VACATION PETITION; FEE.
   The City Council shall establish, by resolution, a fee to be charged to any
person, firm, or corporation for petitions for the vacation of any street,
alley, or public ground or any part thereof under the terms of this ordinance.
SIDEWALKS
§ 90.080   SNOW AND ICE; REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner or occupant of any premises within
the jurisdictional boundaries of the city to fail to remove any snow or ice
which may accumulate on any sidewalk adjacent to the premises within 24 hours
after the cessation of any storm and to keep that sidewalk free from
obstructions.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a municipal civil infraction.
§ 90.081   SIDEWALK AND CROSSWALK CONSTRUCTION; PERMIT; REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall construct, repair, or replace
any sidewalk or crosswalk under the jurisdiction of or under the control of the
city without a permit from the City Council.  The City Council shall establish
a charge for each such permit, and may from time to time amend said charge by
Council resolution.
   (B)   All sidewalks and crosswalks in the city shall be constructed,
repaired, and maintained in accordance with state law and any rules,
regulations, and requirements of the city.
   (C)   No person, firm, or corporation shall break, injure, tear up, or
remove any sidewalk or crosswalk or make any excavation under same without
first having obtained permission of the Department of Public Works; and it
shall be the duty of every person breaking, tearing up, or removing any
sidewalk or crosswalk or making any excavation under same, as speedily as
practicable and under the direction or supervision of the Department of Public
Works, to replace, relay, and make good, and put in as good order and repair as
before to the satisfaction of the Department of Public Works, every such
sidewalk or crosswalk as the case may be; and if the earth shall settle, the
person, firm, or corporation shall fill the same from time to time as may be
necessary to the satisfaction of the Department of Public Works; and any
person, firm, or corporation doing any of the above shall erect a suitable
railing or barrier around the repair, replacement, or excavation and also place
red lights during the night on same as the Department of Public Works may deem
necessary for the protection and safety of the public.  And any person, firm,
or corporation making the construction, repair, replacement, and excavation, as
above outlined, shall pay the entire cost thereof and save the city harmless
therefrom.
   (D)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to cut, remove, or replace
any sidewalk or crosswalk shall make application to the city’s Department of
Public Works for a permit to do so; and if there appears no valid opposition to
the work, a permit for same may be granted by the city’s Department of Public
Works on payment of a permit fee as the City Council may from time to time
determine.  This work shall be done under the inspection of the city’s
Department of Public Works.
   (E)   The cost of the construction, repair, or work may be assessed against
the property.
SANITARY SEWER AND WATER MAIN INSTALLATION
§ 90.095   INSTALLATION IN HIGHWAYS; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Requirements and covenants; purpose and application.  In order to
protect the public welfare and interests in the highways of the county, certain
safeguard provisions must be instituted by the City Department of Public Works
(DPW) with respect to sanitary sewers and water mains installed within county
highway rights-of-way.  These provisions are applicable in general to all such
utility projects, including the lateral systems.
   (B)   Minimum requirements.  Insofar as the responsibilities of the DPW are
concerned, these provisions shall include the following minimum requirements.
      (1)   Insurance.  The contractor shall indemnify and save harmless the
DPW, its agents, principals, and employees from any and all liability or damage
claims to public or private property arising by reason of any work performed by
the contractor within the right-of-way of any public highway under the
jurisdiction of the DPW of this city.  A separate insurance policy protecting
the DPW may be required.
      (2)   Permits.  All work performed within the county highway right-of-way
shall be in accordance with the requirements of the DPW as applicable and shall
be performed under permits issued by the DPW to construct within the right-of-
way.  Permit and inspection fees shall be in accordance with DPW schedules.
      (3)   Safety precautions.  Protection of the work, including property and
persons within the county highway right-of-way, shall be in accordance with the
current edition of the State Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices, unless
specifically waived in writing by the DPW.  This item includes but is not
limited to the provision and responsibility for proper barricades and lighting
necessary to provide for public safety.
      (4)   Reservation of payment.  The owner may withhold funds payable to
the contractor as shall be necessary to protect the DPW from loss on account of
damage or uncompleted work to public facilities under the jurisdiction and
control of the DPW.
      (5)   Protection and restoration of property.
         (a)   The contractor shall be responsible, within the road right-of-
way, for any and all conditions due to improper workmanship or material or any
cause attributable to operations included in the sewer contract, as evidenced
by trench settlement or other conspicuous defects or damage to the roadway for
a period of 2 years after date of completion and acceptance of the work by the
owner, unless the 2-year period is specifically waived by the execution of a
performance agreement by and between the contractor and the DPW, in which case
the terms of the agreement shall apply.  Any trench settlement or other defects
or damage resulting from the contractor’s work within the roadway will be
forthwith corrected by the contractor upon receipt of complaint attesting
thereto from the DPW.
         (b)   All surplus dirt, debris, excess construction materials,
temporary buildings, or similar structures and appurtenances resulting from the
contractor’s operations shall be entirely removed from the public road right-
of-way and all roads shall be left in a clean, neat condition including
restoration of ditches and drainage facilities as soon following trench
backfill or hole filling as is practicable but not to exceed 60 days
thereafter.
         (c)   All public signs in areas under the jurisdiction of the DPW
shall be removed and replaced by the DPW.  The contractor shall notify the DPW
at least 48 hours prior to requiring any sign removal.  The cost of sign
removal and replacement shall be paid for by the contractor.  Failure to pay
for that work within 30 days following billing will be considered grounds for
withholding payment or revoking permits.
         (d)   Transverse trenches within the county road right-of-way shall be
backfilled with porous material approved by the DPW, and shall extend from
outside edge of shoulder to outside edge of shoulder.  Backfill compaction
shall be minimum of 95% maximum density based on modified proctor method.
         (e)   Backfill under all shoulders shall be brought to an elevation
that will allow for the placement of a minimum of 4 inches of class AA shoulder
gravel (MDSH 22A designation) thoroughly compacted with power equipment and
stabilized with flake or liquid calcium chloride in quantities designated by
the DPW (usually 10 lb. of flake or 2.0 gallons of 38% solution per ton of
gravel).
         (f)   Trenches parallel to the road, the inside edges of which fall
between 3 feet and 15 feet from the edge of hard surfacing in ditch sections,
may be backfilled with excavated material placed in layers not more than 12
inches in depth, loose measure, and compacted to 95% of maximum density. 
Backfilling of trench shall not fall more than 200 feet behind pipe laying
operation unless otherwise authorized by the DPW.
         (g)   Construction trenches or other excavations which cross or
parallel the public highway resulting in excavation or damage to the existing
gravel road shall be backfilled with approved porous material as specified
heretofore; however, the backfill shall be constructed to an elevation to allow
the placing of 12 inches of compacted 22A aggregate (MDSH designation) placed
in 6-inch layers thoroughly compacted with power equipment and maintained until
all settlement has taken place.  This gravel shall be stabilized with calcium
chloride flakes at the rate specified by the DPW.
         (h)   In the event a gravel road is not excavated or undermined, but
is contaminated and damaged by excavated material by the contractor, the road
shall be cleaned of contaminating material to the best of the contractor’s
ability prior to resurfacing and shall be resurfaced by the contractor to the
width shown on the plans with a minimum of 30 tons of 22A aggregate (MDSH
designation) per 100 foot station.  This gravel shall be stabilized with liquid
calcium chloride at a rate of 2.0 gallons (38% solution) per ton of gravel.
         (i)   For concrete and asphalt pavements, hard-surfaced roads that are
damaged or disturbed by the contractor shall be replaced as follows.
            1.   The damaged area shall be removed by sawing deep enough to
allow a straight cut parallel with longitudinal and transverse construction or
contraction joints.  The saw cuts shall not be nearer than 5 feet to a
transverse joint or to the center of the pavement, or to the edge of surfacing;
i.e., no replacement shall be less than 5 feet in width, and if the damaged
surfacing is nearer than 5 feet to a joint or centerline of a pavement, the
removal and replacement shall be extended to that joint or centerline.
            2.   After the subbase has been compacted and approved, the
surfacing shall be replaced with material of the kind, thickness, and type used
in the original construction, unless that material has been superseded by
another type as described in the MDSH Standard Specifications.  In which case,
asphalt surfaces of required thickness shall be replaced with 4.11 bituminous
aggregate surface course dense graded, hot plant mix and concrete pavement
shall be replaced with 4.14 concrete pavement, grade A, in accordance with MDSH
Standard Specifications, current edition.
            3.   Soil cement (portland cements stabilized base) roads shall be
replaced with 6 inches 3.07 concrete base course and 12 inches 4.11 bituminous
aggregate surface course or 72 inches concrete pavement, grade A, in accordance
with MDSH Standard Specifications.
         (j)   The contractor shall tunnel, jack, or bore under paved county
roads in accordance with the requirements of the DPW.  Details pertinent to
these requirements are obtainable at 211 West Oakley Street, Flint, Michigan
48503.
         (k)   Existing storm sewers, gutters, drains, and other waterways
encountered within the limits of county roads or otherwise serving to drain
those roads shall be maintained and service not unduly interrupted.  Temporary
provisions to maintain sewer and drain service shall be provided by the
contractor at his or her expense.  Unless otherwise approved by the DPW, the
contractor shall replace any disturbed sewer or drain, or relay same at a new
grade approved by the DPW so that sufficient clearance between sewers is
provided and all functions retained.
         (l)   During the progress of the work, the contractor shall
accommodate vehicular and foot traffic except as otherwise specified herein and
shall provide access to fire hydrants, and water and gas valves.
         (m)   Street and road surfaces disturbed by the contractor’s
operations shall be replaced with original type material or with materials
specified by the DPW as hereinbefore mentioned.  Street signs, mail boxes,
private drives, culverts, ditches, and other improvements within the county
right-of-way shall be restored in a manner acceptable to the DPW.  Disturbed
lawn or other areas normally covered by vegetation within the highway right-of-
way shall be restored to required grade and seeded, mulched, and fertilized as
specified by the DPW.
§ 90.096   TUNNELING BENEATH ROADS; SUPPLEMENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Supplemental information pertinent to minimum requirements governing
tunneling, jacking, or augering (boring) beneath paved county roads, as
outlined under G.C.R.C. Sanitary Sewer and Water Main Installation within the
Limits of County Highways, Item 5.10.
      (1)   General comments.
         (a)   On roads having open roadside ditches, the leading edge of all
work pits for tunneling, jacking, and augering must be not closer to the
pavement edge than shoulder point or 10 feet, whichever distance is greater. 
On curb and gutter sections, the front wall of all pits must be at least 5 feet
away from back of curb.
         (b)   The sheeting of pits along any road will be required if unstable
soil conditions exist and undermining of the pavement appears imminent. 
Because of their similarity with respect to effect on highways, augering
(boring) and jacking methods are treated without distinction hereinafter.  In
general, those requirements applying to one method likewise is applicable to
the other.
      (2)   Tunneling requirements.
         (a)   Tunnels for carrier pipe shall be lined (encased) with a smooth-
walled pipe consisting of reinforced concrete pipe meeting minimum ASTM
designated C-76 specifications or a steel casing of at least ½ inch wall
thickness.
         (b)   Excavation shall be conducted from inside of the liner pipe at a
maximum of 18 inches ahead of the leading pipe edge in firm clay soil.  If
unstable soil conditions are encountered, no excavation shall be allowed ahead
of the leading pipe forward edge.
         (c)   Excavation shall be not more than 1 inch greater than the inside
diameter of the liner pipe.
         (d)   Pressure concrete grouting is required to fill all voids around
the circumference of the liner casing.  The bulkheading of the space between
the casing and carrier pipe will be required for a minimum of 12 inches
measured toward the road centerline from the end of the casing pipe at each
end.
         (e)   A minimum of 2 hydraulic jacks of sufficient power shall be used
to apply pushing force for the casing or carrier pipe.
      (3)   Augering or jacking requirements on section line roads.
         (a)   Augering and jacking of paved roads established by time and use
as section line roads (roads situated on or near section, quarter section, or
eighth section line) require the use of a steel casing liner pipe having a
minimum wall thickness of 1/4 inch.
         (b)   When the minimum 1/4-inch casing pipe is used, the void between
casing pipe and carrier pipe must be filled by pressure grouting.  If a 3/
8 inch or thicker wall thickness casing is used, grouting throughout the space
between casing and carrier will not be required; however, bulkheading at each
end will be required.
         (c)   The leading (advance) end of the pipe must always precede the
excavating operation (augering head or other excavation in advance of pipe will
not be permitted).
      (4)   Augering or jacking requirements on paved residential streets.
         (a)   All installations of less than 2.5 inches outside pipe diameter
must be made by a compactor type machine or similar method without removing
existing soil, if soil conditions permit.
         (b)   For installations of pipe between 2.5 inches and 8 inches
outside diameter, open boring (augering without casing pipe) will be permitted,
provided the following conditions are met:
            1.   The ground at the site of installation must be firm clay.  If
sandy or other unstable conditions exist, crossings must be made according to
subsection (A)(3) herein, except grouting will only be required to bulkhead
ends between casing and carrier pipe regardless of wall thickness of casing;
            2.   The auger head must not be more than 1 inch larger than the
outside diameter of the barrel of the pipe being installed;
            3.   Soil conditions for open boring must be determined as suitable
for open boring method.  This method may be terminated as an approved road
crossing at the discretion of the DPW Engineer based on apparent soil
conditions at time excavation next to roadway is made; and
            4.   Open boring will not be permitted for the installation of bell
tile or similar types of pipe with enlarged diameters in excess of the barrel
diameter unless approved under supplemental permit requirement.
   (B)   Further details pursuant to the crossing of county roads by means of
tunnels, augering, or jacking may be obtained at 211 West Oakley Street, Flint,
Michigan 48503.
APPENDIX A:  LOT TERMS
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-20.jpg]
 
§ 90.098  CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL ON PUBLIC STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PARKING LOTS;
A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   (A)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage on any public street,
sidewalk, public parking lot or private parking lot open to the public or other
such site not licensed by the state and authorized to permit on-premises
consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   Violation of this section shall be a municipal civil infraction as
provided by
Chapter 131 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Burton.
CHAPTER 91:
HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
   
91.01   Weeds, grasses, and brush; removal; costs
   
91.02   Refrigerators and other airtight containers; restrictions on keeping
   
91.03   Livestock enclosures; health or sanitation menaces or hazards
   
91.04   Abandoned buildings and structures; registration, maintenance and costs
   
91.05   Litter and solicited printed and unsolicited printed matter
§ 91.01   WEEDS, GRASSES, AND BRUSH; REMOVAL; COSTS.
   (A)   Prohibitions; definitions.
      (1)   All noxious weeds are prohibited.  Each community has different
weeds that are considered noxious.  The code official should confer with the
state or local agricultural agent to become familiar with weeds that are
noxious in the community.
      (2)   Cultivated flowers and gardens are not considered to be weeds.  The
word “cultivated” is important.
      (3)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         CULTIVATE.  To loosen or dig (soil) around growing plants.
      (4)   Uncultivated gardens should be treated the same as weeds and tall
grasses.
      (5)   The establishment of maximum heights for grass and weeds is
necessary to reduce rodent shelters and pollen dust problems.
   (B)   Maintenance standards.  It shall be the duty of every person who owns
any subdivided land or land along public streets and roads or improved streets
in common usage within the corporate limits of the city to cut, destroy, and
remove from that land all weeds growing thereon and dead grass and brush
thereon for a distance of 165 feet from the right-of-way line or front property
line for metes and bounds parcels and to the depth of the lots or parcels,
whichever is the lesser, and in platted subdivisions, site condos, and the
like, the area between the edge of the traveled roadway and the right-of-way
line shall also be included in the described process whenever they exceed 8
inches in height or whenever necessary to prevent them from going to seed and
perpetuating themselves, as the case may be, or to prevent the dead grass and
brush from becoming a fire hazard.
   (C)   Public notice.  It shall be the duty of the City Clerk, in the month
of April of each year, to post 3 printed notices, in conspicuous places within
the city, and to publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation within
the county giving notice of this section.  The notice shall be substantially in
the following form:
“To any Owners of Lands Situated in the City of Burton, Genesee County, State
of Michigan:
   Notice is hereby given that all noxious weeds growing to a height of 10
inches and all dead grass and brush on any subdivided land or land along public
streets or roads or improved streets within the City of Burton, County of
Genesee, and State of Michigan must be cut down, destroyed, and removed from
such property for a depth of 165 feet from the right-of-way or front property
line for metes and bounds parcels and to the depth of the lots or parcels,
whichever is the lesser, and in platted subdivisions, site condos, etc., the
area between the edge of the traveled roadway and the right-of-way line, on or
before May 1, 20____, and maintained at a height of less than 10 inches to
prevent such weeds from going to seed or to blossom, as the case may be, and to
prevent such dead grass and brush from becoming a fire hazard.
   Failure to comply with this notice on or before the above mentioned date
shall make any party so failing liable for the costs of cutting, destroying,
and removing said weeds and dead grass and brush by said city, said cost to be
levied and collected against said lands in the same manner as other taxes are
levied and collected.”
   (D)   Recovery of costs.  The City Clerk shall certify to the Mayor the
publication and posting of the notices referred to herein and the Mayor or his
or her designee may order the cutting and removal of the weeds, dead grass, and
brush if the owner of the lands shall fail to execute his or her
responsibilities as defined in subsection (B) above.  The city may cut weeds as
necessary and charge the costs to the property owner.  The actual charges for
this cutting, removal, or destruction shall be established based on costs as
incurred by the city, and the City Council by resolution will set charges for
administrative cost and penalty fees.  The total cost of any work, as described
above, shall be assessed against the land and collected in the same manner as
other taxes are levied and collected.
   (E)   No person shall operate mowing equipment adjacent to a public street,
in such a manner as to cause the discharge of grass clippings, vegetative
material or other litter, to be disbursed or remain in the public street.
   (F)   The penalty for violation of this section shall be deemed a municipal
civil infraction and upon a finding of responsibility shall be subject to the
penalties set forth herein.
(Ord. 2021-1-91.01, passed 1-7-2021)
§ 91.02   REFRIGERATORS AND OTHER AIRTIGHT CONTAINERS; RESTRICTIONS ON KEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to place, leave,
or suffer or permit to remain in any place accessible to children, any icebox,
refrigerator, or any other container of any kind which has an airtight door, or
lock or device which may not be released for opening from the inside of the
icebox, refrigerator, or container, except an icebox, refrigerator, or
container in actual use for the storage of foods or drugs and except an icebox,
refrigerator, or container used for display purposes inside of any store
building and attended by some employee of the store, unless the door or doors
shall have first been removed from the icebox, refrigerator, or container, or
unless the lock or device thereon shall have first been removed so that the
door may be released for opening from the inside of the icebox, refrigerator,
or container, or unless a metal strap, band, or wire of at least 400-pound
tensile strength shall have first been tightly and securely placed about the
icebox, refrigerator, or other container in a manner so as to effectively
prevent the opening of the door or doors without removing the strap, band, or
wire, and which strap, band, or wire shall have been mechanically fastened or
sealed in such a manner that the strap, band, or wire cannot be removed from
the icebox, refrigerator, or container, except by mechanical means, or unless
the door shall have been securely padlocked.
§ 91.03   LIVESTOCK ENCLOSURES; HEALTH OR SANITATION MENACES OR HAZARDS.
   (A)   All livestock or poultry pens, buildings, or yards, shall be
maintained in a reasonably clean and sanitary manner so as not to become an
unnecessary nuisance.
   (B)   No rubbish or junk shall be kept on any premises in a manner which
allows it to become a menace to health or sanitation or a hazard to safety.
§ 91.04  ABANDONED BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES; REGISTRATION, MAINTENANCE AND
COSTS.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose and intent of the Council of the City of
Burton, through the adoption of this ordinance, to establish an  abandoned
property registration program as a mechanism to protect neighborhoods from
becoming blighted through the lack of adequate maintenance and security of
abandoned properties.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this ordinance, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABANDONED BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  A residential, commercial or industrial
structure that has been vacant for 30 days and meets any of the following
criteria:
         (a)   Provides a location for loitering, vagrancy, unauthorized entry
or other criminal activity;
         (b)   Has 1 or more boarded windows;
         (c)   Has taxes in arrears for a period of time exceeding 365 days;
         (d)   Has utilities disconnected or not in use;
         (e)   Is not maintained in compliance with the International Property
Maintenance Code.
      ACCESSIBLE PROPERTY. A property that is accessible through a compromised/
breached gate, fence, wall, or the like.
      ACCESSIBLE STRUCTURE. A structure/building that is unsecured and/or
breached in such a way as to allow access to the interior space by unauthorized
persons.
      DAYS. Consecutive calendar days.
      EVIDENCE OF VACANCY. Any condition that on its own or combined with other
conditions present would lead a reasonable person to believe that the property
is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to, overgrown and/or
dead vegetation, accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers and/or mail,
past due utility notices and/or disconnected utilities, accumulation of trash,
junk and/or debris, the absence of furnishings and/or personal items consistent
with habitation, statements by neighbors, passersby, delivery agents,
government employees that the property is vacant.
      NEIGHBORHOOD STANDARD. Those conditions that are present on a simple
majority of properties within a 300-foot radius of an individual property. A
property that is the subject of a neighborhood standard comparison, or any
other abandoned property within the 300-foot radius, shall not be counted
toward the simple majority.
      OWNER. Any person, firm, corporation, partnership, commercial entity,
joint venture, LLC or other legal entity with a legal or equitable ownership
interest in the structure. Accordingly, this term shall include both land
contract vendors and vendees. This term shall also specifically include a
person, firm, corporation, partnership, commercial entity, joint venture, LLC
or other legal entity with any mortgagee interest in the property.
      PROPERTY. Any unimproved or improved real property, or portion thereof,
situated in the city, including the buildings or structures located on the
property regardless of condition.
      SECURING. Such measures as may be directed by the City of Burton Building
Department that assist in rendering the property inaccessible to unauthorized
persons, including, but not limited to the repairing of fences and walls,
chaining/padlocking of gates, the repair of boarding of door, window and/or
other openings.
      VACANT. A building/structure that is not legally occupied.
   (C)   Registration.
      (1)   If any building or structure is found to be an abandoned structure
or shows evidence of vacancy, the city’s Department of Public Works shall mail
out notice to all owners of the property as reflected on the assessment and tax
records of the city that the property has been deemed abandon. Such notice
shall be mailed by both certified mail, return receipt requested, and by
regular first class mail.
      (2)   Owners shall have a period of 10 days from the date of the notice
to register the property on the registration form to be provided by the city
with the City of Burton Building Department .
      (3)   An annual registration fee shall accompany the registration form.
The fee and registration shall be valid for the calendar year, or remaining
portion of the calendar year in which the registration was initially required.
Subsequent registrations and fees are due January 1 of each year and must be
received no later than January 31 of the year due. Registration fees will not
be prorated.
      (4)   Properties subject to this ordinance shall remain under the annual
registration requirement, and security and maintenance standards of this
section as long as they are deemed to be an abandoned structure.
      (5)   Any owner that has registered a property under this ordinance must
report any change of information contained in the registration to the City of
Burton Building Department within 10 days of any such change. Changes include,
but are not limited to, the sale or transfer of properties and any security
issues of the boarding of openings.
   (D)   Maintenance requirements.
      (1)   Registered properties shall be maintained in compliance with the
International Property Maintenance Code and all other applicable city
ordinances.
      (2)   Adherence to this ordinance does not relieve owners of any
obligations set forth in any covenants, conditions and restrictions and/or
homeowners’ association rules and regulations that may apply to the property.
   (E)   Security requirements.
      (1)   Registered properties shall be maintained in a secure manner so as
to not be accessible to unauthorized persons.
      (2)   Secure manner includes, but is not limited to, the closure and
locking of windows, doors (walk-through, sliding and garage), gates and any
other opening of such size that it may allow a child to access the interior of
the property and or structure(s). In the case of broken windows securing means
temporary boarding, with the re-glazing of the window within a reasonable
amount of time. If any exterior openings of the building are boarded up it
shall be done in a neat workmanlike manner using water resistant plywood or
other material approved by the Code Official, sized to fit the opening,
securely fastened and painted with a compatible exterior grade paint.
   (F)   Additional authority.
      (1)   The city may contract with 1 or more local property management
companies to perform regular inspections of all registered properties to verify
that the property is secure and that they are being maintained in accordance
with subsection (D) above.
      (2)   The City of Burton Building Department shall have the authority to
require any owner of any property affected by this section to implement
additional maintenance and/or security measures including but not limited to
securing any/all door, window or other openings, installing additional security
lighting, increasing on-site inspection frequency, employment of an on-site
security guard or other measures as may be reasonably required to arrest the
decline of the property.
      (3)   The Director of the city’s Department of Public Works, or his or
her designee, may enter upon any premises which has been deemed abandon to
secure the property to preserve the public safety.
   (G)   A certificate of occupancy shall be required prior to the re-occupancy
of any structure or building deemed to be vacant or abandoned.
   (H)   Fees. All fees applicable to this ordinance shall be established and
amended from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (I)   Costs; reimbursement to city; lien for expenses; collection.
      (1)   All expenses incurred by the city under this ordinance including
but not limited to, costs of mailings, costs and charges of any property
management company secured to implement this ordinance, costs of securing any
property deemed to be abandoned, legal fees and costs of litigation required to
enforce the terms of this ordinance shall be reimbursed to the city by persons
owning the property affected.
      (2)   The city shall have a lien for the expenses incurred under this
ordinance. With respect to property being currently occupied for single-family
or multi-family residential uses, the lien for the expenses shall have priority
over all liens and encumbrances filed or recorded after the date of the
expenditure. With respect to all other property, the lien for the expenses
shall be collected and treated in the same manner as provided for property tax
liens under the General Property Tax Act, being Act 206 of the Public Acts of
Michigan 1893, as amended.
   (J)   Violation; penalty. A violation of this ordinance is hereby designated
a municipal civil infraction and a fine in an amount not to exceed $500 for
residential properties and $1,500 for commercial and industrial properties plus
costs shall be paid by any owner who is found responsible for each such
violation. Violators will also be subject to sanctions, remedies and procedures
as set forth in Act 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended.
§ 91.05  LITTER AND SOLICITED PRINTED AND UNSOLICITED PRINTED MATTER.
   (A)   Definitions. The following definition shall apply to this section.
      LITTER. Any garbage, refuse, rubbish, or other waste material.
      SOLICITED PRINTED MATTER. Any printed matter that is delivered to any
person or residential private property with the express invitation or
permission in writing or otherwise, of the person or an owner, occupant, or
lessee of the residential private property.
      UNSOLICITED PRINTED MATTER. Any printed matter that is delivered to any
person or residential private property without the express invitation or
permission, in writing or otherwise, of the person or an owner, occupant, or
lessee of the residential private property.
   (B)   Scattering posters and handbills, printed matter. It shall be unlawful
for any person to throw, scatter or deposit any posters, handbills, cards or
other written or printed matter or any waste paper in any public street, alley
or public place, nor shall any person leave or deposit the same on any private
property in such a manner as to permit them to be blown onto any public street,
alley or public place.
   (C)   Distributing solicited printed matter and unsolicited printed matter.
      (1)   Solicited printed matter.
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no person shall
cause solicited printed matter to be thrown or deposited upon any sidewalk,
street, portion of the street commonly referred to as the "lawn extension,"
public park, or other public place.
         (b)   It shall not be unlawful for a person to:
            1.   Deposit solicited printed matter into a receptacle that is
attached to a mailbox post or support but separate from the mailbox and that is
located in that portion of the street commonly referred to as the "lawn
extension."
            2.   Deposit solicited printed matter into a receptacle on the
sidewalk into which the person is authorized to deposit it to make copies
available to the public and which is lawfully located on the sidewalk.
            3.   Hand out or distribute solicited printed matter to any person
willing to accept it.
            4.   Cause solicited printed matter to be thrown or deposited upon
that portion of residential private property that is not a sidewalk, street, or
"lawn extension" if the delivery of the printed matter is made pursuant to an
express invitation or permission for delivery.
      (2)   Unsolicited printed matter.
         (a)   No person shall cause unsolicited printed matter to be deposited
upon any residential private property except by (i) placing and securing it on
the porch nearest the front door; (ii) attaching it securely to the front door;
(iii) putting it through a mail slot on the front door;(iv) putting it between
the exterior front door and the interior front door; or (v) handing it
personally to the owner, occupant or lessee of the residential private
property.
         (b)   No person shall cause unsolicited printed matter to be thrown or
deposited upon any sidewalk, street, the portion of the street commonly
referred to as the "lawn extension," public park or other public place.
         (c)   No person shall cause unsolicited printed matter to be placed
upon, attached to, or hung from a mailbox or any apparatus that supports the
mailbox.
         (d)   It shall not be unlawful for a person to:
            1.   Deposit unsolicited printed matter into a receptacle on the
sidewalk into which the person is authorized to deposit it and which is
lawfully located on the sidewalk.
            2.   Hand out or distribute unsolicited printed matter to any
person willing to accept it.
      (3)   Rebuttable presumption. When solicited or unsolicited printed
matter is in a location where it is prohibited, a rebuttable presumption arises
that the person who published or distributed it or on whose behalf it is
published or distributed caused it to be thrown or deposited there.
   (D)   Owner to maintain property free of litter, unsolicited printed matter
and solicited printed matter. The owner or person in control of private
property shall at all times maintain the property free of litter, and more than
3 days accumulation of unsolicited printed matter and solicited printed matter,
provided, however, that this section shall not prohibit the storage of litter,
unsolicited printed matter, or solicited printed matter in authorized private
receptacles for collection.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalty for violation of this chapter.
      (1)   Clearing of litter, unsolicited printed matter and solicited
printed matter from private property by the city. Whenever private property is
in a condition in violation of this chapter/section, the Administrator is
authorized to remove the litter, unsolicited printed matter, or solicited
printed matter. Before removing materials pursuant to this section, the city
shall give notice of violation. The city shall give notice of violation by
posting the notice at a conspicuous place on the property at least 24 hours
prior to removing materials. The city may also deliver the notice to the
property owner as shown on assessment records or by sending the notice by
first-class mail to the property owner as shown on assessment records at least
72 hours prior to removing materials. No notice shall be required if a public
health hazard necessitates immediate removal of materials. All costs (including
labor, equipment, materials, disposal and overhead) of work performed by the
city under this section shall be charged to the owner of the involved property.
If the charges are not paid within 45 days, they may be assessed against the
property.
      (2)   Violation as civil infraction. Violation of this chapter shall be a
civil infraction punishable by a civil fine of not less than $200 and up to
$1,000, plus costs and all other remedies available by statute. Each day of
violation shall be a separate violation.
(Ord. 2019-4-91.05, passed 4-15-2019)
CHAPTER 92:
FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Control
   
92.01   Title
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Permit required
   
92.04   Open fire prohibited when danger of spreading exists
   
92.05   Air contamination issues
   
92.06   More restrictive provisions
   
92.07   Unattended open fire prohibited
Commercial Medical Marijuana Transaction
Facilities and Marijuana Establishments
   
92.10   Occupancy classifications
   
92.11   Local requirements
   
92.12   Inspection and testing
   
92.13   Training
   
92.14   Violations
   
92.15   Appeals
Codes Adopted; Permits Required
   
92.25   International Fire Code adopted; amendments
   
92.26   National Life Safety Code adopted
   
92.27   Automatic Suppression Systems Code adopted
   
92.28   Fire Alarm Systems Code adopted
   
92.29   Automatic Suppression Systems Permit required
   
92.30   Fire Alarm Systems Permit required
   
92.31   Permit, inspection, and testing fees
   
Appendix A:   Fire Insurance Escrow Act
FIRE CONTROL
§ 92.01   TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known as the city’s Fire Control Ordinance.
§ 92.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTOMATIC SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS.  Any system designed to automatically
extinguish or suppress a fire in a commercial building or kitchen through the
use of water, chemicals, or a combination of both that is activated by heat or
fire.  Such systems shall meet the requirements of current standards issued by
IFC, NFPA 13, NFPA 101, or any other applicable fire code or law.
   BONFIRES. Celebratory fires limited to 8 feet by 8 feet and not more than 7
feet in height.
   DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial space that is licensed by
the State of Michigan and City of Burton and authorized to permit adults 21
years of age and older to consume marijuana products at the location indicated
on the state and city license. An establishment that allows consumption of
marijuana products on the premises of a non-residential location and charges a
fee for entry, sells good or services while individuals are consuming on the
premises, or requires membership for entry shall acquire a designated
consumption establishment license.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM.  Any alarm system that is designed to activate upon
activation of a fire suppression system, water movement through a fire
suppression system, detection of heat, detection of smoke, or detection of fire
in a commercial building or kitchen.  Such systems shall meet the requirements
of current standards issued by IFC, NFPA 72, NFPA 101, or any other applicable
fire code or law.
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. A marijuana grower, marijuana safety compliance
facility, marijuana processor, marijuana microbusiness, marijuana retailer,
marijuana secure transporter, or any other type of marijuana-related business
licensed by the State of Michigan.
   MARIJUANA GROWER. A person licensed to cultivate marijuana and sell or
otherwise transfer marijuana to marijuana establishments.
   MARIJUANA MICROBUSINESS. A person licensed to cultivate not more than 150
marijuana plants; process and package marijuana; and sen or otherwise transfer
marijuana to individuals who are 21 years of age or older or to a marijuana
safety compliance facility, but not to other marijuana establishments.
   MARIJUANA PROCESSOR. A person licensed to obtain marijuana from marijuana
establishments; process and package marijuana; and sell or otherwise transfer
marijuana to marijuana establishments.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. A person licensed to obtain marijuana from marijuana
establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marijuana to marijuana
establishments and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
   MARIJUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A person licensed to test marijuana,
including certification for potency and the presence of contaminants.
   MARIJUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person licensed to obtain marijuana from
marijuana establishments in order to transport marijuana to marijuana
establishments.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITY ("GROW FACILITY", "GROWING FACILITY" or
"CULTIVATION FACILITY"). An industrial facility that cultivates, dries, trims,
or cures and packages marijuana for sale to a processor or provisioning center
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITY ("PROCESSING FACILITY" or "OIL
EXTRACTING FACILITY").  An industrial facility that purchases marijuana from a
grower and that extracts resin from the marijuana or creates marijuana infused
products for sale and transfer in packaged form to a provisioning center.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROVISIONING CENTER ("PROVISIONING CENTER" or
"DISPENSARY"). A commercial facility that purchases marijuana from a grower or
processor and sells, supplies, or provides to registered qualifying patients
directly or through the patients' registered primary caregivers. PROVISIONING
CENTER includes any commercial property where marijuana is sold at retail to
registered qualifying patients or registered primary caregivers. 
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY ("SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY",
"COMPLIANCE FACILITY" or "TESTING FACILITY").  An industrial facility that
received marijuana from a marijuana facility or registered primary caregiver,
tests it for contaminants and for tetrahydrocannabinol and other cannabinoids,
returns the test results, and may return the marijuana to the marijuana
facility.
   OPEN BURNING FIRES. Fire not larger than 4 feet by 5 feet, and primarily
intended as a method to dispose of brush, tree limbs or garden debris.
   OPEN FIRE.  Any fire upon any woodlands, lots, subdivisions, grasslands,
field, or public right-of-way within the city, not wholly contained within an
incinerator, outside fireplace, grill, or other receptacle constructed for and
suitable to the purpose of the burning of combustibles.
   RECREATIONAL FIRES. Fire not larger than 3 feet by 3 feet, primarily open
campfire type fires.
(Ord. 2017-92, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2018-92, passed 6-4-2018; Ord. 2019-92,
passed 1-14-2021)
§ 92.03   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall start or have any open fire without first obtaining a
permit from the Fire Chief of the Fire Department serving the City of Burton
and the permit shall state the address where the fee is started, the owner of
the premises involved, the person starling the fire and the person responsible
for attending the fire. A fee may be charged for the permit as established by
resolution of the City Council. All regulations pertaining to the permit shall
be under the authority of the Fire Chief and are subject to change, based upon
charges in weather conditions, events and growth of the city due to
construction.
   (B)   A fee for such permits, based upon a fee schedule established and
amended from time to time by City Council resolution shall be charged.
§ 92.04   OPEN FIRE PROHIBITED WHEN DANGER OF SPREADING EXISTS.
   No person shall start or have any open fires upon any woodlands, lots and
subdivisions, grasslands, field, or public right-of-way within the city
whenever there be danger of the fire spreading beyond the control of the person
so starting or having the open fire, so as to injure, damage, or endanger the
life, limb, or property of another.
§ 92.05   AIR CONTAMINATION ISSUES.
   A person shall not cause or permit the emission of an air contaminant in
quantities that cause, alone or in reaction with other air contaminants, either
of the following:
   (A)   Injurious effects to human health or safety, animal life, plant life
of significant economic value, or property, (smoke and or ash shall not be a
nuisance to neighbors); and/or
   (B)   Unreasonable interference with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property.
§ 92.06   MORE RESTRICTIVE PROVISIONS.
   Excepting where local ordinance shall be more restrictive than the act, the
City of Burton Ordinance shall follow the provisions set forth in the State of
Michigan, Public Act 451.
§ 92.07   UNATTENDED OPEN FIRE PROHIBITED.
   No person who shall start or have any open fire upon any woodlands, lots,
subdivisions, grasslands, field, or public right-of-way within the city shall
leave that open fire unattended by a person of mature years until the fire
shall have been completely extinguished.
COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA TRANSACTION
FACILITIES AND MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 92.10  OCCUPANCY CLASSIFICATIONS.
   The determination of an occupancy classifications of any commercial medical
marijuana transaction facilities/marijuana establishments, as defined in the
International Building Code (IFC) and the International Fire Code (IFC), shall
be determined as follows:
   (A)   Medical marijuana provisioning center/marijuana retailer:
      (1)   M Occupancy; or
      (2)   B Occupancy if there is a patient care similar.
   (B)   Medical marijuana grow facility/marijuana grower:
      (1)   F-1 Occupancy.
   (C)   Medical marijuana processing facility/marijuana processor:
      (1)   H Occupancy when use of propane or butane; or
      (2)   F-1 Occupancy - for all other processes.
   (D)   Marijuana safety compliance facilities:
      (1)   F-1 Occupancy.
   (E)   Marijuana Microbusiness:
      (1)   H Occupancy when use of propane or butane; or
      (2)   F-1 Occupancy - for all other processes.
   (F)   Designated consumption establishment:
      (1)   A-3 Occupancy.
(Ord. 2017-92, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2019-92, passed 1-14-2021)
§ 92.11  LOCAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Local requirements are provisions that exceed the requirements of
International Building Code (IBC) and International Fire Code (IFC) for the
purpose of the protection of life, property, and assets of all parties involved
including the building and property owners, employees, and first responders.
   (A)   Fire protection.
      (1)   Growing facilities/grower, processing facilities/processor, safety
compliance facilities and microbusinesses shall:
         (a)   Be located only in a standalone, single occupancy buildings and
shall not share a building with any other related or non-related business.
         (b)   Be completely suppressed with a fire sprinkler system that
complies with NFPA 13.
         (c)   Have an FDC located on the side of the building facing the road.
There shall be a fire hydrant within 50 feet of the FDC on the same side of the
road and or any driveways so that a supply line from the fire hydrant to a fire
apparatus will not obstruct any other fire apparatus from entering the drive or
facility.
         (d)   Have a monitored fire alarm system that complies with NFPA 72,
which provides total (complete) coverage for the detection of smoke and total
(complete) coverage of notification applications throughout the building.
      (2)   Provisioning centers/retailers may be located in multi-occupancy
buildings, as allowed under the provisions of City of Burton zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Access.
      (1)   All commercial medical marijuana transaction facilities/marijuana
establishments shall:
         (a)   Install a Knox Box located within 10 feet of the main entrance
into the building.
         (b)   Have approved by the Fire Department any gates that may cross
access roads to the property or building and a means of access given to the
fire department for the purpose of responding to emergencies at the facility
whether or not occupied.
         (c)   Install address numbers on the side of the building facing the
road and visible from the road. Numbers shall be at least 6 inches tall and be
a contrasting color from the surface they are mounted on.
   (C)   Hazardous conditions.
      (1)   Rooms containing fire protection equipment, controls for
ventilation equipment, utility controls, and hazardous materials must be
adequately marked and identified to make them easily located by firefighters.
      (2)   Safety data sheets (SDS) shall be located in an organized binder or
filing system located inside the building within 15 feet of the main entrance
or secured in a weather proof container on the exterior of the building that
can be accessed with a key that shall be stored in the knox box.
   (D)   Carbon dioxide (CO2) enrichment systems.
      (1)   The storage, use, and handling of carbon dioxide shall be in
accordance with IFC and NFPA 55.  All equipment utilized in compressed gas
systems shall be compatible with the intended gas and use.
      (2)   Natural gas burners that are utilized to generate CO2 in plant
growing applications shall be listed, labeled, and installed in accordance with
the manufacturer's installation instructions.  Piping systems, combustion and
ventilation air and venting for natural gas appliances shall be designed and
installed in accordance with approved standards, the International Fuel Gas
Code and manufacturer's recommendations.
      (3)   Where natural gas burners  are located indoors for CO2 enrichment
or CO2 storage tanks, cylinders, piping, and equipment are located indoors,
rooms or areas containing CO2 storage tanks, cylinders, piping and fittings and
grow room/areas where CO2 is released and can collect shall be provided with an
emergency alarm system that shall comply with the following:
         (a)   Continuous gas detection shall be provided to monitor areas
where CO2 can accumulate. Detection equipment shall be provided to indicate CO2
levels in each grow cultivation area/room and interior CO2 storage location.
Detectors shall be:
            1.   Listed or approved devices.
            2.   Permanently mounted.
            3.   Installed at a height of no more than 48 inches above the
floor.
            4.   Directly connected to the building electrical supply and fire
alarm systems and protected from accidental disconnect or damage.
            5.   Auto calibrating and self "zeroing" devices are not permitted
unless they can be zeroed and spanned.
            6.   Located within manufacturers’ specified detection range for
each point of use and storage location.
         (b)   Activation of the emergency alarm system shall initiate amber
strobes and audible horns provided in the vicinity of each interior storage
container, cylinder or tank, at each point of release, and where CO2 can
accumulate. Additional amber strobes and audible horns shall be placed at
entrances to below grade locations and confined spaces. The notification
devices shall be rated a minimum of 80cd for visible effect and 75 dBA for an
audible effect and shall be mounted in accordance with NFPA 72 requirements. 
Provide audible visual notification devices at the following locations:
            1.   Inside an interior storage room / area and outside the room /
area at each entrance.
            2.   Inside grow cultivation room / areas.
         (c)   Local alarm set points shall be set at 5,000 PPM - Latching
alarm as follows:
            1.   Visual and audible notification in approved locations at room
or area in alarm.
            2.   Activation of automatic system shut off valve.
            3.   Activation of the automatic natural gas control valves to each
burner to a closed position stopping the generation of CO2.
            4.   Evacuate the room and contact a qualified service company to
investigate and address the condition.
            5.   Reset of the emergency alarm to be conducted by qualified
personnel.
      (4)   Signage shall be required adjacent to each horn/strobe as follows:
         (a)   Storage area / room:  "DO NOT ENTER WHEN LIGHT IS FLASHING -
CARBON DIOXIDE LEAK DETECTED"
         (b)   Grow cultivation room / area dispensing: "FLASHING LIGHT MEANS
CARBON DIOXIDE LEAK DETECTED - EVACUATE ROOM"
         (c)   Entrance to below grade location: "DO NOT ENTER WHEN LIGHT IS
FLASHING - CARBON DIOXIDE LEAK DETECTED"
         (d)   The sign shall have a minimum 1-inch lettering with a minimum ¼-
inch stroke.  The sign shall be on a contrasting surface of black on yellow and
shall be of durable construction.
         (e)   Signage on the entrance doors to grow, cultivation, and storage
rooms shall be provided as below:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1855.png]
      (5)   A minimum of 1 portable CO2 meter shall be in use during business
hours.
   (E)   Carbon monoxide (CO) detection.
      (1)   CO gas detection shall be provided to monitor products of
combustion continuously. Detectors shall be:
         (a)   Listed or approved devices.
         (b)   Permanently mounted.
         (c)   Installed per manufacturer's recommendations and directions.
         (d)   Directly connected to the buildings electrical supply and fire
alarm system and protected from accidental disconnection or damage.
      (2)   CO detection shall be set at 35 PPM and upon activation shall
initiate the following:
         (a)   Close the automatic valve to each burner.
         (b)   Activate the mechanical exhaust system.
      (3)   All CO2 burner systems shall shut down in the event of a loss of
electrical power to the CO detectors.
      (4)   A minimum of 1 portable CO meter shall be in use during business
hours.
(Ord. 2017-92, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2019-92, passed 1-14-2021)
§ 92.12  INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   (A)   Semi-annual fire inspections will be conducted by the City of Burton
Fire Inspector to ensure compliance with the International Building Code (IBC)
and International Fire Code (IFC) for the purpose of the protection of life and
property, business owner shall pay the nonrefundable inspection fee as shall be
established, and from time to time be amended by resolution of the Burton City
Council.
   (B)   All CO and CO2 detectors, alarms, and CO2 burners must be visually
inspected, calibrated, and tested to determine that the materials, design,
fabrication, and installation practices comply with the requirements of this
code. Written records of all required inspections, testing, calibration, and
maintenance shall be maintained in a log book on the premises containing the 3
most current years of records and be available for review by City of Burton
Fire Inspection personnel as described below:
      (1)   Acceptance testing.  Appliances and equipment shall not be placed
in operation until after the detectors, notification devices, automatic gas
control valves and mechanical exhaust systems have been tested by a qualified
service company.  Acceptance testing is required to be witnessed by a fire
inspector.
      (2)   Daily inspections.  All detectors and alarms shall be visibly
inspected daily. These inspections are permitted to be conducted by trained
employees.
      (3)   Monthly inspections.  All CO2 burners shall be visibly inspected
monthly.  These inspections are permitted to be conducted by trained employees.
      (4)   Semi-annual inspections.  Systems shall be visually inspected and
gas detectors calibrated in accordance with manufacturer specification semi-
annually by a qualified service company.
      (5)   Annual testing.  All detectors, alarms, gas control valves, and
mechanical exhaust systems shall be tested annually by a qualified service
company.
      (6)   Alterations and repairs.  In the event alterations, repairs, or
additions are made, the affected equipment shall receive a new acceptance test.
(Ord. 2017-92, passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2019-92, passed 1-14-2021)
§ 92.13  TRAINING.
   All employees shall receive annual training in hazard identification,
physical properties, inspections, and emergency procedures.  Training records
shall be maintained on site and be available to inspectors upon request.
(Ord. 2017-92, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 92.14  VIOLATIONS.
   The violation of the terms of this ordinance shall be deemed a criminal
penalty and shall be enforced as provided by §
130.02 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Burton.
(Ord. 2017-92, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 92.15  APPEALS.
   Any appeal to this ordinance shall be heard and action taken as provided by
Section 109 of the International Fire Code.
(Ord. 2017-92, passed 12-18-2017)
CODES ADOPTED; PERMITS REQUIRED
§ 92.25  INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The International Fire Code, 2003 Edition, is hereby adopted by
reference.
   (B)   All subsequent amendments to the International Fire Code shall be
deemed to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if
the amendments were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
   (C)   All future editions of the International Fire Code shall be deemed to
be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereto as if the
editions were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-92, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 92.26  NATIONAL LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101 Life Safety Code
promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., (February 11,
2000), is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   All subsequent amendments to the 101 Life Safety Code shall be deemed
to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if the
amendments were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
   (C)   All future editions of the 101 Life Safety Code shall be deemed to be
adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereto as if the editions
were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-92, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 92.27  AUTOMATIC SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 13 Automatic
Suppression Systems promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association,
Inc., is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   All subsequent amendments to the 13 Automatic Suppression Systems
shall be deemed to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part
hereof as if the amendments were in effect as of the effective date of this
ordinance.
   (C)   All future editions of the 13 Automatic Suppression Systems shall be
deemed to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereto as if
the editions were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-92, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 92.28  FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 72 Fire Alarm Systems
promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., is hereby
adopted by reference.
   (B)   All subsequent amendments to the 72 Fire Alarm Systems shall be deemed
to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if the
amendments were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
   (C)   All future editions of the 72 Fire Alarm Systems shall be deemed to be
adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereto as if the editions
were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
(Ord. 2018-92, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 92.29  AUTOMATIC SUPPRESSION SYSTEMS PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or modify an automatic
suppression system, without first obtaining a Fire Permit from the Fire Chief
of the Fire Department of the City of Burton.  No permit shall be issued for
installation or modification automatic suppression system until an application
has been submitted in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance showing
that the construction proposed is in compliance with the provisions of this
ordinance, and with other applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2018-92, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 92.30  FIRE ALARM SYSTEMS PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to install or modify a fire alarm
system, without first obtaining a Fire Permit from the Fire Chief of the Fire
Department of the City of Burton.  No permit shall be issued for installation
or modification of a fire alarm system until an application has been submitted
in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance showing that the
construction proposed is in compliance with the provisions of this ordinance,
and with other applicable ordinances.
(Ord. 2018-92, passed 6-4-2018)
§ 92.31  PERMIT, INSPECTION, AND TESTING FEES.
   Permit, inspection, and testing fees shall be established and may be amended
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. 2018-92, passed 6-4-2018)
Appendix A: Fire Insurance Escrow Act
   (A)   Public Act 495 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1980, establishes the
rights of a city, township or village to receive up to 15% of the proceeds of a
fire insurance policy settlement for a structure located within such city,
village or township which is destroyed by fire.
   (B)   State statute demands that in order to participate in such program the
City Treasurer/ Controller’s Office must establish an escrow account
specifically for the receipt of such funds, and further specifies that the city
must designate and authorize a representative of the city to administer such
program.
   (C)   The City of Burton is hereby authorized to participate in the Fire
Insurance Withholding Program as set forth in Public Act 495 of the Michigan
Public Acts of 1980.
   (D)   The Fire Chief or his or her designee of the Fire Department is hereby
designated administrator of the Fire Insurance Withholding Program for the City
of Burton.
   (E)   An escrow account is established specifically for the receipt of such
funds as may be received under this program.
CHAPTER 93:
COST RECOVERY
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Cost recovery authorization and procedure; appeal
   
93.04   Billing and collection of assessable costs
   
93.05   Assessable costs a lien upon property
   
93.06   Other remedies
   
93.07   No limitation of liability
§ 93.01   PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the city from extraordinary expenses resulting from the
utilization of city resources in response to certain fire emergency, public
safety and public utility incidents, this ordinance authorizes the imposition
of charges to recover actual costs incurred by the city in responding to the
incidents.
§ 93.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSABLE COSTS.
      (1)   Those costs for services, equipment and materials incurred by the
city in connection with a response to a fire emergency or public safety
incident or public utility interruption, including, but not limited to, the
actual labor and material costs of the city (including, without limitation,
employee wages, fringe benefits, administrative overhead, costs of equipment,
costs of equipment operation, costs of materials, costs of transportation,
equipment, costs of material disposal and costs of contracted labor) whether or
not the services are provided by the city or a third party on behalf of the
city; service charges and interest; attorneys’ fees, litigation costs and any
costs, charges, fines or penalties to the city imposed by any court or state or
federal governmental entitles.
      (2)   The direct and reasonable costs incurred by the city or by a
private individual or corporation operating at the request or the direction of
the city in the course of emergency response to an incident, including the
costs of providing police, firefighting, emergency medical and/or rescue
services at the scene of the incident. These costs also include all the
salaries and wages of city personnel responding to the incident, all salaries
and wages of city personnel engaged in investigation, supervision and report
preparation, all costs connected with the administration and preparation of all
chemical tests of the driver’s blood, breath and/or urine and all costs related
to any prosecution of the person(s) causing the incident.
   BOMB THREATS. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device which, if discharged as threatened, would violate a federal, state or
local, law.
   EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Any emergency medical, public safety, police, fire,
public utility and civil defense services.
   FALSE ALARM. Any automated or manual device designed to request or summon
emergency assistance which device is activated intentionally or otherwise, in
the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The determination that
there was no actual need for emergency assistance shall be based on a report to
the Mayor by the most senior person responding to a false alarm, and the
determination by the Mayor subject to an appeal as provided in §
93.04 hereof. Provided, however, a false alarm shall not be deemed to have
occurred if:
      (1)   Caused by an act of God, i.e. a lightning storm;
      (2)   It originates from a motor vehicle alarm system; or
      (3)   Has not occurred more frequently than 3 times in a calendar month
or 4 times in a calendar year.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Those elements, substances, wastes or by-products,
including, but not limited to, combustible liquid, flammable gas, explosives,
flammables, poisons, organic peroxides, oxidizers, pyrophorics, unstable
reactive matter, water reactive matter, petroleum products, antifreeze,
polychlorinated biphenyls and asbestos, which are or are potentially harmful to
persons or the environment as determined by the Fire Chief or the senior fire
official of the city in charge at the scene.
   ILLEGAL FIRE. A fire set or determined to have been set in violation of a
federal, state or local law and shall include an arson fire and a fire set in
violation of a “no burning” ban or order or burning without a permit as
required. An ILLEGAL FIRE does not include an unintentional fire or fire caused
by an act of God, i.e. a lightning storm.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled or towed vehicle designed or used on the
public streets, roads and highway to transport passengers or property which is
required to be registered for use upon  such public streets and highways and
for the purposes hereof all trailers or appurtenances attached to any motor
vehicle.
   PUBLIC SAFETY OR FIRE EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
      (1)   Excessive requests for emergency assistance;
      (2)   A false alarm;
      (3)   A hazardous material incident or emergency;
      (4)   An illegal fire;
      (5)   Bomb threats;
      (6)   Threats of harm to oneself or others;
      (7)   A structure demolition and/or fire;
      (8)   A utility line failure; and
      (9)   PUBLIC SAFETY shall be further defined to include:
         (a)   The providing, sending and/or utilizing of police, firefighting,
emergency medical and/or rescue services by the city, or by a private
individual or corporation operating at the request or the direction of the
city, to an incident resulting in an accident involving 1 or more motor
vehicles operated by 1 or more drivers who were impaired by or under the
influence of an alcoholic and/or controlled substance; or
         (b)   The providing, sending and/or utilizing of police, firefighting,
emergency medical and/or rescue services by the city, or by a private
individual or corporation operating at the request or the direction of the
city, to an incident resulting in a traffic stop and arrest by a police officer
of a driver who was operating a motor vehicle while impaired by or under the
influence of an alcoholic beverage and/or a controlled substance.
      (10)   The providing, sending and/or utilizing of public service, police,
fire fighting  or rescue services, including resuscitator service, to the scene
of a fire, accident involving a motor vehicle, scene of a release of a
hazardous substance, or scene of other emergency situation.
   RELEASE. Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing into
the environment, including, but not limited to, the air, soil, groundwater and
surface water.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.
      (1)   Any individual, firm, corporation, association, partnership,
commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or any other
legal entity responsible for a public safety or fire emergency incident or any
owner, tenant, occupant or party in control of real and personal property from
which, on to which or related to which there is a public safety or fire
emergency incident.
      (2)   The owner, lessor and/or operator of a fixed facility to which
there is an emergency response shall be presumed liable for the costs thereof.
      (3)   The owner, lessee and/or operator of any motor vehicle which
operation causes or results in an emergency response, shall be responsible and
liable for the expenses of the response.
   STRUCTURE DEMOLITION. The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire which
must in the opinion of the Fire Chief or his or her designee be promptly
demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
   THREATS OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS. The verbal, or written threat of
physical harm to oneself or another or another’s property which if carried out
would be a violation of federal, state or local law.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE. The disabling of any transmission or service line,
cable, conduit, pipeline, wire or the like used to provide, collect or
transport electricity, natural gas, communication or electronic signals
(including, but not limited to, telephone, computer, cable television and
stereo signals or electronic impulses), water or sanitary or storm sewage.
§ 93.03  COST RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE; APPEAL.
   (A)   The city may recover all assessable costs in connection with a public
safety or fire emergency incident from any or all responsible parties jointly
or severally.
   (B)   The City Controller or his or her designee shall determine the total
assessable costs and shall in consultation with other city personnel involved
in responding to a public safety or fire emergency incident determine whether
to assess any, all or part of such costs against any of the responsible
parties. In making the determination, the following shall be considered:
      (1)   The total assessable costs;
      (2)   The risk the public safety or fire emergency incident imposed on
the city, its residents and their property;
      (3)   Whether there was any injury or damage to person or property;
      (4)   Whether the public safety or fire emergency incident required
evacuation;
      (5)   The extent the public safety or fire emergency incident required an
unusual or extraordinary use of city personnel and equipment; and
      (6)   Whether there was any damage to the environment.
   (C)   After consideration of the factors in subsection (B) immediately
above, the Mayor may allocate assessable costs among and between reasonable
parties, including allocating all or some of such costs jointly and severally
against more than one responsible party regardless of whether a responsible
party has other legal liability therefore or is legally at fault.
   (D)   Appeal.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who by reason of financial hardship, or who is
aggrieved by the calculation of costs assessed, or who for any reason feels
aggrieved by the assessment for any public safety or fire emergency may appeal
the assessment and/or its calculation to the Mayor who shall have authority to
reduce or eliminate the assessment.
         (b)   The appellate process shall also be available to persons who
have been assessed costs for the city’s performance of property maintenance
efforts including but not necessarily limited to the following instances where
such costs are routinely assessed:
   -   weed cutting (see §
91.01(D)); and
   -   junk or abandoned vehicle removal; and
   -   removal of junk and debris from private property or public right of way;
and
   -   water or sanitary sewer line repair upon private property; and
   -   snow removal (see §
90.080(A)); and
   -   securing abandoned structures (see §
91.04(I)(1)).
         (c)   Any such appeal shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk
within 60 days of the date of the assessment being appealed. Such appeal shall
state the appellant’s reasons why the appellant believes the appeal warrants
relief.
      (2)   If the Mayor determines not to assess all or a part of assessable
costs against a responsible party, the determination shall not in any way limit
or extinguish the liability of other responsible parties, or any liability of
the responsible party to other parties.
§ 93.04   BILLING AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   After determining to assess assessable costs against a responsible party,
the City Treasurer shall mail an itemized invoice to the responsible party at
its last known address. The invoice shall be due and payable within 30 days of
the date of mailing and any amounts unpaid after the date shall bear a late
payment fee equal to 1% per month or fraction thereof that the amount due and
any previously imposed late payment fee remains unpaid. If a responsible party
shall appeal assessable costs determination of the Mayor, the costs, if upheld,
in whole or in part, shall be due and payable 30 days from the date of
determination of the appeal of the decision of the Mayor to the City Council
and any late payment fees shall apply thereafter.
§ 93.05   ASSESSABLE COSTS A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   Assessable costs assessed against a responsible party not paid when due,
including late payment fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real property of
the responsible party in the city, from which, upon which or related to which
the public safety or fire emergency incident occurred. The lien shall be of the
same character and effect as the lien created by City Charter for city real
property taxes and shall include accrued interest and penalties. The City
Treasurer shall, prior to March 1 of each year, certify to the City Assessor
the fact that the assessable costs are delinquent and unpaid. The City Assessor
shall then enter the delinquent amount on the next general ad valorem tax roll
as a charge against the affected property, and the lien thereon shall be
enforced in the same manner as provided and allowed by law for delinquent and
unpaid real property taxes.
§ 93.06   OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to the remedy set forth in §
93.05, the city shall be entitled to pursue any other remedy or may institute
any appropriated action or proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction as
permitted by law to collect assessable costs from a responsible party.
§ 93.07   NO LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The recovery of assessable costs pursuant hereto does not limit the
liability of a responsible party under applicable local, state or federal law.
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
         
111.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
         
112.   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS
         
113.   AMUSEMENTS
         
114.   PAWN BROKERS AND USED GOODS DEALERS
         
115.   GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
         
116.   TAX ABATEMENTS
CHAPTER 110:
GENERAL LICENSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
110.01   Community antenna television system; license required
§ 110.01   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION.  The business of transmission and
distribution of television signals by means of cable, wire, or conduit to any
location, firm, person, or corporation located in the city, or the sale of
those television signals or the right to receive them to any firm, person, or
corporation within the city.
      FRANCHISE.  The right, license, and authority to operate, install, and
maintain a community antenna television system within the city.  This right,
license, and authority shall be created and exist only by virtue of an
ordinance duly adopted by the city.
   (B)   No person, firm, or corporation shall install, maintain, or operate a
community antenna television system in the city without first having obtained a
franchise therefor, as hereinabove defined, in accordance with the procedure
hereinafter set forth, from the city; nor shall any person, firm, or
corporation furnish community antenna television service without first having
obtained such a franchise.
   (C)   No person shall use, occupy, or traverse the city’s streets, alleys,
lanes, avenues, boulevards, sidewalks, bridges, viaducts, rights-of-way, or any
other public place or public way within the city, or any extensions thereof or
additions thereto, whether on, above, or under the surface of the ground, for
the purpose of installing, maintaining, or operating community antenna
television or facilities therefor or for the purpose of furnishing community
antenna television service until that person, firm, or corporation has first
obtained a franchise therefor from the city.
   (D)   (1)   No person shall furnish or contract to furnish, labor, services,
materials, or operation of community antenna television until after the person,
firm, or corporation to or for whom the labor, services, materials, or supplies
are to be furnished has obtained the franchise required by this section.
      (2)   No person shall furnish or contract to furnish labor, services,
materials, or supplies for connecting any television receiving set to any
community antenna television system, or for repairing, maintaining, or
improving any such connection, until after that system is authorized to operate
under a franchise as required by this section.
      (3)   No person shall buy or contract to buy any television signals or
the right to receive any television signals until the person selling or
contracting to sell those television signals or the right to receive those
television signals has first obtained and has the franchise required by this
section.  Sales and contracts made or entered into in violation of this
subsection or any other part of this section shall be for all purposes
whatsoever absolutely null and void.
   (E)   The City Council may, in its discretion, by ordinance, issue
nonexclusive revocable franchises for the purpose of operating community
antenna television systems within the city.  The franchise ordinances shall set
forth appropriate conditions governing the operating of those systems, the
quality of service to be rendered, the rates and fees to be charged for those
services to customers within the city, the franchise fee to be paid by the
grantee of this right to the city for this privilege, the service area of the
grantee of the franchise, and any other matters deemed to be appropriate by the
City Council.
   (F)   The City Council shall, in all cases, have the complete and absolute
right to revoke the franchise at any time, upon 30 days’ notice in writing to
the grantee; provided, however, that the reasons for revocation shall be
furnished in writing to the grantee and the grantee shall have the right to be
heard publicly prior to the revocation of the franchise.  The franchise
ordinance shall set forth, in detail, the method and procedure of removal of
cable antenna television facilities upon revocation of the franchise, and,
among other things, shall set forth insurance requirements and provide other
terms and conditions relative to the removal.
CHAPTER 111:
PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Soliciting on private property open to the public; permission required
Peddlers and Solicitors
   
111.15   Definitions
   
111.16   License required
   
111.17   Application; fee
   
111.18   License fees; exemptions
   
111.19   Investigation; denial or issuance
   
111.20   License; content; conditions and regulations
   
111.21   License term
   
111.22   Suspension or revocation
   
111.23   Vehicle tag
   
111.24   Solicitation of contributions; permit and compliance required
   
111.25   Permit application
   
111.26   Permit issuance
   
111.27   Permit suspension; good cause
   
111.28   Identification cards
   
111.29   Unlawful solicitation
   
111.30   Ice cream sales from vehicles; restricted
   
111.31   Ice cream vehicle; licensing
   
111.32   License expiration
   
111.33   License suspension or revocation
   
111.34   Licensed vehicle; operating restrictions
   
111.35   Liability insurance
Roadside Stands
   
111.50   Definitions
   
111.51   Parking
   
111.52   Sanitary conditions
   
111.53   Site plan approval
   
111.54   Permits and fees
   
111.55   Appeal
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01   SOLICITING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY OPEN TO THE PUBLIC; PERMISSION
REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person, partnership, association, firm, or corporation shall sell
or attempt to sell, peddle, distribute, solicit for sale, or give away any
merchandise, literature, pamphlets, papers, magazines, or other material items
or services or advice on private property open to the public unless prior
express written approval has been obtained from the owner of the premises or
the person, partnership, or corporation that has control of the premises.
   (B)   Any person who shall have obtained the prior express written approval
from the owner or party controlling the premises as provided in subsection (A)
above shall have that approval or a copy thereof on his or her person at any
time he or she shall sell or attempt to sell, peddle, distribute, solicit for
sale, or give away any merchandise, literature, pamphlets, papers, magazines,
or other material items or services or advice on private property open to the
public.
PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
§ 111.15   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER.  Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house, from street to street, carrying, conveying, or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, baked goods, fruits, or vegetables,
offering and exposing the same for sale, or making and delivering articles to
purchasers.
   SOLICITOR or CANVASSER.  Any individual traveling either by foot, wagon,
automobile, motor truck, or any other type of conveyance, from place to place,
from house to house, or from street to street, taking or attempting to take
orders for sale of goods, wares, merchandise, or personal property of any
nature whatsoever, for future delivery, or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not that individual has, carries, or
exposes for that sale a sample of the subject of the sale, or whether he or she
is collecting advance payments on those sales or not.
§ 111.16   LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, canvasser, or peddler to engage in
that business in the city without first having obtained a license therefor in
the manner set forth in this ordinance.
§ 111.17   APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Each person desiring to obtain a license to engage in business as a
solicitor, canvasser, or peddler shall make a written application therefor to
the City Clerk on a form furnished by the City Clerk, and at the time of making
application, shall pay to the City Clerk a fee as determined by resolution by
the City Council.
   (B)   The application for license required herein shall contain the
following items, together with additional information as the City Clerk may
require:
      (1)   The full name, age, permanent residence, and local address if other
than the foregoing, of the applicant;
      (2)   The name of the firm or corporation represented, if any, together
with the address of the central or district office of the firm or corporation;
      (3)   The address or location of the place within the city at which the
applicant proposes to engage in business;
      (4)   A list or general description of the goods, wares, or merchandise
to be sold or offered for sale;
      (5)   The length of time for which the license is desired;
      (6)   Whether the applicant has held a solicitor’s, canvasser’s, or
peddler’s license from the city or has applied for such a license previous to
the present application, together with the years in which those previous
licenses were held or applications were made;
      (7)   The place, other than the permanent place of business of the
applicant, where the applicant has conducted business during the previous 6
months;
      (8)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of filing the application, which picture shall be 2 inches by
2 inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
identifiable manner;
      (9)   The fingerprints of the applicant;
      (10)   A statement of any convictions of the applicant of any crime or
misdemeanor or violation of any provision of this ordinance, the nature of the
offense, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor; and
      (11)   The affidavit of the applicant to the truth of the statements
contained in the application, signed by the applicant.
   (C)   If the business of the applicant shall require the use of weighing or
measuring devices, the application shall be accompanied by a certificate from
the sealer of weights and measures stating that these devices have been
examined and approved.
§ 111.18   LICENSE FEES; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   For each license issued under the provisions of this ordinance, the
applicant shall pay the appropriate fee according to the resolution of the City
Council.
   (B)   The following classes of solicitors, canvassers, and peddlers shall be
exempt from the payment of license fees:
      (1)   Those engaged in interstate commerce;
      (2)   Those selling only products produced, grown, or manufactured by
their own labor.  This exemption does not apply to the makers of baked goods;
      (3)   Those representing retail or wholesale establishments which have
engaged in business in the city 3 months or longer; and
      (4)   Those selling on a veteran’s license.
§ 111.19   INVESTIGATION; DENIAL OR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application for a license under this ordinance,
together with the appropriate fee, the City Clerk shall make such investigation
as he or she deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
   (B)   If, as a result of the investigation, the applicant’s character and
business reputation are found to be unsatisfactory, the application shall be
denied.  If, as a result of the investigation, the character and business
reputation appear to be satisfactory, the City Clerk shall issue a license.
§ 111.20   LICENSE; CONTENT; CONDITIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Each licensee, upon receipt of the license, and in the presence of the
City Clerk, shall affix his or her signature thereon, accepting the license and
all the conditions of its use as stated in this ordinance or other code
provisions or ordinances now in force or which may be enacted by the City
Council respecting the use of that license, and agreeing to the suspension and
revocation of the license should any of the conditions be violated.
   (B)   The following conditions and regulations shall apply to the exercise
of privileges granted by licenses issued under the provisions of this
ordinance, in addition to those set forth in other ordinances or code
provisions of the city:
      (1)   No licensee shall use any weighing or measuring device in the
conduct of his or her business, or have in his or her possession any weighing
or measuring device, unless that device shall have been examined and approved
by the sealer of weights and measures;
      (2)   No licensee shall sell or offer for sale any article or commodity
purporting to be in quantities of standard weight or measure, whether in
original or other packages or not, unless the same shall be actually of the
weight or measure purported;
      (3)   No licensee shall sell or offer for sale any unsound or unripe or
unwholesome food, or defective, faulty, incomplete, or deteriorated article of
merchandise, unless the goods are so represented to prospective customers;
      (4)   Every vehicle used for peddling or vending shall have a tag
attached to each side thereof, bearing the same number as the license issued to
the owner, this tag to be furnished by the City Clerk and to be marked
“Peddler’s License.”  Every owner licensed to sell or vend from a vehicle or
vehicles shall be entitled to 1 helper to each vehicle; and
      (5)   Persons peddling or vending goods under this ordinance from a
vehicle shall comply with the provisions of the traffic and parking regulations
of the city relative to vehicles and shall not be allowed to remain standing at
1 place on any of the streets, alleys, or public places for a longer period
than 10 minutes in any 1 block while being used for peddling or vending
purposes.
§ 111.21   LICENSE TERM.
   All licenses issued under this ordinance shall expire at midnight on April
30 of each year, unless granted for a shorter period ending before that date or
sooner revoked by the Mayor under the provisions of this ordinance.
§ 111.22   SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall have power to suspend any license issued under the
provisions of this ordinance whenever, in his or her judgment, it is for the
best interests of the community to do so, having in mind the welfare, safety,
and health of the city.
   (B)   The Mayor may revoke any license for the same causes as above
specified, after giving the licensee reasonable notice and an opportunity to be
heard.
   (C)   Violation of the express conditions and regulations under which the
license was granted shall be sufficient cause for the suspension and revocation
of the license.
   (D)   In case the license is revoked for violation of the express conditions
and regulations under which it was granted, the amount of the fee paid therefor
shall be forfeited to the city and no licensee shall have the right to a refund
of any part of that fee.
§ 111.23   VEHICLE TAG.
   The City Clerk shall issue to all persons making application under this
ordinance and obtaining a license hereunder and who sell their goods from a
vehicle, a tag to be attached to their vehicle which shall bear the same number
as the license issued to the owner, except veterans who shall be issued a tag
marked “Veteran’s License.”
§ 111.24   SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS; PERMIT AND COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall solicit contributions or sell or offer for sale any cookies,
candy, poppies, tags, buttons, forget-me-nots, flags, ribbons, or any other
such tokens, whether real or artificial, for any charitable, patriotic, or
other purpose on the streets or in public places or by a door-to-door campaign,
in the city, without complying with the provisions of this ordinance and
without obtaining a permit authorized by the City Clerk for conducting the
solicitation or sale at the particular time and place involved, and without
paying a fee established by resolution by the City Council.
§ 111.25   PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a permit to solicit or sell as provided in §
111.24 above shall be filed with the City Clerk not later than 30 days prior to
the commencement of any solicitation or sale.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information, or in lieu
thereof, a detailed statement of the reason or reasons why this information
cannot be furnished:
      (1)   The name, address, or headquarters of the applicant;
      (2)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of
the applicant’s principal officers and managers, and whether the organization
is part of an international, national, or state agency or organization, or
entirely local;
      (3)   The length of time the organization has been in continuous
existence in the city;
      (4)   If the organization is a new organization, a detailed statement of
the type and time of organization, its objectives, and the service it will
render in the city or elsewhere;
      (5)   The names and addresses of the person who will be in direct charge
of conducting the solicitation or sale, and of the person by whom the receipts
will be dispersed;
      (6)   The purpose for which solicitation or sale is to be made, the total
goal or amount of funds proposed to be raised thereby, and the use or
disposition to be made of any receipt therefrom;
      (7)   An outline of the methods to be used in conducting the
solicitations or sale, and a description of any device, token, or article to be
given or sold, together with a sample thereof, and information as to its place
of origin and manufacture;
      (8)   The time when these solicitations or sales shall be made, giving
the preferred dates for the beginning and ending thereof, and the areas within
the city in which the solicitation or sale will be conducted;
      (9)   The estimated cost of the solicitation and the amount of any wages,
fees, commissions, expenses, or gifts to be expended, paid, or given to any
person in connection with these solicitations or sales, and the names and
addresses of all such persons;
      (10)   A financial statement for the last preceding fiscal year of any
funds collected in any manner for charitable or patriotic purposes by the
applicant, this statement to show the amount of money so raised, the method and
cost of raising it, and the final distribution thereof;
      (11)   A full statement of the character and extent of the charitable
work being done by the applicant within the city and elsewhere;
      (12)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted it will not
be used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the city, or by any
department or officer thereof;
      (13)   Attached to the application shall be the form of identification
card which shall be the credentials of all persons participating in the
solicitation or sale, and the application shall show the name of the person
authorized by the applicant to sign the identification cards; and
      (14)   Other information as may be reasonably required by the Clerk to
determine the kind and character of the proposed solicitation or sale, and
whether the solicitation or sale is in the interest of, and not contrary to,
the public welfare.
   (B)   If, while any application is pending, or during the term of any permit
granted thereon, there is any change in fact, policy, or method that would
alter the information given in the application, the applicant shall notify the
City Clerk in writing thereof within 24 hours after the change.
§ 111.26   PERMIT ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall issue a permit provided for in §
111.24 of this code when the City Clerk shall find the following facts exist:
      (1)   All of the statements made in the application are true;
      (2)   The applicant has a good reputation for honesty and integrity, or,
if the applicant is not an individual, every officer, manager, or agent of the
applicant has a good reputation for honesty and integrity;
      (3)   The control and supervision of the solicitation or sale will be
under responsible and reliable persons;
      (4)   The applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise; and
      (5)   The solicitation or sale is prompted solely to finance the
charitable or other cause described in the application and will not be
conducted for private profit.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall not issue a permit allowing more than 1
solicitation or sale as described in §
111.24 of this code to be conducted during the same period of time.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall notify the City Police Department, the City
Attorney, the Mayor, and the City Council of any action taken under this
section.
   (D)   No permit issued under §
111.24 of this code shall be valid for a period exceeding 14 days.
§ 111.27   PERMIT SUSPENSION; GOOD CAUSE.
   (A)   Upon complaint with the City Police Department or with the City Clerk
or by any person or upon his or her own notice, the City Clerk may suspend the
permit of any person granted a permit under this ordinance for good cause
shown.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GOOD CAUSE.  Includes:
         (a)   Any material misrepresentation in the application for a permit
or any fraud in its procurement, or failure to carry out any commitment or
representation contained in the application;
         (b)   Any cause which would have prevented the granting of the permit
in the first place; and
         (c)   Misconduct of the permittee, such as the violation of any of the
requirements of this ordinance, the commission of any unlawful act prohibited
by this ordinance, or any other law involving honesty, good faith, integrity,
responsibility, or moral turpitude.
§ 111.28   IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   It shall be the duty of the applicant to attach to the application filed a
proposed identification card and the name of 1 person, which person will be the
only person authorized to sign and issue those cards, properly signed and dated
on the person of the solicitor or salesperson.  The identification card shall
be worn in plain view at all times while the person is selling or soliciting
under a permit issued by the City Clerk.
§ 111.29   UNLAWFUL SOLICITATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Solicit for a charitable, patriotic, or other nonprofit organization
unless the organization shall have previously applied for and obtained a permit
as set forth in this ordinance;
   (B)   Solicit without the express prior permission of an occupant, at any
residence, address, or apartment complex where there is posted a sign stating: 
“No Solicitors or Peddlers.”
§ 111.30   ICE CREAM SALES FROM VEHICLES; RESTRICTED.
   No person shall operate or engage in the business or occupation of operating
any motor vehicle for the purpose of sale of ice cream or ice cream products on
the streets, sidewalks, and other public places of the city.  No person shall
operate or engage in the business or occupation of operating any vehicle for
the purpose of sale of ice cream or ice cream products on the streets,
sidewalks, and other public places of the city without a license for that
purpose from the city issued by the City Clerk.
§ 111.31   ICE CREAM VEHICLE; LICENSING.
   Any person desiring to engage in the business of operating vehicles for the
purpose set forth in §
111.30 of this code shall, before so operating those vehicles or engaging in
that business, apply to the City Clerk for a license, and shall pay to the City
Clerk at the time of making that application the sum specified by City Council
resolution.  The City Clerk, upon receipt of the application, shall forthwith
refer the application to the Chief of Police for investigation that the
applicant is a fit and proper person to conduct the business.  No application
shall be denied unless for just cause as shown by the investigation required in
the processing of the application.  Upon approval, the City Clerk shall issue a
license under his or her hand and seal of the city to the applicant, which
license shall be numbered.  Before engaging in this business, the vehicle for
which the license shall be obtained shall have displayed thereon in a prominent
place a tag issued by the City Clerk for that vehicle.  A separate license
shall be necessary for each vehicle.
§ 111.32   LICENSE EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued by the City Clerk under this ordinance, unless sooner
revoked, shall expire on April 30 each year.
§ 111.33   LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any license issued under and by virtue of the authority of this ordinance
may be suspended by the Mayor or revoked by the City Council at any time, and a
violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance, or of any traffic
regulation of the city, or of state or federal statutes, shall be sufficient
grounds for the revocation of any license issued hereunder and shall be
considered sufficient grounds for the refusal to grant a license in the first
instance.
§ 111.34   LICENSED VEHICLE; OPERATING RESTRICTIONS.
   No vehicle licensed in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance
shall be operated or permitted on the streets, sidewalks, and other public
places of the city after 1 hour after sundown of any day, except where the
person operating the vehicle is over 18 years of age.  The operation of any
vehicle licensed in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance on any
public street within the city shall be deemed a public nuisance and traffic
hazard, and any licensee found to be operating or permitting the operation of
his or her vehicle on the city streets shall be deemed to be contributing to a
public nuisance and traffic hazard, and that action may be cause for revocation
of any license issued under this ordinance.
§ 111.35   LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Every licensee granted a license under the terms of this ordinance shall be
required to maintain both comprehensive public liability and automobile
liability insurance underwritten by a company authorized to do business in the
state against liability to the public in the amount as set by the City Council,
and amended by resolution from time to time.  These policies shall name the
city as an additional insured and shall contain therein or have attached
thereto by rider a provision that the insurer shall give notice to the city at
least 10 days prior to the cancellation of the policy, in the event that the
insurer should elect to cancel the same.  The policy required, or a certificate
executed by the insurer certifying to the existence of the insurance, shall be
filed with the City Clerk prior to the issuance of any license or renewal
thereof.  The insurance shall be continuous until cancelled or shall expire
April 30 of any year.  Failure to maintain insurance as above provided shall be
grounds for revocation of the license issued under this ordinance.
ROADSIDE STANDS
§ 111.50   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROADSIDE STAND.  Shall not be construed to include temporary stands where
merchandise is sold at, or near, the entrance door of businesses in the
community with the permission of that business and not closer than 50 feet from
the public road.
   PERMANENT ROADSIDE STAND.  Includes any structure permanently affixed to the
land and assessable as part of the real estate, but which is open for the sale
of merchandise.
   TEMPORARY ROADSIDE STAND.  Includes any stand, truck, motor vehicle,
trailer, tent, or other enclosure not permanently affixed to the land and not
assessable as a part of the real estate, and from which enclosure merchandise
is sold or held for sale to the public.
§ 111.51   PARKING.
   No roadside stand shall be built, erected, or operated on the highway right-
of-way nor so close thereto as to encourage or promote the use of the highway
right-of-way for parking or standing of customers.  All roadside stands shall
provide adequate off-street parking areas which shall be readily accessible
from the highway abutting thereto.
§ 111.52   SANITARY CONDITIONS.
   No roadside stand shall be permitted unless a running water supply for the
cleaning of merchandise is provided and unless a sewage and waste disposal
system approved by the County Health Department is provided for the disposal of
waste and sewage.  All spoiled or discarded vegetables, meats, or other
spoilage shall be regularly disposed of and not allowed to accumulate on the
property, and covered waterproof containers suitable for the temporary disposal
of spoilage shall be maintained at all times.  The premises shall be kept in a
clean and sanitary condition at all times.  Roadside stands situated upon the
land of the owner or occupant and operated by the owner or occupant or members
of his or her family, where the merchandise held for sale is grown or raised on
the same land and where the residence of the owner or occupant is likewise
situate, shall not be required to furnish running water and sewage disposal
system at the location of the roadside stand.
§ 111.53   SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   All roadside stands shall obtain a permit from the city’s Department of
Public Works upon submission of an application for such a permit and upon
obtaining administrative site plan approval.
§ 111.54   PERMITS AND FEES.
   (A)   Applications for roadside stand permits must be submitted on a form
approved by the Department of Public Works not less than 15 days prior to the
set up of the Roadside Stand.
   (B)   A permit fee in the amount as set by the City Council, and amended by
resolution from time to time shall be paid at the time of the submission of the
application, and a clean-up fee in the amount as set by the City Council, and
amended by resolution from time to time shall be paid at the time of approval
of the permit. The clean-up fee shall be refundable in whole or in part in the
event the permittee returns the premises to its original condition at the
conclusion of roadside sale activities. The fees established in this subsection
may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
§ 111.55   APPEAL.
   Any person, firm or organization may appeal either the necessity of posting
a bond, or the amount of the bond required by the city’s Department of Public
works directly to the Burton City Council, which shall have the authority to
reduce or eliminate the bond upon good cause shown.
CHAPTER 112:
BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTORS
Section
Watermain Contractors
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose
   
112.03   Installation and connection; license required
   
112.04   License application; fee
   
112.05   Bond
   
112.06   Persons ineligible for license
   
112.07   Vehicle and equipment identification; construction requirements
   
112.08   Insurance requirements
   
112.09   License term; validity
   
112.10   Complaint; investigation; grounds for revocation
   
112.11   Suspension or revocation; notice; hearing
   
112.12   Violation by employee; guilty knowledge of licensee
   
112.13   Installation by owner
Sewer Contractors
   
112.25   Definitions
   
112.26   Purpose
   
112.27   Sewer installation and connection; license required
   
112.28   License application and fee
   
112.29   Bond; residency; state and county licensing
   
112.30   Persons ineligible for license
   
112.31   Vehicle and equipment identification; site clean-up and restoration
   
112.32   Insurance requirements
   
112.33   License term; validity
   
112.34   Complaint; investigation; license suspension or revocation
   
112.35   Complaint; notice and hearing
   
112.36   Violation by employee; guilty knowledge of licensee
   
112.37   Sewer installation by owner
WATERMAIN CONTRACTORS
§ 112.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC MUNICIPAL WATERMAIN.  The municipal watermain operated by the
Department of Public Works of the city:
      (1)   Pursuant to agreements with the County Drain Commission; and
      (2)   The municipal well water supply system in the areas designated
hereby.
   WATERMAIN SERVICE LEADS.  Watermain transportation water to residences,
commercial, and industrial buildings from public municipal watermains.
§ 112.02   PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary for the due protection
of the public health, safety, and welfare of the people of the city to license
and regulate contractors installing and connecting watermain service leads of
existing residences, commercial, and industrial buildings to the public
municipal watermain in the city.
§ 112.03   INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of installing
and connecting watermain service leads to residences, commercial, and
industrial buildings to the public municipal watermain in the city without
first obtaining a license therefor; nor shall any person, firm, or corporation
carry on that business after the license therefor shall have expired or been
revoked.
§ 112.04   LICENSE APPLICATION; FEE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
installing and connecting watermain service leads to residences, commercial,
and industrial buildings to the public municipal watermain shall, before so
engaging in that business in the city, apply to the City Clerk for a license.
All such applications shall be accompanied by a license fee which shall
initially be set by the City Council, but which may be amended from time to
time by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   The application for a license hereunder shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and all persons who have any
interest, direct or indirect, in the business.  In the case of a corporation,
all officers, directors, and stockholders shall be set forth;
      (2)   The address or location of the place of business;
      (3)   The record of any criminal convictions of all persons interested,
directly or indirectly, in the business; and
      (4)   The application shall be signed by all persons whose identity must
be set forth on the application, and the signature of all persons must be
notarized by a notary public.
§ 112.05   BOND.
   An applicant for a license under this ordinance shall file with the city a
performance bond in the amount as set by the City Council, and amended by
resolution from time to time with a surety approved by the city, shall be a
resident of the county or maintain a business office and business telephone in
the county, and shall show, by satisfactory proof, that he or she has obtained
all licenses and permits required by the state and the county to engage in the
business of installing and connecting watermain service leads to public
municipal watermains.
§ 112.06   PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to any person, firm, or corporation which shall
submit a false application.
§ 112.07   VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION; CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All contractors licensed under this ordinance shall be required to
identify all vehicles and all equipment used upon any watermain service lead
installation in the city with the name of the contractor, address of the
contractor, and telephone number.  This identification shall, if there is
sufficient room upon the vehicle or equipment, be in letters 2 inches in height
and color contrasting with the surface upon which applied, and easily visible.
   (B)   All contractors licensed under this ordinance shall be required to
completely clean up any job within the city upon the completion thereof,
including regrading the same, completely removing all piles of dirt or other
debris from the job and from all properties on which the work is done or
adjacent thereto, and to clean up any roadway ditches or roadway right-of-way
adjacent to the job.  This shall not prohibit proper mounding of the excavated
earth directly over the excavation to permit future settling of the loose soil
back to level grade, provided that no earth mounds impeding water flow or
blocking roadside ditches shall be permitted.  Provided, further, that nothing
herein contained shall prohibit a homeowner from performing all or any portion
of the work himself or herself; and where a licensed watermain contractor
performs a portion of the work, the homeowner may agree with the licensee to do
a portion of the work himself or herself, in which event the licensee shall not
be required to perform that portion of the work which the homeowner agrees with
the contractor to perform himself or herself, this agreement to be in writing.
   (C)   All contractors licensed under this ordinance shall be required to use
the following material or equal.  Material other than specified below must be
approved by the Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her
designated representative.
      (1)   Copper pipe.  The pipe shall be copper tube, Type K, soft temper,
for underground service, conforming to ASTM specifications B-88-62.  The pipe
shall be marked with the manufacturer’s name or trademark and a mark indicative
of the type of pipe.  The outside diameter of the pipe and minimum weight pr/ft
of the pipe shall not be less than that listed in ASTM B-88-62, Table 1.
      (2)   Fittings.  All fittings for copper pipe shall be flared type
meeting ASTM specification B-62.  Design standards for threads shall be in
accordance with American Standards, ASA B1.1-1960, Tables 2 and 3.  All
fittings furnished shall be Mueller or approved equal.
   (D)   All contractors licensed under this ordinance, or a person, firm, or
corporation exempt pursuant to §
112.13 of this code, shall provide notice to the city, Department of Public
Works, 24 hours in advance of construction for the required inspection and
verification of installation.
   (E)   All contractors licensed under this ordinance, or a person, firm, or
corporation exempt pursuant to §
112.13 of this code, shall be required to pay an inspection fee as established
by resolution of the City Council.
§ 112.08   INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person, firm, or corporation which is granted a license or renews a
license under the terms of this ordinance shall be required to maintain
insurance underwritten by a company authorized to do business in this state
against liability to the public in the amount as set by the City Council, and
amended by resolution from time to time.  Each contractor licensed under this
ordinance shall maintain worker’s compensation insurance covering all
employees.  Proof of all required insurances shall accompany each application
as certificates of insurance.  This insurance shall be continuous until
cancelled or shall expire March 30 of any year.  These policies shall contain
therein, or have attached thereto by rider, a provision that the insurer will
give notice to the city at least 10 days prior to the cancellation of the
policy, in the event the insurer shall elect to cancel same.  Failure to
maintain as above provided shall be grounds for revocation of the license
issued hereunder.
§ 112.09   LICENSE TERM; VALIDITY.
   All licenses shall be issued for a period of 1 year or a fraction thereof,
and shall expire on the March 30 following the date of issuance thereof.  No
license shall be valid unless the amount required hereunder has been paid to
the city and the license signed by the City Clerk.
§ 112.10   COMPLAINT; INVESTIGATION; GROUNDS FOR REVOCATION.
   The City Council may, upon its motion or upon complaint in writing of any
person made to it, investigate the actions of any person, firm, or corporation
licensed under this ordinance, and shall have the power to suspend or revoke
any licenses issued under the provisions of this ordinance, or deny any pending
application at any time, where the licensee or applicant is performing or
attempting to perform any of the acts mentioned herein:
   (A)   Abandonment without legal excuse of any construction project within
the city by the licensee;
   (B)   Failure to account for or to remit any moneys coming into his or her
possession which belong to others;
   (C)   Willful departure from or disregard of plans or specifications in any
material respect and prejudicial to another, without the consent of the owner
or his or her agent;
   (D)   Willful violation of the building laws of the state and of the
ordinances of the city;
   (E)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by an applicant in obtaining a
license;
   (F)   Making any substantial misrepresentation or making any false promises
of a character likely to influence, persuade, or induce;
   (G)   Conviction for a felony in connection with operations as a contractor;
   (H)   The violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance; or
   (I)   Any conduct, whether of the same or of a different character than
hereinbefore specified, which constitutes dishonesty or unfair dealings.
§ 112.11   SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; NOTICE; HEARING.
   The City Council shall, before suspending or revoking any license and at
least 10 days prior to the date set for hearing, notify in writing the holder
of that license of any charge made, and shall furnish the licensee with a copy
of the complaint and afford the licensee an opportunity to be heard in person
or by counsel in reference thereto.  This written notice shall be served by
delivery of the same personally to the licensee or by mailing the same by
certified mail to the last known business address of the licensee.  If the City
Council shall determine that any licensee is guilty of any violation of any of
the provisions of this ordinance, the license shall be suspended or revoked for
a period of time as shall be determined by the City Council.
§ 112.12   VIOLATION BY EMPLOYEE; GUILTY KNOWLEDGE OF LICENSEE.
   Any unlawful act or violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance
upon the part of any employee or any officers or member of a licensed person,
firm, or corporation shall not be the cause of suspension, revocation, or
denial of a license of a licensed person, firm, or corporation, unless it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the City Council that the licensed person or the
principal partner or officer of a licensed firm or corporation had knowledge
thereof.
§ 112.13   INSTALLATION BY OWNER.
   A person, firm, or corporation installing and connecting watermain service
leads from a residence, commercial, or industrial building owned by that
person, firm, or corporation to a public municipal watermain shall be exempt
from the provisions of this ordinance, and shall so state by the signature on
the watermain service permit.
SEWER CONTRACTORS
§ 112.25   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXISTING RESIDENCES AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS.  Residences and commercial
buildings in use prior to the availability of public sanitary sewers to the
particular residence or commercial building.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS.  Sanitary sewers constructed and operated by the
County Drain Commissioner as agent for the county pursuant to contracts with
the city in the areas designated as County Sanitary Sewer District 1.
   WASTE SEWERS.  Sewers transporting sewage from residences and commercial
buildings to public sanitary sewers.
§ 112.26   PURPOSE.
   It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary for the due protection
of the public health, safety, and welfare of the people of the city to license
and regulate contractors installing and connecting waste sewers of existing
residences and commercial buildings to the public sanitary sewers in the city.
§ 112.27   SEWER INSTALLATION AND CONNECTION; LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of installing
and connecting waste sewers of existing residences and commercial buildings to
public sanitary sewers in the city without first obtaining a license therefor;
nor shall any person, firm, or corporation carry on that business after the
license therefor shall have expired or been revoked.
§ 112.28   LICENSE APPLICATION AND FEE.
   (A)   Any person, firm, or corporation desiring to engage in the business of
installing and connecting waste sewers of existing residences and commercial
buildings to public sanitary sewers shall, before so engaging in that business
in the city, apply to the City Clerk for a license to engage in that business,
and shall pay to the City Clerk at the time of making the application, a
license fee in a sum as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from
time to time.
   (B)   The application for a license hereunder shall contain:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant and all persons who have any
interest, direct or indirect, in the business.  In the case of a corporation,
all officers, directors, and stockholders shall be set forth;
      (2)   The address or location of the place of business;
      (3)   The record of any criminal convictions of all persons interested,
directly or indirectly, in the business;
      (4)   Proof of good moral character of the applicant and all persons
interested, directly or indirectly, in the business; and
      (5)   The application shall be signed by all persons whose identify must
be set forth on the application, and the signature of all persons must be
notarized by a notary public.
§ 112.29   BOND; RESIDENCY; STATE AND COUNTY LICENSING.
   An applicant for a license under this ordinance shall file with the city a
license and permit bond in the amount as set by the City Council, and amended
by resolution from time to time with a surety approved by the city, shall be a
resident of the county or maintain a business office and business telephone in
the county, and shall show, by satisfactory proof, that he or she has obtained
all licenses and permits required by the state and the county to engage in the
business of installing and connecting waste sewers to public sanitary sewers.
§ 112.30   PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No license shall be granted to any person, firm, or corporation not
demonstrated to be of good moral character, nor to any person, firm, or
corporation who shall make false application.
§ 112.31   VEHICLE AND EQUIPMENT IDENTIFICATION; SITE CLEAN-UP AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   All contractors licensed under this ordinance shall be required to
identify all vehicles and all equipment used upon any drain laying job in the
city with the name of the contractor, address of the contractor, and telephone
number.  This identification shall, if there is sufficient room upon the
vehicle or equipment, be in letters 2 inches in height and color contrasting
with the surface upon which applied, and easily visible.
   (B)   (1)   All contractors licensed under this ordinance shall be required
to completely clean up any job within the city upon the completion thereof,
including regrading the same, completely removing all piles of dirt or other
debris from the job and from all properties on which the work is done or
adjacent thereto, and to clean up any roadway ditches or roadway right-of-way
adjacent to the job.  This shall not prohibit proper mounding of the excavated
earth directly over the excavation to permit future settling of the loose soil
back to level grade, provided that no earth mounds impeding water flow or
blocking roadside ditches shall be permitted.
      (2)   Provided, further, that nothing herein contained shall prohibit a
homeowner from performing all or any portion of the work himself or herself;
and where a licensed drain layer performs a portion of the work, the homeowner
may agree with the licensee to do a portion of the work himself or herself, in
which event the licensee shall not be required to perform that portion of the
work which the homeowner agrees with the contractor to perform himself or
herself, this agreement to be in writing.
§ 112.32   INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person, firm, or corporation who is granted a license or renews a
license under the terms of this ordinance shall be required to maintain
insurance underwritten by a company authorized to do business in this state
against liability to the public in the amounts as set by the City Council, and
amended by resolution from time to time.  Each contractor licensed under this
ordinance shall maintain worker’s compensation insurance covering all
employees.  Proof of all required insurance shall accompany each application as
certificates of insurance.  This insurance shall be continuous until cancelled
or shall expire March 30 of any year.  These policies shall contain therein, or
have attached thereto by rider, a provision that the insurer will give notice
to the city at least 10 days prior to the cancellation of the policy, in the
event the insurer shall elect to cancel same.  Failure to maintain as above
provided shall be grounds for revocation of the license issued hereunder.
§ 112.33   LICENSE TERM; VALIDITY.
   All licenses shall be issued for a period of 1 year, or a fraction thereof,
and shall expire on the March 30 following the date of issuance thereof.  No
license shall be valid unless the amount required hereunder has been paid to
the city and the license signed by the City Clerk.
§ 112.34   COMPLAINT; INVESTIGATION; LICENSE SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The City Council may, upon its motion or upon complaint in writing of any
person made to it, investigate the actions of any person, firm, or corporation
licensed under this ordinance, and shall have the power to suspend or revoke
any licenses issued under the provisions of this ordinance, or deny any pending
application at any time, where the licensee or applicant is performing or
attempting to perform any of the acts mentioned herein:
   (A)   Abandonment without legal excuse of any construction project within
the city by the licensee;
   (B)   Failure to account for or to remit any moneys coming into his or her
possession which belong to others;
   (C)   Willful departure from or disregard of plans or specifications in any
material respect and prejudicial to another, without the consent of the owner
or his or her agent;
   (D)   Willful violation of the building laws of the state and of the
ordinances of the city;
   (E)   Misrepresentation of a material fact by an applicant in obtaining a
license;
   (F)   Making any substantial misrepresentation or making any false promise
of a character likely to influence, persuade, or induce;
   (G)   Conviction for a felony in connection with operations as a contractor;
   (H)   The violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance; or
   (I)   Any conduct, whether of the same or of a different character than
hereinbefore specified, which constitutes dishonesty or unfair dealings.
§ 112.35   COMPLAINT; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   The City Council shall, before suspending or revoking any license and at
least 10 days prior to the date set for hearing, notify in writing the holder
of that license of any charge made, and shall furnish the licensee with a copy
of the complaint and afford the licensee an opportunity to be heard in person
or by counsel in reference thereto.  This written notice shall be served by
delivery of the same personally to the licensee or by mailing the same by
certified mail to the last known business address of the licensee.  If the City
Council shall determine that any licensee is guilty of any violation of any of
the provisions of this ordinance, the license shall be suspended or revoked for
a period of time as shall be determined by the City Council.
§ 112.36   VIOLATION BY EMPLOYEE; GUILTY KNOWLEDGE OF LICENSEE.
   Any unlawful act or violation of any of the provisions of this ordinance
upon the part of any employee or any officers or member of a licensed person,
firm, or corporation shall not be the cause of suspension, revocation, or
denial of a license of a licensed person, firm, or corporation, unless it shall
appear to the satisfaction of the City Council that the licensed person or the
principal partner or officer of a licensed firm or corporation had guilty
knowledge thereof.
§ 112.37   SEWER INSTALLATION BY OWNER.
   A person, firm, or corporation installing and connecting waste sewers from
an existing residence or commercial building owned by that person, firm, or
corporation to a public sanitary sewer shall be exempt from the provisions of
this ordinance.
CHAPTER 113:
AMUSEMENTS
Section
Outdoor Recreational Permits
   
113.01   Permit required
   
113.02   Application
   
113.03   Conditions; insurance; public health and safety
   
113.04   Fees
   
113.05   Suspension or revocation; hearing
   
113.06   Noncompliance; non-issuance of permit
   
113.07   Issuance of administrative approval
   
113.08   Penalties
OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL PERMITS
§ 113.01   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful, without first obtaining a permit from the city’s
Zoning Board of Appeals, for any person or firm to conduct or to take part in,
or for the landowner of any private land to permit upon his or her land, any
outdoor recreational event, carnival, circus, sideshow, public game, or ride,
whether given with or without charge, if the purpose of the activity is the
advertising of or promoting for sale any goods, wares, or merchandise or for
the purpose of promoting a shopping area.
   (B)   Any cease of operations order issued under the provisions of this
ordinance will include a penalty in an amount as established by resolution of
the City Council.
   (C)   Permit for any of these activities shall be known as an “outdoor
recreational permit.
§ 113.02   APPLICATION.
   All applications for an outdoor recreational permit under this ordinance
shall conform to the requirements set forth in the city’s zoning ordinance,
Chapter 157 of this code, as amended, for applications to the Zoning Board of
Appeals, including form, signatures, and notice requirements, and to the rules
and regulations of the Board of Appeals relating thereto.
§ 113.03   CONDITIONS; INSURANCE; PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall as a condition of issuance of permit
require the applicant for an outdoor recreational license to comply with the
following requirements in addition to other requirements as shall be imposed by
the city’s zoning ordinance,
Chapter 157 of this code, as amended, relating to these permits.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant shall present to the Board of Appeals, at the time
of application, public liability insurance by a company authorized to do
business in this state providing minimum liability coverage in the following
amounts and naming the city as one of the protected parties:
         (a)   Property damage: as set by the City Council, and amended by
resolution from time to time; and
         (b)   Bodily injury: as set by the City Council, and amended by
resolution from time to time .
      (2)   The applicant shall show that provisions have been made during the
proposed times of the activity for:
         (a)   Adequate security and traffic control;
         (b)   Adequate pollution control, self-contained public sanitary
facilities, and dust control, and complete removal of all sanitary facilities
and evidence thereof after the completion of the activity;
         (c)   Adequate potable water available to the public for drinking
water purposes while in attendance at the activity;
         (d)   Daily cleanup of all rubbish, papers, and garbage, and daily
removal from the site, including the papers and rubbish blown from the activity
site upon adjacent public or private lands;
         (e)   Complete cleanup of grounds and restoration to original
appearance within 2 days after the activity closes;
         (f)   Other reasonable regulations or alternative regulations as shall
be established by the Board of Appeals to ensure the reasonable protection of
the public health, safety, and welfare.
§ 113.04   FEES.
   The applicant for an outdoor recreational permit shall pay a fee equal to
the fee for a Zoning Board of Appeals variance application at the time of the
submission of the permit application.
§ 113.05   SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION; HEARING.
   In the event the City Building Inspector shall find that the activity is
violating any of the conditions imposed upon the activity, or if the activity
shall have failed to comply with those conditions, then the Inspector may
immediately order the permit cancelled, suspended, or revoked and the activity
closed forthwith, which shall remain closed until such time as compliance with
the conditions has been effected or until the applicant shall have requested
and obtained a special meeting of the Board of Appeals and paid the cost
thereof and obtained a waiver of the conditions from the Board of Appeals.  Any
request for a special meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
accompanied by the payment of the fee for a special meeting of the Zoning Board
of Appeals.  At that hearing the Board of Appeals may order the permit
cancelled, revoked, or suspended until the conditions are complied with or may
order the permit reinstated.
§ 113.06   NONCOMPLIANCE; NON-ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   Noncompliance with the terms or conditions of an outdoor recreational permit
shall be deemed adequate grounds to deny future applications for permits at the
same location.
§ 113.07  ISSUANCE OF ADMINISTRATIVE APPROVAL.
   (A)   Administrative approvals (rather than Zoning Board of Appeals
approvals) may be issued for any person or firm to conduct or to take part in,
or for the landowner of any private land to permit upon his or her land, any
outdoor recreational event, carnival, circus, sideshow, public game, or ride,
whether given with or without charge, if the purpose of the activity is the
advertising of or promoting for sale any goods, ware, or merchandise, or for
the purpose of promoting a shopping area if the outdoor recreational event
meets the following requirements:
      (1)   The event has been approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals on at
least 1 prior occasion within the past 5 years.
      (2)   The approved event did not experience issues involving health or
safety in any of the prior occasions when the event was held, as indicated by
written statements submitted by the applicant from representatives of the City
of Burton Police Department and Building Official.
      (3)   Notification has been sent out to the property owners within 300
feet of the proposed property and given 2 weeks to object from the date of
mailing.
   (B)   In the event that administrative approval is denied the applicant
shall have the right to request a meeting of the Board of Appeals and pay the
cost thereof. Any request for a meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be
accompanied by the payment of the fee. At that hearing the Board of Appeals may
approve the permit with notice to property owners within 300 feet, and
publication in the newspaper as would normally be required of such a hearing.
§ 113.08  PENALTIES.
   The violation of the terms of this ordinance shall be punishable by up to 90
days in the county jail, a fine of not more than $500, or both.
CHAPTER 114:
PAWN BROKERS AND USED GOODS DEALERS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   Permit required
   
114.03   Permit application and issuance; revocation
   
114.04   Application content
   
114.05   Persons ineligible for license
§ 114.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEALER IN USED MERCHANDISE.  Any person who regularly purchases for resale,
merchandise which has previously been sold at retail.  This shall not apply to
dealers in motor vehicles or to automotive junk dealers, nor shall it apply to
recognized charitable institutions.
   PAWN BROKER.  Any person, corporation, or member of a copartnership or firm,
who loans money on deposit, or pledge of personal property, or other valuable
thing, other than securities or printed evidence of indebtedness, or who deals
in the purchasing of personal property or other valuable thing on condition of
selling the same back again at a stipulated price.
§ 114.02   PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall carry on the business of pawn broker
or dealer in used merchandise in the city without first obtaining a permit
therefor; nor shall any person carry on that business after permit therefor
shall be revoked.
§ 114.03   PERMIT APPLICATION AND ISSUANCE; REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Clerk shall issue a permit for a pawn broker or dealer in used
merchandise upon the submission of an application and the fee as established
and, from time to time, amended by resolution of the City Council. The
application fee shall initially be established to be as set by the City
Council, and amended by resolution from time to time. In accordance with §
110.01, all permits shall be issued for a period of 1 year, and permit renewal
applications shall be accompanied by a new application and fee.
   (B)   A permit issued by the Clerk may be revoked by the City Council at any
time for violation of any terms of this ordinance, or, upon a finding that the
business has, on 2 or more occasions within the past 12 month period, purchased
or sold stolen merchandise. The Clerk shall provide written notice to the
holder of a permit at least 7 days prior to the hearing before the City
Council. The notice shall provide the reason for the permit revocation hearing.
§ 114.04   APPLICATION CONTENT.
   Application for a permit hereunder shall contain:
   (A)   The name and address of the applicant and all persons who have any
interest, direct or indirect, in the business.  In the case of a corporation,
all officers, directors, and stockholders shall be shown;
   (B)   The address of the proposed location of the business;
   (C)   The record of any criminal convictions of all persons interested,
directly or indirectly, in the business;
   (D)   The type of merchandise proposed to be dealt in;
   (E)   If the applicant or any interested person shall have previously been
engaged in this type of business, the location and dates so engaged shall be
shown; and
   (F)   The application shall be signed and sworn to before a notary public by
all persons required to be identified under subsection (A) above.
§ 114.05   PERSONS INELIGIBLE FOR LICENSE.
   No permit shall be granted to any person, firm, or corporation who shall
make false application.  No permit shall be granted to any person who shall
have been convicted of receiving or selling stolen merchandise or related
offenses.  The permit may be revoked for any of the above reasons without
return of any portion of the application fee, or for violation of any other
provisions of this ordinance, or for conviction of the applicant or any
interested person or any clerk, agent, servant, or employee of the person of
receiving or selling of stolen merchandise or related offenses.
CHAPTER 115:
GENERAL BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Drive-in restaurants
   
115.02   Deposits required
   
115.03   Deposits
§ 115.01   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT.  Any establishment where food or beverage is sold to
consumers and where motor vehicle parking space is provided and where that food
or beverage is intended to be consumed in the motor vehicle parked on the
premises or anywhere on the premises outside of the building.
      OPERATOR.  Any person, as defined herein, who shall have charge of the
operation of the drive-in restaurant.
      WASTE MATERIAL.  Paper cups, straws, napkins, garbage, beverages, and all
other waste matter intended for disposal, which, if not placed in a proper
receptacle, tends to create a public nuisance by rendering property unclean,
unsafe, and unsightly.
   (B)   The operator shall maintain quiet and good order upon the premises of
a drive-in restaurant and shall not permit disorderly or immoral conduct or
loitering.  The operator shall not cause or create any noise or other nuisance
on the parking area of a drive-in restaurant whereby the quiet and good order
of the premises or of the neighborhood is disturbed.
   (C)   The operator shall at least once in 24 hours dispose of waste
materials which tend to create a public nuisance on the premises.  The operator
shall keep the premises whereon the drive-in restaurant is located, together
with the parking area and that portion of any street or alley adjoining the
drive-in restaurant, free from waste material.  The operator shall provide the
drive-in restaurant with sufficient number of adequate refuse containers, and
shall erect fences, barriers, or otherwise so as to prevent the accumulation of
waste materials originating from the drive-in restaurant from blowing onto
adjoining property or streets.
   (D)   The parking area of any drive-in restaurant shall be adequately
illuminated by electric lights, but the illumination shall be so arranged by
the operator as to reflect away from any adjoining residential property.
   (E)   The parking area on the premises of a drive-in restaurant shall be
satisfactorily paved or treated by the operator so as to avoid creating dust
and so as to provide for adequate drainage of surface water.
§ 115.02  DEPOSITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon the application for site improvements of private property or
public right-of-way, including new construction, the City of Burton, its
Planning Commission, Zoning Board of Appeals, or other authority, may require
the property owner or his or her contractor or other designee to provide a cash
deposit in an amount to be determined by the City Treasurer.
   (B)   This deposit shall ensure the depositor’s compliance with all relevant
permits, ordinances, and regulations, including, but not limited to, those of
the City of Burton and State of Michigan.
   (C)   Upon the city’s determination of construction completion and
compliance with the applicable permits, ordinances, and regulations, the
required deposit shall be returned to the depositor in accordance with §
115.03.
§ 115.03  DEPOSITS.
   (A)   Any permit deposit placed with the City of Burton including, but not
limited to, deposits pursuant to §
111.54, and deposits required by the City of Burton Planning Commission or
Zoning Board of Appeals shall be governed by this section, except as otherwise
explicitly indicated.
      (1)   Deposits shall be received by the City Treasurer and in accordance
with the terms set forth in this ordinance. The depositor shall receive a
receipt of the making of the deposit and shall be advised of the terms of the
city’s use or return of the deposit.
      (2)   The deposits shall be placed and kept in a non-interest bearing
account and, if necessary, shall be used in accordance with the terms of the
ordinance.
      (3)   The deposit shall insure completion of all improvements underground
or on-surface (including, but not limited to, paving, concrete curbs or walk,
pavement markings, landscaping, fencing, signs, storm or sanitary sewer,
watermain, catch basins or manholes, light and culvers), and all site work
exclusive of habitable structures.
      (4)   The deposit shall be returned as follows:
         (a)   Upon city’s satisfaction of compliance with subsection (3)
above, a certified letter shall be mailed to the original depositor advising
depositor that the funds are available for return.
         (b)   Any funds not collected by the depositor within 90 days of the
mailing of the certified letter shall be forfeited to the city and shall be
placed in the city’s General Fund.
CHAPTER 116:
TAX ABATEMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Service charge in lieu of taxes for Meadowview Gardens
   
116.02   Service charge in lieu of taxes for C.K. Gardens Senior Apartments
   
116.03   Service charge in lieu of taxes for Blackberry Creek
   
116.04   Service charge in lieu of taxes for Kings Lane Apartments
   
116.05   Burton Place Apartments
§ 116.01   SERVICE CHARGE IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR MEADOWVIEW GARDENS.
   (A)   (1)   The city acknowledges that it has the authority under the
provisions of Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended, to establish a service charge
to be paid in lieu of taxes by any class of housing exempt from taxation under
this Act. It is further acknowledged that the housing for the elderly low and
moderate income is a public responsibility, and the city will benefit and be
improved by the housing; and that under provisions of the Act certain real
estate tax exemptions for the housing is a valid public purpose. Further, the
continuation of the provisions of this ordinance for tax exemption and the
service charge in lieu of taxes during the effective period of this ordinance
are essential to the determination of economic feasibility of housing
developments which are constructed and financed in reliance of the tax
exemption.
      (2)   The city acknowledges that Meadowview Gardens Limited Dividend
Housing Association Limited Partnership (“Sponsor”) has been offered, subject
to receipt of a federally-aided mortgage (as defined below) to erect, own, and
operate a housing development identified as “Meadowview Gardens” on certain
real property located on South Center Road to serve elderly persons of low and
moderate income, and that the sponsor has offered to pay the city on account of
this development an annual, service charge in lieu of taxes.
      (3)   The property is legally described as: the north ½ of the southwest
1/4 of the northwest 1/4 except the north 336 feet. Also except the East 8
rods. Section 22, T7N R7E. The Parcel Identification Numbers are 59-22-100-009
and 59-22100-010.
   (B)   All terms shall be defined as set forth in the State Housing Authority
Development Act of 1966, being Public Act 346 of 1966, of the State of Michigan
as amended, except as follows:
      ACT.  The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346
of 1966, as amended.
      ANNUAL SHELTER RENT.  The total collections during a calendar year from
all occupants of a housing development representing rent or occupancy charges,
exclusive or charges for gas, electricity, heat, or other utilities furnished
to the occupants.
      AUTHORITY.  The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
      CALENDAR YEAR.  The consecutive 12 month period which ends on December 31
of the year immediately preceding the year in which the service charge is to be
paid.
      ELDERLY.  A single person who is 55 years of age or older, or a household
in which at least 1 member is at 55 years of age or older, and all other
members are 50 years of age or older.
      ELDERLY PERSONS OF LOW AND MODERATE INCOME.  Elderly persons who meet the
eligibility criteria set by the Authority to move into a housing development.
      FEDERALLY-AIDED MORTGAGE.  Any of the following:
         (a)   A below market interest rate mortgage insured, purchased, or
held by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
         (b)   A market interest rate mortgage insured by the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development and augmented by a program of rent subsidies.
         (c)   A mortgage receiving interest reduction payments provided by the
Secretary of the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development.
         (d)   A mortgage on a housing development to which the Authority
allocates low income housing tax credits under § 22b.
         (e)   A mortgage receiving special benefits under other federal law
designated specifically to development low and moderate-income housing,
consistent with the Act.
      HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.  A development which contains a significant element
of housing for elderly person of low and moderate income and such elements of
other housing commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational
facilities as the Authority determines improve the quality of the development
as it relates to housing for elderly persons of low and moderate income.
      HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY.  Housing occupied by a single person who is 55
years of age or older, or housing occupied by a family and/or household in
which at least one member is at 55 years of age or older, and all other members
are 50 years of age or older.
      NET SHELTER RENT.  Annual shelter rent minus utility costs.
      SPONSOR.  Meadowview Gardens Limited Dividend Housing Association Limited
Partnership, 30100 Telegraph Road, Suite #426, Bingham Farms, MI 48025, its
successors in interest, which has applied to the Authority for a Mortgage Loan
to finance Housing Development.
      UTILITIES.  Those costs for fuel, electricity, water, sanitary sewer, and
those other expenses which are paid by the Housing Development.
   (C)   It is determined that the class of housing developments to which the
tax exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu
of the taxes shall be housing for elderly persons of low and moderate income,
which are financed or assisted pursuant to the Act. It is further that
“Meadowview Gardens” is of this class.
   (D)   The Housing Development identified as “Meadowview Gardens” and the
property on which it shall be constructed shall be exempt from ad valorem
property taxes commencing on the December 31 following the issuance of the
certificate of occupancy. The city, acknowledging that the sponsor and the
authority have established the economic feasibility of the Housing Development
in reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of this ordinance and the
qualification of the Housing Development for exemption from all ad valorem
property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this ordinance,
and in consideration of the sponsor’s offer, subject to the receipt of a
mortgage loan from the Authority, to construct, own, and operate the housing
development, agrees to accept payment of an annual service charge in lieu of
all property taxes. The annual service charge shall be equal to 5% of the net
shelter rents.
   (E)   The sponsor agrees to provide transportation for the residents of
Meadowview Gardens.
   (F)   This ordinance shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long
as the original mortgage remains outstanding and unpaid or the Authority
retains any interest in the property.
   (G)   The annual service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under the
section shall be payable in the same manner as general taxes to the city,
except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before April 1 of each year.
§ 116.02   SERVICE CHARGE IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR C.K. GARDENS SENIOR APARTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The city acknowledges that it has the authority under the
provisions of Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended, to establish a service charge
to be paid in lieu of taxes by any class of housing exempt from taxation under
this Act. It is further acknowledged that the housing for the elderly low and
moderate income is a public responsibility, and the city will benefit and be
improved by the housing; and that under provisions of the Act certain real
estate tax exemptions for the housing is a valid, public purpose. Further, the
continuation of the provisions of this ordinance for tax exemption and the
service charge in lieu of taxes during the effective period of this ordinance
are essential to the determination, of economic feasibility of housing
developments which are constructed and financed in reliance of the tax
exemption.
      (2)   The city acknowledges that C.K. Gardens Limited Dividend Housing
Association Limited Partnership (“Sponsor”) has been offered, subject to
receipt of a Mortgage Loan from the Michigan State Housing Development
Authority (the “Authority”) and an allocation under the Low Income Housing Tax
Credit (“LIHTC”) to erect, own, and operate a housing development identified as
“C.K. Gardens Senior Apartment on certain real property located South of
Lippincott Boulevard, east of Christner Street and west of South Center Road to
serve elderly persons of low and moderate income, and that the Sponsor has
offered to pay the City on account of this development an annual service charge
in lieu of taxes.
      (3)   The property is legally described as: parcel of land beginning at
the northwest corner of Lot 40 Frost Manor, thence S 2 deg 46 min 21 sec E to
the southeast corner of Lot 40, thence S 87 deg 11 min 18 sec W 62.77 ft. to
the southwest corner of Lot 41, thence S 2 deg 50 min E 737.87 ft., thence N 87
deg 12 min 22 sec E 514.23 ft., thence N 2 deg 48 min 03 sec W 222.03 ft.,
thence N 87 deg 12 min 23 sec E 427.95 ft., thence N 2 deg 48 min W 156.03 ft,
.thence S 87 deg 12 min 14 sec W 427.96 ft., thence N 2 deg 48 min 03 sec W
262.92 ft. to an intermediate traverse line along the south side of Robinson
Drain, the point being S 2 deg 48 min 03 sec E 30.11 ft. from the centerline of
the drain and a Point “A”, thence along the intermediate traverse line of
Robinson Drain on the next 4 courses N 87 deg 47 min 35 sec W 55.16 ft. and N
50 deg 22 min 23 min W 136.09 ft. and N 28 deg 01 min 31 sec W 112.81 ft and N
2 deg 11 min W 105.68 ft. to the north plat line of Frost Manor being S 87 deg
48 min 08 sec W 30 ft. from the centerline of the drain and a point “B”, thence
S 87 deg 48 min 08 sec W 249.47 ft. to the point of beginning. The above
described parcel contains all of the land encompassed between the intermediate
traverse line and the centerline of the Robinson Drain running from Point “A”
to Point “B", containing 11.54 acres more or less.
   (B)   All terms shall be defined as set forth in the State Housing Authority
Development Act of 1966, being Public Act 346 of 1966, of the State of Michigan
as amended, except as follows:
      ACT.  The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346
of 1966, as amended.
      ANNUAL SHELTER RENT.  The total collections during a calendar year from
all occupants of a housing development representing rent or occupancy charges,
exclusive or charges for gas, electricity, heat, or other utilities furnished
to the occupants.
      AUTHORITY.  The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
      CALENDAR YEAR.  The consecutive 12 month period which ends on December 31
of the year immediately preceding the year in which the service charge is to be
paid.
      ELDERLY.  A single person who is 55 years of age or older, or a household
in which at least 1 member is at 55 years of age or older, and all other
members are 50 years of age or older.
      ELDERLY PERSONS OF LOW AND MODERATE INCOME.  Elderly persons who meet the
eligibility criteria set by the Authority to move into a housing development.
      HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.  A development which contains a significant element
of housing for elderly person of low and moderate income and such elements of
other housing commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational
facilities as the Authority determines improve the quality of the development
as it relates to housing for elderly persons of low and moderate income.
      HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY.  Housing occupied by a single person who is 55
years of age or older, or housing occupied by a family and/or household in
which at least one member is at 55 years of age or older, and all other members
are 50 years of age or older.
      MORTGAGE LOAN.  A loan to be made by the Authority to the sponsor for the
construction and/or permanent financing of the Housing Development.
      NET SHELTER RENT.  Annual Shelter Rent minus utility costs.
      SPONSOR.  C.K. Gardens Limited Dividend Housing Association Limited
Partnership, its successors in interest, which has applied to the Authority for
a Mortgage Loan and for an allocation under the LIHTC Program to finance
Housing Development.
      UTILITIES.  Those costs for fuel, electricity, water, sanitary sewer, and
those other expenses which are paid by the Housing Development.
   (C)   It is determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the
tax exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu
of the taxes shall be housing for elderly persons of low and moderate income,
which are financed or assisted pursuant to the Act. It is further that “C.K.
Gardens” is of this class.
   (D)   The Housing Development identified as “C.K. Gardens” and the property
on which it shall be constructed shall be exempt from ad valorem property taxes
commencing on the December 31 following the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy. The city, acknowledging that the sponsor and the Authority have
established the economic feasibility of the Housing Development in reliance
upon the enactment and continuing effect of this ordinance and the
qualification of the Housing Development for exemption from all ad valorem
property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this ordinance,
and in consideration of the sponsor’s offer, subject to the receipt of a
mortgage loan from the Authority, and an allocation under the LIHTC program, to
construct, own, and operate the Housing Development, agrees to accept payment
of an annual service charge in lieu of all property taxes. The annual service
charge shall be equal to 5% of the net shelter rents.
   (E)   This ordinance shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long
as the original mortgage remains outstanding and unpaid or the Authority
retains any interest in the property or the Housing Development remains subject
to income and rent restrictions pursuant to § 42 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, provided that the construction of the Housing Development
commences within 1 year from the effective date of the ordinance.
   (F)   The annual service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under the
ordinance shall be payable in the same mariner as general taxes to the city,
except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before April 1 of each year.
   (G)   Not withstanding the provisions of § 15(a)(5) of the Act, to the
contrary, a contract between the city and the sponsor with the authority as
third party beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax exemption and accept
payments in lieu of taxes, as previously described is effectuated by enactment
of this ordinance.
§ 116.03   SERVICE CHARGE IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR BLACKBERRY CREEK.
   (A)   (1)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of
low and moderate income and to encourage the development of the housing by
providing for a service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the
State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966 (1966 Public Act 346, as
amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq.; M.S.A. §§ 116.114(1) et seq.). The city
is authorized by this Act to establish or change the service charge to be paid
lieu of taxes by any or all class of housing exempt from taxation under this
Act. It is further acknowledged that the housing for persons of low and
moderate income is a public necessity, and as the city will be benefit and
improved by the housing the encouragement of the same by providing certain real
estate tax exemption for such housing is a valid public purpose; further, the
continuation of the provisions of this ordinance for tax exemption and the
service charge in lieu of taxes during the periods contemplated in this
ordinance are essential to the determination of economic feasibility of housing
developments which are constructed and financed in reliance of the ordinance
and service charge.
      (2)   The city acknowledges that Blackberry Creek Village Limited
Dividend Housing Association Limited Partnership (“Sponsor”) has been offered,
subject to receipt of HUD § 221(d)(4) insurance, to erect, own, and operate a
housing development identified as "Blackberry Creek" on certain real property
located on South Center Road and the sponsor has offered to pay the city on
account of this development an annual service charge in lieu of taxes.
      (3)   The property is legally described as: beginning at a point distant
S. 01°47'06" E. (recorded as S. 00°45'00" E.), 984.87 feet (recorded as 985.00
feet) along the west line of the Section 34 and N. 88°19'19" E. (recorded as N.
89°22'11" E.), 60.00 feet to a point of the Easterly right-of-way line of
Center Road (120 ft. R,O.W.); thence N. 88°19'19' E. (recorded as N. 89°
         (a)   S. 01°46'51" E. (M), S. 00°44'44" E. (R), 1124,00 feet (M),
1123.87 feet (R);
         (b)   S. 88°12'58" W. (M), S. 89°15'04" W. (R), 299.90 feet (M),
300.00 feet (R);
         (c)   S. 01.'47'06" E. (M), S. 00°44'44" E. (R), 299.85 feet (M),
300.00 feet (R);
         (d)   S. 88°12'24" W. (M), S. 89°15'04" W. (R), 478.96 feet (M),
478.93 feet (R); thence N. 01°47'06" W. (M), N. 00°45'00" W. (R), 470.64 feet;
thence S. 88°19'19" W., 340.00 feet; thence N. 01°47'06" W. 400.00 feet along
the right-of-way line of Center Road to the point of beginning. Parcel contains
24.83 acres.
   (B)   The following definitions shall apply:
      ACT.  The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346
of 1966, of the State of Michigan, as amended.
      ANNUAL RENTS.  The total collections during a calendar year from all
occupants of a housing development representing rent or occupancy charges,
exclusive of charges for gas, electricity, heat, or other utilities furnished
to the occupants.
      AUTHORITY.  The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
      CALENDAR YEAR.  The consecutive 12 month period which ends on December 31
of the year immediately preceding the year in which the service charge is to be
paid.
      HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.  A development which contains a significant element
of housing for elderly person of low and moderate income and such elements of
other housing commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational
facilities as the Authority determines improve the quality of the development
as it relates to housing for elderly persons of low and moderate income.
      HUD.  The Department of Housing and Urban Development of the United
States Government.
      MARKET RENTS.  Defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and. Urban
Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to § 221(d)(4) of the U.S.
Housing Act of 1937, as amended.
      MORTGAGE LOAN.  A construction and permanent mortgage loan insured by
HUD.
      PERSONS OF LOW AND MODERATE INCOME.  Persons and families eligible to
move into a housing development.
      SPONSOR.  Persons or entities. which have applied to either the Authority
for a mortgage-loan to finance housing development or to another governmental
entity for a federally-aided loan, as defined by the Act. The sponsor is
Blackberry Creek Limited Dividend Housing Association Limited Partnership, a
Michigan Limited Partnership.
      UTILITIES.  Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical
services which are paid by the Housing Development and not the tenants of the
Housing Development.
   (C)   It is determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the
tax exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu
of the taxes shall be multiple dwellings for persons of low and moderate
income, which are financed or assisted pursuant to the Authority or which are
federally aided, as defined by the Act. It is further determined that
“Blackberry Creek Village” is of this class.
   (D)   The Housing Development identified as “Blackberry Creek Village” and
the property on which it shall be constructed shall be exempt from all property
taxes commencing on the December 31 following the certificate of occupancy. The
city, acknowledging that the sponsor and HUD, in the case of a sponsor
receiving a federally-aided mortgage loan from HUD, have established the
economic feasibility of the Housing Development in reliance upon the
enhancement and continuing effect of this ordinance and the qualification of
the housing development for exemption from all property taxes and a payment in
lieu of taxes as established in this ordinance, will accept payment of an
annual service charge for public services in lieu of all property taxes. The
annual service charge shall be equal to 5% of the difference between annual
rents and utilities for federally aided housing developments. The sponsor shall
provide the city with a “Verification of Eligibility for Tax Exemption” form
from the Authority to commence the annual service charge.
   (E)   (1)   The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under the
ordinance shall be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are
payable to the city, except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before
April of each year for the prior year. Sponsor shall provide an audited
financial statement and calculation of the service charge along with the annual
payment. Sponsor shall also provide on an annual basis a “Verification of
Continuing Eligibility of Exemption” form from the Authority.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of § 15(a)(5) of the Act, to the
contrary, and ordinance adopted by the city with HUD as third party beneficiary
under the ordinance to provide tax exemption and accept payments in lieu of
taxes as previously described will be effectuated by enactment of the ordinance
by the City Council.
   (F)   (1)   This ordinance shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so
long as the federally-aided mortgage loan for the housing development remains
outstanding or unpaid, or for such period as HUD as any interest in the
property through its insurance program; provided, the construction of the
Housing Development commences within 1 year from the effective date of this
ordinance.
      (2)   The sponsor shall cause the Authority to provide an annual
certification of same as of December 1 of each year.
      (3)   The lender shall provide the itemized balance of each escrow
account.
§ 116.04   SERVICE CHARGE IN LIEU OF TAXES FOR KINGS LANE APARTMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of
low and moderate income and to encourage the development of the housing by
providing for a service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the
State Housing Development authority Act of 1966 (1966 Public Act 346, as
amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq.; M.S.A. §§ 116.114(1) et seq.). The city
is authorized by this Act to establish or change the service charge to be paid
in lieu of taxes by any or all class of housing exempt from taxation under this
Act. It is further acknowledged that such, housing for persons of low and
moderate income is a public necessity, and as the city will be benefit and
improved by the housing the encouragement of the same by providing certain real
estate tax exemption for the housing is a valid public purpose; further, the
continuation of the provisions of this ordinance for tax exemption and the
service charge in lieu of taxes during the periods contemplated in this
ordinance are essential to the determination of economic feasibility of housing
developments which are constructed and financed in reliance of the ordinance
and service charge.
      (2)   The city acknowledges that Kings Lane Limited Dividend Housing
Association Limited Partnership (“Sponsor”) has been offered, subject to
receipt of HUD § 221(d)(4) insurance and tax-exempt bonds being issued by the
Michigan Housing Development Authority, to rehabilitate, own, and operate a
housing development identified as “Kings Land Apartments” on certain real
property located on Hemphill Road and the sponsor has offered to pay the city
on account of this development an annual service charge in lieu of taxes.
      (3)   The property is legally described as: part of the North ½ of the
southwest 1/4 of Section 20, Township 7 North, Range 7 East, Michigan Meridian,
City of Burton, Genesee County, Michigan, described as: commencing at the
Southeast corner of the northwest 1/4 of the southwest 1/4 of Section 30, said
point being the southwest corner of the recorded plat of Baker Park; thence
South 89 degrees 48 minutes 41 seconds West 558.02 feet along the North line of
Outlot A of the recorded plat of Burton Gardens; thence North 00 degrees 02
minutes 09 seconds East 209.58 feet; thence North 89 degrees 57 minutes 53
seconds West 63.22 feet; thence North 00 degrees 01 minutes 47 seconds East
1,119.09 feet to the center line of line of Hemphill Road, so called; thence
North 89 degrees 54 minutes 15 seconds East 604.02 feet to the center line of
Camden Avenue, so called; thence South 00 degrees 42 minutes 45 seconds East
1321.99 feet along the center line of Camden Avenue, so called, to the point of
beginning.
   (B)   The following definitions shall apply:
      ACT.  The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346
of 1966, of the State of Michigan, as amended.
      ANNUAL RENTS.  The total collections during a calendar year from all
occupants of a housing development representing rent or occupancy charges,
exclusive of charges for gas, electricity, heat, or other utilities furnished
to the occupants.
      AUTHORITY.  The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
      CALENDAR YEAR.  The consecutive 12-month period which ends on December 31
of the year immediately preceding the year in which the service charge is to be
paid.
      HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.  A development which contains a significant element
of housing for persons of low and moderate income and such elements of other
housing commercial, recreational, communal and educational facilities as the
Authority determines improve the quality of the development as it relates to
housing for persons of low and moderate income.
      HUD.  The Department of Housing and. Urban Development of the United
States Government.
      MARKET RENTS.  Defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to § 221(d)(4) of the U.S.
Housing Act of 1937, as amended.
      MORTGAGE LOAN.  A construction and permanent mortgage loan insured by
HUD.
      PERSONS OF LOW AND MODERATE INCOME.  Persons and families eligible to
move into a housing development. A minimum of 40% of each of the Development’s
unit types must be occupied or available for occupancy by households who
incomes do not exceed 60% of area median income, adjusted for family size. The
income of individuals and area median gross income shall be determined by the
Secretary of the Treasury in a manner consistent with determinations of lower
income families and area median gross income under § 8 of the U.S. Housing Act
of 1937, including adjustment for family size.
      SPONSOR.  Persons or entities which have applied to either the Authority
for a mortgage loan to finance housing development or to another governmental
entity for a federally-aided loan, as defined by the Act. The sponsor is Kings
Lane Limited Dividend Housing Association Limited, Partnership, a Michigan
Limited Partnership.
      UTILITIES.  Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical
services which are paid by the Housing Development and not the tenants of the
Housing Development.
   (C)   It is determined that the class of Housing Developments to which the
tax exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu
of the taxes shall be multiple dwellings for persons of low and moderate
income, which are financed or assisted by the Authority or which are federally
aided, as defined by the Act. It is further determined that “Kings Lane
Apartments” is of this class.
   (D)   The Housing Development identified as “Kings Lane Apartments” and the
property on which it shall be rehabilitated shall be exempt from all property
taxes commencing on the December 31 after the closing of the project financing
and the commencement of construction. The city, acknowledging that the sponsor
and HUD and the Authority, in the case of a sponsor receiving a federally-aided
mortgage loan from HUD and tax exempt bonds from the Authority, have
established that the economic feasibility of the housing development in
reliance upon the enhancement and continuing effect of this ordinance and the
qualification of the housing development for exemption from all property taxes
and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this ordinance, will accept
payment of an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all property
taxes. The annual service charge shall be equal to 5% of the difference between
annual rents and utilities for federally aided housing developments. The
sponsor shall provide the city with a “Verification of Eligibility for Tax
Exemption” form from the Authority to commence the annual service charge.
   (E)   (1)   The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under the
ordinance shall be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are
payable to the city, except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before
April 1 of each year for the prior year. Sponsor shall provide an audited
financial statement and calculation of the service charge along with the annual
payment. Sponsor shall also provide on an annual basis a “Verification of
Continuing Eligibility of Exemption” form from the Authority.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the provisions of § 15(a)(5) of the Act, to the
contrary, an ordinance adopted by the city with HUD as third party beneficiary
under the ordinance to provide tax exemption and accept payments in lieu of
taxes as previously described will be effectuated by enactment of the ordinance
by the City Council.
   (F)   This ordinance shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long
as the federally-aided mortgage loan and/or tax-exempt bonds from the Authority
for the housing development remains outstanding or unpaid, or for such period
as HUD and/or the Authority have any interest in the property through its
insurance program and/or tax-exempt bonds issued by the Authority; provided,
the construction and/or rehabilitation of the housing development commences
within 1 year from the effective date of this ordinance. The sponsor shall
cause the Authority to provide an annual certification of same as of December 1
of each year. The lender shall provide the itemized balance of each escrow
account.
§ 116.05  BURTON PLACE APARTMENTS.
   (A)   Definitions.
      ACT.  The State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966 (1966 PA 346,
as amended; M.C.L.A. § 125.1401, et seq.).
      AUTHORITY.  The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
      CONTRACT RENTS.  The total Contract Rents (as defined by the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development in regulations promulgated pursuant
to Section 8 of the U.S. Housing Act of 1937, as amended) received in
connection with the operation of a housing project during an agreed annual
period.
      MORTGAGE LOAN.  A loan that is federally-aided (as defined in Section 11
of the Act) or a loan or grant made or to be made by the authority, for the
construction, rehabilitation, acquisition and/or permanent financing of the
project, and secured by a mortgage on the project.
      PROJECT.  The housing project identified as the Burton Place Apartments
and the property on which it is located, described as: the North 383' of NW ¼
of SW ¼ except E 132' Section 22, T7N, R7E, City of Burton, County of Genesee,
State of Michigan.
      SPONSOR.  JRC Burton Preservation Limited Dividend Housing Association,
LLC, and any entity that receives or assumes a mortgage loan.
   (B)   Establishment of Annual Service Charge. The project shall continue to
be exempt from all ad valorem property taxes from and after the commencement of
construction or rehabilitation. The city acknowledges that the sponsor and the
authority have established the economic feasibility of the project in reliance
upon the enactment and continuing effect of this ordinance, and the
qualification of the project for exemption from all ad valorem property taxes
and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this ordinance. Therefore, in
consideration of the sponsor's offer to rehabilitate and operate the project,
the city agrees to accept payment of an annual service charge for public
services in lieu of all ad valorem property taxes. Subject to receipt of a
mortgage loan, the annual service charge shall be equal to (i) 4% of 95% of the
contract rents actually collected by the project during each operating year
less the costs of fuel, electricity and the service charge, or (ii) $30,000,
whichever is greater. The annual service charge shall be paid on or before
August 15 of each year.
   (C)   Duration. This ordinance shall remain in effect and shall not
terminate so long as a mortgage loan remains outstanding and unpaid.
   (D)   Contractual Effect of Ordinance. Notwithstanding the provisions of
section 15(a)(5) of the Act to the contrary, a contract between the City of
Burton and the sponsor with the authority as third party beneficiary under the
contract, to provide tax exemption and accept payments in lieu of taxes, as
described herein, is effectuated by enactment of this ordinance.
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   BURTON CRIMINAL CODE
         
131.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
         
132.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
133.   ANIMALS
         
134.   ASSAULT
         
135.   RESERVED
         
136.   DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY
         
137.   DRUGS
         
138.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY
         
139.   FIREARMS, DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND HUNTING
         
140.   FIREWORKS
         
141.   LARCENY
         
142.   LITTERING
         
143.   MINORS
         
144.   MORALS
         
145.   MOTOR VEHICLES
         
146.   NOISE
         
147.   RAILROADS
         
148.   RESISTING ARREST AND OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE
         
149.   TRESPASS AND UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLIES
CHAPTER 130:
BURTON CRIMINAL CODE
Section
   
130.01   Criminal Code adoption; construction
   
130.02   Criminal penalties
   
130.03   Cost recovery
§ 130.01   CRIMINAL CODE ADOPTION; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the Criminal Code of the city, containing
certain provisions to regulate conduct within the city to further the public
health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city.
   (B)   The masculine gender as used throughout this code shall be deemed to
refer also to the feminine and neuter genders.
   (C)   All criminal ordinances previously adopted by the township and city,
and not specifically repealed herein, shall remain in full force and effect and
shall not be repealed by the failure to re-adopt that ordinance herein.
§ 130.02   CRIMINAL PENALTIES.
   (A)   Whenever any act is prohibited or is made or declared to be unlawful,
or the failure to do an act is declared to be unlawful, where the violation
substantially corresponds to a violation of state law that is a misdemeanor for
which the maximum period of imprisonment is 93 days, the violation shall be
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment in the Genesee
County Jail for a term not exceeding 93 days, or both. Where there is no
violation of state law that substantially corresponds to the city criminal
ordinance provision, the violation of such provision shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a
term not exceeding 90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Wherever in the code any act which is prohibited or required and that
act or the failure to act is designated as a municipal civil infraction, it
shall be punishable as provided in
Chapter 131.
   (C)   Any person who shall attempt to commit an offense prohibited by the
terms of this title, not specifically designated as a municipal civil
infraction, and in the attempt shall do any act towards the commission of the
offense, but shall fail in the perpetration, or shall be intercepted or
prevented in the execution of the same, shall upon conviction be punished by
imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a term not exceeding 45 days, or by
a fine not exceeding $250, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
   (D)   No person shall combine, conspire or agree with another or other
persons to commit any act outlawed by this title, or to commit any act which is
innocent in itself, but which becomes unlawful when done by the concerted
action of the conspirators.
§ 130.03  COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   Henceforth the sentencing Judge or Magistrate shall have the authority
to impose court costs upon the conviction or the finding or responsibility for
any misdemeanor conviction or civil infraction violation.
   (B)   Costs imposed by a sentencing Judge or Magistrate shall reflect the
amount of actual costs incurred in connection with a defendant’s or a
respondent’s case.
CHAPTER 131:
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Commencement of civil infraction action
   
131.03   Citations; issuance and service
   
131.04   Citations; contents
   
131.05   Penalties
§ 131.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  Act No. 12 of the Public Acts of 1994, as amended.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL.  A City of Burton police officer, city Building
Inspector, Fire Chief or his or her designee, Deputy Fire Chief, Zoning
Administrator, Code Enforcement Official, or any other city employee
specifically designated in writing by the Mayor, to issue municipal civil
infraction citations.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.  A civil action in which a defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.  A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized city official directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of 1 or more municipal civil infraction violations
by the person cited.
   TRAILWAY MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  A municipal civil infraction involving
the operation of a vehicle on a recreational trailway at a time, in a place, or
in a manner prohibited by any municipal ordinance.
§ 131.02   COMMENCEMENT OF CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commended upon the issuance of an
authorized city official with respect to an ordinance violation designated a
civil infraction of a municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court.
§ 131.03   CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall, be the 67th
District Court, 4094 Manor Drive, Burton, Michigan.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the supreme court administrator. The original citation shall be
filed with the district court. Copies of that citation shall be retained by the
city and issued to the alleged violator as provided by the Act.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint if
the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date and
signature of the official: “I declare under penalties of perjury that the
statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge, and
belief.”
   (E)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and a
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction,
and, if the City Attorney approves in writing the issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by authorized
city officials as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by subsection (G)(2) below, an authorized city
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the
copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In
addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner
of the land, building, or structure at the owner’s last known address.
§ 131.04   CITATIONS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court, and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do 1 of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance, or, in person, or by
representation; and/or
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal bearing before a judge is requested by the city; or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That, if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance.
      (2)   That, if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a
scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing unless a hearing date is
specified on the citation.
      (3)   That, a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal
hearing is requested by the alleged violator or by the city.
      (4)   That, at an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney.
      (5)   That, at a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldfaced type that the failure
of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or
at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will
result in the entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on the
municipal civil infraction.
§ 131.05   PENALTIES.
   (A)   If a defendant is determined to be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction the judge or district court magistrate making the determination of
responsibility may order the defendant to pay a civil fine not to exceed the
sum of $500, and, if applicable, in addition to the civil fine, the judge or
magistrate may order the payment of damages and expenses incurred as authorized
by § 8733 of the Act regarding the commission of a trailway municipal civil
infraction.
   (B)   If a defendant is ordered to pay a civil fine, the judge or magistrate
shall summarily determine the city’s costs of the action and tax the costs. The
city’s costs shall not necessarily be limited to the costs taxable in ordinary
civil actions and may include all expenses, direct and indirect, to which the
city has been put in connection with the municipal civil infraction, up to the
entry of the judgment. Costs of not less than $9 or more than $500 shall be
ordered.
   (C)   In addition to the imposition of civil fines and costs as set forth in
subsections (A) and (B) above, the district court judge may exercise its
equitable jurisdiction as provided by § 8302 of the Act and issue and enforce
injunctive orders, order the recession or reformation of a contract and/or
issue and enforce any judgment, writ or other necessary to enforce the
ordinance violated, and to issue any such orders necessary to abate nuisances.
   (D)   In the order of judgment finding the defendant responsible for the
violation of a municipal civil infraction, the judge or district court
magistrate may grant a defendant permission to pay the civil fine, costs,
damages and/or expenses imposed within a specified period of time or in
specified installments. In the event no period of time is specified and no
specified installments are set forth in the judgment all of the fines, costs,
damages and expenses are due immediately.
   (E)   (1)   A failure to pay a civil fine, costs, damages and/or expenses
may result in the city’s obtaining a lien against the land, building, or
structure involved in the violation in accordance with § 8731 of the Act, and,
may subsequently be enforced and discharged as provided.
      (2)   A failure to pay a civil fine, costs, damages and/or expenses may
further result in the court’s issuance of an order to show cause requiring the
defendant to show cause why the defendant should not be held in civil contempt;
or, the court's issuance of a bench warrant of arrest for the defendant’s
appearance.
   (F)   A defendant who fails to answer a citation for a municipal civil
infraction is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500,
or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a term not exceeding 90 days,
or, by both, fine and imprisonment.
CHAPTER 132:
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
132.01   Definitions
   
132.02   Minor in possession of alcoholic beverages
   
132.03   Furnishing alcoholic beverages to minors
   
132.04   False identification
   
132.05   Age restrictions for entry into establishments serving alcoholic
beverages
   
132.06   Public consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
132.07   Frequenting
§ 132.01   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE.  As provided under Public Act 140 of 1957, as amended.
§ 132.02   MINOR IN POSSESSION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Any person less than 21 years of age who purchases or attempts to
purchase alcoholic liquor, consumes or attempts to consume alcoholic liquor, or
possesses or attempts to possess alcoholic liquor within the jurisdictional
boundaries of the city shall be responsible for a civil infraction.
   (B)   A police officer who has reasonable cause to believe a person less
than 21 years of age has consumed alcoholic liquor may require the person to
submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis.  A legal presumption shall be
made by the court that the person less than 21 years of age has consumed or
possessed alcoholic liquor if a preliminary chemical breath analysis or other
acceptable blood alcohol test indicates the person’s blood contained 0.02% or
more by weight of alcohol.  A person less than 21 years of age who refuses to
submit to a preliminary chemical breath test analysis as required in this
section is responsible for a civil infraction.
   (C)   (1)   This section does not prohibit a person less than 21 years of
age from possession of alcoholic liquor during regular working hours and in the
course of his or her employment if employed by a person, firm, corporation, or
other business entity licensed by state law for the sale of alcoholic liquor,
and the alcoholic liquor is not possessed for his or her personal consumption.
      (2)   This section does not prohibit the consumption by a person less
than 21 years of age of sacramental wine in connection with religious services
at a church, synagogue, or temple.  Further, this section does not prohibit
possession of alcoholic liquor by a person less than 21 years of age who
possesses same under the direction or a law enforcement officer pursuant to
undercover operations in law enforcement.
   (D)   The Court may order the Secretary of State of this state to suspend
the operator’s or chauffeur’s license of the person convicted of a violation of
this section for a period of not less than 90 days or more than 180 days.  The
Court may order the Secretary of State to issue to the person a restricted
license after the first 30 days of the period of suspension in the manner
described in Public Act 300 of 1949, § 319.  In the case of a person who does
not possess an operator’s or a chauffeur’s license, the Secretary of State
shall deny the application for an operator’s or chauffeur’s license for the
applicable suspension period.
§ 132.03   FURNISHING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS.
   No person shall give or furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person under
21 years of age, except upon authority of and pursuant to a prescription of a
duly licensed physician.  Further, persons in charge of any establishment where
alcoholic beverages are sold or furnished for consumption, either on or away
from the premises, shall have the right at any time to demand of any person
offering to buy or drinking any alcoholic beverage proof that the person has
attained the age of 21 years.
§ 132.04   FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   (A)   No person under the age of 21 years of age shall falsely represent
himself or herself to be 21 years of age or over, for the purpose of purchasing
or attempting to purchase any alcoholic beverage.
   (B)   No person shall present false or altered identification to the
proprietor or agent or employee of a business licensed for the sale of
alcoholic beverages within the city.
§ 132.05   AGE RESTRICTIONS FOR ENTRY INTO ESTABLISHMENTS SERVING ALCOHOLIC
BEVERAGES.
   (A)   (1)   Except as may be provided by law, no person under the age of 18
years of age shall be permitted to enter or remain in any dance hall, saloon,
barroom, or any place where alcoholic beverages are sold, given away, or
furnished, unless that person is accompanied by parent or legal guardian.
      (2)   Further, no proprietor, keeper, or manager of any such place shall
permit any person under the age of 18 years to enter or remain in any such
dance hall, saloon, barroom, or any place where alcoholic beverages are sold,
given away, or furnished, unless that person is accompanied by parent or
guardian.
   (B)   No person under the age of 18 years shall be permitted to enter or
remain in any restaurant, dance hall, or other place where alcoholic beverages
are sold, given away, or furnished, incidental to the serving of food, after
12:00 midnight, unless that person is accompanied by parent or legal guardian.
§ 132.06   PUBLIC CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No alcoholic beverage shall be consumed on any public street, park, or
any other public place, or private place open to the public, including stores,
drive-in restaurants, or other establishments not licensed by the state and
authorized to permit on-premises consumption of alcoholic beverages.
   (B)   No person shall consume any alcoholic beverage in any public dance
hall, toilet, cloak room, or appendage to any such dance hall unless the
premises are duly licensed by the State Liquor Control Commission.  Further, no
person, copartnership, or corporation engaged in the business of operating or
managing any public dance hall shall knowingly allow, permit, or suffer to be
consumed any alcoholic beverage upon the premises unless the premises are duly
licensed.  Further, any owner or proprietor of such an establishment shall be
held criminally liable for knowingly permitting the acts of his or her manager,
servant, agent, or employee in violation of the provisions of this section.
§ 132.07   FREQUENTING.
   No person shall knowingly attend or frequent a house, room, or place where
intoxicating liquors are illegally sold, given, or dispensed or permitted
contrary to state law or local ordinance.
CHAPTER 133:
ANIMALS
Section
   
133.01   Cruelty to animals
   
133.02   Noise
   
133.03   Running at large
   
133.04   Creating unsanitary conditions
   
133.05   Exotic animals
   
133.06   Vicious dogs
§ 133.01   CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when overloaded, overwork,
torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance, cruelly beat, mutilate, or
cruelly kill, or cause or procure to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven when
overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance,
cruelly beaten, mutilated, or cruelly killed, any animal.  Further, no person
having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall
inflict unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or willfully fail to provide the
same with proper food, drink, shelter, or protection from the weather.  The
cropping of dogs’ ears shall be considered to be a mutilation or cruelty to an
animal within the meaning of this section, unless the cropping is performed by
a registered veterinary surgeon, while the dog is under anesthetic.
§ 133.02   NOISE.
   The following noises and disturbances are hereby declared to be a violation
of this section; provided, however, that the specification of the same is not
thereby to be construed to exclude other violations of this section not
specifically enumerated: the keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl, which
emanates frequent or extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet,
comfort, or repose of any persons in the vicinity; such as allowing or
permitting any dog to bark repeatedly in an area where that barking can be
clearly heard from nearby residential property.
§ 133.03   RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring or
having charge of a dog or cat to suffer or permit the dog or cat to run at
large.
   (B)   A dog or cat shall be deemed to be running at large when the dog or
cat shall wander unrestrained on any street, alley, park, or public place or
upon any private property other than that of the person owning, keeping
harboring or having charge of the dog or cat. A dog or cat shall be considered
restrained if the animal is on a leash no longer than 8 feet and that leash is
held by a person of sufficient size to control the dog or cat.
   (C)   It shall be lawful for any police officer of the City of Burton to
seize any dog or cat running at large in the City of Burton in violation of
this section.
§ 133.04   CREATING UNSANITARY CONDITIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring or
having charge of any dog or cat to collect, confine, keep or harbor such,
animal in a structure, pen, coop, yard or otherwise so as to create an
unsanitary, unwholesome, malodorous or other obnoxious or unclean condition.
   (B)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having charge of any dog or
cat shall keep the yard, pen, shelter or building provided and maintained for
the confinement of such dog or cat or that is used for housing, harboring or
keeping such animal, clean by removing from the premises all manure and waste
matter from which odors may arise or which may act as vermin harborage. The
cleaning shall occur at least once each day.
   (C)   (1)   The city may recover all costs for services and supplies
incurred by the city in connection with the abatement of any unsanitary,
unwholesome, malodorous or other obnoxious or unclean condition created by the
keeping or harboring of any number of dogs or cats whether such animals are
kept in a pen, coop, yard, home or otherwise. Such assessable costs shall
include, but shall not be limited to, the actual labor and material costs of
the city (including, without limitation, employee wages, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, costs of equipment, costs of equipment operation,
costs of transportation, equipment, costs of disposal and costs of contracted
labor). The city shall further be entitled to charge attorney fees and court
costs which may be incurred.
      (2)   The City Controller or his or her designee shall in consultation
with other city personnel involved determine the total assessable costs
incurred by the city.
      (3)   The City Treasurer shall mail an itemized invoice to the
responsible party at his, her or its last known address. Such invoice shall be
due and payable within 30 days of the date of mailing and any amounts unpaid
after such date shall bear a late payment fee equal to 1% per month or fraction
thereof that the amount due and any previously imposed late payment fee remains
unpaid. If a responsible party shall appeal assessable costs to the Burton City
Council, such costs, if upheld, in whole or in part, shall be due and payable
30 days from the date of determination of the appeal and any late payment fees
shall apply thereafter.
      (4)   Assessable costs assessed against a responsible party not paid when
due, including late payment fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real
property of the responsible party in the city, from which, upon which or
related to which the hazardous condition occurred. Such lien shall be of the
same character and effect as the lien created by City Charter for city real
property taxes and shall include accrued interest and penalties. The City
Treasurer shall, prior to March 1 of each year, certify to the City Assessor
the fact that such assessable costs are delinquent and unpaid. The City
Assessor shall then enter the delinquent amount on the next general ad valorem
tax roll as a charge against the affected property, and the lien thereon shall
be enforced in the same manner as provided and allowed by law for delinquent
and unpaid real property taxes.
      (5)   In addition to the remedy set forth above, the city shall be
entitled to pursue any other remedy or may institute any appropriate action or
proceeding in a court of competent jurisdiction as permitted by law to collect
assessable costs from a responsible party.
      (6)   The recovery of assessable costs pursuant hereto does not limit the
liability of a responsible party under applicable local, state or federal law.
§ 133.05  EXOTIC ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (D), no person shall keep, harbor or
own any of the following:
      (1)   Any warm-blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous, wild or exotic
animals, dangerous or undomesticated animals which are not of a species
customarily used as an ordinary household pet, but one which would ordinarily
be confined in a zoo, or one which would ordinarily be found in the wilderness
of this or any other country, or one which otherwise causes a reasonable person
to be fearful of bodily harm or property damage (including, but not limited to
nonhuman primates, raccoons, skunks, wolves, any wolf-dog cross as that term is
defined by Act 246 of the Public Acts of 2000, foxes and wild and exotic cats;
but excluding fowl, ferrets and rodents of varieties used for laboratory
purposes).
      (2)   Any animal, whether warm- or cold-blooded, spider or insect, having
poisonous bites.
      (3)   Venomous, cold-blooded reptiles and other cold-blooded animals
that, if in contact with humans, are capable of inflicting fatal injury to the
average human; including, but not limited to constrictor snakes 6 feet or more
in length, and all non-domesticated carnivores such as crocodiles, piranha
fish, sharks and the like.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall release any of the above-referenced animals into
the wild.
      (2)   Any person disposing of such an animal shall upon request provide
the city with documentation as to the method of disposal utilized.
   (C)   Any person owning any of the animals referenced in subsection (A)
above shall have a period of 10 days following the effective date of this
ordinance to remove such animal from the city.
   (D)   Any duly licensed zoological park or aquarium which is accredited by
the American Association of Zoological Parks and Aquariums, wildlife
sanctuaries, nature preserves, circuses and bona fide scientific, medical, or
educational research facilities shall not be subject to the prohibitions
contained in this §
133.05.
   (E)   (1)   Any person found to be in violation of the terms of this
ordinance shall be deemed responsible for a municipal civil infraction and thus
punishable in accordance with §
131.05 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Burton.
      (2)   Any person found to be in possession of a wolf-dog cross as defined
by Act 246 of the Public Acts of 2000 shall also be subject to the penalty,
seizure and civil forfeiture provisions as set forth in Act 246 of the Public
Acts of 2000.
§ 133.06  VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   The following definitions shall apply to the regulations set forth in
this section:
      OWNER.  A person who owns, keeps or harbors a dog.
      PROVOKE.  To perform a willful act or omission that an ordinary and
reasonable person would conclude is likely to precipitate the bite or attack by
an ordinary dog or animal.
      SERIOUS INJURY.  Permanent, serious disfigurement, serious impairment of
health, or serious impairment of a bodily function of a person.
      TORMENT.  An act or omission that causes unjustifiable pain, suffering,
and distress to an animal, or causes mental and emotional anguish in the animal
as evidenced by its altered behavior, for a purpose such as sadistic pleasure,
coercion, or punishment that an ordinary and reasonable person would conclude
is likely to precipitate the bite or attack.
      VICIOUS DOG.  A dog that bites or attacks a person or a dog that bites
and attacks and causes serious injury or death to another dog while the other
dog is on the property or under the control of its owner. The term shall also
include any dog that the owner knows has a tendency, a propensity or
disposition to attack.  The term VICIOUS DOG shall not include any of the
following:
         (a)   A dog that bites or attacks a person who is knowingly
trespassing on the property of the dog’s owner; or
         (b)   A dog that bites or attacks a person who provokes or torments
the dog; or
         (c)   A dog that is responding in a manner that an ordinary and
reasonable person would conclude was designed to protect a person if that
person is engaged in a lawful activity or is the subject of an assault.
   (B)   Any person who shall keep or harbor a vicious dog shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious dog to go
outside its kennel or pen unless such dog is securely leashed with a leash no
longer than 4 feet in length. No person shall permit such a dog to be kept on
chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or pen unless a person is
in physical control of the leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to inanimate
objects such as trees, posts, buildings, etc. In addition, all such dogs on a
leash outside of the animal’s kennel must be muzzled by muzzling device
sufficient to prevent such dog from biting persons or other animals.
      (2)   Confinement. All vicious dogs shall be securely confined indoors or
in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and
muzzled as provided. Such pen, kennel, or structure must have secure sides and
a secure top attached to sides. All structures used to confine such dogs must
be locked with a key or combination lock when such animals are within the
structure. The structure must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the
sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be embedded in ground to a depth
no less than 2 feet. All structures erected to house the dogs must comply with
all zoning and building regulations of the city. All such structures must be
adequately lighted and ventilated and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Confinement indoors. No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
building on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a
house or structure where window screens or screen doors are the only obstacle
preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
      (4)   Signs. All owners or keepers of vicious dogs within the city shall
within 10 days of the effective date of this ordinance display in a prominent
place of their premises a sign easily readable by the public using the words
“BEWARE OF DOG.” In addition, a similar sign is required to be posted on the
kennel or pen of the animal.
   (C)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or keeper of a vicious dog
within the City of Burton to fail to comply with the requirements set forth in
sub-section
133.06(B) above.
      (2)   The owner or keeper of any vicious dog who bites or attacks a
person, or, who bites or attacks another dog shall also be deemed in violation
of the terms of this section of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Burton.
   (D)   (1)   Hereinafter any sworn Burton police officer or code enforcement
officer shall have the authority to seize and remove any vicious dog who the
officer has probable cause to believe has bitten or attacked another dog and
who has caused serious injury or death to that dog.
      (2)   Any vicious dog owned to be kept or harbored in violation of the
regulations set forth in sub-section (B) shall also be subject to immediate
seizure and impoundment by any sworn Burton police officer or code enforcement
officer.
      (3)   Further, hereinafter any sworn Burton police officer shall be
authorized to use such force, including the use of deadly force, if necessary,
to subdue any vicious dog being seized and removed pursuant to these sub-
sections.
   (E)   Any vicious dog removed or seized by any City of Burton officer or
official, or by any Genesee County Animal Control Officer in accordance with
the terms of this section shall be kept and remain at the Genesee County Animal
Control facility until the final resolution of the show cause hearing as
described in sub-section
133.06(F) below. The owner of the dog shall be responsible for the payment of
all costs of the confinement and capture.
   (F)   (1)   Any officer or official who shall seize a vicious dog pursuant
to this ordinance shall file a sworn complaint in the Burton District Court
which shall include the facts to conclude that any of the following exists:
         (a)   A dog, licensed or unlicensed, has destroyed property or
habitually caused damage by trespassing on the property of a person who is not
the owner.
         (b)   A dog, licensed or unlicensed, has attacked or bitten a person.
         (c)   A dog, licensed or unlicensed, has run at large contrary to this
code or any other applicable city ordinance.
      (2)   Upon receipt of such a sworn complaint, the District Court Judge or
Magistrate shall issue a summons to the dog’s owner or keeper to appear and
show cause why the dog should not be destroyed.
      (3)   Subsequent to the show cause hearing the District Court Judge or
Magistrate shall order the dog destroyed at the expense of the owner or keeper
if it is determined that the dog bit or attacked a human being, or that the dog
is a vicious dog as defined by sub-section
133.06(A)(1). The District Court Judge or Magistrate shall also have the
authority to order the dog confined to the premises of the owner upon a
determination that the dog is not likely to escape from those premises.
CHAPTER 134:
ASSAULT
Section
   
134.01   Assault; battery
   
134.02   Domestic assault
   
134.03   Stalking
   
134.04   Ethnic intimidation
   
134.05   Threats made by computer, telephone or other telecommunication device
§ 134.01   ASSAULT; BATTERY.
   (A)   No person shall assault another by the intentional, unlawful offer of
corporal injury under such circumstances as create a well-founded fear of
imminent peril, or, by an attempt to commit battery upon another person.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall assault or batter another by any forceful,
violent or offensive touching of another or something closely connected with
the person of another with or without any resultant injury.
      (2)   No person shall commit batter upon another by causing any object to
be thrown or otherwise set in motion towards another causing such object to
touch another person with or without any resultant injury.
§ 134.02   DOMESTIC ASSAULT.
   No person shall assault and batter his or her spouse or former spouse, an
individual with whom he or she had a child in common, a resident or former
resident of his of her household, or, an individual with whom he or she has had
a dating relationship.
   (A)   The term DATING RELATIONSHIP shall be defined as:
      (1)   Frequent, intimate associations primarily characterized by
affectional involvement or the expectation thereof.
      (2)   This term does not include a casual relationship or an ordinary
fraternization between two individuals in a business or social context.
   (B)   Any person who violates this section of the Burton Criminal Code is
guilty of a misdemeanor or punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days
or a fine of not more than $500, or both.
§ 134.03   STALKING.
   (A)   No person shall stalk another person.
   (B)   STALKING means a willful course of conduct involving repeated or
continuing harassment of another individual that would cause a reasonable
person to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed, or
molested and that actually causes the victim to feel terrorized, frightened,
intimidated, threatened, harassed, or molested
§ 134.04   ETHNIC INTIMIDATION.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, and with specific intent to intimidate or
harass another person because of that person's race, color, religion, gender,
or national origin, or does any of the following:
      (1)   Causes physical contact with another person; or
      (2)   Damages, destroys, or defaces any real or personal property of
another person.
   (B)   No person shall threaten, by word or act, to do an act described in
subsections (A)(1) or (A)(2) of this section, if there is reasonable cause to
believe then an act described in such subsections will occur.
§ 134.05   THREATS MADE BY COMPUTER, TELEPHONE OR OTHER TELECOMMUNICATION
DEVICE.
   No person shall maliciously use a computer or any service provided by a
communications common carrier with intent to terrorize, frighten, intimidate,
threaten, harass, molest, or annoy any other person, or disturb the peace and
quiet of any other person by any of the following:
   (A)   Threatening physical harm or damage to any person or property;
   (B)   Falsely and deliberately reporting that any person has been injured,
has suddenly take ill, has suffered death, or has been the victim of a crime or
of an accident; or
   (C)   Using any vulgar, indecent, obscene, or offensive language or
suggesting any lewd or lascivious act.
CHAPTER 135:
RESERVED
CHAPTER 136:
DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY
Section
   
136.01   Destruction of property
   
136.02   Graffiti; removal
   
136.03   Throwing missiles at devices or equipment
   
136.04   Property damage by discharge of firearms
   
136.05   Damage to or tampering with vehicle
   
136.06   Cutting, breaking, tapping, connecting line, wire or cable
   
136.07   Preparation to burn property
   
136.08   Arson
§ 136.01   DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously mark, deface, mutilate,
injure, or destroy the personal or real property of another.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of $500 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for not
more than 93 days.
§ 136.02   GRAFFITI; REMOVAL.
   (A)   (1)   The existence of graffito and or graffiti on any city-owned
property and on any non-city- owned property within the boundaries of the city
is expressly declared to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   Graffito or graffiti existing on property within the city is
subject to removal in accordance with the procedures of this ordinance or as
may otherwise be provided by law.
      (3)   It is the duty of both the owner of the property to which the
graffito and or graffiti has been applied, and any person who may be in
possession or has the right to possess that property, to at all times keep the
property clear and free of graffito and or graffiti.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall use any paint, spray paint, pigment, or similar
means to injure, deface, or destroy any public or private property including
the making of any drawing, inscription, design, scribbling, model, picture,
pictorial, graph, or other making commonly referred to as graffito or graffiti.
      (2)   Any person applying graffito or graffiti within the boundaries of
the city shall have the duty to remove same forthwith.  Any person applying
graffito or graffiti shall be responsible for the removal or for the payment
therefor.  Failure of any person to so remove graffito or graffiti or pay for
its removal is a violation of this section.  Where graffito or graffiti is
applied by an unemancipated minor, the parent(s) or legal guardian(s) or any
other person legally responsible for the actions of that minor shall also be
responsible for the removal or for the payment therefor pursuant to M.C.L.A. §
600.2913; M.S.A. 27A.2913; and otherwise provided herein and by law.
      (3)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any property marked
or defaced as defined in this section to remove or paint over the markings
after discovery of their existence so as to minimize the addition of further
markings and other blight upon the property.  Any owner removing markings
pursuant to this section may be entitled to restitution in an amount determined
by the Court for the cost of removing these markings.  That restitution is to
be paid by any person found responsible under this section for graffito and or
graffiti.
      (4)   Property owners shall remove the graffiti, weather permitting, not
later than 10 days of receipt of a notice from the city, which notice shall be
in writing, delivered by first class mail addressed to the owners of the
property as shown on the latest tax roll at the address shown on that roll. 
Notification may also be made by personal service.
   (C)   (1)   Upon the failure, neglect, or refusal of any owner so notified
to properly remove or paint over the graffito or graffiti after receipt of the
notice provided above, the Department of Public Works or its authorized
representatives are hereby empowered to enter upon the property for the purpose
of accomplishing abatement of the nuisance by removal or elimination of the
graffito or graffiti by the city.
      (2)   The costs incurred by the city in the abatement of the nuisance,
including a reasonable cost of administration, shall be billed to the owner of
the affected property.
      (3)   In the event that the costs of the abatement of the nuisance are
not paid by the owner within 90 days of the submission of the statement by the
city, the amount so billed shall be added to the annual real property tax bill
for the affected property and collected in the manner provided for the
collection of ad valorem real property taxes.
   (D)   Violation of this section shall be a municipal civil infraction.
§ 136.03   THROWING MISSILES AT DEVICES OR EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall throw any stone, brick, or other missile at any motor
vehicle, train, building, street light, traffic control device, or outdoor
mechanical equipment belonging to another.
§ 136.04   PROPERTY DAMAGE BY DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS.
   No person shall carelessly, recklessly, negligently, or willfully cause or
allow any firearm under his or her control to be discharged so as to destroy or
injure the property of another, real or personal.
§ 136.05   DAMAGE TO OR TAMPERING WITH VEHICLE.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Intentionally and without authority from the owner, start or cause to
be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or maliciously shift or change the
starting device or gears of a standing motor vehicle to a position other than
that in which it was left by the owner or driver of the motor vehicle;
   (B)   Intentionally cut, mark, scratch, or damage the chassis, running gear,
body, sides, top covering windows, or upholstering of any motor vehicle, the
property of another, or intentionally cut, mash, mark, destroy, or damage such
a motor vehicle, or any of the accessories, equipment, appurtenances, or
attachments thereof, or any spare or extra parts thereon being or thereto
attached, without the permission of the owner thereof; or
   (C)   Intentionally release the brake upon any standing motor vehicle, with
intent to injure that machine or cause the same to be removed without the
consent of the owner; provided, that this section shall not apply in case of
moving or starting of motor vehicles by the police under authority of local
ordinance or by members of fire departments in case of emergency in the
vicinity of a fire.
§ 136.06   CUTTING, BREAKING, TAPPING, CONNECTING LINE, WIRE OR CABLE.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, break, tap or make any
connection with, or read, or copy, by the use of telegraph or telephone
instruments, or otherwise, in any unauthorized manner, any message, either
social or business, sporting, commercial or other news reports, from any
telegraph or telephone line, wire or cable so unlawfully cut or tapped in the
City of Burton; or make unauthorized use of the same.
   (B)   No person shall willfully and maliciously prevent, obstruct or delay
by any means or contrivance whatsoever the sending, conveyance or delivery, in
the City of Burton any authorized communication, sporting, commercial or other
news reports, by or through any telegraph or telephone line, cable or wire
under control of any telegraph or telephone company doing business in the City
of Burton.
   (C)   Nor shall any person willfully and maliciously aid, agree with, employ
or conspire with any other person or persons to do any of the acts prohibited
in this section.
§ 136.07   PREPARATION TO BURN PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously, prepare, arrange, place,
devise, or distribute an inflammable, combustible, or explosive material,
liquid, substance, or device in or near property, owned by himself or herself
or another person intending it to be burned.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the County
Jail for not more than 93 days.
§ 136.08   ARSON.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously burn any personal property,
owned by himself or herself or another.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the County
Jail for not more than 93 days.
CHAPTER 137:
DRUGS
Section
   
137.01   Possession or transport of marijuana
   
137.02   Unlawful obtainment or sale of prescription drugs
   
137.03   Drug tools and paraphernalia
§ 137.01   POSSESSION OR TRANSPORT OF MARIJUANA.
   No person shall possess or transport marijuana or knowingly possess,
transport, or have under his or her control in any motor vehicle any marijuana,
unless that person possesses, transports, or controls that marijuana upon
authority of and pursuant to a prescription of a duly licensed physician, or
pursuant to specific authorization by the State of Michigan or the United
States of America.
§ 137.02   UNLAWFUL OBTAINMENT OR SALE OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Obtain or attempt to obtain a prescription drug by giving a false or
fictitious name to a pharmacist or other authorized seller, prescriber, or
dispenser;
   (B)   Falsely represent himself or herself to be a lawful prescriber,
dispenser, or licensee, or acting on behalf of any of them, obtains a
prescription drug;
   (C)   Falsely make, utter, publish, pass, alter, or forge a prescription;
   (D)   Knowingly possess a false, fictitious, forged, or altered
prescription;
   (E)   Knowingly attempt to obtain, obtain, or possess a drug by means of a
prescription for other than a legitimate therapeutic purpose or as a result of
a false, fictitious, forged, or altered prescription;
   (F)   Possess or control for the purpose of resale, or sell, offer to sell,
dispense, or give away a drug, pharmaceutical preparation, or chemical which
has been dispensed on prescription and has left the control of a pharmacist, or
has been damaged or subjected to damage by heat, smoke, fire, water, or other
cause and which is unfit for human or animal use;
   (G)   Prepare or permit the preparation of prescription drugs except as
delegated by a pharmacist; or
   (H)   Sell at auction drugs in bulk or in open packages unless the sale has
been approved in accordance with the laws of the state.
§ 137.03   DRUG TOOLS AND PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, use, attempt to
possess, or attempt to use drug tools or paraphernalia.
   (B)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COCAINE SPOON.  A spoon with a bowl so small that the primary use for
which it is designed is to hold or administer cocaine, and which is so small as
to be unsuited for the typical and customary use of a spoon or baby spoon.
      CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Any drug enumerated in Public Act 368 of 1978, §§
7210 - 7220, as amended (commonly known as the Public Health Code).
      DRUG TOOL.  Includes cocaine spoons, marijuana pipes, hashish pipes,
roach clips, or other implements or devices primarily designed or adopted for
the illegal administration or use of controlled substances.
      MARIJUANA OR HASHISH PIPE.  A pipe with a tool so small that the primary
use for which it is designed is to facilitate the smoking of marijuana or
hashish, rather than the lawful smoking of tobacco products.  The term shall
also specifically include water pipes, with 1 or more mouthpieces, designed to
facilitate the smoking of marijuana or hashish.
      PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, partnership, or association, but
shall not be defined to include any government, governmental subdivision, or
agency.  The term PERSON shall also not include licensed medical technicians,
technologists, hospitals, clinical laboratories, or public officers or
employees engaged in the performance of their official duties.
      ROACH CLIP.  A device used to facilitate the smoking of a marijuana
cigarette by attachment to the butt of such a cigarette.
   (B)   No person shall sell, display for sale, or market drug tools within
the city.
CHAPTER 138:
TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND TECHNOLOGY
Section
   
138.01   Unlawful to prevent, obstruct, delay communication to law enforcement
   
138.02   Unauthorized interruption/reading or copying
   
138.03   Unlawful posting of messages
§ 138.01   UNLAWFUL TO PREVENT, OBSTRUCT, DELAY COMMUNICATION TO LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
   No person shall prevent, obstruct or delay by any means, including but not
limited to, the disablement or destruction of telephonic or cellular equipment,
the sending, conveyance, or delivery of any communication to any law
enforcement official, agency or office by another person.
§ 138.02   UNAUTHORIZED INTERRUPTION/READING OR COPYING.
   (A)   No person shall willfully and maliciously cut, break, disconnect,
interrupt, stop, tap or make any unauthorized connection with electronic medium
of communication of another, including the internet or a computer, computer
program, computer system,  computer network or telephone.
   (B)   No person shall willfully and maliciously read or copy any message
from any telegraph, telephone line, wire, cable, computer, telephone or other
electronic medium of communication which is accessed without authorization.
§ 138.03   UNLAWFUL POSTING OF MESSAGES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMPUTER.  Any connected, directly interoperable or interactive device,
equipment, or facility that uses a computer program or other instructions to
perform specific operations including logical, arithmetic, or memory functions
with or on computer data or a computer program and that can store, retrieve,
alter, or communicate the results of the operation to a person, computer
program,  computer, computer system or computer network.
      COMPUTER NETWORK.  The interconnection of hardware or wireless
communication lines with a computer through remote terminals, or a complex
consisting of 2 or more interconnected computers.
      COMPUTER PROGRAM.  A series of internal or external instructions
communicated in a form acceptable to a computer that directs the functioning of
a computer, computer system, or computer network in a manner designed to
provide or produce products or results from the computer, computer system or
computer network.
      COMPUTER SYSTEM.  A set of related, connected or unconnected, computer
equipment, devices, software, or hardware.
      DEVICE.  Includes, but is not limited to, an electronic, magnetic,
electrochemical, biochemical, hydraulic, optical, or organic object that
performs input, output, or storage functions by the manipulation of electronic,
magnetic or other impulse.
      EMOTIONAL DISTRESS.  Significant mental suffering or distress that may,
but does not necessarily, require medical or other professional treatment or
counseling.
      INTERNET.  That term as defined in § 230 of Title II of the
Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 110 Stat. 1237, 47 U.S.C. § 230.
      POST A MESSAGE.  Transferring, sending, posting, publishing,
disseminating, or otherwise communicating or attempting to transfer, send,
post, publish, disseminate, or otherwise communicate information, whether
truthful or untruthful, about the victim.
      UNCONSENTED CONTACT.  Any contact with another individual that is
initiated or continued without that individual’s consent, or in disregard of
that individual’s expressed desire that the contact be avoided or
discontinued.  UNCONSENTED CONTACT includes any of the following:
         (a)   Following or appearing within sight of the victim;
         (b)   Approaching or confronting the victim in a public place or on
private property;
         (c)   Appearing at the victim’s workplace or residence;
         (d)   Entering onto or remaining on property owned, leased, or
occupied by the victim;
         (e)   Contacting the victim by telephone;
         (f)   Sending mail or electronic communications to the victim through
the use of any medium, including the internet or a computer, computer program,
computer system, or computer network; and/or
         (g)   Placing an object on, or delivering or having delivered an
object to, property owned, leased, or occupied by the victim.
      VICTIM.  The individual who is target of conduct elicited by the posted
message or a member of that individual’s immediate family.
   (B)   A person shall not post a message through the use of any medium of
communication, including  the internet or a computer, computer program,
computer system, or computer network, or other electronic medium of
communication, without the victim’s consent, if all of the following apply:
      (1)   The person knows or has reason to know that posting the message
could cause 2 or more separate non-continuous acts of unconsented contact with
the victim;
      (2)   Posting the message is intended to cause conduct that would make
the victim feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed, or
molested;
      (3)   Conduct arising from posting the message causes the victim to
suffer emotional distress and to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated,
threatened, harassed, or molested.
   (C)   This section does not apply to an internet or computer network service
provider who in good faith and without the knowledge of the specific nature of
the message posted, provides the medium for disseminating information or
communication between persons.
   (D)   The court may order a person convicted of violating this section to
reimburse the State of Michigan or the City of Burton for the expenses
incurred.
   (E)   This section does not prohibit a person from being charged with,
convicted of, or punished for any other violation of law committed by that
person while violating or attempting to violate this section.
   (F)   This section does not prohibit constitutionally protected speech or
activity.
   (G)   A person may be prosecuted in the City of Burton for violating or
attempting to violate this section only if 1 of the following applies.
      (1)   The person posts the message while in the City of Burton;
      (2)   Conducting arising from posting the message occurs in the City of
Burton;
      (3)   The victim is present in the City of Burton at the time of offense
or any element of the offense occurs; and/or
      (4)   The person posting the message knows that the victim resides in the
City of Burton.
CHAPTER 139:
FIREARMS, DANGEROUS WEAPONS AND HUNTING
Section
   
139.01   Careless handling of firearms
   
139.02   Discharge of firearms restricted
   
139.03   Pointing firearm at persons prohibited
   
139.04   Prohibited weapons in public places; exceptions
   
139.05   Firearms in vehicles
   
139.06   Devices releasing gas or the like prohibited; exception
§ 139.01   CARELESS HANDLING OF FIREARMS.
   (A)   No person shall recklessly or heedlessly or willfully or wantonly use,
carry, handle, or discharge any firearm without due caution and circumspection
for the rights, safety, or property of others.
   (B)   In addition to the penalties elsewhere applicable for the violation of
this ordinance and section, the court may suspend the hunting privileges of any
person convicted of violating this section for a period of not to exceed 3
years from the date of conviction.
§ 139.02   DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except an officer in the
discharge of his or her duties, to draw, flourish, or fire any firearms in the
city within 450 feet of any occupied or unoccupied dwelling, house, or
outbuilding, school property, church property, or business establishment.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the drawing, flourishing, or firing of
firearms at a duly licensed fire range or shooting gallery.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      FIREARMS.  Includes weapons from which a dangerous projectile may be
propelled by using explosives, gas, or air as a means of propulsion; it shall
also include any type of bow and arrow, slingshot, or other similar mechanical
device.
§ 139.03   POINTING FIREARM AT PERSONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall intentionally, without malice, point or aim any firearm, as
defined in §
139.02 above, at or toward any other person.
§ 139.04   PROHIBITED WEAPONS IN PUBLIC PLACES; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be in possession of a knife with a
blade more than 3 inches in length, a shuriken, martial arts star, ninja star,
throwing star, nunchaku, or nunchucks in any of the streets, alleys, parks,
boulevards, or other public property or schools in the city, or in any dance
hall, theater, amusement park, liquor establishment, store, or other private
property generally frequented by the public for purposes of education,
recreation, amusement, entertainment, sport, or shopping. The prohibition
contained in this section shall not apply to any person in possession of any
such knife, shuriken, martial arts star, ninja star, throwing star, nunchaku,
or nunchucks when it is used or carried in good faith as a tool of honest work,
trade, business, sport, or recreation, or when the person in possession of the
knife, shuriken, martial arts star, ninja star, throwing star, nunchaku, or
nunchucks is actively engaged therein or actively engaged in going to or
returning from that honest work, trade, business, sport, or recreation.
§ 139.05   FIREARMS IN VEHICLES.
   No person shall transport or have in his or her possession in or upon any
vehicle a firearm unless the same is unloaded in both barrel and magazine and
carried in the luggage compartment of the vehicle, or in a securely locked
compartment of any vehicle not containing a luggage compartment.
§ 139.06   DEVICES RELEASING GAS OR THE LIKE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   A person shall not manufacture, sell, offer for sale, or possess any
type of device, weapon, cartridge, container, or contrivance designed for the
purpose of rendering a person either temporarily or permanently disabled by the
ejection, release, or emission of a gas or other substance.
   (B)   Subsection (A) does not apply to a device which is capable of carrying
not more than 35 grams of any combination of active and inert ingredients and
which ejects, releases, or emits orthochlorobenzalmalononitrile but which does
not eject, release, or emit any other gas or substance which will either
temporarily or permanently disable, incapacitate, injure, or harm a person with
whom the gas or substance comes in contact.
CHAPTER 140:
FIREWORKS
Section
   
140.01   Purpose
   
140.02   Definitions
   
140.03   Manufacture of fireworks prohibited
   
140.04   General provisions
   
140.05   Sale of novelties
   
140.06   Permits for display; display fireworks
§ 140.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this ordinance is to preserve the public health, safety, and
welfare by establishing regulations for the use, possession and sale of
fireworks within the city.
§ 140.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS means fireworks devices that are designed to produce
visible effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR parts 1500 and
1507, and that are listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, or 3.5. CONSUMER
FIREWORKS does not include low-impact fireworks.
   DISPLAY FIREWORKS means large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, as provided in 27
CFR 555.11, 49 CFR 172, and APA standard 87-1, 4.1.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS means any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun, or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion,  deflagration, or detonation.
FIREWORKS consist of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles
pyrotechnic, display fireworks, and special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS means ground and handheld sparkling devices as that
phrase is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.l, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5.
   NOVELTIES means that term as defined under APA standards 87-1, 3.2, 3.2.1,
3.2.2, 3.2.3, 3.2.4, and 3.2.5 and all of the following:
      (1)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips, rolls,
or individual caps containing not more than .25 of a grain of explosive content
per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content per cap.
      (2)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers, and toy
guns in which toy caps as described in subparagraph (1) are used, that are
constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion.
      (3)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding 1/8 inch in
diameter.
      (4)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes
with not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sale and if the manufacturer’s
name and the quantity contained in each box are printed on the box; and toy
smoke devices.
§ 140.03   MANUFACTURE OF FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   The manufacture of fireworks within the city is prohibited.
§ 140.04   GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A person shall not offer for sale, expose for sale, sell at retail,
keep with intent to sell at retail “Display Fireworks” (formerly known as
“Class B” Fireworks), also known as 1.3G Fireworks.
   (B)   The sale, display, storage, transportation, or distribution of
consumer, display or low-impact fireworks is not regulated under this
ordinance, except as set forth in §
157.006et seq. of the Burton Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Prohibition on use of consumer fireworks.
      (1)   No person shall ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks within
the city, except this prohibition shall not preclude any person from the
ignition, discharge and use of consumer fireworks on the following days after
11:00 a.m.:
         (a)   December 31 until 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
         (b)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Memorial Day until
11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
         (c)   June 29 to July 4 until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
         (d)   July 5, if that date is a Friday or Saturday, until 11:45 p.m.
         (e)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Labor Day until
11:45 p.m. on each of those days.
      (2)   Pursuant to Michigan Public Act 635 of 2018, each violation of this
ordinance shall result in a civil fine of $1,000; $500.00 of the fine collected
under this section shall be remitted to the City of Burton Police Department
for enforcing the ordinance.
   (D)   Low-impact fireworks shall be ignited, discharged, or used so as to
not cause injury or damage to any person or property but shall not be ignited,
discharged, or used inside any building or structure at any time without a
license or permit issued by the Fire Marshal or Fire Chief. Novelty fireworks
may be ignited, discharged, or used without restriction, but only in a manner
so as to not cause injury or damage to any person or property.
(Ord. 2019-9-140.04(C), passed 8-8-2019)
§ 140.05   SALE OF NOVELTIES.
   This ordinance does not apply to the sale of novelty fireworks.
§ 140.06   PERMITS FOR DISPLAYS; DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Applications for fireworks permits for display shall be made in
writing on forms provided by the City of Burton Clerk’s Office.
   (B)   The City Council may, in its discretion, issue a fireworks permit for
public display of fireworks by a public body, or by a fair association or
amusement park, or other approved groups or organizations and approved
individuals over the age of 18 years.
   (C)   Permits approved by the Council shall be on forms provided by the
Director of the Department of State Police and shall be non-transferable.
   (D)   Before a permit for use of fireworks is issued, the person making
application therefor shall furnish proof of financial responsibility by a bond
or insurance on an amount deemed necessary by the City Council to satisfy
claims for damages to property or personal injuries arising out of an act or
omission on the part of the person, firm or corporation, or an agent or
employee thereof, in the amount, character, and form the local authority
determines necessary for the protection of the public.
   (E)   A permit shall not be issued under this act to a nonresident person,
firm, or corporation for conduct of a fireworks display in this state until the
person, firm, or corporation has appointed in writing a resident member of the
bar of this state or a resident agent to be his or her legal representative
upon whom all process in an action or proceeding against him may be served.
   (F)   The Council shall rule on the competency and qualifications of
operators of fireworks displays, as the operator has furnished in his or her
application form, and on the time, place, and safety aspects of the displays
before granting permits.
CHAPTER 141:
LARCENY
Section
   
141.01   Larceny
   
141.02   Retail fraud
   
141.03   False coin, price tags, weights and measures and the like
   
141.04   Theft from coin device or depository
   
141.05   Entry without permission
   
141.06   Receiving stolen goods
   
141.07   Embezzlement
   
141.08   Disposal of property under mortgage or lease
   
141.09   Drawing bad checks
   
141.10   Theft by false tokens or false pretense
   
141.11   Leaving hotel or restaurant without payment
   
141.12   Theft from self-service
   
141.13   Possession of burglary tools
   
141.14   Break and enter automobile
   
141.15   Fraudulent use of a financial transaction device
   
141.16   Fraudulent access to computer
   
141.17   Identity theft
§ 141.01   LARCENY.
   No person shall commit the offense of larceny by stealing the personal
property, including, but not limited to, money, goods or chattels, bank notes
or bills, bonds, promissory notes, due bills, drafts, books of account, deeds
or other writing containing a conveyance of land, or process, or public records
belonging to another.
§ 141.02   RETAIL FRAUD.
   (A)   No person shall, in a store or in its immediate vicinity:
      (1)   While the store is open to the public, steal property from the
store that was offered for sale;
      (2)   While the store is open to the public, alter, transfer, remove and
replace, conceal, or otherwise misrepresent the price at which property is
offered for sale, with the intent not to pay for the property or to pay less
than the price at which the property is offered for sale; or
      (3)   With intent to defraud, obtain or attempt to obtain money or
property from the store as a refund or exchange for property that was not paid
for and belongs to the store.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the County
Jail for not more than 93 days.
§ 141.03   FALSE COIN, PRICE TAGS, WEIGHTS AND MEASURES, AND THE LIKE.
   No person who, with intent to defraud or cheat, shall designedly, by color
of any false token, by any false or bogus check, by spurious coin, or by
switching price tags, or by means of any false weights or measures, obtain from
any person any money or other valuable thing.
§ 141.04   THEFT FROM COIN DEVICE OR DEPOSITORY.
   No person shall break or enter into any coin-operated telephone or other
coin device or depository box or other receptacle established and maintained
for the convenience of the public wherein is contained money or other things of
value, for the purpose of stealing or unlawfully removing the money or valuable
property therein.
§ 141.05   ENTRY WITHOUT PERMISSION.
   No person shall break and enter, or shall enter without breaking, any
dwelling, house, tent, hotel, office, store, shop, warehouse, barn, factory, or
other building, boat, ship, railroad car, apartment, cottage, clubhouse, lodge,
garage, or the outbuildings belonging thereto, or any other structure, whether
occupied or unoccupied, without first obtaining permission to enter from the
owner or occupant, agent, or person having lawful control thereof.
§ 141.06   RECEIVING STOLEN GOODS.
   (A)   No person shall buy, receive or aid in the concealment of any stolen,
embezzled, or converted money, goods, or property, knowing the same to have
been stolen, embezzled, or converted.
   (B)   Any person being a dealer in or collector of any merchandise or
personal property, or the agent, employee, or representative of a dealer or
collector, who fails to make reasonable inquiry that the person selling or
delivering any stolen, embezzled, or converted property to him or her has a
legal right to do so, or who buys or receives any such property which has a
registration, serial, or other identifying number altered or obliterated on any
external surface thereof, shall be presumed to have bought or received the
property knowing it to have been stolen, embezzled, or converted.  This
presumption may, however, be rebutted by proof.
   (C)   In any prosecution of the offense of buying, receiving, or aiding in
the concealment of stolen, embezzled, or converted money, or other property, it
shall not be necessary to aver, nor on the trial thereof to prove, that the
person who stole, embezzled, or converted the property has been convicted.
§ 141.07   EMBEZZLEMENT.
   No person who as the agent, servant, or employee of another, or as the
trustee, bailee, or custodian of the property of another, or of any
partnership, voluntary association, public or private corporation, or of this
state, or of any county, city, village, township, or school district within
this state, shall fraudulently dispose of or convert to his or her own use, or
take or secrete with intent to convert to his or her own use without the
consent of his or her principal, any money or other personal property of his or
her principal which shall have come to his or her possession or shall be under
his or her charge or control by virtue of his or her being the agent, servant,
employee, trustee, bailee, or custodian, as aforementioned.  In any prosecution
under this section, the failure, neglect, or refusal of the agent, servant,
employee, trustee, bailee, or custodian to pay, deliver, or refund to his or
her principal the money or property entrusted to his or her care upon demand
shall be prima facie proof of intent to embezzle.
§ 141.08   DISPOSAL OF PROPERTY UNDER MORTGAGE OR LEASE.
   No person shall embezzle, fraudulently remove, conceal, or dispose of any
personal property held by him or her subject to any chattel mortgage or written
instrument intended to operate as a chattel mortgage, or any lease or written
instrument intended to operate as a lease, or any contract to purchase not yet
fulfilled with intent to injure or defraud the mortgagee, lessor, or vendor
under the contract or any assignee thereof.
§ 141.09   DRAWING BAD CHECKS.
   No person who, with intent to defraud, shall make or draw or utter or
deliver any check, draft, or order for the payment of money, to apply on
account or otherwise, upon any bank or other depository, knowing at the time of
making, drawing, uttering, or delivery, that the maker, or drawer, has not
sufficient funds in or credit with the bank or other depository, for the
payment of that check, draft, or order, in full, upon its presentation, or any
person who, with the intent to defraud, shall make, draw, utter, or deliver any
check, draft, or order for the payment of money to apply on account or
otherwise, upon any bank or other depository and who shall not have sufficient
funds for the payment for same when presentation for payment is made to the
drawee, except where the lack of funds is due to garnishment, attachment, levy,
or other lawful cause, and that fact was not known to the person who made,
drew, uttered, or delivered the instrument at the time of so doing.
§ 141.10   THEFT BY FALSE TOKEN OR FALSE PRETENSE.
   No person who, with intent to defraud or cheat, shall designedly, by color
of any false token or writing or by any false or bogus check or other written,
printed, or engraved instrument, by spurious coin or metal in the similitude of
coin, or by any other false pretense, cause any person to grant, convey,
assign, demise, lease, or mortgage any land or interest in land, or obtain the
signature of any person to any written instrument, the making whereof would be
punishable as forgery, or obtain from any person any money or personal property
or the use of any instrument, facility, or article, or other valuable thing or
service, or by means of any false weights or measures obtain a larger amount or
quantity of property than was bargained for, or by means of any false weights
or measures sell or dispose of a less amount or quantity of property than was
bargained for.
§ 141.11   LEAVING HOTEL OR RESTAURANT WITHOUT PAYMENT.
   No person who shall put up at any hotel, motel, inn, restaurant, or café as
a guest and shall procure any food, entertainment, or accommodation without
paying therefor, except when credit is given therefor by express agreement,
with intent to defraud the keeper thereof out of the pay for the same, or, who,
with intent to defraud the keeper out of the pay therefor, shall obtain credit
at any hotel, motel, inn, restaurant, or café for food, entertainment, or
accommodation, by means of any false show of baggage or effects brought
thereto.  No conviction shall be had under the provisions of this section
unless complaint is made within 60 days of the time of the violation hereof.
§ 141.12   THEFT FROM SELF-SERVICE.
   (A)   No person shall convert to himself or herself any property, commodity,
thing of value, or service through a self-service system of acquiring property
without paying for that property or making prior arrangement for payment
therefor with the owner, attendant, or supplier of that property, commodity,
thing of value, or service.
   (B)   It shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of this section for
any person to leave the building or premises where property was obtained
without first making full payment therefor with the owner, attendant, or
supplier.  Further, probable cause shall exist to effect an arrest of, or seek
a warrant against, the registered owner of any vehicle used to leave a premises
where property was obtained in violation of this section.
§ 141.13   POSSESSION OF BURGLARY TOOLS.
   No person shall knowingly have in his possession or control any
nitroglycerine, or other explosive, thermite, engine, marcine, tool or
implement, device, chemical or substance, adapted and designed for cutting or
burning through, forcing or breaking open any building room, vault, safe, motor
vehicle, motor vehicle truck or glove compartment, or other depository, or for
starting the engine of a motor vehicle or driving away a motor vehicle without
the regular key, in order to steal any money or other property, knowing the
same to be adapted and designed for one or more of the purposes aforesaid, with
intent to use or employ the same for one or more of the purposes aforesaid.
§ 141.14   BREAK AND ENTER AUTOMOBILE.
   (A)   No person shall willfully break and enter, or shall enter without
breaking any motor vehicle, house trailer, trailer, or semi trailer to steal or
unlawfully remove or take any wheel, tire, air bag, radio, stereo, clock,
telephone, compute, other electronic device or any other property from it.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 93 days.
§ 141.15   FRAUDULENT USE OF FINANCIAL TRANSACTION DEVICE.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly, with the intent to defraud, use a financial
transaction devise to withdraw or transfer funds from a deposit account at any
financial institution in violation of the contractual limitations imposed on
the amount or frequency of withdrawals or transfers not in an amount exceeding
the funds then on deposit in the account, the amount of funds withdrawn or
transferred.
   (B)   A person violating this Section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 93 days.
§ 141.16   FRAUDULENT ACCESS TO COMPUTER.
   (A)   No person shall intentionally access or cause access to be made to a
computer program, computer, computer system, or computer network, to devise or
execute a scheme or artifice with the intent to defraud or to obtain money,
property, or a service by a false or fraudulent pretense, representation, or
promise.
   (B)   A person violating this section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the county
jail for not more than 93 days.
§ 141.17  IDENTITY THEFT.
   (A)   No person shall use or attempt to use the personal identifying
information of another person without that person’s consent to obtain credit,
goods, services, money, property, any vital record or confidential telephone
record, medical record or information, or employment.
   (B)   No person shall use or attempt to use the personal identifying
information of another person to commit an unlawful act.
   (C)   No person shall obtain or possess or attempt to obtain or possess
personal identifying information of another person with the intent to use that
information to commit identity theft or another crime.
   (D)   No person shall sell or transfer, or attempt to sell or transfer,
personal identifying information of another person if the person knows or has
reason to know that the specific intended recipient will use, attempt to use,
or further transfer the information to another person for the purpose of
committing identity theft or another crime.
   (E)   Each subsection contained in this §
141.17 shall apply whether the individual who is the victim or the intended
victim of the identity theft is alive or deceased at the time of the violation.
   (F)   Any violation of any of the terms of this ordinance shall be
punishable in accordance with §
130.02 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Burton.
CHAPTER 142:
LITTERING
Section
   
142.01   Littering; accident debris
   
142.02   Throwing or dropping object at vehicle
   
142.03   Vehicle involved in littering; owner or lessee responsibility
   
142.04   Definitions; disposal restrictions; receptacles
   
142.05   Businesses; litter prevention
   
142.06   Litter remediation
§ 142.01   LITTERING; ACCIDENT DEBRIS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for a person knowingly, without the consent of the
public authority having supervision of public property or the owner of private
property, to dump, deposit, place, throw, or leave, or cause or permit the
dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or leaving of litter on public or
private property or water other than property designated and set aside for
those purposes.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY OR WATER.  Includes, but is not limited to,
the right-of- way of a road or highway, parking lots and parking areas, a body
of water or watercourse, or the shore or beach thereof, including the ice above
the water; a park, playground, building, refuge, or conservation or recreation
area; and residential or farm properties or timberlands.
   (C)   It is unlawful for a person who removes a vehicle wrecked or damaged
in an accident on a highway, road, or street to fail to remove all glass and
other injurious substances dropped on the highway, road, or street as a result
of the accident.
§ 142.02   THROWING OR DROPPING OBJECT AT VEHICLE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly cause any litter or any
object to fall or to be thrown into the path of or to hit a vehicle traveling
the highway.
§ 142.03   VEHICLE INVOLVED IN LITTERING; OWNER OR LESSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (D) involving litter from a leased
vehicle or leased vessel, in a proceeding for violation of this act involving
litter from a motor vehicle or vessel, proof that the particular vehicle or
vessel described in the citation, complaint, or warrant was used in the
violation, together with proof that the defendant named in the citation,
complaint, or warrant was the registered owner of the vehicle or vessel at the
time of the violation, constitutes in evidence a presumption that the
registered owner of the vehicle or vessel was the driver of the vehicle or
vessel at the time of the violation.
   (B)   The driver of a vehicle or vessel is presumed to be responsible for
litter which is thrown, dropped, dumped, deposited, placed, or left from the
vehicle or vessel on public or private property or water.
   (C)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      VEHICLE.  Every motor vehicle registered under Public Act 300 of 1949,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923, as amended.
      VESSEL.  A vessel as that term is defined in Act No. 451 of Public Acts
of 1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 324.80104(q), as amended.
   (D)   In a proceeding for violation of this ordinance involving litter from
a leased motor vehicle or leased vessel, proof that the particular vehicle or
vessel described in the citation, complaint, or warrant was used in the
violation, together with proof that the defendant named in the citation,
complaint, or warrant was the lessee of the vehicle or vessel at the time of
the violation, constitutes in evidence a presumption that the lessee of the
vehicle or vessel was the driver of the vehicle or vessel at the time of the
violation.
§ 142.04   DEFINITIONS; DISPOSAL RESTRICTIONS; RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this ordinance, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ANY OTHER OFFENSIVE OR NOXIOUS SUBSTANCES.  Any substance which will
attract any vermin, rodents, insects, or other disease-carrying animal.
      GARBAGE.  Refuse animal or vegetable matter or substance from a kitchen
and refuse fruit, vegetables, and animal matter and substances from stores and
markets and restaurants and food containers, wrappings, or any other article
upon which food particles or other particles which are attractive to vermin,
rodents, flies, or insects are adhering thereto.
   (B)   Disposal restrictions; receptacles.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, company, or corporation within
the city to deposit or place any garbage or other offensive substance as herein
defined in any street, alley, public place, or upon any private property
therein, owned by those persons or not, unless the same shall be contained in
metal vessels or cans of a capacity as will afford storage capacity for all
garbage and offensive substances as shall be produced or accumulated on the
private property or premises used in connection with the receptacles, and any
other owner, lessee, or other occupant of any building, place, or places of
business, shall at all times keep suitable receptacles as aforementioned for
removing and holding all garbage and offensive substances.  These receptacles
as aforementioned for the storage of garbage and offensive substances to be
watertight and so kept with tightly fitting covers.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or cause to be placed
in any street, lane, alley, or public place in the city or upon any private
property including the private property of the owner thereof or the user
thereof, any tin cans or other receptacles from which animal or vegetable
matter may have been removed leaving any portion thereof to breed or attract
flies, vermin, rodents, or other disease-carrying animals, unless those tin
cans or other receptacles are contained in metal cans provided with tightly
fitted covers.
      (3)   No person, firm, or corporation shall dispose of any wrapping paper
or container previously containing food or beverage except in a suitable sealed
contained or except that a dumping ground authorized for use as such by the
city or except by burning so as to reduce the entire container, paper, or
wrapping in inedible ashes which are not insect-breeding or vermin-attracting.
§ 142.05   BUSINESSES; LITTER PREVENTION.
   All operators of drive-in restaurants or other retail or wholesale business
establishments shall exercise all reasonable precautions to prohibit the
littering of either the premises of the restaurant or the streets, alleys, and
adjoining lands of the city with wrappers and food containers, and shall at all
times maintain the premises in a neat and sanitary condition, and shall erect
fences, barriers, or otherwise so as to prevent the accumulations of any litter
originating from the drive-in restaurant or other retail or wholesale business
establishment from blowing onto adjoining properties or streets in the city. 
All owners and operators of drive-in restaurants shall clean the premises so as
to prevent the blowing of any papers, or refuse, or garbage onto adjoining
properties or streets within the city after closing hours.
§ 142.06   LITTER REMEDIATION.
   The Court in lieu of, or in addition to, any other sentence that may be
imposed, may direct litter-gathering labor, including, but not limited to the
litter connected with the particular violation, under the supervision of the
Court.
CHAPTER 143:
MINORS
Section
Generally
   
143.01   Contributing to delinquency of a minor
   
143.02   Furnishing obscene materials to a minor
   
143.03   Curfew for minors
   
143.04   Minors in custody; failure of parent to collect
   
143.05   Possession of handgun by minor
   
143.06   Furnishing cigarettes to minor
   
143.07   Smoking or use of cigarettes by minor
   
143.08   Delinquent acts of minors; parental responsibilities
GENERALLY
§ 143.01   CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF A MINOR.
   (A)   No person shall by an act, or by any word, encourage, contribute
toward, cause or tend to cause any minor child under the age of 17 years to
become neglected or a delinquent minor. DELINQUENT MINOR means any of the
following:
      (1)   A minor who comes or tends to come under the jurisdiction of the
family division of the Circuit Court, whether or not such child shall in fact
be adjudicated a ward of the Court.
      (2)   A minor who has violated or attempted to violate any state, county,
or local law or ordinance constituting a criminal misdemeanor.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly and willfully aid, abet, or conspire with a
child under the age of 17 years to violate an order of a juvenile court, any
state, county or local law or ordinance constituting a misdemeanor, or
encourage a minor to violate any state, county, or local law or ordinance
constituting a criminal misdemeanor, or knowingly and willfully conceal or
harbor a juvenile who has taken flight from the custody of the court, their
parents, or legal guardian.
§ 143.02   FURNISHING OBSCENE MATERIALS TO A MINOR.
   No person shall sell, give away, or in any way furnish to a person under the
age of 18 years a book, pamphlet, or other printed paper or other thing,
containing obscene language, or obscene prints, pictures, figures, or
descriptions tending to corrupt the morals of youth, and no person shall in any
manner hire, use, or employ a person under the age of 18 years to sell, give
away, or in any manner distribute this type of books, pamphlets, or printed
papers, and any person having the care, custody or control of a person under
the age of 18 years, who permits him or her to engage in any such employment
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
§ 143.03   CURFEW FOR MINORS; MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 12 years shall loiter, idle, congregate, or
be in or on any public street, highway, alley, park, or public place between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the minor child is accompanied by
a parent or guardian or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to
accompany the child.
   (B)   No minor under the age of 17 years shall loiter, idle, congregate, or
be in or on any public street, highway, alley, park, or public place between
the hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., immediately following, except where the
minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian or some adult over the age of 21
years, delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor child or
where the minor is upon an errand or other legitimate business directed by his
or her parent or guardian.
§ 143.04   MINORS IN CUSTODY; FAILURE OF PARENT TO COLLECT.
   Any parent or legal guardian of a minor child who is notified that his or
her minor child has been taken into custody for any violation of §
143.03, and who refuses to collect that minor child from the authorities or
make provisions therefore within a period of 3 hours after notification, shall
be guilty of a municipal civil infraction.
§ 143.05   POSSESSION OF HANDGUN BY MINOR.
   No person under 16 years of age shall use or possess any handgun designed
and manufactured exclusively for propelling BBs not exceeding 0.177 caliber by
means of spring, gas, or air, outside the curtilage of his or her domicile,
unless he or she is accompanied by a person over 18 years of age.
§ 143.06   FURNISHING CIGARETTES TO MINOR.
   No person shall sell, give, or in any way furnish cigarettes in any form to
a person under 18 years of age, except for the parents or legal guardians of
that person under 18 years of age within a private premises.
§ 143.07   SMOKING OR USE OF CIGARETTES BY MINOR.
   No person under the age of 18 years of age shall smoke or use cigarettes in
any form on a public highway, street, alley, park, or other lands used for
public purposes, or in a public place of business or amusement.
§ 143.08   DELINQUENT ACTS OF MINORS; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this ordinance, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DELINQUENT ACTS.  Includes acts which violate the laws of the U.S., or
the laws or regulations of this state, or the ordinances of the city, or those
acts which would cause or tend to cause a juvenile to come under the
jurisdiction of the juvenile division of the Probate Court as defined in
M.C.L.A. § 712A.2, but does not include traffic violations classified as civil
infractions.
      ILLEGAL DRUGS.  Any controlled substance, as defined by the State Public
Health Code, obtained without a legal prescription.
      JUVENILE DELINQUENT.  Juveniles who engage in any delinquent act, whose
behavior interferes with the rights of others, or whose behavior menaces the
health or welfare of the community.
      MINOR.  Any person under the age of 17 years residing with a parent or
guardian.
      PARENT.  Mother, father, legal guardian, or other person having the care
or custody of a minor, or any person acting in the parent’s stead who has the
care, custody, or control of the minor.
   (B)   Parental duties; reasonable control.
      (1)   It is the duty of the parent of any minor to exercise reasonable
control to prevent the minor from committing any delinquent act.
      (2)   Included (without limitation) in this duty of reasonable parental
control to prevent the minor from committing any delinquent act are the
following parental duties, which each parent, independently, to take all
reasonable steps:
         (a)   To keep illegal drugs or illegal firearms out of the home;
         (b)   To keep legal firearms locked in places that are inaccessible to
those minors who are not of suitable age, discretion, or maturity to handle
firearms;
         (c)   To know curfew ordinances of the city, and to require the minor
to observe the curfew ordinance;
         (d)   To require the minor to attend regular school sessions and to
forbid the minor to be absent from class without parental or school permission;
         (e)   To arrange proper supervision for those minors who are not of
suitable age, discretion, or maturity to remain unsupervised when the parent
must be absent;
         (f)   To take reasonably necessary precautions to prevent the minor
from maliciously or willfully destroying real, personal, or mixed property
which belongs to the city, or is located in the city;
         (g)   To take reasonable precautions to prevent the minor from keeping
stolen property or illegally possessing firearms or illegal drugs; and
         (h)   To seek help from appropriate governmental authorities or
private agencies in handling or controlling the minor when necessary.
   (C)   Notification of parents; record.
      (1)   Whenever a minor is arrested or detained for the commission of any
delinquent act within the city, the City Police Department shall take
reasonable steps to contact the parent(s) of that minor, advising the parent of
the arrest or detention, the reason therefor, and the parent’s responsibility
under this ordinance.
      (2)   A record of that notification shall be kept by the City Police
Department.
   (D)   Violation by parent; liability.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any parent of a minor to fail to exercise
reasonable parental control over that minor.
      (2)   Any parent who has violated this ordinance shall be civilly
responsible for all of the damages and costs caused by the commission of any
delinquent act by a minor for whom the parent has the care, custody, or
control, or caused by any other violation of this ordinance by the parent(s)
within the city.
CHAPTER 144:
MORALS
Section
   
144.01   Indecent exposure; lewd acts; solicitation
   
144.02   Public urination or defecation
   
144.03   Sexual conduct in a vehicle
   
144.04   Prostitution
   
144.05   Public display of sexually explicit material
   
144.06   Gaming or gambling house
   
144.07   Public nudity
   
144.08   Disorderly person
§ 144.01   INDECENT EXPOSURE; LEWD ACTS; SOLICITATION.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly make any open or indecent exposure of his or
her person or of the person of another.
   (B)   No person shall accost, solicit, or invite another in any public
place, or in or from any building or vehicle, by word, gesture, or any other
means, to commit prostitution or to do any other lewd or immoral act.
   (C)   No person shall engage or offer to engage, the services of another
person, not his or her spouse, for the purpose of prostitution, lewdness, or
assignation, by the payment of money or other form of consideration.
§ 144.02   PUBLIC URINATION OR DEFECATION.
   No person shall knowingly and intentionally urinate or defecate in any
public or private place other than at an appropriate facility or urinal or
toilet provided for that purpose.
§ 144.03   SEXUAL CONDUCT IN A VEHICLE.
   (A)   No person shall perform any act of sexual conduct as defined in
subsection (B) in a vehicle when the vehicle is in motion, parked, stopped or
standing:
      (1)   In a public place;
      (2)   In an area open to the public; or
      (3)   On private property when the interior of the vehicle is on view
from a public area or an area open to the public. ON VIEW is defined for
purposes of this section as capable of being seen if the interior of the
vehicle is lighted naturally or artificially, or if unlighted, capable of being
seen if it becomes lighted naturally or artificially, whether the light
originate from the interior or exterior of the vehicle. ON VIEW does not
require that the interior of the vehicle actually be lighted or actually be
seen.
   (B)   For purposes of subsection (A), SEXUAL CONDUCT shall include:
      (1)   Vaginal intercourse which has its ordinary meaning and occurs upon
any penetration, however slight. Emission of semen is not required;
      (2)   Alternate intercourse, which means any sexual act involving the sex
organs of one person and the mouth, hands, anus or breasts of another;
      (3)   Sexual contact, which means the intentional touching of any sexual
organ whether uncovered or covered by clothing covering the immediate areas of
the person's intimate parts, if the intentional touching can reasonably be
construed as being for the purpose of sexual arousal or gratification.
§ 144.04   PROSTITUTION.
   (A)   No person shall commit, engage in, offer or agree to commit a lewd act
or an act of prostitution, sexual intercourse, moral perversion, or do any act
involving the touching or contacting of the genitals of another.
   (B)   No person shall secure, offer, accost, solicit or invite another in
from any building or vehicle, by word gesture, or any other means, for the
purpose of committing a lewd act or an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (C)   No person shall be in or near any place frequented by the public, or
any public place, for the purpose of inducing, enticing, or procuring another
to commit a lewd act or an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (D)   No person shall loiter in a place where prostitution is practiced or
allowed.
   (E)   No person shall, make a meretricious display in or near any public
place, any frequented by the public, or any place open to the public view.
   (F)   No person shall knowingly transport any person to any place, building,
trailer or vehicle for the purpose of committing any lewd act or act of
prostitution or moral perversion.
   (G)   No person shall knowingly receive or offer to receive or agree to
receive any person into any place, building, trailer or vehicle for the purpose
of committing any lewd act or act of prostitution or moral perversion, or to
knowingly permit any person to remain in any place, building, trailer, or
vehicle for any such purpose.
   (H)   No person shall direct or offer to direct any person to any place,
building, trailer or vehicle for the purpose of committing any lewd act or act
of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (I)   No person shall keep, maintain or operate, aid or abet in keeping,
maintaining or operating a building, trailer or vehicle or place resorted to
for the purpose of prostitution.
   (J)   No person shall aid, abet, allow, permit, or participate in the
commission of any of the acts prohibited in this subsection (A) through (H)
above.
   (K)   This section does not apply to a police officer while in the
performance of his or her duties.
§ 144.05   PUBLIC DISPLAY OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person acting in a managerial capacity of
being the owner, proprietor, operator, or manager of a business to knowingly
place offensive sexually explicit material upon public display, for the
purposes of sale, entertainment, or distribution, or fail to take prompt action
to remove such a display from property in his or her possession or under his or
her control after learning of its existence.  The prohibition of this section
shall not apply to broadcasts or telecasts through facilities licensed under
the Federal Communications Act.
   (B)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OFFENSIVE.  The work in which the representations appear, taken as a
whole, appeals to the prurient interest and patently depicts or portrays the
prohibited sexually explicit material in a manner which, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value.
      PUBLIC DISPLAY.  In the context of films or motion pictures, the
projection of those films or motion pictures on any viewing screen outside a
completely enclosed building or theater.  In the context of photographs,
drawings, sculptures, or other visual representation, PUBLIC DISPLAY shall mean
the placing of materials within the definition of offensive or sexually
explicit material on or in a newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display
case, or similar place so that the material is easily visible from a public
thoroughfare, from the property of others, from a common walk or mall, or from
that portion of the interior of place of business generally open to minors at
the time of the placing.
      SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL.  Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture,
motion picture, film, or other visual representation or image depicting
uncovered, or less than opaquely covered,  post-pubertal human genitals or
pubic areas in a lewd fashion, or depicting human sexual intercourse, human or
animal masturbation, bestiality, oral intercourse, anal intercourse, human-
animal intercourse, excretory functions, homosexual acts, direct physical
stimulation or touching of unclothed genitals or pubic areas of the human male
or female, flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is nude or clad in
revealing or bizarre costumes in the context of a sexual relationship or sexual
stimulation.  The material shall be judged without regard to any covering which
may be affixed or printed over the material in order to obscure genital areas
in a depiction otherwise falling within the definition of these sections. 
Works of art or of anthropological significance are not included within this
definition.
§ 144.06   GAMING OR GAMBLING HOUSE.
   No person shall, directly or indirectly, keep or occupy or assist in keeping
or occupying any common gambling house or any building or place where gaming is
permitted or suffered, or shall suffer or permit on any premises owned,
occupied, or controlled by him or her any apparatus used for gaming or gambling
or shall use such an apparatus for gaming or gambling.
§ 144.07   PUBLIC NUDITY.
   (A)   Except as provided in subsection (B) of this section, no person shall
appear in a state of nudity in any public place, including any building
establishment open to the public in the city.
   (B)   It shall not be unlawful for any person to appear in a state of nudity
in a public place under the following circumstances:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding a baby whether or not the nipple or areola
is exposed during or incidental to feeding;
      (2)   Material as defined in Public Act 343 of 1984, § 2, being M.C.L.A.
§ 752.362;
      (3)   Sexually explicit visual material defined in Public Act 33 of 1978,
§ 3, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673;
      (4)   Public showers located at churches, schools, or athletic clubs. 
This exception shall not apply to any circumstance where any person shall pay
an admission charge or a fee to watch another person shower in a state of
nudity;
      (5)   Modeling at an accredited university, college, or junior college or
at an accredited art school while in a state of nudity or partial nudity;
      (6)   Public nudity during any physical examination or test performed by
a licensed physician or technician at a hospital, medical center, or
physician’s clinic or office; or
      (7)   Public nudity by emergency services personnel necessitated by
hazardous material decontamination.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC NUDITY.  Knowingly or intentionally displaying in a public place,
or for payment or promise of payment by any person including, but not limited
to, payment or promise of payment of an admission fee, any individual’s
genitals or anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or a female
individual’s breast with less than a fully opaque covering of the nipple and
areola.  A mother’s breast- feeding of her baby does not under any circumstance
constitute nudity irrespective of whether or not the nipple is covered during
or incidental to the feeding.
§ 144.08   DISORDERLY PERSON.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful hereunder for a person to be a disorderly person.
   (B)   A person is a disorderly person if any of the following:
      (1)   A person creates or unlawfully engages in any disturbance, fight or
quarrel in any public place, except in reasonable self-defense when attacked
without reasonable provocation or in reasonable defense of another who was so
attacked;
      (2)   A person disturbs the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous or
vulgar conduct or language;
      (3)   A person disturbs or unreasonably interferes with any service of
worship or any other assembly gathered for lawful purposes;
      (4)   A person, without proper authority, conducts himself or herself in
any public place so as to obstruct the free and uninterrupted passage of the
public.
      (5)   A person wanders about the streets, alleys, or other public ways or
places, or who is found in those places at late or unusual hours in the night
without any visible or lawful business and not giving a satisfactory account of
himself or herself;
      (6)   A person is intoxicated in a public place and is either directly
endangering the safety of another person or persons, or who is acting in a
manner that causes a public disturbance;
      (7)   A person engages in obscene or indecent conduct;
      (8)   A person loiters in or about a police station, police headquarters
building, county jail, hospital, court building, or other public building or
place for the purpose of soliciting employment of legal services or the
services of sureties upon criminal recognizances; or
      (9)   A person loiters, loafs, wanders, stands, or remains idle in a
public place so as to do either of the following:
         (a)   Obstruct a public street, highway, sidewalk, place or building
by hindering, impeding or threatening to hinder or impede the free and
uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or pedestrians therein or thereon.
         (b)   Obstruct or interfere with the free and uninterrupted use of
property or business lawfully conducted by anyone in, upon, facing or fronting
any such public street, highway, sidewalk, place or building as to prevent the
free and uninterrupted ingress or egress thereto or therefrom; and who refuses
or fails forthwith to obey an order by a police officer to cease such conduct
and to move and disperse.
CHAPTER 145:
MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
145.01   Snow emergency; parking restrictions
   
145.02   Parking in fire lane
   
145.03   Use of motor vehicle without authority, but without intent to steal
(joyriding)
§ 145.01   SNOW EMERGENCY; PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No parking shall be allowed or special parking granted during the
existence of an emergency created by an excessive snowfall or storm which
impairs or prevents the full use of any highway, street, or roadway within the
city.
   (B)   The Mayor, Chief of Police, or Director of Public Works may issue an
order declaring such an emergency to exist and thereby prohibit parking on any
highway, street, or roadway within the city during the existence of such an
emergency situation.  The Mayor, Chief of Police, or Director of Public Works
shall cause notice to such an order to be posted in not less than 3 public
places within the city, and the order shall not be effective until notice is
posted in this manner.
   (C)   Signs giving notice of this section shall be posted upon or at the
entrance of all streets and roads entering the city as may be most appropriate
and shall be sufficiently legible as to be seen by an ordinarily observant
person.
   (D)   When any vehicle shall hereafter be parked or left standing on any
highway, street, or roadway during the existence of such an emergency situation
contrary to the provisions of this section, the vehicle may be removed by or
under the direction of any member of the City Police Department or Department
of Public Works to a place or places in the city to be designated by the Chief
of Police or Director of Public Works.  It shall be the duty of any police
officer or public works employees so removing or causing to be removed any such
vehicle to make a report thereof in writing and in duplicate stating the make
of the vehicle and the state license number thereon and to file the same with
the Chief of Police or any person designated by him or her.  The City Police
Department shall notify, by regular mail, the owner of the vehicle at the
address indicated on the records of the Secretary of State for this state.
   (E)   (1)   Any person owning or entitled to the possession of such a
vehicle so removed may thereafter obtain possession of the vehicle by paying to
the appropriate person a sum equal to the cost of towing the vehicle in, in
addition thereto, the total sum of all storage costs for each and every day
that the vehicle is impounded.
      (2)   Any vehicle impounded pursuant to the terms of this section
remaining unclaimed for a period of 60 days shall be deemed an abandoned
vehicle and shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws of the state
providing for the disposition of abandoned vehicles.
§ 145.02   PARKING IN FIRE LANE.
   No person shall block any fire vehicle fire lane with an unattended motor
vehicle upon the lands of any public or private building which shall have
designated emergency fire vehicle fire lane established by the Fire Chief of
the city and posted with signs at least every 200 feet which designate the area
as a fire lane.
§ 145.03   USE OF MOTOR VEHICLE WITHOUT AUTHORITY BUT WITHOUT INTENT TO STEAL.
   (A)   No person shall take or use another person’s motor vehicle, without
authority, without intent to steal the same, nor shall any person be a party to
such unauthorized taking or using of another’s vehicle.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to any person or persons employed by the
owner of the motor vehicle or to anyone else, who, by the nature of his or her
employment, has the charge of or the authority to drive the motor vehicle if
the motor vehicle is driven or used without the owner’s knowledge or consent.
   (C)   The term MOTOR VEHICLE as used in this section shall include all
vehicles impelled on the public highways of this state by mechanical power,
except traction engines, road rollers and such vehicles as run only upon rails
or tracks.
   (D)   Any violation of this ordinance shall be punishable by up to 90 days
in the county jail, a fine of not more than $500, or both.
CHAPTER 146:
NOISE
Section
   
146.01   Unreasonable noise or disturbance; exemptions
§ 146.01   UNREASONABLE NOISE OR DISTURBANCE; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall cause or create or permit to
continue any unreasonable or unnecessarily loud noise or disturbance, injurious
to the health, peace, or quiet of the residents and property owners of the
city.
   (B)   The following noises and disturbances are hereby declared to be a
violation of this section; provided, however, that the specification of the
same is not thereby to be construed to exclude other violations of this section
not specifically enumerated:
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television, or other
electronic or mechanical sound producing device, including any musical
instrument, in such a manner or with such volume as to unreasonable upset or
disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of other persons.  A prima facie case
establishing unreasonableness shall be established upon the submission of proof
that such a device used in the interior of any building emanates such a volume
of sound as to be heard from any public way or from any private property not
owned by the maker of the noise;
      (2)   Yelling, shouting, hooting, or singing on the public streets
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to
unreasonably upset or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any persons in
the vicinity, or which constitutes a breach of the peace;
      (3)   The emission or creation of any excessive noise which unreasonably
interferes with the operation of any school, church, hospital, or court;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal, bird, or fowl, which emanates frequent
or extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or
repose of any persons in the vicinity; such as allowing or permitting any dog
to bark repeatedly in an area where that barking can be clearly heard from
nearby residential property;
      (5)   The operation of any automobile, motorcycle, or other vehicle so
out of repair or so loaded or constructed as to cause loud and unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling, or other unreasonable noise including the noise
resulting from exhaust, which is clearly audible from nearby properties and
unreasonably disturbing to the quiet, comfort, or repose of other persons;
      (6)   The sounding of any horn or other device on any motor vehicle
unless necessary to operate the vehicle safely or as required by the State
Motor Vehicle Code or the Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships, and
villages as adopted by the city;
      (7)   The discharging outside of any enclosed building of the steam
engine, internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or motor boat engine except
through a muffler or other similar device which will effectively prevent loud
or explosive noises.  The modification of any noise abatement device on any
motor vehicle or engine or the failure to maintain same so that the noise
emitted by the vehicle or engine is increased above that emitted by the vehicle
as originally manufactured shall be in violation of this section;
      (8)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration, or repair of any
building or premises in any part of the city, including the streets and
highways, in a manner so as to emanate noise or disturbance unreasonably
annoying to other persons, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and
sundown on weekdays, including Saturdays, except in cases of urgent necessity
in the interest of public health and safety.  In that case, a permit shall be
obtained from the building inspector or ordinance enforcement officer of the
city, which permit shall limit the periods that the activity may continue;
      (9)   The creation of a loud or excessive noise unreasonably disturbing
to other persons in the vicinity in connection with the operation, loading, or
unloading of any vehicle, trailer, railroad car, or other carrier or in
connection with the repairing of any such vehicle in or near residential areas;
      (10)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale,
display, or other commercial purpose which, by the creation of noise, shall be
unreasonably disturbing to other persons in the vicinity;
      (11)   The operation of any loudspeaker or other sound amplifying device
upon or within any vehicle on the streets of the city with the purpose of
advertising, where the vehicle, speaker, sound amplifying equipment emits loud
and raucous noises easily heard from nearby adjoining residential property;
      (12)   The operation of any machinery, equipment, or mechanical device so
as to emit unreasonably loud noise which is disturbing to the quiet, comfort,
or repose of any person;
      (13)   The operation of any race track, proving ground, testing area, or
obstacle course for motor vehicles, motorcycles, boats, racers, automobiles, or
vehicles of any kind or nature in any area of the city where the noise
emanating therefrom would be unreasonably disturbing and upsetting to other
persons in the vicinity.  Under no circumstances shall any race track, proving
ground, testing area, or obstacle course operate after 11:00 p.m. on any
evening; and
      (14)   The use of any loudspeaker, bullhorn, or other device to urge,
incite, or induce any violence or breach of the peace.
   (C)   None of the prohibitions hereinbefore enumerated shall apply to the
following:
      (1)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine, or emergency vehicle
while engaged in necessary emergency activities;
      (2)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets, or highways or other
property by or on behalf of the state, city, or county, between sundown and 7:
00 a.m. and on Sundays when the public welfare, safety, and convenience render
it impossible to perform the work during other hours;
      (3)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, or other instrument or device
used at the premises at which goods are sold in commemoration or celebration of
or in connection with a public holiday, or occasion, not interspersed with
advertising, and without any display or sale of goods or merchandise being
promoted by the use of those devices; or
      (4)   The use of any loudspeaker, musical instrument, or other sound
amplifying device in connection with any athletic, competitive, or recreational
event or parade held on public playgrounds, athletic fields, streets, or public
parks under consent of city authority, or the authority of the school boards of
the city.
CHAPTER 147:
RAILROADS
Section
   
147.01   Railroads; obstruction of roadway traffic restricted
§ 147.01   RAILROADS; OBSTRUCTION OF ROADWAY TRAFFIC RESTRICTED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a railroad company to permit any of its
trains to obstruct any vehicular traffic on public streets or highways for a
longer period than 5 minutes at any 1 time.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a railroad company to permit successive train
movements to obstruct any vehicular traffic on any public street or highway
until all vehicular traffic previously delayed by train movements has been
cleared or a period of 5 minutes has elapsed between train movements.
   (C)   Each offense under this section shall be a separate violation;
provided, that blockings caused by accident or mechanical failure shall not be
offenses hereunder.
CHAPTER 148:
RESISTING ARREST AND OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE
Section
   
148.01   Resisting or obstructing arrest or service of process
   
148.02   Obstruction of or disobedience to firefighter
   
148.03   Refusal to comply with traffic direction
   
148.04   Driver attempting to flee police
   
148.05   Presenting false identification to police
   
148.06   Providing false information to police
§ 148.01   RESISTING OR OBSTRUCTING ARREST OR SERVICE OF PROCESS.
   No person shall knowingly and willfully obstruct, resist, or oppose any
sheriff, code enforcement officer, medical examiner, process server, constable,
or police officer, or person duly authorized, in serving or attempting to serve
or execute any process, rule, or order made or issued by lawful authority, or
who shall resist any such officer in the execution of any ordinance, by law, or
any rule, order, or resolution made, issued, or passed by the City Council or
shall assault, beat, or wound any such officer duly authorized, while serving
or attempting to serve or execute any such process, rule, or order, or for
having served or attempted to serve or execute the same, or who shall so
obstruct, resist, oppose, assault, beat, or wound any of the above named
officers, or any other person or persons authorized by law to maintain and
preserve the peace, in their lawful acts, attempts, and efforts to maintain,
preserve, and keep the peace.
§ 148.02   OBSTRUCTION OF OR DISOBEDIENCE TO FIREFIGHTER.
   No person shall knowingly and willfully hinder, obstruct, or interfere with
any firefighter in the performance of his or her duties, or who shall, while in
the vicinity of any fire, willfully disobey any reasonable order, rule, or
regulation of the officer commanding any fire department at the fire.
§ 148.03   REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC DIRECTION.
   No person shall refuse to comply with any order of police officer when that
officer, for public interest and safety, is guiding, directing, controlling, or
regulating traffic on the highways of this city.
§ 148.04   DRIVER ATTEMPTING TO FLEE POLICE.
   A driver of a motor vehicle, who is given by hand, voice, emergency light,
or siren a visual or audible signal by a police or sheriff department officer,
acting in the lawful performance of his or her duty, directing the driver to
bring his or her motor vehicle to a stop, and who willfully fails to obey that
direction, by increasing his or her speed, extinguishing his or her lights, or
otherwise attempting to flee, or elude the officer, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.  The officer giving the signal shall be in uniform; and the
vehicle driven shall be adequately identified as an official police or
Conservation Department vehicle.
§ 148.05   PRESENTING FALSE IDENTIFICATION TO POLICE.
   No person shall knowingly and willfully interfere with any police officer or
code enforcement officer by supplying false identification to the police
officer or code enforcement officer to avoid detection, apprehension, or
prosecution of any criminal offense.
§ 148.06   PROVIDING FALSE INFORMATION TO POLICE.
   No person shall give any information, knowing it to be false, to any member
of the Police Department of the city when that member of the Police Department
of the city is in the performance of his or her official duties.
CHAPTER 149:  TRESPASS AND UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY
Section
   
149.01   Trespass—agriculture
   
149.02   Breaking and entering
   
149.03   Riot
   
149.04   Unlawful assembly
   
149.05   Unlawful picketing and demonstrating
   
149.06   Inciting
   
149.07   Trespass—school property
   
149.08   Loitering
   
149.09   Loitering—public parks
   
149.10   Trespass
   
149.11   Allowing animals to remain at large
§ 149.01  TRESPASS—AGRICULTURE.
   (A)   No person shall willfully commit any trespass, by cutting down or
destroying any timber or wood, standing or growing on the land of another, or
by carrying away any kind of timber or wood, cut down or lying on such land, or
by digging up or carrying away any stone, ore, gravel, clay, sand, turf or mold
from such land, or any roots, fruit or plant there being, or by cutting down or
carrying away any grass, hay, or any kind of grain standing, growing or being
on such land, or by carrying away from any wharf or landing place, railroad
depot or warehouse, any good whatever in which he or she has no interest or
property, without the license of the owner.
   (B)   No person shall willfully commit any trespass by entering upon the
garden, orchard or other improved land of another, without permission of the
owner thereof, and with intent to cut, take, carry away, destroy or injure the
trees, grain, grass, hay, fruit or vegetables there growing or being.
§ 149.02  BREAKING AND ENTERING.
   No person shall break and enter, or shall enter without breaking, any
dwelling, house, tent, hotel, office, store, shop, warehouse, barn, granary,
factory or other building, boat, ship, railroad car or structure used or kept
for public or private use, or any private apartment therein, or any cottage,
clubhouse, boat house, hunting or fishing lodge, garage or the out-buildings
belonging  thereto, or any other structure, whether occupied or unoccupied,
without first obtaining permission to enter from the owner occupant, agent, or
person having immediate control thereof.
§ 149.03  RIOT.
   It is unlawful and constitutes the crime of riot for 5 or more persons,
acting in concert, to wrongfully engage in violent conduct and thereby
intentionally or recklessly cause or create a serious risk of causing public
terror or alarm.
§ 149.04  UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful and constitutes an unlawful assembly for a person to assemble
or act in concert with 4 or more persons for the purpose of engaging in conduct
constituting the crime of riot, or to be present at an assembly that either has
or develops such a purpose and to remain thereat with intent to advance such
purpose.
§ 149.05  UNLAWFUL PICKETING AND DEMONSTRATING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in lawful picketing or
demonstrating to so picket or demonstrate in such a manner or fashion to cause
vehicular traffic to be impeded or blocked on any public street or private
drive or parking lot.
   (B)   It shall further be unlawful for any persons engaged in lawful
picketing or demonstrating to so picket or demonstrate in such a manner or
fashion as to impede or block pedestrian traffic to any building, public or
private, or along any sidewalk or walkway.
§ 149.06  INCITING.
   No person shall make or incite any disturbance or contention in any tavern,
store or grocery, manufacturing establishment or any other business place or in
any street, lane, alley, highway, public building, grounds or park, or at any
election or other public meeting where citizens are peaceably and lawfully
assembled.
§ 149.07  TRESPASS—SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   No unauthorized person shall remain within any school, or remain on any
lands owned, occupied or used by any school, or immediately adjacent thereto,
without first securing permission of the principal or person in charge of the
school or owner of the premises; nor shall any person on such premises make or
assist in making of any noise or diversion which disturbs or tends to disturb
the peace, quiet or good order of any gathering or function upon such premises;
nor shall any person while on such premises make profane, obscene, rude or
insulting remarks in the hearing of any other person.
§ 149.08  LOITERING.
   No person shall lounge, loiter or hang about the premises of a drive-in
restaurant; nor shall any person on such premises race the motor of any motor
vehicle, recklessly bring to a sudden start or stop any motor vehicle, blow any
horn, or make or cause to be made any other loud or unseemly noise, nuisance or
disturbance where by the quiet and good order of the premises or of the
neighborhood is disturbed; nor shall any person while on such premises make
profane, obscene, rude or insulting remarks in the hearing of any other person.
§ 149.09  LOITERING—PUBLIC PARKS.
   No person shall loiter, idle, congregate or be in any public park within the
confines of the City of Burton between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., 
unless specific written permission is granted by the Director of the Department
of Public Works of the City of Burton.
§ 149.10  TRESPASS.
   No person shall willfully enter upon the lands or premises of another
without lawful authority after having been forbidden to do so by the owner or
occupant, agent or servant of the owner, or occupant. Further, no person upon
the land or premises of another, upon being notified to depart therefrom by the
owner or occupant, the agent or servant of either, shall, without lawful
authority, neglect or refuse to depart therefrom.
§ 149.11  ALLOWING ANIMALS TO REMAIN AT LARGE.
   No owner or keeper of any dog or farm animal; including cattle, horses,
mules, sheep, swine, goats and chickens; shall allow such animal to run at
large upon the highway or other public place or upon any unenclosed land within
the City of Burton.
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
151.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
         
152.   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
         
153.   SIGNS
         
154.   EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
         
155.   FLOOD CONTROL
         
156.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
157.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:
GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Financing Public Improvements; Special Assessment
   
150.01   Application
   
150.02   Definitions; cost of improvements
   
150.03   Petition by owners
   
150.04   Council resolution
   
150.05   Special assessment district; plans and cost estimate
   
150.06   Public hearing; notice
   
150.07   Approval
   
150.08   Special assessment roll; hearing; confirmation
   
150.09   Payment; collection; lien
   
150.10   Additional remedies; judgment
   
150.11   Division of parcel
   
150.12   Insufficient revenue; additional pro rata assessment
   
150.13   Invalid assessment; reassessment procedure
   
150.14   Disposition of revenue
   
150.15   Expense chargeable to single premises
   
150.16   No lands exempt
   
150.17   Existing funds; assessment after completion
   
150.18   Intergovernmental improvements
FINANCING PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
§ 150.01   APPLICATION.
   The making and financing of public improvements by the special assessment
method shall be governed by this ordinance and all proceedings therefor shall
be taken in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
§ 150.02   DEFINITIONS; COST OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Includes the reconstruction in whole or in part of
any structure or work as well as the original construction thereof.
   (B)   The cost of surveys, maps, drawings, plans, and specifications for a
public improvement and all expenses incident to the proceedings for the making
of those improvements, the making and collecting of the special assessments
therefor, the issuance of bonds in anticipation of the special assessments, and
not to exceed 1 year’s interest on bonds to be issued to finance the
improvements, shall be deemed a part of the cost of the improvements.  Whenever
any property is acquired by condemnation or otherwise for the purpose of any
public improvement, all or any part of the cost thereof may be included as a
part of the cost of the improvement.  Any assessment may be made upon the basis
of the estimated cost of the improvement, if the actual cost has not been
definitely determined.
§ 150.03   PETITION BY OWNERS.
   (A)   A petition addressed to the Council may be filed with the City Clerk
requesting the Council to make a public improvement therein described and to
assess the cost thereof, or that part of the cost as the Council shall decide,
upon the property benefitted.  Any petition so filed may be in 1 or more parts
and shall be signed by 50% of the owners of the property to be assessed for the
improvement, and the City Clerk shall not present to the Council any petition
not so signed.  A purchaser on land contract shall be deemed the owner of the
land.
   (B)   Two or more owners of a single parcel shall be counted as 1 owner. 
The petition, in addition to the signatures of the owners, shall contain a
brief description of the property owned by the respective signers thereof, and
the genuineness of the signatures on each petition or part thereof shall be
verified by the affidavit of the circulator.
   (C)   For the purpose of certifications of sufficiency of number of
petitioners, the City Clerk may rely upon the most recent tax assessment roll
as evidence of ownership of a parcel of land unless the tax assessment roll
shall show a bank or mortgage company as the person to whom tax notices are to
be mailed, in which event the Clerk shall make inquiry of the bank or mortgage
company as to ownership of the parcel.
   (D)   Any person or persons having signed the petition on file in the
offices of the City Clerk shall have the right to remove his or her name, until
that time when the petition is formally accepted by the City Council at a
regular or special meeting of the Council, through the adoption of a
resolution, declaring the acceptance of the petition, as filed.
§ 150.04   COUNCIL RESOLUTION.
   Irrespective of whether or not such a petition shall have been filed, the
Council may determine to make any public improvement and to defray the whole or
any part of the cost thereof by special assessments against property especially
benefitted thereby, and shall by resolution adopted by the affirmative vote of
7 members of the Council declare its intention to do so.
§ 150.05   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT; PLANS AND COST ESTIMATE.
   (A)   Upon adoption of a resolution by affirmative vote of 7 members of the
Council as provided in §
150.04 hereof, or following receipt of a valid petition as provided in §
150.03 hereof followed by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Council
electing to initiate proceedings for the establishment of a special assessment
district improvement, the Council shall determine the lands and premises
proposed to be included in the special assessment district, and shall cause to
be prepared and submitted to the City Council:
      (1)   A map or drawing showing the route or location of the proposed
improvement and the proposed special assessment district;
      (2)   Preliminary plans for the proposed improvement; and
      (3)   An estimate of the cost thereof.
   (B)   Upon the submission of the above mentioned map or drawing, preliminary
plans, and cost estimate, the Council shall, if it desires to proceed with the
making of the improvement and the special assessments therefor, so declare by
resolution.  The Council, by this resolution, shall order the aforementioned
map or drawing, preliminary plans, and cost estimate to be filed in the office
of the City Clerk for public examination, shall determine the necessity of the
improvement, shall state the estimated cost thereof, and shall designate the
district or land and premises upon which the special assessments shall be
levied.
§ 150.06   PUBLIC HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   Before finally determining to make the improvement and the special
assessments therefor, the Council shall hold a public hearing at a time and
place to be fixed by the Council, and at that hearing shall hear and consider
any objections which may be submitted by any interested person with respect to
the sufficiency of the petition if the improvement was initiated by petition,
to the making of the improvement, and to the assessing to the designated
special assessment district of all or part of the cost of the improvements. 
The Council shall cause notice of the hearing to be given by the City Clerk not
less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing, by publication thereof at
least once in a newspaper having general circulation in the city, and by
sending by first class U.S. mail, postage thereon fully prepaid, a copy of the
notice addressed to each person in whose name any land in the special
assessment district is assessed on the last preceding tax assessment roll of
the city, at his or her last known address, and also (if that address is
different from the address of the premises in the district) a copy of the
notice addressed to the “occupant” of each such premises which has an address
served by U.S. mail.  This notice shall specify the improvement, describe the
district, state the estimated cost of the improvement, and give notice that the
map or drawing, preliminary plans, and cost estimate of the improvement are on
file with the City Clerk for public examination.
   (B)   At the time of the hearing, or any adjournment thereof, which may be
without further notice, the Council shall hear and consider those objections as
are submitted.  The Council, without further notice, may revise, correct,
amend, or change the map or drawing, preliminary plans, cost estimate, or
district; provided, that no property shall be added to the district until
notice be given as above provided or by personal service upon the owners
thereof and a hearing afforded those owners.
§ 150.07   APPROVAL.
   After the hearing provided for in the preceding section, if the City Council
desires to proceed with the making of the improvement and special assessments
therefor, it shall adopt a resolution approving the map or drawing, order
preparation of final plans and specifications and cost estimate as originally
presented or as revised, corrected, amended, or changed, determining to make
the improvement, designating the lands and premises constituting the special
assessment district therefor, stating what part of the cost of the improvement,
if any, shall be assumed and paid from the general funds of the city, and
directing that the remainder be assessed in accordance with benefits to the
lands and premises constituting the special assessment district, specifying the
number of installments in which the assessments may be paid, and ordering the
City Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll for all or that part of the
cost to be so assessed.
§ 150.08   SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; HEARING; CONFIRMATION.
   (A)   The City Assessor shall thereupon, after the adoption of the
resolution so directing, prepare the special assessment roll in which shall be
entered and described all the lands and premises to be assessed, with the names
of the respective owners thereof, if known, and the amount to be assessed
against each parcel of land or premises, which amount shall be the relative
portion of the whole sum to be levied against all lands and premises in the
special assessment district as the benefit to that parcel of land or premises
bears to the total benefit to all lands and premises in the special assessment
district.
   (B)   (1)   Before confirming any assessment roll, the Council shall appoint
a time and place when it will meet and review the same and hear any objections
thereto, and shall cause notice of the hearing and of the filing of the
assessment roll to be given by the City Clerk no less than 10 days prior to the
date of the hearing, by publication thereof at least once in a newspaper having
general circulation in the city, and by sending by first class U.S. mail,
postage thereon fully prepaid, a copy of the notice addressed to each person in
whose name any land is assessed on the roll, at his or her last known address,
and also (if that address is different from the address of the premises in the
district) a copy of the notice addressed to the “occupant” of each such
premises which has an address served by U.S. mail.
      (2)   The Council shall meet at the appointed time and place, and at that
meeting or any adjourned meeting (which may be without further notice), shall
review the special assessment roll and hear and consider any objections
thereto.
   (C)   After the hearing on the special assessment roll, the Council by
resolution may confirm the same, or may correct it as to any matter appearing
therein and confirm it as so corrected, or may refer it back to the City
Assessor for revision, or may annul it and direct a new roll to be made.  No
original special assessment roll shall be finally confirmed except by the
affirmative vote of 5 members of the Council if prior to the confirmation
written objections to the proposed improvements have been filed by owners of
property which will be required to ear more than 50% of the amount of the
special assessment.  The City Clerk shall endorse the date of confirmation upon
each special assessment roll.  After confirmation, the special assessment roll
and all assessments therein shall be final and conclusive.
§ 150.09   PAYMENT; COLLECTION; LIEN.
   (A)   Special assessments may be made payable in 1 or more installments as
determined by the Council, but the installments may not exceed 10 years in the
case of sidewalk improvements, 15 years in the case of paving improvements, and
20 years in the case of water, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, or other
improvements.  The first installment shall be due at such time after
confirmation as the Council shall provide and the several subsequent
installments shall be due at intervals of 12 months from the due date of the
first installment or from that other date as the Council shall fix.  The amount
of each installment, if more than 1, need not be extended upon the special
assessment roll until after confirmation.  All installments not paid by a date
to be fixed by the Council shall bear interest from that date at a rate to be
determined by the Council.  The accrued interest on all unpaid installments
shall be due and payable annually on the due dates of the respective
installments.  Any 1 or more installments may be paid at any time before due
together with accrued interest on those installments.
   (B)   If any installment is not paid when due, then the same shall be deemed
to be delinquent, and there shall be collected thereon, in addition to interest
as above provided, a penalty at the rate of 0.5% for each month or fraction
thereof that the same remains unpaid prior to its transfer to the city tax
roll.  In case any assessment or any installment thereof shall remain unpaid on
the first Monday of May following the date when the same became delinquent, the
same shall be reported to the City Treasurer as unpaid and to the Council, and
the delinquent assessment, together with all accrued interest, shall be
transferred and reassessed on the next annual city tax roll in a column headed
“special assessments,” with a penalty of 4% upon the total amount added
thereto, and when so transferred and reassessed upon the tax roll shall be
collected in all respects as provided for the collection of city taxes.
   (C)   Special assessments and all interest, charges, and penalties thereon,
from the date of confirmation of the roll and until paid, shall be and remain a
lien upon the property assessed of the same character and effect as the lien
created by the City Charter for city taxes.  No judgment or decree, nor any act
of the Council vacating a special assessment, shall destroy or impair the lien
of the city upon the property assessed, for that amount of the assessment as
may be equitably charged against the same, or as by a regular mode of
proceeding might be lawfully assessed thereon.
   (D)   When any special assessment shall be confirmed, the Council shall
direct the assessments so made in the special assessment roll to be collected. 
The Assessor shall thereupon deliver to the City Treasurer the special
assessment roll to which the Mayor shall attach his or her warrant commanding
the City Treasurer to collect from each of the persons assessed in the roll the
amount of money assessed to and set opposite his or her name therein.  Upon
receiving the special assessment roll and warrant, the City Treasurer shall
proceed to collect the several amounts assessed therein.
§ 150.10   ADDITIONAL REMEDIES; JUDGMENT.
   In addition to any other remedies and without impairing the lien therefor,
any delinquent special assessment together with interest and penalties may be
collected in an action of assumptions in the name of the city against the
person assessed, in any court having jurisdiction.  If in the action it shall
appear that by reason of any irregularities or informalities the assessment has
not been properly made against the defendant or upon the premises sought to be
charged, the court may, nevertheless, on satisfactory proof that expense has
been incurred by the city, which is a proper charge against the defendant or
the premises in question, render judgment for the amount properly chargeable
against the defendant or upon the premises.
§ 150.11   DIVISION OF PARCEL.
   Should any lot or parcel of land be divided after a special assessment
thereon has been confirmed and before the collection thereof, the Council may
require the City Assessor to apportion the uncollected amounts upon the several
parts of the lot or parcel of land.  The report of the apportionment when
confirmed shall be conclusive upon all parties, provided that before this
confirmation, notice of hearing shall be given to all the interested parties by
personal service or by publication and mailing as above provided in case of an
original assessment roll.
§ 150.12   INSUFFICIENT REVENUE; ADDITIONAL PRO RATA ASSESSMENT.
   Additional pro rata assessments may be made when any special assessment roll
proves insufficient to pay for the improvement for which it was levied and the
expenses incidental thereto, or insufficient to pay the principal and interest
on bonds issued in anticipation of that assessment roll; provided, that the
additional pro rata assessment shall not exceed 20% of the assessment as
originally confirmed, unless a meeting of the Council be held to review the
additional assessment, for which meeting notices shall be published and mailed
as provided in the case of review of the original special assessment roll.
§ 150.13   INVALID ASSESSMENT; REASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   Whenever any special assessment roll shall, in the opinion of the Council,
be invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the proceedings, or if
any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge the assessment to be illegal,
the Council shall, whether the improvement shall have been made or not, or
whether any part of the assessment shall have been paid or not, have power to
cause a new assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former
assessment was made.  All proceedings on the reassessment and for the
collection thereof shall be conducted in the same manner as provided for in
original assessment, except as to corrections in the proceedings required to
make the assessment legal.  Whenever any sum or part thereof levied upon any
property in the assessment so set aside has been paid and not refunded, the
payment so made shall be applied upon the reassessment.  If the payments exceed
the amount of the reassessment, refunds shall be made.
§ 150.14   DISPOSITION OF REVENUE.
   Monies raised by special assessments for any public improvement shall be
credited to a special assessment account and shall be used to pay for the costs
of the improvement for which the assessment was levied and of expenses
incidental thereto, to repay any principal and interest on money borrowed
therefor, and to refund excessive assessments.  The excess by which any special
assessment proves larger than the actual cost of the improvement and expenses
incidental thereto may be placed in the general fund of the city if the excess
is 5% or less of the assessment, but should the assessment prove larger than
necessary by more than 5%, the entire excess shall be refunded on a pro rata
basis to the owners of the property assessed.  This refund shall be made by
credit against future unpaid installments in the inverse order in which they
are payable to the extent such installments then exist, and the balance of the
refund shall be in cash.  No refunds may be made which contravene the
provisions of any outstanding evidence of indebtedness secured in whole or in
part by that special assessment.
§ 150.15   EXPENSE CHARGEABLE TO SINGLE PREMISES.
   When any expense shall have been incurred by the city upon or in respect to
any single premises, which expense is chargeable against the premises and the
owner thereof under the provisions of the City Charter or any ordinance of the
city or law of the state, and is not of that class required to be pro rated
among the several lots and parcels of land in a special assessment district, an
account of the labor, material, and service for which the expense was incurred,
with a description of the premises upon or in respect to which the expense was
incurred, and the name of the owner, if known, shall be reported to the City
Treasurer, who shall immediately charge and bill the owner, if known.  In the
event that the City Treasurer finds that the amount is not otherwise
collectable, he or she shall report the same to the Council which may direct
the City Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll covering all charges of
this type reported to it, together with a penalty of 10%.  This roll shall be
filed with the City Clerk, who shall present the same to the Council. 
Thereafter, the same proceedings shall be followed in respect to this special
assessment roll as are provided in §
150.08(A) and subsequent provisions of this ordinance, and all the provisions
of those sections with reference to special assessments generally shall apply
to special assessments under this section, insofar as the same may be
applicable.
§ 150.16   NO LANDS EXEMPT.
   No lands in a special assessment district which are benefitted by the
improvement therein shall be exempt from assessment, but if the same are owned
by a public or other corporation exempt by law from the payment of special
assessments, then the special assessments against those lands, or the
installments thereof, may be paid by the city as the same become due, or may be
paid in advance of their due dates, or may be paid by the exempt unit by
special agreements.
§ 150.17   EXISTING FUNDS; ASSESSMENT AFTER COMPLETION.
   In the event that funds are on hand or a revolving fund exists to defray the
expense of any public improvement prior to the completion thereof, the special
assessment roll therefor may be made within 60 days after the improvement is
completed and shall be based upon the actual cost thereof.
§ 150.18   INTERGOVERNMENTAL IMPROVEMENTS.
   When the city may, by law, participate in intergovernmental improvements,
the cost of which may be defrayed in whole or in part by special assessments,
the procedure therefor shall be as provided by the law permitting the same.  If
a procedure is not so provided, the procedure established by this ordinance and
under authority of the City Charter shall govern.
CHAPTER 151:
BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Adoption of Codes
   
151.01   National Building Code adopted; amendments
   
151.02   International Fire Code adopted; amendments
   
151.03   National Life Safety Code adopted
   
151.04   Permit and inspection fees; fire code
   
151.05   (Reserved for future use)
   
151.06   (Reserved for future use)
   
151.07   (Reserved for future use)
   
151.08   Property Rehabilitation Code adopted; amendments
Building Permits; Construction Regulations
   
151.20   (Reserved for future use)
   
151.21   (Reserved for future use)
   
151.22   (Reserved for future use)
   
151.23   Hazardous building; orders to correct; inspection fee
   
151.24   Land not accessible by public road; building permits restricted
   
151.25   Multiple dwelling inspections
Site Condominium Projects
   
151.35   Definitions
   
151.36   Lot requirements
   
151.37   Site plan approval; requirements
   
151.38   Appeal
   
151.39   Information required for occupancy permit
   
151.40   Amendments to documents and plans
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 151.01   NATIONAL BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City of Burton hereby adopts and shall enforce the Michigan
Residential Code, the Michigan Building Code and the International Property
Maintenance Code.
   (B)   All amendments to the Michigan Residential Code, the Michigan Building
Code and the International Property Maintenance Code shall be deemed to be
adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if such
amendments were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
   (C)   All future editions of the Michigan Residential Code, the Michigan
Building Code and the International Property Maintenance Code shall be deemed
to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if such
editions were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
§ 151.02   INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The International Fire Code, 2003 Edition, is hereby adopted by
reference.
   (B)   All subsequent amendments to the International Fire Code shall be
deemed to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if
the amendments were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
   (C)   All future editions of the International Fire Code shall be deemed to
be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereto as if the
editions were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
§ 151.03   NATIONAL LIFE SAFETY CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) 101 Life Safety Code
promulgated by the National Fire Protection Association, Inc., (February 11,
2000), is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   All subsequent amendments to the 101 Life Safety Code shall be deemed
to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if the
amendments were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
   (C)   All future editions of the 101 Life Safety Code shall be deemed to be
adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part hereto as if the editions
were in effect as of the effective date of this ordinance.
§ 151.04   PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES; FIRE CODE.
   Permit and inspection fees shall be established and may be amended from time
to time by resolution of the City Council.
§ 151.05   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 151.06   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 151.07   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 151.08   PROPERTY REHABILITATION CODE ADOPTED; AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City of Burton hereby adopts and shall enforce the Michigan
Rehabilitation Code for Existing Buildings.
   (B)   All amendments to Michigan Rehabilitation Code for Existing Buildings
shall be deemed to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part
hereof as if such amendments were in effect as of the effective date of this
ordinance.
   (C)   All future editions of the Michigan Rehabilitation Code for Existing
Buildings shall be deemed to be adopted and incorporated by reference and made
a part hereof.
BUILDING PERMITS; CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS
§ 151.20   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 151.21   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 151.22   RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 151.23   HAZARDOUS BUILDING; ORDERS TO CORRECT; INSPECTION FEE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DECLARATION OF NUISANCE OR HAZARD.  A declaration by the City Council
under the provisions of City Charter §
9.6.
      DO NOT OCCUPY ORDER.  The issuance by the Building Inspection Department
of the city of an order instructing the owner or occupant to refrain from
occupying the premises for the reason that occupancy will violate an ordinance
of the city.
      STOP WORK ORDER.  Any order issued by the Building Inspection Department
of the city instructing the owner or occupant of any premises to cease further
construction for the reason that any ordinance of the city is being violated.
   (B)   Whenever the Building Inspection Department of the city shall have
issued a stop work order or a not to be occupied order, or whenever the City
Council shall have, pursuant to City Charter §
9.6 , declared a property to be a nuisance or hazard, and following any of
these orders or determinations the owner or occupant of the premises shall
advise the Building Inspection Department of the city that the defects or
causes for which the orders or determinations shall have been issued have been
corrected and the owner or occupant shall request a reinspection of the
premises for the purpose of removing the order of determination, then,
thereupon, the owner or occupant requesting the reinspection shall pay an
inspection fee as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from time
to time, to the city for the reinspection and 1 additional reinspection, if
required.  The owner or occupant requesting any further reinspection shall pay
an additional inspection fee as set by the City Council for each such
reinspection. These fees may be amended from time to time by resolution of the
City Council.
§ 151.24   LAND NOT ACCESSIBLE BY PUBLIC ROAD; BUILDING PERMITS RESTRICTED.
   (A)   Except for buildings located within developments of new condominium
projects, site condominium projects, cluster subdivisions and P.U.D. (planned
unit development) projects where the developer’s plans for private roads are
specifically approved by the city’s Planning Commission as a part of the
project review or site plan review process, no building permits shall be issued
for construction of any residence or other structure upon any lot or parcel of
land which is not directly and exclusively accessible to and also abutting a
public roadway which has been accepted by the City of Burton and is maintained
by the Road Department of the City of Burton as a public roadway.  Provided,
however, that this shall not prohibit the erection of additions and accessory
buildings to existing dwellings already erected and in use at the time of
adoption of this section.
      (1)   Any residence or structure which gives access to such a public
roadway across land not solely owned by the applicant for the building permit
shall be deemed not to be abutting the public roadway within the meaning of
this section.
      (2)   This section shall not prohibit the issuance of a building permit
and the erection of new structures and new dwellings upon lots which have been
purchased by individuals and upon which monies have been expended by the
purchasers prior to the effective date of this section in anticipation of being
able to erect a dwelling for the personal use and occupancy of the purchaser of
the lot, even though the lot is not serviced by a public road as defined in
this section.
      (3)   Provided, however, that at the time of issuance of the building
permit for any lot not serviced by a public road as defined in this section,
the Building Inspector of the city shall note upon that building permit the
following:
   “This building permit is being issued authorizing the construction of a
dwelling upon lands which are not serviced by public roads.  The owner of such
lot is herewith advised that any roads providing access to these lands appears
to be a private road.
   Private roads are not maintained or serviced by the City of Burton.  Such
private roads will not be graded, graveled nor provided with snow removal by
any public agency.  Fire protection and police protection may not be available
to these lands if the roadway providing access to the lands is impassable.
   State law requires that the owner of these premises, when selling the same,
advise the purchaser thereof by written instrument, that the premises are not
serviced by a public roadway and are not maintained by the City of Burton.”
      (4)   Failure of the Building Inspection Department to give the above
notice upon the building permit shall not impose any liability whatever upon
the city.
   (B)   Any residence or structure which has its only access to such a public
roadway across a privately owned roadway easement which services any land other
than the land of the applicant for the building permit, or services more than 1
residence, shall be deemed not to have direct and exclusive access to a public
roadway as described in subsection(A) of this section, and no building permit
shall be issued for any such residence or structure.
   (C)   The City Council may at any regular or special meeting approve the
issuance of a building permit for construction upon a lot or parcel of land not
directly and exclusively accessible to and also abutting a public roadway upon
such terms and conditions as the Council shall deem necessary for the
preservation of public health, safety, and welfare.
§ 151.25   MULTIPLE DWELLING INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Building Inspector of the City of Burton, or his or her designate,
shall conduct an inspection of all multiple dwellings located within the City
of Burton. The maximum period between inspections of a multiple dwelling shall
be not greater than 3 years.
   (B)   Multiple dwellings which have been inspected by the State of Michigan,
or any agency of the State of Michigan, or, governmental unit shall be exempt
from inspection by the City of Burton for a period of 3 years from the date of
its last such inspection, provided that the results of the inspection are
provided to the City of Burton.
   (C)   (1)   In accordance with § 127 of the Michigan Housing Law (M.C.L.A. §
125.527), in a non-emergency situation the city may obtain a warrant from the
67th Judicial District Court when the owner or occupant of the subject premises
denies voluntary entrance for purposes of the inspection of the premises. The
city’s request for the warrant shall state the address of the building to be
inspected, the nature of the inspection, the reason for the inspection, and
that the warrant is requested pursuant to this section and § 127 of the
Michigan Housing Law, as amended.
      (2)   If the Court finds that the warrant is in proper form and in accord
with § 127 of the Michigan Housing Law and the term of this section, it shall
be issued forthwith.
      (3)   In the event of an emergency no warrant shall be required.
   (D)   The City Council shall establish a fee for the inspections and re-
inspection required and necessitated by the adoption of this section. The fees
shall be established and from time to time amended by resolution of the
Council.
   (E)   The failure of the owner or occupant of the unit to be inspected to
involuntarily allow for the inspection as herein required shall be deemed
responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   (F)   The failure to correct any violation discovered by the inspection of
any unit within 10 days from the date of the issuance of a notice of the
violations shall be deemed a municipal civil infraction.
SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS
§ 151.35   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance or rules or regulations adopted pursuant
to it, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT.  Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 -
559.272, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM DOCUMENTS.  The master deed, recorded pursuant to the
Condominium Act, and any other instrument referred to in the master deed or
bylaws which affects the rights and obligations of a co-owner in the
condominium.
   CONDOMINIUM LOT.  The condominium unit, including the condominium unit and
the contiguous limited common element surrounding the condominium unit, and
shall be the counterpart of “lot” as used in connection with a project
developed under the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT.  The portion of a condominium project assigned and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
   GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS.  A portion of the common elements reserved in the
master deed for the exclusive use of less than all of the co-owners.
   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS.  A portion of the common elements reserved in the
master deed for the exclusive use of less than all of the co-owners.
   MASTER DEED.  The condominium document recording the condominium project to
which are attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference the bylaws for the
project and the condominium subdivision plan for the project, and all other
information required by Condominium Act, § 8.
   SITE CONDOMINIUM.  A condominium development containing residential,
commercial, office, industrial, or other structures or improvements for uses
permitted in the zoning district in which located, in which each co-owner owns
exclusive rights to a volume of space within which a structure or structures
may be constructed, herein defined as a condominium unit, as described in the
master deed.
§ 151.36   LOT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Each condominium lot shall be located within a zoning district that
permits the proposed use.
   (B)   Each condominium lot shall front on and have direct access to a public
street or a private street approved by City Council.  Approval for a private
street may be conferred by City Council between preliminary and final site plan
approval by the Planning Commission.  An approved private street shall comply
with the same standards for public subdivision streets.
   (C)   For the purposes of this ordinance, each condominium lot shall be
considered equivalent to a single lot and shall comply with all regulations of
the zoning district in which located.
§ 151.37   SITE PLAN APPROVAL; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Site plan approval required.  Preliminary approval of the site plan
and final approval of the site plan and condominium documents by the Planning
Commission shall be required as a condition to the right to construct, expand,
or convert a site condominium project.  Preliminary and final approval shall
not be combined.
   (B)   Preliminary approval.
      (1)   A site plan pursuant to standards and procedures set forth in
Chapter 157 of this code shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
preliminary review.
      (2)   If the site plan conforms in all respects to applicable laws,
ordinances, and design standards, preliminary approval shall be granted by the
Planning Commission.  Design standards include compliance with
Chapter 156 of this code.
      (3)   If the site plan fails to conform, the Planning Commission shall
either deny the application, or grant preliminary approval with conditions,
provided the conditions are met before final approval.
   (C)   Final approval.
      (1)   Following preliminary approval, the applicant shall submit the
condominium documents to the City Attorney and other appropriate staff and
consultants for review.
         (a)   The condominium documents shall be reviewed with respect to all
matters subject to regulation by the city, including, without limitation: 
ongoing preservation and maintenance of drainage, retention, wetland, and other
natural or common area; maintenance of private roads, if any; and maintenance
of storm water, sanitary, and water facilities and utilities.
         (b)   All review comments shall be submitted to the City Attorney, who
shall compile the findings prior to consideration of the site plan for final
approval by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   (a)   Following receipt of preliminary approval, the applicant
shall also submit to the building official engineering plans in sufficient
detail for the city, along with appropriate consultants, if necessary, to
determine compliance with applicable laws, ordinances, and design standards for
construction of the project.
         (b)   All review comments shall be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator, who shall compile the findings prior to consideration of the
site plan for final approval by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Upon completion of the review of the condominium documents and
engineering plans and receipt of the recommendations and findings from city
staff and consultants, the site plan shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission for final review.
      (4)   If the site plan, condominium documents, and engineering plans
conform in all respects to applicable laws, ordinances, and design standards,
final approval shall be granted by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   If the site plan, condominium documents, or engineering plans fail
to conform, final approval shall be denied by the Planning Commission.
§ 151.38   APPEAL.
   Any interested party may appeal any decision of the Planning Commission made
under the terms of this ordinance by filing with the City Clerk a written
notice of appeal within 10 days of the decision appealed from.  The City
Council shall hear the appeal within 30 days of the date of filing of the
notice of appeal and shall thereafter either affirm, reverse, or modify the
decision of the Planning Commission.  The decision of the City Council shall be
final.
§ 151.39   INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR OCCUPANCY PERMIT.
   Prior to the issuance of occupancy permits for any condominium units, the
applicant shall submit the following to the city:
   (A)   A copy of the recorded condominium documents (excluding exhibits);
   (B)   A copy of any recorded restrictive covenants;
   (C)   A copy of the site plan on laminated photostatic copy or mylar sheet;
and
   (D)   Evidence of completion of improvements associated with the proposed
use including 2 copies of an as-built survey.
§ 151.40   AMENDMENTS TO DOCUMENTS AND PLANS.
   (A)   Revision of site condominium plan.  Any amendment to a master deed or
bylaws that substantially affects the approved preliminary or final site plan,
or any conditions of approval of a preliminary or final site plan, shall be
reviewed and approved by the City Attorney and Planning Commission before any
building permit may be issued, where such a permit is required.  The Department
of Public Works may require its review of an amended site plan if, in its
opinion, the changes in the master deed or bylaws require corresponding changes
in the earlier site plan.
   (B)   Amendment of condominium documents.  Any amendment to a master deed or
bylaws that substantially affects the approved preliminary or final site plan,
or any conditions of approval of a preliminary or final site plan, shall be
reviewed and approved by the City Attorney and Planning Commission before any
building permit may be issued, where such a permit is required.  The Department
of Public Works may require its review of an amended site plan if, in its
opinion, the changes in the master deed or bylaws require corresponding changes
in the earlier site plan.
CHAPTER 152:
WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES
Section
   
152.01   Purpose and intent
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Construction; application requirements
   
152.04   Permitted communication facility approval (PCFA)
   
152.05   Special communication facility approval (SCFA); manufacturing district
   
152.06   Special communication facility approval outside manufacturing
districts
   
152.07   Colocation
   
152.08   Removal
   
152.09   Board of Appeals
   
152.10   Violations; remedies
   
152.11   Exemption from site plan requirements
   
152.12   Officials; liability disclaimer
   
152.13   Distributed antenna systems/ small cell wireless facilities
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01   PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the general purpose and intent of the city to carry out the will
of the U.S. Congress by authorizing communication facilities needed to operate
wireless communication systems.  However, it is the further purpose and intent
of the city to provide for this authorization in a manner which will retain the
integrity of neighborhoods and the character, property values, and quality of
the community at large.  In fashioning and administering the provisions of this
section, attempt has been made to balance these potentially competing
interests.
   (B)   Recognizing the number of providers authorized to establish and
operate wireless communication services and coverage, it is the further purpose
and intent of this city to:
      (1)   Facilitate adequate and efficient provision of sites for wireless
communication facilities;
      (2)   Identify predetermined areas within the city of the number, shape,
and in the location, considered best for the establishment of wireless
communication facilities, subject to applicable standards and conditions;
      (3)   Recognize that operation of a wireless communication system may, on
rare occasion, require the establishment of facilities in locations not within
the predetermined districts.  As a result of the likelihood of greater adverse
impact upon neighborhoods and areas within the community, in these cases, more
stringent standards and conditions shall apply to the review, approval, and use
of those facilities;
      (4)   Ensure that wireless communication facilities are situated in
appropriate locations and relationships to other land uses, structures, and
buildings;
      (5)   Limit inappropriate physical and overcrowding of land use
activities and avoid adverse impact upon existing population, transportation
systems, and other public services and facility needs;
      (6)   Promote the public health, safety, and welfare;
      (7)   Provide for adequate information about plans for wireless
communication facilities in order to permit the community to effectively plan
for the location of the facilities;
      (8)   Minimize the adverse impacts of technological obsolescence of these
facilities by requiring the removal of unused and unnecessary facilities in a
timely manner; and
      (9)   Minimize the negative visual impact of wireless communication
facilities on neighborhoods, community landmarks, historic sites and building,
natural beauty areas, and public rights-of-way.  This objective contemplates
the establishment of as few structures as reasonably feasible, and the use of
structures which are designed for compatibility, including the use of existing
structures and the avoidance of lattice structures which are unnecessary.
   (C)   The city hereby determines that the presence of numerous tower
structures, particularly if located within residential areas, would decrease
the attractiveness and destroy the character and integrity of the community. 
This, in turn, would have an adverse impact upon property values.  Therefore,
it is necessary to minimize the adverse impact from the presence of numerous
relatively tall tower structures having low architectural and other aesthetic
appeal to most persons, recognizing that the absence of regulations would
result in a material impediment to the maintenance and promotion of property
values and further recognizing that this economic component is a legitimate
consideration in this Council’s obligation to protect and promote the public
health, safety, and welfare.
§ 152.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.  Wireless communication
facilities that are affixed to existing structures, such as existing buildings,
towers, water tanks, utility poles, and  the like.  A wireless communication
support structure proposed to be newly established shall not be included within
this definition.
   AUTHORIZED CITY REPRESENTATIVE.  The Mayor or the person designated by the
Mayor to act as the authorized city representative.
   CITY ZONING ORDINANCE or CHAPTER 157.  Ord. 19, ser. 2, adopted in
accordance with the provisions of the City and Villages Zoning Enabling Act,
which ordinance, the Zoning Map, and all amendments thereto are hereby
incorporated by reference.  All references to zoning districts included in this
ordinance shall refer to those districts established and amended from time to
time by the CITY ZONING ORDINANCE.  The definitions found in §
157.006 of this code are specifically adopted by reference herein unless
specifically modified by the text of this ordinance, as amended.
   COLOCATION.  The location by 2 or more wireless communication providers of
wireless communication facilities on a common structure, tower, or building,
with the intention of reducing the overall number of structures required to
support wireless communication antennas within the community.
   DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEMS (DAS)/ SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
Structures, antennas and associated equipment installed and/or operated for the
provision of telecommunication or wireless services, including without
limitation, antennas, supporting structures for antennas, poles, equipment
shelters or houses, and any ancillary equipment.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.  Include all structures and accessory
facilities relating to the use of the radio frequency spectrum for the purpose
of transmitting or receiving radio signals.  This may include, but shall not be
limited to, radio towers, television towers, telephone devices and exchanges,
microwave relay towers, telephone transmission equipment building, and
commercial mobile radio service facilities.  Not included within this
definition are:  citizen band radio facilities; short wave facilities; ham,
amateur radio facilities; satellite dishes; and governmental facilities which
are subject to state or federal law or regulations which preempt municipal
regulatory authority.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SUPPORT STRUCTURES.  Structures erected or modified
to support wireless communication antennas.  SUPPORT STRUCTURES within this
definition include, but shall not be limited to, monopoles, lattice towers,
light poles, wood poles, and guyed towers.
§ 152.03   CONSTRUCTION; APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Necessity for an application.
      (1)   For so long as there are no material changes to any wireless
communication facility or support structure existing at the time of the
effective date of this ordinance, no application for consideration by the City
Council need be submitted.
      (2)   Those persons proposing to erect or materially alter any wireless
communication facility or support structure shall submit an application for
wireless communication facility to the City Clerk for transmittal to and
consideration by the City Council.
   (B)   Application requirements.  All applications required to be submitted
to the City Clerk shall comply with the following requirements.
      (1)   An original and 12 copies of a site plan shall be submitted,
showing the location, size, screening, and design of all buildings and
structures, including fences, and the location and size of outdoor equipment,
and the location, number, and species of proposed landscaping.  This site plan
shall be drawn at a scale of 1:50, and shall indicate the name and professional
address of the licensed professional engineer who prepared it.
      (2)   The site plan shall also include a detailed landscaping plan where
support structures are being placed at a location which is not otherwise
developed, or where a developed area will be disturbed.  The purpose of
landscaping is to provide screening and aesthetic enhancement for the structure
base, accessory buildings, and enclosure.  In all cases, there shall be shown
on the plan fencing which is required for protection of the support structure
and security from children and other persons who may otherwise access
facilities.
      (3)   The application shall include a signed certification by a state
licensed professional engineer with regard to the manner in which the proposed
structure will fall, which certification will be utilized, along with other
criteria such as applicable regulations for the district in question, in
determining the appropriate setback to be required for the structure and other
facilities.
      (4)   The application shall include a description of security to be
posted at the time of receiving a building permit for the facility to ensure
removal of the facility when it has been abandoned or at the time when it
becomes functionally obsolete.  In this regard, the security shall, at the
election of the City Council, be in the form of:  cash, surety bond, letter of
credit, or an agreement in a form approved by the City Council after
consultation with the City Attorney and other consultants, and recordable at
the office of the Register of Deeds, establishing a promise of the applicant
and owner of the property to remove the facility in a timely manner as required
under this section, with the further provision that the applicant or owner
shall be responsible for the payment of any costs and attorney fees incurred by
the community in securing removal.
      (5)   The application shall include a map showing existing and known
proposed wireless communication facilities within the city, and further showing
existing and known proposed wireless communication facilities within 3 miles of
the borders of the city in the location, and in the area, which locations are
relevant in terms of potential colocation or in demonstrating the need for the
proposed facility.  If and to the extent the information in question is on file
with the Clerk’s office, the applicant shall be required only to update as
needed.  Any such information which is trade secret or other confidential
commercial information which, if released, would result in commercial
disadvantage to the applicant, may be submitted with a request for
confidentiality in connection with the development of governmental policy,
M.C.L.A. § 15.243(1)(g).  This ordinance shall serve as assurance of this
city’s intent to maintain confidentiality to the extend permitted by law.  The
request for confidentiality must be prominently stated on the first page of the
application.
      (6)   The name, address, and phone number of the person to contact for
engineering, maintenance, and other notice purposes.  This information shall be
continuously updated during all times the facility is on the premises.
§ 152.04   PERMITTED COMMUNICATION FACILITY APPROVAL (PCFA).
   (A)   The following represent circumstances warranting permitted
communication facility approval (PCFA) consideration by the City Council in
reviewing an application for wireless community facility:
      (1)   A proposed colocation upon an attached wireless communication
facility which had been pre-approved for this type of colocation as part of an
earlier approval by the city;
      (2)   An existing structure that will serve as an attached wireless
communication facility consisting of a utility pole located within a right-of-
way, where the existing pole is not proposed to be modified in a manner which,
in the discretion of the authorized city representative, would materially alter
the structure or result in an impairment of sight lines or other safety
interests; or
      (3)   A wireless communication support structure established within a
right-of-way having an existing width of more than 204 feet.
   (B)   Upon the City Council’s determination that the proposed facility or
structure warrants PCFA consideration, the application shall be reviewed in
accordance with the following standards and conditions:
      (1)   Facilities shall not be demonstrably injurious to neighborhoods or
otherwise detrimental to the public safety and welfare;
      (2)   Facilities shall be located and designed to be harmonious with the
surrounding areas;
      (3)   Wireless communication facilities shall comply with applicable
federal and state standards relative to the environmental effects of radio
frequency emissions; and
      (4)   Applicants shall demonstrate a justification for the proposed
height of the structures and an evaluation of alternative designs which might
result in lower heights.
   (C)   The City Council may approve such an application with any conditions
to ensure that the facility will be constructed, maintained, and removed in
accordance with these standards and conditions.
§ 152.05   SPECIAL COMMUNICATION FACILITY APPROVAL (SCFA); MANUFACTURING
DISTRICT.
   (A)   All wireless communication facilities and structures not warranting
PCFA consideration as set forth in § 152.04 above must obtain a special
communication facility approval (SCFA) by the City Council.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an application requiring SCFA, the Clerk or his or
her authorized deputy shall mail a notice of the receipt of the application to
the record owners of real property within 300 feet of the boundary of the
property identified in the application.
      (2)   These notices shall be mailed not less than 5 days before the
application is to be considered by the City Council and shall provide notice of
the date, time, and location of the City Council meeting where the application
will be considered, and shall further inform the recipients of this notice as
to where and when the application may be reviewed prior to the City Council
meeting.
   (B)   All applications submitted for SCFA consideration where the proposed
facility or structure is proposed to be located or altered within any area of
the city zoned M-1 or M-2, pursuant to
Chapter 157, as amended, shall be reviewed by the City Council in accordance
with, and subject to, the following standards and conditions:
      (1)   All of those standards and conditions as set forth in §
152.04(B) above;
      (2)   The maximum height of the new or modified support structure and
antenna shall be minimum height demonstrated to be necessary for reasonable
communication by the applicant, and by other entities to colocate on the
structure.  The accessory building contemplated to enclose such things as
switching equipment shall be limited to the maximum height for accessory
buildings within the respective district;
      (3)   The setback of the support structure from any residentially zoned
area, existing or proposed rights-of-way or other publicly traveled roads shall
be equal to or greater than the fall zone radius as determined by a State of
Michigan licensed professional engineer;
      (4)   Where a proposed new or altered support structure abuts a parcel of
land zoned for a use other than residential, the minimum setback of the
structure, and accessory structures, shall be in accordance with the required
setbacks for main or principal buildings as provided in
Chapter 157, as amended, for the zoning district in which the support structure
is located;
      (5)   There shall be unobstructed access to the support structure, for
operation, maintenance, repair, and inspection purposes, which may be provided
through or over an easement.  This access shall have a width and location
determined by such factors as:  the location of adjacent thoroughfares and
traffic and circulations within the site; utilities needed to service the tower
and any attendant facilities; the location of buildings and parking facilities;
proximity to residential districts and minimizing disturbance to the natural
landscape; and the type of equipment which will need to access the site;
      (6)   Where an attached wireless communication facility is proposed on
the roof of a building, if the equipment enclosure is proposed as a roof
appliance or penthouse on the building, it shall be designed, constructed, and
maintained to be architecturally compatible with the principal building.  The
equipment enclosure may be located within the principal building or may be
proposed as an accessory building.  If proposed as an accessory building, it
shall conform with all district yard setback requirements for principal
buildings;
      (7)   The color of support structures and all accessory buildings shall
be reviewed to minimize distraction, reduce visibility, maximize aesthetic
appearance, and ensure compatibility with surroundings.  It shall be the
responsibility of the applicant to maintain the wireless communication facility
in a neat and orderly condition;
      (8)   The facility’s support system shall be constructed in accordance
with all applicable building codes;
      (9)   The City Council may consider the soils where the proposed
structure is to be located.  The City Council may require the submission a
soils report of a geotechnical engineer, licensed in this state.  This soils
report shall include soil borings and statements confirming the suitability of
soil conditions for the proposed use;
      (10)   A maintenance plan shall be presented by the applicant and
approved by the City Council concurrently with or prior to final SCFA
approval.  The maintenance plans shall be designed to insure the long term,
continuous maintenance of the facility.  The applicant and its successor and
assigns shall be obligated to comply with the plan as approved by the City
Council, any failure to strictly comply with the maintenance plans shall be
deemed a violation of this ordinance; and
      (11)   The applicant shall also provide a demonstration of the technical,
practical, or economic need for the proposed facility to be located as proposed
based upon the presence of 1 or more of the following factors:
         (a)   Proximity to an interstate or major thoroughfare;
         (b)   Areas of population concentration;
         (c)   Concentration of commercial, industrial, and/or other business
centers;
         (d)   Areas where signal interference has occurred due to tall
buildings, masses of trees, or other obstructions;
         (e)   Topography of the proposed facility location in relation to
other facilities with which the proposed facility is to operate; and
         (f)   Other specifically identified reason(s) creating facility need.
   (C)   The City Council may approve such an application with any conditions
to ensure that the facility will be constructed, maintained, and removed in
accordance with these standards and conditions.
§ 152.06   SPECIAL COMMUNICATION FACILITY APPROVAL OUTSIDE MANUFACTURING
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   All applications submitted for SCFA consideration where the proposed
facility or structure is proposed to be located within any area of the city not
zoned M-1 or M-2, pursuant to
Chapter 157, as amended, but which facility or structure is located at a site
as given in subsections (A)(1) - (A)(3) below, shall be reviewed by the City
Council in accordance with, and subject to, the standards and conditions as set
forth in §
152.05 of this code; provided, however, that the applicant demonstrates to the
City Council’s satisfaction that the intended users and invitees of that
publicly owned land shall be safe and that the proposed facilities and
structures would not significantly adversely impact the use and enjoyment of
the public facility:
      (1)   A municipally owned site;
      (2)   Some other governmentally owned site; or
      (3)   A public park and other large permanent open space areas.
   (B)   All applications submitted for SCFA consideration where the proposed
facility or structure is proposed to be located or altered within any area of
the city not zoned M-1 or M-2, pursuant to
Chapter 157, as amended, not specifically addressed by subsection (A) above,
shall be reviewed by the City Council in accordance with, and subject to, the
following standards and conditions:
      (1)   All of those standards and conditions as set forth in §
152.05(B) above;
      (2)   The applicant shall demonstrate that a location upon property zoned
M-1 or M-2 cannot reasonably meet the coverage or capacity needs of the
applicant; and
      (3)   Wireless communication facilities shall be of a design such as,
without limitation, a steeple, bell tower, or other form which is compatible
with the existing character of the proposed site, neighborhood, and general
area, as approved by the City Council.
   (C)   The City Council may approve such an application with any conditions
to ensure that the facility will be constructed, maintained, and removed in
accordance with these standards and conditions.
§ 152.07   COLOCATION.
   (A)   It is the policy of the city to minimize the overall number of newly
established locations for wireless communication facilities and wireless
communication support structures within the community, and encourage the use of
existing structures for attached wireless communication facility purposes,
consistent with the statement of purpose and intent set forth in §
152.01 of this code, above.  Each licensed provider of a wireless communication
facility must, by law, be permitted colocate sufficient facilities in order to
achieve the objectives promulgated by the U.S. Congress.  However, particularly
in light of the dramatic increase in the number of wireless communication
facilities reasonably anticipated to occur as a result of the change of federal
law and policy in and relating to the Federal Telecommunications Act of 1996,
it is the policy of the city that all users should colocate on attached
wireless communication facilities and wireless communication support structures
in the interest of achieving the purposes and intent of this ordinance, as
stated above, and as stated in §
152.01 of this code.  If a provider fails or refuses to permit colocation on a
facility owned or otherwise controlled by it, where colocation is feasible, the
result will be that a new and unnecessary additional structure will be
compelled, in direct violation and in direct contradiction to the basic policy,
intent, and purpose of the city.  The provisions of this ordinance are designed
to carry out and encourage conformity with this policy.
   (B)   Colocation shall be deemed to be feasible for purposes of this section
where all of the following are met:
      (1)   The wireless communication provider entity under consideration for
colocation will undertake to pay market rent or other market compensation for
colocation;
      (2)   The site on which colocation is being considered, taking into
consideration reasonable modification or replacement of a facility, is able to
provide structural support;
      (3)   The colocation being considered is technologically reasonable; for
example, the colocation will not result in unreasonable interference, given
appropriate physical and other adjustment in relation to the structure,
antennas, and the like; and
      (4)   The height of the structure necessary for colocation will not be
increased beyond a point deemed to be permissible by the city, taking into
consideration the several standards contained in §§
152.05 and
152.06 of this code.
   (C)   A special communication facility approval application shall not be
approved for the construction and use of a new wireless communication facility
unless and until the applicant demonstrates that a feasible colocation is not
available for the coverage area and capacity needs.
   (D)   All new and modified wireless communication facilities shall be
designed and constructed so as to accommodate colocation.
§ 152.08   REMOVAL.
   (A)   A condition of approval for all SCFA applications shall be adequate
provision for the demolition and removal of all or part of the facility and for
the complete restoration of the site by the users and owners upon the
occurrence of 1 or more of the following events:
      (1)   When the facility has not been used for 180 days or more.  For
purposes of this section, the removal of antennas or other equipment from the
facility, or the cessation of operations (transmission or reception of radio
signals), shall be considered as the beginning of a period of non-use;
      (2)   When, as a result of damage, neglect, or any other reason including
the existence of competent scientific evidence tending to demonstrate that the
operation of such a facility may be injurious to persons or property in
proximity to such a facility, the authorized city representative determines the
facility poses a danger to the public health, safety, or welfare; or
      (3)   At such time as the owner of the facility or those persons
responsible for it shall fail to comply with the maintenance plan approved by
the City Council during the SCFA approval process as set forth in §
152.05(B)(10) above.
   (B)   The mandatory removal of a facility, as set forth in subsection (A)(1)
above, may be applied and limited to portions of a facility.
   (C)   Upon the occurrence of any of the situations which require the removal
of a facility, the authorized city representative shall notify the owner of the
facility as to his or her determination.  This notice shall state the basis for
the determination that the facility is being required to be removed.
      (1)   The notice shall be sent to the owners of the facility at the last
known address of the owners as on file with the City Clerk.
      (2)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail, return receipt
requested, and by regular U.S. mail delivery.
      (3)   The notice shall inform the owner whether or not the facility
constitutes and immediate threat to the public’s safety, and if it does, the
nature of the threat.
      (4)   The notice shall state the number of days the owner shall have to
obtain a demolition or removal permit from the city, and the number of days the
owner shall have to complete the facility’s removal, including the complete
restoration of the premises as determined by the authorized city
representative.
         (a)   In the event the authorized city representative determines the
facility constitutes an immediate threat to the public’s safety, the owner
shall be given 5 days to complete the demolition, or to abate the threatening
condition.
         (b)   In the event the facility is deemed not to constitute an
immediate threat to the public’s safety, the owner shall have 7 days from the
date of the mailing of the notice to obtain the demolition permit from the
city, and an additional 60 days to complete the required demolition, removal,
and restoration of the site.
   (D)   In the event the users or owners of the facility fail to obtain a
demolition permit or to complete the demolition, removal, and restoration in a
timely manner, the city may demolish, remove, and secure the facility and
restore the site.  The actual cost, including attorney fees as well as
professional and administrative expenses, shall be charged to and paid by the
owner of the facility or the owner of the land upon which the facility is
located.  These expenses may also be drawn from any security or bond posted at
the time application was made to establish the facility.
      (1)   In the event the authorized city representative determines the
facility constitutes an immediate threat to the public’s safety, the city shall
be authorized to take such action as shall abate the threat immediately after
the expiration of the 5 days’ notice provided in subsection (C)(4)(a) above
without further notice.
      (2)   In the event the facility is deemed not to constitute an immediate
threat to the public’s safety, the city shall, upon the owner’s failure to
timely complete the required demolition, removal, and restoration, mail the
owner notice of its intent to complete that work and the projected costs of the
project.  This notice shall be mailed at least 30 days prior to the city’s
undertaking the project at the owner’s expense.
§ 152.09   BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   In order to decide questions involving the interpretation of this
ordinance, and to hear and decide certain appeals of decisions or
determinations made by the city’s authorized representative, and to grant
variances from the strict application of this ordinance in certain limited
situations, a Board of Appeals is hereby created.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals thus created shall consist of the same members
who serve on the city’s Building Code Board of Appeals.
      (2)   The term of the membership in the Board shall also be as set forth
for the Building Code Board of Appeals; however, members of this Board of
Appeals may be removed by the City Council for nonperformance of duty or
misconduct in office upon written charges provided to that member and after a
public hearing.
   (B)   Subject to the following specific provisions, the Board of Appeals
shall adopt rules of procedure for conducting its business and shall render all
decisions and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the
City Council.
      (1)   A concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any decision or determination made by the
city’s authorized representative, or to grant any variation in this ordinance.
      (2)   The City Council shall, by resolution, establish and amend a fee
schedule pertaining to such appeals, which fee schedule shall be designed to
cause the applicant to pay for all expenses, including professional fees,
incurred in the appeals.
      (3)   When an application or appeal has been filed, the City Clerk shall
place the application or appeal on the calendar for hearing at the next meeting
of the Board and cause notices stating the time, place, and object of the
hearing to be served.  These notices shall be served personally or by first
class mail within a reasonable time prior to the hearing upon the applicant or
appellant, the city’s authorized representative, and the owners of property of
record within 300 feet of the premises in question; which notices, if by mail,
shall be addressed to the respective property owners of record at the address
given in the last assessment roll.  In the event any property immediately
adjacent to the premises shall be part of a different governmental subdivision,
the owner of any such property shall, nevertheless, receive notice and shall be
entitled to be heard.
      (4)   Upon the day for hearing any application or appeal, the Board may
adjourn the hearing in order to permit the obtaining of additional information
or to cause further notice, as it deems proper, to be served upon those other
property owners as it decides may be interested in the application or appeal. 
In the case of an adjourned hearing, persons previously notified and persons
already heard need not be notified of the time of resumption of the hearing.
      (5)   Upon hearing, any party may be heard in person or by agent or
attorney.
      (6)   Any person having an interest affected by any such decision shall
have the right to appeal to the Circuit Court on questions of law and fact.
   (C)   In authorizing a variance or exception, the Board may, in addition to
the conditions of approval called for in this ordinance, attach thereto other
conditions regarding the location, character, landscaping, or treatment
reasonably necessary to the furtherance of the intent and spirit of this
ordinance and the protection of the public interest, including the right to
authorize the variance or exception for a limited period of time.
   (D)   No variance in the provisions or requirements of this ordinance or in
any requirement or decision of the Burton City Council shall be effected by the
Board of Appeals unless it finds from reasonable evidence that such variance
will not be of substantial detriment of adjacent property and will not
materially impair the intent and purpose of this ordinance or the public
health, safety and welfare and, further, that at least two of the following
facts and conditions exist:
      (1)   That there are exceptional or extraordinary circumstances or
conditions applying to the specific property that do not apply generally to
other properties in the same zone;
      (2)   That such variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right similar to that possessed by other properties
in the zone, provided that increased financial return shall not be deemed
sufficient to warrant a variance; or
      (3)   That the condition or situation of the specific property or the
intended use is not of so general or recurrent a nature as to make reasonably
practical a general regulation as part of this zoning ordinance.
§ 152.10   VIOLATIONS; REMEDIES.
   (A)   The owner of any building or structure, lot or land, or part thereof,
where anything in violation of this ordinance shall be placed or shall exist,
or any architect, builder, contractor, agent, person, or corporation employed
in connection therewith and who assists in the commission of the violation
shall each be guilty of a separate violation, and, upon conviction thereof,
shall each be liable to the penalties as specified in §
152.99 of this code.
   (B)   Any building or structure or facility erected, altered, enlarged,
rebuilt, or moved, or any use carried on, in violation of any provisions of
this ordinance, is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.  Any court of
competent jurisdiction may order the nuisance abated and the owner guilty of
maintaining a nuisance per se.
   (C)   The City Council, or any owners or occupants of any real estate within
the city, may institute injunction, mandamus, abatement, or any other
appropriate action or proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove any
violation of this ordinance.  The rights and remedies provided herein are
cumulative and in addition to all other remedies provided by law.
§ 152.11   EXEMPTION FROM SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   City Council approval of an application pursuant to §§
152.04(C),
152.05(C), or
152.06(C) shall exempt the applicant from the site plan requirements for the
facility, including accessory structures, as would otherwise be required by
Chapter 157, as amended.  This exemption shall only and specifically apply to
the site plan reviewed and approved by City Council pursuant to this ordinance,
and it shall not exempt the applicant from any site plan requirements
applicable as a result of any alteration of the site plan or the site of the
facility.
§ 152.12   OFFICIALS; LIABILITY DISCLAIMER.
   No officer, agent, employee, or member of the City Council or Board of
Appeals shall render himself or herself personally liable for any damage that
may accrue to any person as the result of any act, decision, or other
consequence or occurrence arising out of the discharge of his or her duties and
responsibilities pursuant to this ordinance.
§ 152.13  DISTRIBUTED ANTENNA SYSTEMS/ SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   (A)   License Agreement. No person shall install or operate, in whole or in
part, DAS/small cell/wireless facilities or DAS/small cell/wireless network
facilities in a city public right-of-way or other public place without first
applying for and receiving a DAS/small cell/wireless license from the city in a
form and subject to such terms and conditions as is acceptable to the city.
      (1)   Nothing herein shall be interpreted to require the city to issue a
license and the city reserves to itself discretion to grant, deny or modify a
request for a license as it determines to be in the best interest of the city
and its citizens taking into account such proprietary, safety and fiduciary
interests as it deems warranted.
      (2)   It is the policy of the city to encourage the co-location of
antennas and similar facilities first, outside of public rights-of-way and,
secondarily, within the public rights-of-way on existing poles. The co-location
of uses shall be a condition of approval of any license granted for a new
supporting structure in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Right of Way permit. No person shall install or operate wireless
communication facilities, as defined herein, including any part of a DAS/small
cell/wireless system constituting wireless communication facilities without
first obtaining a right of way permit from the city.
   (C)   Design parameters. The following minimal design parameters shall apply
to DAS/small cell/wireless network facilities in city public rights-of-way:
      (1)   The required map(s) for proposed DAS/small cell/wireless facilities
shall be legible, to scale, labeled with streets, and contain sufficient detail
to precisely identify the proposed DAS/small cell/wireless network facilities'
locations and surroundings. Where applicable, the required map shall include
and identify any requested pole height(s), all attachments and detailed
drawings of any attachment.
      (2)   The maximum height of a pole or other supporting structure
installed to accommodate a DAS/small cell/wireless network shall be 42 feet.
Equipment on a supporting structure may not exceed an aggregate width of 4 feet
(centered on pole) and shall be secured a minimum of 10 feet from the ground
surface or 18 feet from the ground where equipment may overhang the back of
curb line. Ground level equipment or shelters are not permitted.
      (3)   Unless otherwise permitted in subsection (C)(6), DAS/small cell/
wireless facilities shall be located no closer than 18 inches from an existing
sidewalk/face of curb or 18 inches from a proposed future sidewalk/face of curb
location.
      (4)   Unless otherwise permitted in subsection (C)(6), DAS/small cell/
wireless facilities shall be located no closer than 10 feet from any driveway.
      (5)   In residential areas, DAS/small cell/wireless facilities shall be
located in line with a side lot line and not in front of a residence.
      (6)   The licensee shall field-stake all proposed locations for DAS/small
cell/wireless facilities which shall be subject to the advance approval of the
city and/or the Michigan Department of Transportation as applicable. All
approved DAS/small cell/wireless facilities' locations shall be on a per pole/
equipment/other basis. Such approvals shall be memorialized by the city and
licensee.
      (7)   Once precise locations have been approved in accordance with
subsection (C)(6), the licensee shall provide latitude and longitude
coordinates for the DAS/small cell/wireless facilities' locations to the city's
engineering department as well as detailed as-built drawings within 90 days of
the completion of installation.
      (8)   The licensee shall be responsible to obtain such other permits and
approvals as required by law.
      (9)   Architectural design:
         a.   All poles shall be wood unless the city approves or required by
the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), the Federal Aviation
Administration (FAA), or applicable codes, an alternate material such as a
galvanized silver, gray or concrete finish or, subject to any applicable
standards of the FAA, FCC or such codes, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
         b.   At all pole sites related equipment shall use materials, colors,
textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the facilities to the
natural setting and environment.
         c.   All poles shall be of monopole design and construction unless the
city approves an alternate design. Disguising or stealthing poles is
encouraged.
   (D)   Modification of design parameters. Upon the written request of an
applicant for a license, the City Council may modify the design parameters of
subsection (C) at its sole discretion following a hearing and based on its
review of factors affecting the public health, safety and welfare including,
but not limited to, the following: the presence of existing poles or other
structures or equipment in the immediate vicinity; the ability to reasonably
comply with the design parameters set forth in subsection (C); the visual and
aesthetic impact of the proposed pole, antenna or facilities on the adjacent
area; the existing and planned character of the adjacent area; public comment;
the scale and scope of the poles, antennas or facilities relative to the
existing character of the area; whether granting the modification will
adversely impact public safety; and the recommendations of city department
heads (if any). Following its review, the City Council may grant, deny or grant
with conditions a request to modify the design parameters and shall provide its
decision and the basis for the same to the applicant in writing. The applicant
shall be responsible to pay all costs of the city associated with the request
to modify the design parameters.
   (E)   Compliance with applicable law. The licensee shall be responsible to
comply with all applicable legal requirements and to obtain any permits or
approvals otherwise required by law relative to the installation or operation
of DAS/small cell wireless facilities in the city's public rights-of-way (e.g.,
electrical permits). The city, in reviewing and authorizing a permit under the
act and/or a license referred to in this section, and the licensee, in the
establishment and operation of any DAS/small cell/wireless network facilities,
shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws.
   (F)   Fees. Fees for the required permits and license agreement required
shall be established, and from time to time be amended by resolution of the
Burton City Council.
   (G)   Removal. In the event that removal is deemed necessary as outlined in
§
152.08 (A)(1) and/or (2), it shall be the sole responsibility of the license
holder to comply with the removal as outlined in §
152.08 (C) and §
152.08 (D).
(Ord. passed 12-18-2017; Ord. 2018-52, passed 2-5-2018)
§ 152.99   PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of this ordinance shall,
upon conviction, pay a fine of not more than $500 and/or be confined to the
county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days.  Each and every day such a
violation continues shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation.
   (B)   The owner of any building or structure, lot or land, or part thereof,
where anything in violation of this ordinance shall be placed or shall exist,
or any architect, builder, contractor, agent, person or corporation employed in
connection therewith and who assists in the commission of such violation shall
each be guilty of a separate violation and, upon conviction thereof, shall each
be liable to the fine or imprisonment, or both as specified in this section.
   (C)   Any building or structure or facility erected, altered, enlarged,
rebuilt or moved, or any use carried on in violation of any provisions of this
ordinance is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.  Any court of competent
jurisdiction may order such nuisance abated and the owner guilty of maintaining
a nuisance per se.
CHAPTER 153:
SIGNS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose
   
153.02   Substitution clause
   
153.03   Definitions
   
153.04   Exemptions from regulations
   
153.05   Exemptions from permits
   
153.06   General restrictions and requirements
   
153.07   Commercial signs
   
153.08   Noncommercial signs
   
153.09   Violations
   
153.10   Appeals
§ 153.01   PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to:
   (A)   Enhance and protect the physical appearance of the City of Burton.
   (B)   Promote and maintain visually attractive, residential, commercial and
industrial areas.
   (C)   Promote the economic well-being of the community by creating a
favorable physical image.
   (D)   Ensure that signs are located and designed to:
      (1)   Provide an effective means of way-finding in the community;
      (2)   Afford the community an equal and fair way to advertise and promote
its products and services;
      (3)   Reduce sign clutter and the distractions and confusion that may be
contributing factors in traffic congestion and accidents, and maintain a safe
and orderly pedestrian and vehicular environment;
      (4)   Minimize the disruption of the scenic views which when maintained
protect important community values; and
      (5)   Afford businesses, individuals, and institutions a reasonable
opportunity to use signs as an effective means of communication.
   (E)   Provide review procedures that assure that signs are consistent with
the city’s objectives and within the city’s capacity to efficiently administer
the regulations.
   (F)   Prohibit all signs not expressly permitted by this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.02   SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE.
   A protected noncommercial message of any type may be substituted, in whole
or in part, for the message displayed on any sign for which the sign structure
or mounting device is legal without consideration of message content. This
provision applies to all signs, including outdoor general advertising devices
(billboards), allowed under this ordinance. Such substitution of message may be
made without any additional approval, permitting, registration or notice to the
city.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.03   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BANNER. Sign intended to be hung, displayed, or mounted in the ground either
with or without frames, possessing characters, letters, illustrations or
ornamentations applied to paper, plastic, vinyl or fabric of any kind. Banners
shall be considered to be temporary signs under the terms of this chapter and,
where applicable, subject to the regulations thereof.
   BILLBOARD. A sign advertising products not made, sold, used, or served on
the premise displaying the sign or that conveys an informational or
noncommercial message.
   COMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign which identifies, advertises, or directs attention
to a business or is intended to induce a purchase of a good, property, or
service, including, without limitation, any sign naming a brand of good or
service and any sign which is not a noncommercial sign.
   ELECTRONIC SIGN. A sign that is capable of displaying words, symbols,
figures or images and that can be electronically or mechanically changed by
remote or automatic means.
   NAME PLATE. A building sign not exceeding 2 square feet indicating the
street number, name of the person, business, profession or activity occupying
the lot, building or part thereof; or other information pertaining to the use
on the lot.
   NONCOMMERCIAL SIGN. A sign which in no way identifies, advertises, or
directs attention to a business or is intended to induce a purchase of a good,
property, or service, or portrays or symbolizes a good, property, or service,
especially, but, without limitation, a brand or trade name, an identifiable
container shape, or a trademark.
   SIGN. A visual communication display, object, device, graphic, structure or
part, situated outdoors, or attached to, painted on or displayed from a
building or structure, in order to direct or attract attention to, or to
announce or promote, an object, product, place, activity, person, institution,
organization or business or the like, by means of letters, words, model,
banner, flag, pennant, insignia, device, designs, colors, symbols, fixtures,
images, illuminations or representation used as, or which is in the nature of,
an announcement, direction or advertisement.
   SIGN, BUILDING. A sign, or any portion thereof, erected, constructed or
affixed to the roof, wall of building, awning or window, whether the principal
support for the sign is on the roof, wall, window, or any other structural
element of the building.
   SIGN, FREESTANDING. A sign, or any portion thereof, erected, constructed or
projecting upon a parcel of land which includes a sign structure permanently
installed in the ground.
   SIGN, INFLATABLE. An inflatable shape or figure designed or used to attract
attention to a business event or location. Inflatable promotional devices shall
be considered to be temporary signs under the terms of this chapter and, where
applicable, subject to the regulations thereof.
   SIGN, TEMPORARY. A sign that is designed to be used only temporarily and is
not intended to be permanently attached to a building wall or sign structure or
permanently installed in the ground.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.04   EXEMPTIONS FROM REGULATIONS.
   The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts and are exempt
from regulations:
   (A)   Signs placed, constructed, erected or displayed by any entity of
federal, state, or local government, or signs required to be placed,
constructed, erected or displayed by such entity(ies), including but not
limited to public notice signs and any sign which conforms or is required by
law to conform to the Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (B)   Signs placed, constructed or erected on any parcel of property or
right-of-way owned or maintained by any entity of federal, state, or local
government.
   (C)   Traffic control signs and other signs related to public safety that
the city installs or requires to be installed.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.05   EXEMPTIONS FROM PERMITS.
   The following signs are permitted in all zoning districts and are exempt
from the permit requirements of this section, but shall in all other respects
comply with the requirements of this code unless expressed below:
   (A)   A sign not exceeding sixteen square feet on property in which
construction work is being done to warn of danger or hazardous conditions. Such
sign is also exempt from the setback, limitation on number of freestanding
signs, and total sign area regulations of this section.
   (B)   A work of art that in no way identifies or advertises a product,
service, or business or impedes traffic safety.
   (C)   A private traffic directional sign within a property that does not
exceed 3 square feet per face in area and 6 feet in height, does not contain
any advertising or trade name identification, and is not illuminated,
internally illuminated, or indirectly illuminated.
   (D)   Signs that are not visible from abutting property or public rights-of-
way.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.06   GENERAL RESTRICTIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected, constructed, or maintained within the city
without obtaining the prior permission of the owner or the person in possession
of the property upon which it is placed.
   (B)   A sign permit shall be required for the erection, construction, or
alteration of any sign, except as provided in §
153.05, and all such signs shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator or his
or her designee as to compliance with the requirements of the zoning district
wherein the sign or signs are to be located and the requirements of this
section.
   (C)   No sign shall be erected at the intersection of any streets in such a
manner as to obstruct free and clear vision or at any location where, by reason
of the position, shape, or color, it may interfere with, obstruct the view of,
or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or device or in such a
manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic. Nor shall any sign,
signal, marking, or device be placed, erected, or operated in such a manner as
to interfere with the necessary free and unobstructed view of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic.
   (D)   Unless otherwise specifically provided in this ordinance, no sign,
except those placed and maintained by the city, county, or state, shall be
erected or placed in the public right-of-way, nor be allowed to project further
than 15 inches into the public right-of-way without special approval from the
DPW Director or his or her designee based on the following conditions:
      (1)   The lower edge thereof is 10 feet or more above the ground level;
      (2)   That a sign shall not extend over any part of the public right-of-
way used for vehicular traffic;
      (3)   Existing utilities and/or existing structures; and
      (4)   Setback or lot line requirements.
   (E)   No light pole, utility pole, telephone pole or other similar type
structure shall be used for the placement of any sign.
   (F)   Signs must be maintained so as not to endanger life, property, or be
in a state of disrepair in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer or
Building Inspector. Any sign which, through lack of maintenance or type of
construction or otherwise, imperils life or property, or leaves any portion of
the sign exposed to weather when it typically would be covered, shall be deemed
a nuisance.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.07   COMMERCIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   General Provisions in all Commercial and Industrial Districts
      (1)   Not more than 1 freestanding sign may be erected accessory to any
single building, structure, or shopping center regardless of the number of
separate parties, tenants, or uses contained therein; provided, however, when
any single building, structure, or shopping center is located on a parcel of
land that abuts on 2 or more streets, it may have 2 freestanding signs.
      (2)   No freestanding accessory signs shall have a surface area exceeding
0.5 square foot for each lineal foot of street frontage. No freestanding
accessory sign shall exceed 300 square feet total surface area. No business
shall be required by this ordinance to have an accessory sign smaller than 100
square feet. All freestanding signs shall be placed on the same parcel of
property as the building or use to which they are accessory; except that
billboard freestanding signs shall be permitted only in the industrial
districts as noted in subsection (B)(2) of this section.
      (3)   The total surface area of all signs erected on any single building
or structure shall not exceed 2 square feet for each lineal foot of building
frontage, with a maximum permitted surface area of 200 square feet. Building
frontage is defined as the front of the principal structure of the building
only, and does not include any side walls, roof lines, or other measurements.
For uses located in an approved multiple tenant space, the frontage shall be
that as defined as the frontage of the unit which is intended to be occupied.
      (4)   There shall be no flashing, electronic, oscillating, or
intermittent type of illuminated sign or display within 100 feet of any
residential district or use, except that those signs shall be permitted
adjacent to a residential district when mounted along the face of a building
which does not face the residential district, or when the sign’s face is
perpendicular to the residential district or use.
      (5)   All illuminated signs shall be so arranged to prevent glare into
residential districts.
      (6)   All spotlights shall be diffused or shielded to not shine on other
properties.
      (7)   No sign, unless otherwise permitted, shall exceed the maximum
height limitations of the zoning district in which it is located.
      (8)   No ground-mounted or free standing sign above a height of 2 feet
from the established street grade shall be permitted within the triangular area
formed at the intersection of any street right-of-way lines by a straight line
drawn between the right-of-way lines at a distance along each line of 25 feet
from their point of intersection.
      (9)   One “A” frame or sandwich board type sign not exceeding 42 inches
in height may be placed in front of a business, provided that such sign shall
be set back not closer than 10 feet from any public road, street or right-of-
way, and further provided that the sign shall be removed during non-business
hours.
      (10)   Unless otherwise approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals,
temporary signs, banners, or inflatable signs shall not be allowed.
   (B)   Industrial districts are permitted as follows:
      (1)   No sign so permitted shall be located nearer to the front lot line
than ½ the required front setback nor nearer the side lot line than the
required side yard setback; and
      (2)   Billboard type freestanding signs (off-site advertising), provided
that:
         a.   Maximum size be 300 square feet per face, with a limit of 2
faces;
         b.   Maximum height be 25 feet;
         c.   Located not closer than 50 feet of any public right-of-way or
nearer than 660 feet to any interstate freeway;
         d.   Have a 10-foot unobstructed clearance from surrounding grade of
land and bottom of sign;
         e.   Be no closer than 500 feet to any other non-accessory sign on
either side of the street or freeway;
         f.   Not be located on any residentially used or zoned parcel or
nearer than 200 feet to any residence even if zoned M-1 or M-2 or 200 feet from
any residentially zoned district;
         g.   Must not obstruct view of other existing signs nearby;
         h.   A drawing with specifications approved by a state registered
engineer or architect is filed with the Building Inspector for review and
approval prior to any construction;
         i.   The despoiling of natural features, including trees, vegetation,
water, land forms, and scenic views be avoided whenever possible;
         j.   All non-accessory signs be approved by the Board of Zoning
Appeals in an M-1 or M-2 district after public hearing and determination that
the above provisions in subsections (B)(2)(a) - (B)(2)(i) have been met; and
         k.   An administrative approval subject to §
157.092, site plan review.
   (C)   Multiple family districts are permitted as follows:
      (1)   One ground or wall sign indicating the name of the multiple housing
development in addition to individual dwelling name plates. These signs shall
not exceed 64 square feet in area.
      (2)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than continuous indirect
white light nor shall contain any visible moving parts.
   (D)   Residential districts are permitted as follows:
      (1)   For permitted principal uses other than dwellings (home occupations
approved in §
157.100) and for permitted uses after special approval, 1 bulletin or
announcement board not exceeding 32 square feet in area.
      (2)   No sign so permitted shall be located nearer to the front lot line
than ½ the required front yard setback nor nearer the side lot line than the
required side yard setback.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.08   NONCOMMERCIAL SIGNS.
   (A)   Residential districts and multi-family districts. Noncommercial signs
in residential and multi-family districts are regulated as follows:
      (1)   Temporary signs
         a.   No temporary sign shall be erected, constructed, or maintained
for more than 30 days immediately preceding the function, event, or the
completion of purpose for which it is placed. Notwithstanding the above
restriction, in no event shall the sign be erected, constructed, or maintained
for more than a total of 60 days in any calendar year;
         b.   No such sign erected or maintained on private property
immediately adjacent to a state highway or a city major street shall be larger
than 16 square feet or which shall exceed a height of 6 feet above the grade at
the base of the sign;
         c.   No such sign erected or maintained on private property on a city
local street, or private drive as designated for the purpose of Act 51 of the
State of Michigan shall be larger than 6 square feet nor shall it exceed a
height of 3 feet above the grade at the base of the sign.
      (2)   For each dwelling unit, 1 name plate sign displaying the street
name and number and name of occupant, not exceeding 2 square foot in area is
permitted;
      (3)   In the multiple-family districts, 1 ground or wall sign indicating
the name of the multiple housing development in addition to individual dwelling
name plates are permitted provided that these signs shall not exceed 64 square
feet in area; and
      (4)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than continuous indirect
white light nor shall contain any visible moving parts.
   (B)   Commercial and Industrial Districts. Noncommercial signs in commercial
and industrial districts are regulated as follows:
      (1)   No temporary sign shall be erected, constructed, or maintained for
more than 90 days within a calendar year.
      (2)   A temporary sign erected or maintained on private property
immediately adjacent to a state highway, a city major street within the city
shall be no larger than 16 square feet nor shall it exceed a height of 6 feet
above the grade at the base of the sign;
      (3)   For each unit, 1 name plate sign displaying the street name and
number and name of occupant, not exceeding 2 square foot in area; and
      (4)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than continuous indirect
white light nor shall contain any visible moving parts.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.09   VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any sign that is found to be in violation of §
153.06(A), §
153.06(E), §
153.07(A)(9), and §
153.07(A)(10) may be subject to the immediate confiscation, removal and
destruction by the City of Burton.
   (B)   In the case of commercial advertising signs found to violate §
153.06(E), §
153.07(A)(9), and §
153.07(A)(10), rather than immediately confiscating, removing and destroying a
non-conforming sign, the city may, at its option, elect to notify the
individual, corporation or other entity advertising its goods or services by
first class mail at any address displayed on the sign that the sign is in
violation of this ordinance and that in the event the sign is not removed
within 5 business days of the date of the mailing of the notice, the
individual, corporation or other entity shall be charged with a municipal civil
infraction and shall be subject to such fines and costs as set forth in the
City of Burton Code of Ordinances, §
131.05, Civil Infraction Penalties.
   (C)   In the event a sign found to be in violation of §
153.06(A), §
153.06(E), §
153.07(A)(9), or §
153.07(A)(10) shall not set forth the address or any business or individual,
but shall display a telephone number, the city may elect to place a telephone
call to the number displayed and notify any individual who answers such a
telephone call, or leave a recording on any recording device, that the sign
must be removed within 5 business days of the telephone notification, and that
the failure to remove the sign within that time shall result in the issuance of
a civil infraction citation.
   (D)   In the event of a violation of any other section of this ordinance,
the city shall notify the individual, corporation or other entity owning the
property at which the sign is placed by first class mail, at the address on
record with the Assessors office, that the sign is in violation of this
ordinance and that in the event the sign is not removed, repaired, or brought
into compliance of this ordinance within 10 business days of the date of the
mailing of the notice, the individual, corporation or other entity shall be
charged with a municipal civil infraction and shall be subject to such fines
and costs as set forth in the
City of Burton Code of Ordinances, §
131.05, Civil Infraction Penalties and/or subject to immediate confiscation,
removal and destruction by the City of Burton, in which all costs will be
charged to the property owner.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
§ 153.10   APPEALS.
   Any appeal to this ordinance shall be heard and action taken by the Zoning
Board of Appeals as outlined in §
157.155 through §
157.155.
(Ord. 2017-153, passed 12-18-2017)
CHAPTER 154:
EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Earth change requirements
   
154.04   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plan requirements
   
154.05   SESC permit requirements
   
154.06   SESC permit exemptions
   
154.07   Application for SESC permit fee
   
154.08   Application review and SESC permit procedures
   
154.09   Soil and sediment removal, design, installation and control measures
   
154.10   Standards and specifications
   
154.11   Enforcement
   
154.12   Notice of violation
   
154.13   Reimbursement to city; lien for expenses; collection
   
154.14   Penalties
§ 154.01   PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this ordinance is to set forth the standards to control soil
erosion and sedimentation within the city by requiring compliance with the
Rules established in Part 91, Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control, of the
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act 451 of Public Acts of
Michigan of 1994, as amended (“Part 91"). The city hereby incorporates by
reference Part 91 and the Rules.
§ 154.02   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS or DPW.  The City of Burton Department of Public
Works, which is designated as the municipal enforcing agency for the City of
Burton.
   DPW DIRECTOR.  The City of Burton Director of Public works.
   EARTH CHANGE.  A human-made change in the natural cover or topography of
land, including cut and fill activities, which may result in or contribute to
soil erosion and sedimentation of the waters of the state. EARTH CHANGE does
not include the practice of plowing and tilling soil for the purpose of crop
production.
   LAKE.  The Great Lakes and all natural and artificial inland lakes or
impoundments that have definite banks, a bed, visible evidence of continued
occurrence or water, and a surface area of water that is equal to or greater
than 1 acre. LAKE does include sediment basins and basins constructed for the
sole purpose of storm water retention, cooling water, or treating polluted
water.
   LANDOWNER.  The person who owns or holds a recorded easement on the property
or who is engaged in construction in a public right-of-way in accordance with
§§13,14,15 and 16 of Act No. 368 of the Public Acts of 1925, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§247.183, 247.184, 247.185 and 247.186 and as otherwise defined in
Part 91.
   NON-EROSIVE VELOCITY.  A speed of water movement that is not conductive to
the development of accelerated soil erosion.
   PART 91.  Part 91 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act,
being Public Act 451 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1994, as amended.
   PERMANENT SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL MEASURES. Control measures
which are installed or constructed to control soil erosion and sedimentation
and which are maintained after project completion.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, trust,
agency or other entity.
   REPEAT OFFENSE.  A second (or any subsequent) municipal civil infraction
violation of the same requirement or provision of this ordinance, which is
committed by the same person within any 6 month period and for which the person
admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
   RULES.  Part 91 Rules promulgated by the State of Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality, pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act, Act 306
of the Public Acts of Michigan 1969, as amended.
   SEDIMENT.  Solid particulate matter, including both mineral and organic,
which is in suspension in water, is being transported, or has been removed from
is site of origin by the actions of wind, water or gravity and has been
deposited elsewhere.
   SOIL EROSION.  The wearing away of land by the action of wind, water,
gravity or a combination of wind, water or gravity.
   STABILIZATION.  The establishment of vegetation or the proper placement,
grading or covering of soil to ensure its resistance to soil erosion, sliding
or other earth movement.
   STREAM.  A river, creek, or other surface watercourse which may or may not
be serving as a drain, as defined in Public Act 40 of 1956, as amended, and
which has definite banks, a bed, and visible evidence of the continued flow or
continued occurrence of water, including the connecting waters of the Great
Lakes.
   TEMPORARY SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL MEASURES. Interim control
measures which are installed or constructed to control soil erosion and
sedimentation and which are not maintained after project completion.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  The Great Lakes and their connecting water, inland
lakes and streams as defined in Part 91 and the Rules, and wetlands which are
regulated under Part 303 of Public Act 451 of 1994, as amended.
   WETLANDS.  Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support, and that under normal circumstances does
support, wetland vegetation or aquatic life, and is commonly referred to as a
bog, swamp, or marsh, which is regulated by Part 303 of Public Act 451 of 1994,
as amended.
(Ord. 2021-2-154, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 154.03   EARTH CHANGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A person shall conduct an earth change in a manner that will
effectively reduce accelerated soil erosion and resulting sedimentation.
   (B)   A person engaged in an earth change, as identified herein, shall plan,
implement, and maintain acceptable soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures in conformance with this ordinance, which effectively reduce
accelerated soil erosion and off-site sedimentation.
   (C)   A person shall set forth soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures in a plan as prescribed by this ordinance. A person shall take the
plan available for inspection at all times at the site of the earth change.
   (D)   A person shall obtain a SESC permit containing and all information
prescribed herein and make the SESC permit available for inspection at the site
of the earth change, Part 91 or the Rules.
§ 154.04   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   A person shall prepare 2 copies of the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Plan for any earth change requiring of SESC permit. A person shall
design the Plan to effectively reduce accelerated soil erosion and
sedimentation and shall identify factors that may contribute to soil erosion
and sedimentation, or both. The Plan shall be prepared pursuant to the
guidelines set forth in the City of Burton SESC application package, and shall
include, but shall not be limited to, all of the following:
   (A)   A map or maps at a scale of not more than 200 feet to the inch.
   (B)   Legal description of the property.
   (C)   Site location sketch.
   (D)   Proximity to lakes and streams.
   (E)   Predominant land features.
   (F)   Contour intervals or slope description.
   (G)   Soils surveyor written description of soils types.
   (H)   Physical limits of earth change.
   (I)   Location of existing and proposed on-site drainage and dewatering
facilities.
   (J)   Timing and sequence of each proposed earth change.
   (K)   Location and description for installing and removing proposed
temporary SESC measures, including the instructions for install which may be
provided by the City of Burton if unable to provide them.
   (L)   A description and location of all proposed permanent SESC measures,
including a program proposal for continued maintenance of all permanent soil
erosion control facilities which remain after project completion, including the
designation of the person responsible for the maintenance. Maintenance
responsibilities shall become part of any sales or exchange agreement for the
land on which the permanent soil erosion control measures are located.
(Ord. 2021-2-154, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 154.05   SESC PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A landowner or designated agent who contracts for, allows, or engages
in an earth change in the city shall obtain a SESC permit from the DPW before
commencing an earth change which disturbs 1 or more acres of land or which is
within 500 feet of a lake or stream.
   (B)   An earth change activity, which does not require a SESC permit,
remains subject to the enforcement procedures of this ordinance if the exempted
activity causes or results in a violation of the ordinance.
(Ord. 2021-2-154, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 154.06   SESC PERMIT EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   A SESC permit is not required for any of the following agricultural
practices if the earth change activities do not result in or contribute to soil
erosion or sedimentation of the waters of the state or a discharge of sediment
off-site, SESC Permit Exemptions are stated in Part 91 and include but are not
limited to the following:
      (1)   The construction, maintenance, or removal of fences and fence
lines.
      (2)   The removal of tree or shrub stumps or roots.
      (3)   The installation of drainage tile, irrigation, or electrical lines.
      (4)   The construction or maintenance of 1 or more ponds that meet all of
the following:
         (a)   The earth change associated with the construction or maintenance
is less than 5 acres.
         (b)   The earth change associated with the construction or maintenance
does not result in a discharge of storm water into the waters of the state.
         (c)   The earth change associated with the construction or maintenance
is not part of a larger plan of development. As used in this subparagraph,
"larger plan of development" means a contiguous area where multiple separate
and distinct construction activities are occurring under a single plan as
identified in documentation or physical demarcation indicating where
construction activities may occur.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this part, a residential
property owner who causes the following activities to be conducted on
individual residential property owned and occupied by him or her is not
required to obtain a permit under this part if the earth change activities do
not result in or contribute to soil erosion or sedimentation of the waters of
the state or a discharge of sediment off-site:
      (1)   An earth change of a minor nature that is stabilized within 24
hours of the initial earth disturbance.
      (2)   Gardening, if the natural elevation of the area is not raised.
      (3)   Post holes for fencing, decks, utility posts, mailboxes, or similar
applications, if no additional grading or earth change occurs for use of the
post holes.
      (4)   Removal of tree stumps, shrub stumps, or roots resulting in an
earth change not to exceed 100 square feet.
      (5)   All of the following activities, if soil erosion and sedimentation
controls are implemented, the earth change is stabilized within 24 hours of the
initial earth disturbance, and soil erosion or sedimentation to adjacent
properties or the waters of the state has not or will not reasonably occur:
         (a)   Planting of trees, shrubs, or other similar plants.
         (b)   Seeding or reseeding of lawns of less than 1 acre if the seeded
area is at least 100 feet from the waters of the state.
         (c)   Seeding or reseeding of lawns closer than 100 feet from the
waters of the state if the area to be seeded or reseeded does not exceed 100
square feet.
         (d)   The temporary stockpiling of soil, sand, or gravel not greater
than a total of 10 cubic yards on the property if the stockpiling occurs at
least 100 feet from the waters of the state.
         (e)   Seawall maintenance that does not exceed 100 square feet.
   (C)   Exemptions provided in this section shall not be construed as
exemptions from enforcement procedures under this part or the rules promulgated
under this part if the exempted activities cause or result m a violation of
this part or the rules promulgated under this part.
   (D)   An earth change activity that does not require a SESC permit, is not
exempt from enforcement procedures if the activity, which is exempt from the
SESC permit requirements, cause or results in a violation of this ordinance,
Part 91 or the Rules.
(Ord. 2021-2-154, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 154.07   APPLICATION FOR SESC PERMIT FEE.
   (A)   Applications for soil erosion and sedimentation control permits shall
be available at the DPW offices. Any landowner or designated agent shall submit
an application to the DPW, which includes a Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Plan, as set forth in this ordinance, and any other documentation that
the DPW may require.
   (B)   Any landowner or designated agent seeking a soil erosion and
sedimentation permit shall submit a review fee with the SESC permit
application. The review fee schedule shall be established by resolution of City
Council and may be amended from time to time by resolution of City Council.
§ 154.08   APPLICATION REVIEW AND SESC PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of any SESC Permit, the DPW Director or his or her
designee may enter at all reasonable times, and upon reasonable notice of the
landowner, in or upon any private or public property for the purpose of
inspecting and investigating site conditions or proposed measures set forth in
the soil erosion and sedimentation permit application or plan.
   (B)   The DPW shall approve or disapprove an application within 30 calendar
days following receipt of a complete application, as may have been modified.
The DPW shall notify an applicant of approval by first-class mail. If an
application is disapproved, then the DPW shall advise the applicant by
certified mail of its reasons for disapproval and conditions required for
approval. The DPW need not notify an applicant of approval or disapproval by
mail if the applicant is given written approval or disapproval of the
application in person. A SESC permit given to the applicant either in person or
by first-class mail constitutes approval.
   (C)   If applicable upon a determination that a SESC permit applicant has
met all of the requirements of this ordinance, Part 91 and the Rules, the DPW
shall issue a SESC permit for the proposed earth change.
   (D)   As a condition for the issuance of a SESC permit, the DPW may require
the Applicant to deposit with the City Clerk, in the form of a certified check,
an irrevocable bank letter of credit, or a surety or performance bond
acceptable to the city, in an amount sufficient to assure the installation and
completion of such protective or corrective measures as may be required by the
DPW.
(Ord. 2021-2-154, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 154.09   SOIL AND SEDIMENT REMOVAL, DESIGN, INSTALLATION AND CONTROL
MEASURES.
   (A)   A person shall design, construct and complete an earth change in a
manner that limits the exposed area of any disturbed land for the shortest
possible period of time, as determined by the DPW.
   (B)   A person shall remove sediment caused by accelerated soil erosion from
runoff water before it leaves the site of the earth change.
   (C)   A person shall design a temporary or permanent control measure that is
designed and constructed for the conveyance of water around, through, or from
the earth change area to limit the water flow to a non-erosive velocity.
   (D)   A person shall install temporary soil erosion and sedimentation
control measures before or upon commencement of the earth change activity and
shall maintain the measures on a daily basis. A person shall remove temporary
soil erosion and sedimentation control measures after permanent soil erosion
measures are in place and the area is stabilized. A person shall stabilize the
area with permanent soil erosion control measures under approved standards and
specifications as prescribed by this ordinance.
   (E)   A person shall complete permanent soil, erosion control measures for
all slopes channels, ditches, or any disturbed land area within 5 calendar days
after final grading or the final earth change has been completed. If it is not
possible to permanently stabilize a disturbed area after an earth change has
been completed or if significant earth change activity ceases, then a person
shall maintain temporary soil erosion and sedimentation control measures until
permanent soil erosion control measures are in place and the area is
stabilized.
§ 154.10   STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A person shall complete all temporary and permanent erosion and
sedimentation control measures according to the approved plan and/or the SESC
permit conditions.
   (B)   A person shall install and maintain control measures in accordance
with the standards and specifications of the City of Burton and Michigan
Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (EGLE).
(Ord. 2021-2-154, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 154.11   ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   An authorized municipal official may issue a cease and desist order or
the DPW may revoke a SESC permit upon its finding that there is a violation of
this ordinance, Part 91 or the Rules, or upon its finding that there is a
violation of SESC permit or an approved Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
Plan.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the existence or pursuit of any other remedy, the city
may maintain an action in its own name in a court of competent jurisdiction for
an injunction or other process against a person to restrain or prevent
violations of this ordinance.
   (C)   The DPW Director or his or her designee may enter, at all reasonable
times, in or upon any private or public property for the purpose of inspecting
and investigating conditions or practices that may be in violation of this
ordinance.
   (D)   If the DPW determines that soil erosion or sedimentation of adjacent
properties or the waters of the state has or will reasonably occur from land in
violation of this ordinance, the DPW may seek to enforce a violation of this
ordinance by notifying the person who owns the land, by mail, with return
receipt requested, of its determination. The notice shall contain a description
of the violation and what must be done to remedy the violation and shall
specify a time to comply with this ordinance.
§ 154.12   NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 5 days after a notice of violation has been issued under this
ordinance, a person who owns the subject land shall implement and maintain soil
erosion and sedimentation control measures in conformance with this ordinance,
Part 91 and the Rules.
   (B)   No sooner than 5 days after the notice of violation has been mailed
under this ordinance, if the condition of the land, in the opinion of the DPW
results in or contributes to the soil erosion and sedimentation of adjacent
properties or to the lake or stream, and if soil erosion and sedimentation
control measures in conformance with this ordinance, Part 91 or the Rules are
not in place, the DPW Director or his or her designee may authorize entry upon
the land and construct, implement, and maintain soil erosion and sedimentation
control measures in conformance with this ordinance, Part 91 or the Rules.
(Ord. 2021-2-154, passed 2-1-2021)
§ 154.13   REIMBURSEMENT TO CITY; LIEN FOR EXPENSES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   All expenses incurred by the city under this ordinance, to construct,
implement, and maintain soil erosion and sedimentation control measures and to
bring land into conformance with this ordinance, Part 91 or the Rules shall be
reimbursed to the city by the person who owns the land.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien for the expenses incurred under this
ordinance of bringing the land into conformance with this ordinance, Part 91 or
the Rules. However, with respect to property being currently occupied for
single-family or multi-family residential uses, the lien for the expenses shall
have priority over all liens and encumbrances filed or recorded after the date
of the expenditure. With respect to all other property, the lien for the
expenses shall be collected and treated in the same manner as provided for
property tax liens under the General Property Tax Act, being Act 206 of the
Public Acts of Michigan 1893, as amended.
§ 154.14   PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate this ordinance shall be deemed
responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   (B)   In addition to such fines, costs and other penalties which may apply
for the violation of any city municipal civil infraction, a person who violates
Part 91, the Rules or this ordinance shall be subject to such penalties, fines
and other relief as provided in Part 91.
CHAPTER 155:
FLOOD CONTROL
Section
   
155.01   Title
   
155.02   Intent and purpose
   
155.03   Definitions
   
155.04   Construction in floodway; flood hazard area zone
   
155.05   Uses in floodplain areas
   
155.06   Uses prohibited by other ordinances
   
155.07   Filling; requirements
   
155.08   Manufactured homes
   
155.09   Development and construction requirements
   
155.10   Construction in flood hazard area; standards
   
155.11   Flood hazard area; standards regarding base flood level
   
155.12   Mobile homes; mobile home parks; standards
   
155.13   Areas of shallow flooding; standards
   
155.14   Development in zones A1-30; regulatory floodway
   
155.15   Board of Flood Control Appeals
   
155.16   Plan review; certification
   
155.17   Hearings
   
155.18   Permit refusal
   
155.19   Appeal for change in designation
   
155.20   Variance hearing; fee established
   
155.21   Disclaimer of liability
   
155.22   Election to enforce state construction code and Michigan Building Code
   
155.23   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard area
§ 155.01   TITLE.
   The short title of this ordinance shall be the “City Flood Control
Ordinance.”
§ 155.02   INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this ordinance to significantly reduce hazards to
persons and damage to property as a result of flood conditions in the city, and
to comply with the provisions and requirements of the National Flood Insurance
Program, as constituted in accord with the National Flood Insurance Act of
1968, and subsequent enactments and rules and regulations promulgated in
furtherance of this program by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Federal Insurance Administration, as published in the Federal
Register, Vol. 41, No. 207, Tuesday, October 26, 1976.
      (1)   To regulate and restrict the construction of structures on lands
within the city which are known to be subject to periodic flooding conditions
through natural causes.
      (2)   To prevent floodplain encroachment by restricting filling or
construction thereon which will cause flood water backup or impede the ability
of the floodplain areas to retain flood waters, resulting in additional
downstream damage.
      (3)   To encourage public awareness of flooding potentials.
      (4)   To satisfy federal government requirements necessary to enable the
citizens of the city to qualify for federal flood insurance.
      (5)   To protect life and property.
   (B)   The purpose of this statement of purposes is to provide guidelines for
the Board of Flood Control Appeals to aid in determination of their duties as
described herein.
   (C)   Further, the objectives of this ordinance include:
      (1)   The protection of human life, health, and property from the
dangerous and damaging effects of flood conditions;
      (2)   The minimization of public expenditures for flood control projects,
rescue and relief efforts in the aftermath of flooding, repair of flood-damaged
public facilities and utilities, and the redevelopment of flood-damaged homes,
neighborhoods, commercial, and industrial areas;
      (3)   The prevention of private and public economic loss and social
disruption as a result of flood conditions;
      (4)   The maintenance of stable development patterns not subject to the
blighting influence of flood damage;
      (5)   To ensure that the public has access to information indicating the
location of land areas subject to periodic flooding; and
      (6)   To preserve the ability of floodplains to carry and discharge a
base flood.
§ 155.03   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF SHALLOW FLOODING.  A designated AO zone on a community’s Flood
Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) with base flood depths from 1 to 3 feet where a
clearly defined channel does not exist, where the path of flooding is
unpredictable, and indeterminate, and where velocity flow may be evident.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  Land which on the basis of available floodplain
information is subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given area.
   FLOOD HAZARD BOUNDARY MAP or FHBM.  An official map of a community, issued
by the Federal Insurance Administration, where boundaries of the areas of
special flood hazard have been designated as Zone A.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  The official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration.  The report contains flood profiles, as well as the
Flood Hazard Boundary-Floodway Map and the water surface elevation of the base
flood.
   FLOODPLAIN.  All land which is adjacent to a floodway located at the
elevation less than 2 feet above the highest normal height of the water in the
spring of each year in the floodway and is not separated from the floodway by a
land mass at least 4 feet higher than the highest normal height of the water in
the spring in the floodway; or that greater floodplain area as identified in
the map of the city which is a part of this ordinance.
   FLOODWAY.  The channel of a stream or ditch which regularly carries during
most of the year.  The channel of the stream shall be deemed to be the highest
point to which the water normally rises each spring.  All FLOODWAYS are
identified on the map of the city which is a part of this ordinance as special
flood hazard area.
   HARMFUL INCREASE.  An unnaturally high stage on a river, stream, or lake
which causes or may cause damage to property, threat to life, personal injury,
or damage to land or water resources.
   LOWEST FLOOR.  The lowest floor of the lowest enclosed area (including
basement).  An unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure, usable solely for
parking of vehicles, building access, or storage, in an area other than
basement area, is not considered a building’s LOWEST FLOOR, provided that the
enclosure is not built so as to render the structure in violation of the
applicable non-elevation design requirements of this ordinance.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.  A building transportable in 1 or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.  The term
MANUFACTURED HOME does not include park trailers, travel trailers, and other
similar vehicles unless placed on a site for a period of greater than 180
days.  For insurance purposes the term MANUFACTURED HOME does not include park
trailers, travel trailers, or other similar vehicles.
   MANUFACTURED HOME PARK OR SUBDIVISION.  A parcel or contiguous parcels of
land divided into 2 or more manufactured home lots for sale or rent.
   MOBILE HOME.  A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which is
built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities.  It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION.  Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this ordinance.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION.  For other than new construction or substantial
improvements under the Coastal Barrier Resources Act, Pub. L. No. 97-348,
includes substantial improvement, and means the date the building permit was
issued, provided the actual start of construction, repair, reconstruction,
placement, or other improvement was within 180 days of the permit date.  The
actual start means either the first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slab or footings, the installation
of piles, the construction of columns, or any work beyond the stage of
excavation, or the placement of a manufactured home on a foundation.  Permanent
construction does not include land preparation, such as clearing, grading, and
filling; nor does it include the installation of streets or walkways; nor does
it include excavation for a basement, footings, piers, or foundations, or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings, such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not part of the main structure.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
gas or liquid storage facility, as well as a mobile home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure, either before the improvement or repair is started, or, if the
structure has been damaged and is being restored, before the damage occurred. 
SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered to occur when the first alteration of any
wall, ceiling, floor, or other structural part of the building commences,
whether or not that alteration affects the external dimensions of the
structure.  The term does not, however, include either any project for
improvement of a structure to comply with existing state or local health,
sanitary, or safety code specifications which are solely necessary to ensure
safe living conditions, or any alteration of a structure listed on the National
Register of Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
§ 155.04   CONSTRUCTION IN FLOODWAY; FLOOD HAZARD AREA ZONE.
   (A)   No building, manufactured home, structure, dam, or fill of any kind
shall be placed in any floodway or allowed to be maintained in any floodway. 
Any existing building, structure, dam, or fill which is located in any floodway
and damaged or destroyed to the extent of 10% of the value thereof, shall not
be permitted to be repaired or restored, unless the Board of Flood Control
Appeals shall approve of the restoration after an investigation and a hearing
being held thereon.
      (1)   This restriction may be modified or altered by the Board of Flood
Control Appeals if the Board shall determine that no substantial effect upon
the rapid discharge of storm waters causing flooding or potential flooding to
land not controlled by the applicant and no substantial danger of flood damage
to any structures controlled by the applicant or others shall result from the
modification.
      (2)   Provided further, that if permission from any other state or city
agency, including the State Department of Natural Resources, shall be required
by other law, then prior to application to the Board of Flood Control Appeals
the applicant shall first obtain the approval of that state or city agency.
   (B)   (1)   The boundaries of the flood hazard area zone shall coincide with
the boundaries of the areas indicated as within the limits of the 100-year
flood in the report entitled Flood Insurance Study - City of Burton, dated
February 1980, with accompanying Flood Insurance Rate Maps and Flood Boundary
and Floodway Maps.  The boundaries of the regulatory floodway shall coincide
with the floodway boundaries indicated on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map. 
The study and accompanying maps are incorporated by reference as a portion of
this ordinance.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         FLOOD HAZARD AREA.  The flood hazard area zone.
         FLOODWAY.  The designated regulatory floodway.
      (3)   Where there are disputes as to the location of a flood hazard area
zone boundary, the Board of Flood Control Appeals shall resolve the dispute.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to other requirements of this ordinance applicable
to development in the underlying zoning district, compliance with the
requirements of this section shall be necessary for all development occurring
within the flood hazard area zone.  Conflicts between the requirements of this
section and other requirements of this ordinance or any other ordinance shall
be resolved in favor of this section, except where the conflicting requirement
is more stringent and would further the objectives of this section.  In those
cases the more stringent requirement shall be applied.
      (2)   This section shall also apply to floodplains designated on other
engineering studies of the city which are not included within the above-
described study.
§ 155.05   USES IN FLOODPLAIN AREAS.
   (A)   The following uses shall be permitted in floodplain areas, provided
that no such use shall interfere with the natural drainage of floodplain areas,
and provided also that these uses shall not unreasonably interfere with the
natural storage capacity of storm waters upon the floodplain areas.  Uses not
allowed herein are prohibited.
      (1)   Uses permitted upon floodplain areas shall include the following:
         (a)   Agricultural uses such as general farming, pasture, grazing,
outdoor plant nurseries, horticulture, viticulture, truck farming, forestry,
sod farming, and wild crop harvesting;
         (b)   Industrial-commercial uses such as loading areas, parking areas,
airport landing strips;
         (c)   Private and public recreational uses such as golf courses,
tennis courts, driving ranges, archery ranges, picnic grounds, boat launching
ramps, swimming areas, parks, wildlife and nature preserves, game farms, fish
hatcheries, shooting preserves, target ranges, trap and skeet ranges, hunting
and fishing areas, and hiking and horseback riding trails; and
         (d)   Residential uses such as lawns, gardens, parking areas, and play
areas.
      (2)   Mechanical and utility equipment used in conjunction with the above
stated uses shall be subject to the following:  all electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air-conditioning equipment and other service
facilities shall be designed and located so as to prevent water from entering
or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (B)   (1)   The following uses which involve structures (temporary or
permanent), fill, or storage of equipment may be permitted in floodway or
floodplain areas after application to the Board of Flood Control Appeals and
approval of that Board if the Board shall determine that the structures will
not unreasonably interfere with the natural drainage of the floodway or
floodplain area, and provided further that the Board shall determine that
occasional flooding will not in all likelihood damage the structure or use:
         (a)   Circuses, carnivals, and similar transient amusement
enterprises;
         (b)   Drive-in theaters, new and used car lots, roadside stands,
signs, and billboards;
         (c)   Extraction of sand, gravel, and other materials;
         (d)   Marinas, boat rentals, docks, piers, and wharves;
         (e)   Railroads, streets, bridges, utility transmission lines, and
pipelines;
         (f)   Storage yards for equipment, machinery, or materials;
         (g)   Kennels and stables; and
         (h)   Other uses and structures similar to the above which are not
likely to be damaged by a flood and which do not unreasonably interfere with
natural drainage of storm water.
      (2)   Mechanical and utility equipment used in conjunction with the above
stated uses shall be subject to the following:  all electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air-conditioning equipment and other service
facilities shall be designed and located so as to prevent water from entering
or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
§ 155.06   USES PROHIBITED BY OTHER ORDINANCES.
   It is not intended by this ordinance to permit any use which is prohibited
by
Chapter 157 of this code (the city zoning ordinance), or by any other ordinance
or code provision.
§ 155.07   FILLING; REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is not intended by this ordinance to impede or prohibit development
of privately owned properties which by proper filling can be safely raised
above the floodplain area, provided that this filling does not alter the
natural storm drainage in any manner which will unreasonably discharge storm
waters upon the lands of others or unreasonably impede the natural flow of
storm waters.
   (B)   In the event the owner of lands shall elect to fill floodplain areas
for the purpose of improvement of the same, then the owner shall apply to the
Board of Flood Control Appeals for permission, and if the Board shall determine
that the intent and purpose of this section or this ordinance shall be
preserved by granting that permission, then permission may be granted.  Upon
completion of the fill as directed by the Board of Flood Control Appeals, then
thereafter the owner of the land involved may make future improvements thereon,
even though the area is within the floodplain area designated upon the maps
which are part of this ordinance, without further permission from the Board. 
The Board may impose conditions, including requiring bond, as it shall deem
necessary to preserve the intent and purpose of this ordinance when granting
permission to fill.  In its consideration the Board of Flood Control Appeals
shall utilize the criteria as set forth in §
155.02 of this code and the general and specific standards for flood hazard
reduction and the specific base flood elevation standards.
§ 155.08   MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   All manufactured homes to be placed or substantially improved within
Zones Al-3, AH, and AE shall be elevated on a permanent foundation so that the
lowest floor of the manufactured home is at or above the base flood elevation,
and be securely anchored to an adequately anchored foundation system.
   (B)   Require that all manufactured homes to be placed within Zone A on a
community’s FHBM or FIRM shall be installed using methods and practices which
minimize flood damage.  For the purposes of this requirement, manufactured
homes must be elevated and anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement.  Methods of anchoring may include, but are not limited to, use of
over-the-top or frame ties to ground anchor.  This requirement is in addition
to applicable state and local anchoring requirements for resisting wind
forces.  Use of over-the-top or frame ties will continue to be acceptable. 
However, FEMA believes that anchoring techniques alone are ineffective in
resisting flood forces.  A manufactured home should be elevated above the base
level and anchored to the elevated foundation.  FEMA’s manual, (FEMA 85),
Manufactured Home Installation in Flood Hazard Areas, published in September,
1985, provides guidance on elevated and anchoring techniques.
§ 155.09   DEVELOPMENT AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Zoning compliance permit.  Development, including the erection of
structures and placement of mobile homes, within a flood hazard area shall not
occur except upon issuance of a zoning compliance permit in accord with the
requirements of
Chapter 157 of this code and the following standards:
      (1)   The requirements of this section shall be met;
      (2)   The requirements of the underlying zoning districts and applicable
general provisions of this ordinance shall be met; and
      (3)   All necessary development permits shall have been issued by
appropriate local, state, and federal authorities, including a floodplain
permit, approval, or letter of no authority from the State Department of
Natural Resources under authority of Public Act 245 of 1929, being M.C.L.A. §§
323.1 - 323.12, as amended by Public Act 167 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 -
323.5b.  Where a development permit cannot be issued prior to the issuance of a
zoning compliance permit, a letter from the issuing agency indicating intent to
issue contingent only upon proof of zoning compliance shall be acceptable.
   (B)   Enclosures below a structure’s lowest floor.  For all new construction
and substantial improvements, fully enclosed areas below the lowest floor that
are subject to flooding shall be designed to automatically equalize hydrostatic
flood forces on exterior walls by allowing for the entry and exit of flood
waters.  Designs for meeting this requirement must either be certified by
registered professional engineer or architect or must meet or exceed the
following minimum criteria: 
      (1)   A minimum of 2 openings having a total net area of not less than 1
square inch for every square foot of enclosed area subject to flooding shall be
provided;
      (2)   The bottom of all openings shall be no higher than 1 foot above
grade; and
      (3)   Openings may be equipped with screens, louvers, or other coverings
or devices, provided that they permit the automatic entry and exit of flood
waters.
   (C)   Mechanical and electrical equipment.  All the electrical, heating,
ventilation, plumbing, and air-conditioning equipment and other service
facilities shall be designed and located so as to prevent water from entering
or accumulating within the components during conditions of flooding.
   (D)   New subdivision proposals and development.  All new subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments (including proposals for manufactured
home parks and subdivisions) greater than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is the
lesser, include within those proposals base flood elevation data.
§ 155.10   CONSTRUCTION IN FLOOD HAZARD AREA; STANDARDS.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements within a flood
hazard area, including the placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile
homes, shall:
      (1)   Be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement of the structure;
      (2)   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to
flood damage; and
      (3)   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
   (C)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
systems into flood waters.  On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to
avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system during
flooding.
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities shall be designed, constructed,
and located to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (E)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (F)   The Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her
representative shall review development proposals to determine compliance with
the standards in this section, and shall transmit his or her determination to
the Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Land shall not be divided in a manner creating parcels or lots which
cannot be used in conformance with the requirements of this section.
   (H)   The flood-carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse
not subject to state or federal regulations designed to ensure flood-carrying
capacity shall be maintained.
   (I)   Available flood hazard data from federal, state, or other sources
shall be reasonably utilized in meeting the standards of this section.  Data
furnished by the Federal Insurance Administration shall take precedence over
data from other sources.
§ 155.11   FLOOD HAZARD AREA; STANDARDS REGARDING BASE FLOOD LEVEL.
   (A)   On the basis of the most recent available base flood elevation data,
the following standards shall apply in the flood hazard area zone:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the base flood level; and
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall have either:
         (a)   The lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above the
base flood level; or
         (b)   Be constructed so that below base flood level, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy.  A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the standards of this subsection are satisfied, and that the
floodproofing methods employed are adequate to withstand the flood depths,
pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors associated
with a base flood in the location of the structure.
   (B)   The most recent base flood elevation data received from the Federal
Insurance Administration shall take precedence over data from other sources.
§ 155.12   MOBILE HOMES; MOBILE HOME PARKS; STANDARDS.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties in accord with the
following specifications:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the 4 corners of the
mobile home, with 2 additional ties per side at intermediate locations, except
that on mobile homes less than 50 feet in length 1 tie per side shall be
required;
      (2)   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home with 5
additional ties per side at intermediate points, except that on mobile homes
less than 4 ties per side shall be required;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds;
      (4)   All additions to a mobile home shall be similarly anchored; and
      (5)   Subsections (A)(1) - (A)(4) shall not apply to mobile home parks in
existence at the effective date of this ordinance.
   (B)   An evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and escape
routes shall be filed with the Director of Civil Defense for mobile home parks
and mobile home subdivisions.
   (C)   Mobile homes within zones A1-30 on the Flood Insurance Rate Map shall
be located in accord with the following standards:
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be placed on stands or lots which are
elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile
home will be at or above the base flood level;
      (2)   Adequate surface drainage away from all structures and access for a
mobile home hauler shall be provided;
      (3)   In the instance of elevation on pilings, lots shall be large enough
to permit steps; piling foundations shall be placed in stable soil no more than
10 feet apart; and reinforcement shall be provided for piers more than 6 feet
above ground level; and
      (4)   In mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions which exist at
the time this section is adopted, where reconstruction or improvement of
streets, utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the streets,
utilities, and pads before the repair, the standards in subsections (C)(1) -
(C)(3) of this section shall be complied with.
§ 155.13   AREAS OF SHALLOW FLOODING; STANDARDS.
   The following standards shall apply in areas of shallow flooding denoted as
AO zones on the FIRM.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the
crown of the nearest street to or above the depth number specified on the FIRM.
   (B)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall either:
      (1)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated above the crown
of the nearest street to or above the depth number specified on the FIRM; or
      (2)   Be floodproofed together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities.
§ 155.14   DEVELOPMENT IN ZONES A1-30; REGULATORY FLOODWAY.
   (A)   New construction, substantial improvements, and all other development,
including fill, shall be prohibited within zones numbered A1-30 on the FIRM,
except where it is demonstrated to the Zoning Administrator that the cumulative
effect of the proposed development when combined with all other existing and
anticipated development will not harmfully increase the water surface elevation
of a base flood.  In determining whether a harmful increase will occur,
compliance with Public Act 245 of 1929, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 - 323.12, as
amended by Public Act 167 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 - 323.5b, shall be
required, provided that the allowable increase shall not exceed 1 foot.  The
provisions of this section shall not apply within the regulatory floodway.  The
provisions of subsection (B) shall be applied to land situated within the
regulatory floodway.
   (B)   All development occurring within the regulatory floodway shall comply
with the following standards:
      (1)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements, and other development shall be prohibited.  Exception to this
prohibition shall only be made upon certification by a registered professional
engineer or the Department of Natural Resources that the development proposed
will not result in any increases in flood levels during a base flood discharge,
and compliance with Public Act 245 of 1929, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 - 323.12,
as amended by Public Act 167 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 - 323.5b;
      (2)   The placement of mobile homes shall be prohibited except in mobile
home parks and subdivisions which exist at the time this section is adopted;
and
      (3)   Development which is permitted in the regulatory floodway shall
meet the requirements of §§
155.10 -
155.14 of this code.
   (C)   The uses of land permitted in an underlying zoning district shall not
be construed as being permitted within the regulatory floodway, except upon
compliance with the provisions in this section.
§ 155.15   BOARD OF FLOOD CONTROL APPEALS.
   The Board of Flood Control Appeals shall consist of 3 members appointed by
the Mayor with concurrence of the City Council.  The members of this Board
shall hold office at the discretion of the Mayor.
§ 155.16   PLAN REVIEW; CERTIFICATION.
   (A)   Plan review.  The Zoning Administrator shall obtain, review, and
reasonably utilize any base flood elevation and floodway data available from a
federal, state, or other source, as criteria for requiring that new
construction, substantial improvements, or other development in Zone A for
compliance with §§
155.06 -
155.09 of this code.  Note that available base flood data include data
submitted with subdivision proposals and other proposed developments greater
than 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is less, including manufactured home parks
and subdivisions.
   (B)   Elevation certification.  The city shall require a certificate of
elevation and maintain a file of these certificates for the lowest floor,
including basements, if the flood elevation data is obtained from other sources
than the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRM), as administered by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA).
   (C)   Floodproofing certificate.  All nonresidential structure is intended
to be made watertight below the base flood level.
      (1)   A registered professional engineer or architect shall develop or
review structural design, specifications, and plans for the construction, and
shall certify that the design and methods of construction are in accordance
with accepted standards of practice for meeting the applicable provisions of
this
Chapter 155; and
      (2)   A record of these certificates which includes the specific
elevation (in relation to mean sea level) to which the structures are
floodproofed shall be maintained with the official designated by the community.
§ 155.17   HEARINGS.
   Hearings before the Board of Flood Control Appeals shall be public hearings
following written application and such notice to adjoining property owners as
the Board shall deem appropriate.
§ 155.18   PERMIT REFUSAL.
   The Building Inspector shall be authorized to refuse building permits to any
person violating the provisions of this ordinance.
§ 155.19   APPEAL FOR CHANGE IN DESIGNATION.
   (A)   In the event any owner of land which shall have been designated as
floodway or floodplain area shall believe that this designation was initially
unwarranted or shall by virtue of improved drainage or other changing
conditions have become unreasonable as applied to his or her property, then he
or she may apply to the Board of Flood Control Appeals for a change in
designation.
   (B)   The Board may change the designation if it shall find that the
designation is unwarranted and a change will not adversely affect the intent
and purpose of this ordinance.
§ 155.20   VARIANCE HEARING; FEE ESTABLISHED.
   The City Council shall establish, by resolution, a fee to be charged to any
person, firm, or corporation for a variance hearing for any type of
construction above or below ground level or to fill within any floodplain or
floodway area as defined under the terms of this ordinance.
§ 155.21   DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this ordinance is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based upon engineering and scientific
methods of study.  Larger floods may occur on rare occasions.  Flood heights
may be increased by human-made or natural causes, such as ice jams and bridge
openings restricted by debris.  Approval of the use of land under this
ordinance shall not be considered a guarantee or warranty of safety from flood
damage.  This ordinance does not imply that areas outside the flood hazard area
will be free from flood damage.  This ordinance does not create liability on
the part of the city or any officer or employees thereof for any flood damages
that result from reliance on this ordinance or any administrative decision
lawfully made thereunder.
§ 155.22   ELECTION TO ENFORCE STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE AND MICHIGAN BUILDING
CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in
accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the public Acts of 1972, as
amended, the Building Official of the City of Burton is hereby designated as
the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the City of Burton
under Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, State of Michigan. The
City of Burton assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of
said Act throughout the corporate limits of the community adopting this
ordinance.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in
accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as
amended, Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code shall be enforced by the
enforcing agency within the City of Burton.
§ 155.23   DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
entitled Genesee County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions) and dated September 25,
2009, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRMS) panel number 26049C; 0192D,
0194D, 0211D 0212D,  0213D,  0214D, 0302D,  0304D, 0306D, 0307D, 0308D, 0309D,
3026D, 0327D, 0328D and 0329D and dated September 25, 2009, are adopted by
reference for the purposes of administration of the Michigan Construction Code,
and declared to be a part of Section 1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code, and
to provide the content of the "Flood Hazards" section of Table R301.2(1) of the
Michigan Residence Code.
CHAPTER 156:
SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Short title
   
156.02   Purpose
   
156.03   Authority
   
156.04   Interpretation; minimum requirements
   
156.05   Existing subdivisions and lots
   
156.06   Application; conformance required
   
156.07   Definitions
Platting Procedures
   
156.20   Preliminary investigation
   
156.21   Pre-preliminary plat review
   
156.22   Preliminary plat; submission; review and tentative approval
   
156.23   Preliminary plat; submission; review and final approval
   
156.24   Final plat; submission; review and approval
Design Standards; Improvements
   
156.35   Minimum standards
   
156.36   Streets and alleys
   
156.37   Pedestrian ways
   
156.38   Utility and drainage easements
   
156.39   Lots
   
156.40   Blocks
   
156.41   Use restrictions and modifications
   
156.42   Financial guarantee arrangements
   
156.43   Condition of final plat approval; guarantee of required improvements
   
156.44   Required improvements
Variances
   
156.55   Undue hardship; factors
   
156.56   Topographical or physical limitation variance
   
156.57   Planned unit development or cluster subdivision variance
Administration and Enforcement
   
156.70   Fees adopted
   
156.71   Plats and improvements; approval and conformance required
   
Appendix A:   Good Subdivision Design Practices
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01   SHORT TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known and referred to as the city’s “Subdivision
Control Ordinance.”
§ 156.02   PURPOSE.
   These subdivision controls have been enacted for the purpose of protecting
the public health, convenience, safety, and general welfare of the residents of
the city and of ensuring the orderly growth and harmonious development of the
city by requiring:
   (A)   Proper arrangement of streets in relation to existing or planned
streets, adjoining subdivisions and public facilities, and the city’s land use
plan;
   (B)   Adequate and convenient open spaces for traffic, utilities, access of
firefighting equipment, recreation, light, air, privacy, and safety from fire
hazards;
   (C)   Avoidance of population congestion;
   (D)   Ensurance of adequate provisions for water, drainage, and sanitary
sewer facilities and other health requirements; and
   (E)   Planning for the provision of adequate recreational areas, school
sites, and other public facilities.
§ 156.03   AUTHORITY.
   These regulations are made, interpreted, and enforced by the City Council
and City Planning Commission under authority of the state, Subdivision Control
Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293.
§ 156.04   INTERPRETATION; MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall be construed to be the minimum
requirements necessary for the preservation of public health, safety, and
welfare within the city.  This ordinance is not intended to repeal, abrogate,
or supersede any existing regulations of the city, nor to conflict with any
statutes, laws, or regulations of the state or the county, except that this
ordinance shall prevail in cases where this ordinance imposes a lawful
restriction or requirement more severe than existing statutes, laws, or
regulations.
§ 156.05   EXISTING SUBDIVISIONS AND LOTS.
   This ordinance shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision created or recorded prior to the effective date of the ordinance
except for the further dividing of lots or parcels.  This ordinance shall
apply, however, to existing outlots.
§ 156.06   APPLICATION; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Scope.  Subsequent to the effective date of these regulations, no plat
within the city shall be approved by the City Council unless it conforms to
this ordinance, nor shall any lot or parcel be split or otherwise divided
unless it conforms to this ordinance.
   (B)   General provisions.  Any division of land which results in a
subdivision as defined in § 156.07 shall be surveyed and a plat thereof
submitted, approved, and recorded as required by the provisions of this
ordinance and the state, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 -
560.293.  A replat of all or any part of a recorded subdivision plat may not be
approved or recorded unless proper court action has been taken to vacate the
original plat or the specific part thereof, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   When all the parties in interest agree in writing thereto and
record the agreement with the County Register of Deeds, and the City Council
has adopted a resolution or other legislative enactment vacating all areas
dedicated to public use;
      (2)   Assessors’ plats made, approved, and recorded as provided for in
Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293; or
      (3)   Urban renewal plats authorized by the City Council as provided in
Public Act 344 of 1945, as amended.  Roads, streets, alleys, and other public
places shall be vacated in accordance with the provisions of law.
§ 156.07   DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY.  A strip of land, public or private, generally for the purpose of
providing a secondary access to a lot, block, or parcel of land.
   AS-BUILT PLANS.  Revised construction plans in accordance with all approved
field changes.
   BLOCK.  An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, highways, or ways, except alleys, and the exterior boundary or
boundaries of the subdivision.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE.  A line established in a plat for the purpose
of prohibiting construction of any portion of a building or structure between
that line and any easement, right-of-way, or other public area.
   BUILDING PERMIT.  An authorization issued by the Building Inspector to move,
erect, or alter a structure within the city.
   CAPTION.  The name by which the plat is legally and commonly known.
   CITY BUILDING INSPECTOR.  The Building Inspector of the city or his or her
authorized representative.
   CITY CLERK.  The City Clerk of this city.
   CITY COUNCIL.  The City Council of this city.
   CITY ENGINEER.  The staff engineer or consulting engineer retained by the
city.
   CLEAR VISION ZONE.  The triangular area, at all corners of intersecting
roads or road junctions, defined by:  the point of intersection of the right-
of-way lines, and the line drawn between 2 points extended along those right-
of-way lines, within which area no obstruction to vision shall exist, in
accordance with the provisions of §
156.36(Q)(6) of this code.
   COMMERCIAL DEVELOPMENT.  A planned commercial center providing building
areas, parking areas, service areas, and turning movement.
   COUNTY DRAIN COMMISSIONER.  The County Drain Commissioner’s Office.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT.  The County Health Department.
   COUNTY PLAT BOARD.  The County Plat Board.
   COUNTY ROAD COMMISSION.  The County Board of Road Commissioners.
   DEDICATION.  The intentional appropriation of land by the owner to public
use.
   EASEMENT.  A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by
the public, a corporation, or private person or persons for a specific purpose
or purposes, to be designated as a public or private easement depending on
nature of use.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.  The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of underground,
surface, or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems,
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles, and other similar equipment,
and accessories in connection therewith, as shall be reasonably necessary for
the furnishing of adequate service by those public utilities or municipal
departments or commissions or for the public health or general welfare, but not
including buildings other than those buildings as are primarily enclosures or
shelters of the above essential service equipment.
   FLOODPLAIN.  The area of land adjoining the channel of a river, stream,
watercourse, lake, or other similar body of water which will be inundated by
the greatest flood that can be reasonably expected for that area (100-year
interval).
   GOVERNING BODY.  The City Council of this city.
   GREENBELTS or BUFFER PARKS.  A strip or parcel of land, privately restricted
or publicly dedicated as open space, located between incompatible uses for the
purpose of protecting and enhancing the residential environment.
   IMPROVEMENTS.  Any additions to the natural actual state of the land which
increases its value, utility, or habitability.  IMPROVEMENTS include street
pavements, with or without curbs and gutters, sidewalks, water mains, storm and
sanitary sewers, street trees, and other appropriate and similar items.
   INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT.  A planned industrial area designed specifically for
industrial use.
   LAND USE PLAN.  The land use plan for the city, including graphic and
written proposals indicating the general location and recommendations for land
use, streets, parks, public areas, and all physical developments existing or
proposed for the city.
   LOT.  A parcel of land of at least sufficient size to meet minimum zoning
requirements for use, coverage, and area, and to provide those yards and other
open spaces as herein required.  The LOT shall have frontage on an approved
public street, or on a private street as defined in § 151.024 of this code.
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
      (3)   A combination of contiguous lots of record, or contiguous portions
of lots of record; and
      (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds.
   LOT DEPTH.  The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which is part of a subdivision recorded in the office
of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by metes and
bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between the side lot lines, measured at
the 2 points where the building line or setback line intersects the side lot
lines.
   OUTLOT.  A lot in a subdivision which is restricted from use for building
purposes, whether or not deeded to the city, but which is not dedicated as a
street or public reservation or private park.  An OUTLOT cannot be built on
unless it conforms to this ordinance.
   PARCEL or TRACT.  A continuous area or acreage of land which can be
described as provided for in the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of
1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293.
   PERFORMANCE BOND GUARANTEE.  Any bond acceptable by the City Council in lieu
of a requirement that certain public improvements be made by the developer
prior to approval of a final plat, including performance bonds, escrow
deposits, and other similar collateral or surety agreements; which bond will be
payable to the governmental body upon failure of the faithful performance of
the condition upon which the subdivision plot was approved, which payment shall
be made on demand after 1 full year after recordation of the final plat.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.  A land area which has both individual building
sites and common property, such as a park, and which is designated and
developed under 1 owner or organized group as a separate neighborhood or
community unit.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The City Planning Commission of this city.
   PLANNING CONSULTANT.  The Planning Consultant retained by the City Planning
Commission or the City Council to make recommendations on methods to provide
for the orderly future development of the city; also referred to as CITY
PLANNER.
   PLAT.  A map, drawing, or chart which depicts the plan of the proposed
subdivision of land and which is drawn in accordance with the regulations
hereinafter stated.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT.  A map of a subdivision of land made up in final form
ready for approval and recording in conformance to the requirements of the
Subdivision Control Act and this ordinance.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT.  A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision of land submitted to an approving authority for purposes of
preliminary consideration, prepared in conformance with the Subdivision Control
Act and this ordinance.
      (3)   PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT.  An informal plan or sketch drawn to scale
and in pencil, if desired, showing the existing features of a site and its
surroundings and the general layout of a proposed subdivision.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE.  Land dedicated or reserved for use by the general
public.  It includes parks, parkways, recreation areas, school sites, community
or public building sites, streets and highways, and public parking spaces.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION.  A portion of a subdivision which is set aside for
public use, made available for public use, or made available for public
acquisition.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or
board duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under municipal or state
regulation to the public:  transportation, water, gas, electricity, telephone,
steam, telegraph, or sewage disposal.
   PUBLIC WALKWAY or PEDESTRIAN WAY.  A public right-of-way dedicated for the
purpose of a pedestrian access.
   REPLAT.  The process of changing, or the map or plat which changes, the
boundaries of a recorded subdivision plat or part thereof.  The legal dividing
of an outlot within a recorded subdivision without changing the exterior
boundaries of the outlot is not a REPLAT.
   RESERVE STRIP.  A strip of land in a subdivision which extends across the
end of a street proposed to be extended by future platting or a strip which
extends along the length of a partial width street proposed by future platting
to the minimum permissible width.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  Land reserved, used, or to be used for a street, alley,
walkway, or other public purposes.
   ROADWAY.  The portion of the road right-of-way measured between curb faces.
   SEWER.  A public sanitary sewage disposal system approved by the State
Department of Health.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is always mandatory and not merely directory.
   STREET.  A right-of-way which provides for vehicular and pedestrian access
to abutting properties.
      (1)   ALLEY.  A strip of land dedicated to public use, generally for the
purpose of providing vehicular access to the rear or side of properties to
which the principal access is provided by an abutting street.
      (2)   COLLECTOR or SECONDARY STREET.  A street used to carry traffic from
minor streets to major thoroughfares, including principal entrance streets to
large residential developments.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC.  A minor street of short length having 1 end
permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      (4)   DEAD-END STREET.  A street with only 1 end open to vehicular
traffic and not provided with a vehicular turnaround at the other end.
      (5)   FREEWAY.  A street designed for high-speed, high-volume through
traffic, with completely controlled access, no grade crossings, and no private
driveway connections.
      (6)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE or ARTERIAL STREET.  Those streets and highways
which are used as through routes for large volumes of traffic and which have
considerable continuity within the municipality and the region beyond.
      (7)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET.  A local street which is parallel and
adjacent to arterial streets and which provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic.
      (8)   MINOR or LOCAL STREETS.  Those streets which are used primarily for
access to abutting properties and which have limited continuity.
   STREET RIGHT-OF-WAY WIDTH.  The shortest distance between the lines
delineating the boundaries of the right-of-way of streets.
   SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION.  The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract
of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose
of sale, or lease of more than 1 year, or a building development, where the act
of division creates 5 or more parcels of land each of which is 10 acres or less
in area, or 5 or more parcels of land each of which is 10 acres or less in area
are created by successive divisions within a period of 10 years.
   SUBDIVIDER, PROPRIETOR, or DEVELOPER.  Any person, firm, or corporation,
estate, trust, or other group or combination acting as a unit, which divides or
proposes to divide land so as to constitute subdivision as defined herein. 
This definition shall be construed to include any agent of the SUBDIVIDER.  The
PROPRIETOR is also commonly referred to as the OWNER.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT.  The Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of
1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293.
   SURVEYOR.  Either a land surveyor who is registered in this state as a
registered land surveyor or a civil engineer who is registered in this state as
a registered professional engineer.
   TOPOGRAPHIC MAP.  A map showing existing physical characteristics with
contour lines and sufficient intervals to permit determination of proposed
grades and drainage.
   WATER RESOURCES COMMISSION.  The Water Resources Commission of this state.
   ZONING ORDINANCE or CHAPTER 157. 
Chapter 157 of this code, the zoning ordinance of the city, adopted as Ord. 19,
ser. 2, on June 17, 1974, in accordance with the provisions of Public Act 207
of 1921, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 - 125.590, and which is now in
effect as the zoning ordinance of this city.
PLATTING PROCEDURES
§ 156.20   PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Prior to the preparation of a preliminary plat, the subdivider may
meet informally with the City Planner to investigate the procedures and
standards of the city with reference to this ordinance and with the proposals
of the land use plan that affect the area in which the proposed subdivision is
located.
   (B)   It is the responsibility of the subdivider to:
      (1)   Familiarize himself or herself with
Chapter 157 of this code, this ordinance, engineering, specifications, and
other ordinances or controls relative to the subdivision and improvement of
land, so as to make himself or herself aware of the requirements of the city;
      (2)   Investigate the adequacy of existing schools and public open
spaces, including parks and playgrounds, to serve the proposed subdivision;
      (3)   Review the open space development options of
Chapter 157 to determine the feasibility of utilizing one of these approaches;
      (4)   Investigate the relationship of the proposed subdivision with
respect to major thoroughfares and plans for future widening of thoroughfares;
      (5)   Investigate the standards for sewage disposal, water supply, and
drainage of the city and the health standards of the county and the state; and
      (6)   Review Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293,
and the requirements of those state and county agencies which are required by
that Public Act to review and approve the plat.
§ 156.21   PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW.
   (A)   Pre-preliminary plat review is an aid to the developer and to the
city.  Under this procedure, a developer is provided with the opportunity to
avail himself or herself of the advice and assistance of the City Planner and
Engineer and the many agencies involved in subdividing, before preparation of
the preliminary plat and its submission for approval at his or her discretion.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall be so construed as to require any pre-
application contact.  Any subdivider may elect to begin the subdivision
procedure by submitting a preliminary plat.
§ 156.22   PRELIMINARY PLAT; SUBMISSION; REVIEW AND TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
   (A)   Tentative approval; effect.  Tentative approval under this section
shall confer upon the proprietor, for a period of 1 year, the rights granted
under Subdivision Control Act, § 112.
   (B)   Submittal.  The proprietor shall file 10 copies of the preliminary
plat and other data to the City Clerk at least 25 days before a meeting of the
Planning Commission.  The date of the Planning Commission meeting shall be
considered the filing date.  Copies shall be distributed by the Clerk as
follows:
      (1)   The City Clerk retains 4 copies;
      (2)   Two copies of the preliminary plat are sent to the Planning
Commission;
      (3)   Two copies of the preliminary plat are sent to the City Planner;
and
      (4)   Two copies of the preliminary plat are sent to the City Engineer.
   (C)   Information required.  The following information shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or submitted with it:
      (1)   The proposed name of the subdivision by which it will be legally
and commonly known.  The name shall not duplicate or closely approximate that
of any other subdivision recorded in the county;
      (2)   The legal description of the land to be platted and its area in
acres, and the name of the city and county.  Boundaries of the subdivision
shall be drawn in a heavy solid line and described by metes and bounds;
      (3)   The names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the proprietor, the
planner, designer, engineer, or surveyor who designed the subdivision layout;
      (4)   The names of abutting subdivisions, layout of streets, indicating
street names, right-of-way width, and connections with adjoining platted
streets, and locations of alleys, easements, and public walkways, and lot
layouts;
      (5)   A location map or vicinity sketch showing the relationship of the
proposed plat to the surrounding area;
      (6)   The existing land use and existing zoning of the proposed
subdivision and the abutting tracts, including abutting owners’ names;
      (7)   A drawing scale of 100 feet to 1 inch or larger;
      (8)   Date, cardinal points, and scale;
      (9)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development, including
future street rights-of-way, if the proposed plat is a portion of a larger
holding intended for subsequent development;
      (10)   Ten copies of the proposed protective covenants and deed
restrictions, or notification in writing that none are proposed.  If common
areas are to be reserved for use of the residents of the subdivision, copies of
an agreement showing how the area will be maintained shall also be submitted;
      (11)   The layout, numbers, and dimensions of lots, including building
setback lines;
      (12)   Indication of parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set
aside for public use or for the common use of property owners in the
subdivision, showing location, width, and purpose.  The plat shall show the
exact location of all floodplain areas;
      (13)   The location of any existing and proposed sanitary sewers, water
mains, storm drains, and other underground facilities within or adjacent to the
proposed subdivision, including the location and dimensions of easements
therefor;
      (14)   Contours at 5-foot intervals, where slope is greater than 10%, and
2-foot intervals where slope is 10% or less.  Topography is to be based on
U.S.G.S. datum;
      (15)   (a)   A site report, if the proposed subdivision is not to be
served by public water and sewer systems, as described in the rules of the
State Department of Public Health.
         (b)   The subdivider shall also furnish 3 copies of the results of
tests of soil percolation certified by a registered professional engineer or
registered land surveyor, these percolation tests to be sufficient in number to
be representative of the entire area embraced in the proposed plat, and a
minimum of 3 tests per acre.  Whenever, by the construction plans for proposed
improvements or otherwise, it is indicated that the grade of any lot will be
altered in any substantial degree from its grade existent at the time the
preliminary plat is submitted, the percolation tests shall be made at the final
grade contemplated upon completion of the improvements or filling or excavation
operations; provided, that if a lot is to be filled, percolation tests shall be
submitted at both the original grade and the final grade.  At the option of the
subdivider, if provided in writing, the submission of percolation tests, as to
the lots so affected, may be deferred to a date later than submission of the
preliminary plat but no later than submission of the final plat.
      (16)   Preliminary engineering plans for streets, water, sewers,
sidewalks, and other required public improvements.  The engineering plans shall
contain sufficient detail to enable the City Engineer to make preliminary
determination as to conformance of the proposed improvements to applicable City
and County Road Commission regulations and standards; and
      (17)   A statement indicating the proposed use to which the subdivision
will be put, along with a description of the type of residential buildings and
number of dwelling units contemplated or the type of business, so as to reveal
the effect of development on traffic, fire hazards, or congestion of
population.  The proposed uses shall not be in conflict with
Chapter 157 of this code.
   (D)   Review procedures.  The following review procedures shall be utilized:
      (1)   The City Clerk shall refer the preliminary plat to the City
Building Inspector for placement on the agenda of the next regular meeting of
the Planning Commission;
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat and the
comments of the City Planner and Engineer, and, finding all conditions to have
been satisfactorily met, shall recommend tentative approval of the preliminary
plat under Subdivision Control Act, § 112(4), before distribution to other
approving authorities;
      (3)   If the preliminary plat does not meet all requirements, the
Planning Commission shall notify the proprietor of this fact by letter, giving
its reasons and the earliest date for resubmission of the plat and additional
information required.  The City Council shall receive a report of the findings
by the Planning Commission and its recommendation for disapproval;
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall give its report to the City Council
not more than 60 days after submission of the preliminary plat.  The 60-day
period may be extended if the applicant consents.  If no action is taken within
60 days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to have been approved by the
Planning Commission;
      (5)   The City Council, at its next regular meeting after receiving the
recommendation from the Planning Commission, shall review the preliminary plat,
and within 90 days of filing shall tentatively approve the preliminary plat or
disapprove the plat.  The City Council shall record its approval on the plat
and return 1 copy to the proprietor or set forth in writing its reasons for
rejection and requirements for tentative approval; and
      (6)   Tentative approval shall not constitute final approval of the
preliminary plat.
§ 156.23   PRELIMINARY PLAT; SUBMISSION; REVIEW AND FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Final approval; effect.  Final approval of the preliminary plat under
this section shall confer upon the proprietor, for a period of 2 years from the
date of approval, the rights granted under Subdivision Control Act, § 120.  The
2-year period may be extended if applied for by the proprietor and granted by
the City Council in writing.  Written notice of the extension shall be sent by
the City Council to the other approving authorities.
   (B)   Submittal.
      (1)   The proprietor, upon receiving tentative approval from the City
Council, shall submit the preliminary plat to all authorities as required by §§
113 - 119 of the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, §§ 113 - 119,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.113 - 560.119, including:
         (a)   For approval or rejection:
            1.   The County Road Commission;
            2.   The County Drain Commission;
            3.   The State Department of State Highways;
            4.   The State Department of Conservation;
            5.   The State Water Resources Commission; and
            6.   The State Health Department.
         (b)   For informational purposes:
            1.   The County Plat Board;
            2.   All public utilities serving the area; and
            3.   The superintendent of the school district serving the area.
      (2)   The tentatively approved preliminary plat shall be submitted by the
proprietor in 10 copies to the City Clerk for final approval of the City
Council prior to the expiration of the tentative approval.  The City Clerk
shall, after retaining 2 copies, distribute 1 copy each to:
         (a)   The Planning Commission;
         (b)   The City Planner; and
         (c)   The City Engineer.
   (C)   Information required.  The following information shall be shown by the
proprietor on the preliminary plat or submitted to the City Clerk with it by
the proprietor:
      (1)   A list of all those authorities as required by Subdivision Control
Act, §§ 113 - 119, to the City Clerk, certifying that the list shows all
authorities as required.  The proprietor shall also provide approved copies of
plats from each of the required authorities;
      (2)   Complete metes and bounds descriptions of the subdivision boundary;
      (3)   Copy of the receipt from the City Treasurer that all engineering,
inspection fees, and other charges and deposits, as provided in §
156.70 of this code, have been paid; and
      (4)   Final engineering construction plans for all improvements to be
constructed in connection with the proposed plat in accordance with standards
and specifications of the City Engineer and §
156.44.
   (D)   Procedures.  The City Council, after receipt of the necessary approved
copies of the preliminary plat, shall:
      (1)   Consider the review and recommendations of the City Engineer and
City Planner for compliance with the tentatively approved preliminary plat
standards;
      (2)   Consider the preliminary plat at its next meeting or within 20 days
from the date of the submission of all necessary approved plats;
      (3)   If the preliminary plat conforms substantially to the plat approved
tentatively by the City Council and has met all conditions specified for
tentative approval, the City Council shall give final approval to the
preliminary plat;
      (4)   Instruct the City Clerk to promptly record on the copy of the
preliminary plat to be returned to the proprietor the approval or rejection
with reasons for that rejection;
      (5)   No construction of improvements shall be commenced by the
subdivider until he or she has:
         (a)   Received notice of final approval of the preliminary plat by the
City Council;
         (b)   Entered into a subdivision agreement with the city for
construction of all required subdivision improvements; and
         (c)   Assurances acceptable to the city for the installation of all
required improvements.  Assurances shall be deemed to include the posting of a
performance bond or letter of credit, or other means to guarantee those
improvements to the infrastructure as determined to be necessary by the City
Council.
      (6)   Construction of up to 4 model homes in a new subdivision may be
commenced by the proprietor, provided he or she has fully and satisfactorily
complied with the provisions of the preceding subsection (D)(5).  The model(s)
shall be constructed on proposed residential lots and in complete conformance
with all conditions and regulations which would be in effect if the final plat
were recorded. No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until that time when
the final plat is recorded and all utilities and other improvements are
installed, inspected, and accepted.
§ 156.24   FINAL PLAT; SUBMISSION; REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   Approval; survey.  Following final approval of the preliminary plat by
the City Council, the proprietor shall cause a survey and 5 true plats thereof
to be made by a surveyor.
   (B)   Submittal.  Final plats in 5 polyester film copies and an additional 5
paper prints of the final plat, along with the application, shall be submitted
to the City Clerk.
      (1)   A final plat shall not be accepted after the date of expiration of
the plat approval.
      (2)   Submittal to the Clerk shall be at least 10 days prior to a
regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council; that meeting shall be
considered as the date of filing.
   (C)   Information required.
      (1)   All final plats of subdivided land shall comply with the provisions
of survey and mapping requirements cited in the Subdivision Control Act, Public
Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293, especially those cited in
§§ 126 - 141.
      (2)   All final plats of subdivided land shall comply with the
certification requirements cited in the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288
of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293, especially those cited in §§ 142
- 151.
      (3)   An abstract of title shall be submitted certified to date of the
proprietor’s certificate to establish recordable ownership interest and any
other information deemed necessary for the purpose of ascertaining whether the
proper parties have signed the plat, or a policy of title insurance currently
in force, covering all of the land included within the boundaries of the
proposed subdivision.  The City Council, in lieu of an abstract of title, may
accept on its own responsibility an attorney’s opinion in writing based on the
abstract to title as to ownership and marketability of title of the land.
   (D)   Procedures.
      (1)   The final plat shall be reviewed by the City Engineer as to
compliance with the approved preliminary plat and plans for utilities and other
improvements.
      (2)   The City Council shall review all recommendations within 20 days
and take action on the final plat as soon as practicable after the filing of
that plat if it is in proper form.
      (3)   (a)   The City Council shall require all improvements and
facilities to be constructed or require assurances of the construction of those
improvements and facilities before it approves the final plat. The following
list constitutes the possible forms of assurance which may be deemed to be
acceptable:
            1.   Letter of credit from an approved financial institution;
            2.   Performance bond secured by an approved surety company;
            3.   Real estate holdings, free and clear of any liens or taxes;
            4.   Certified copy of a commitment letter from a reputable lending
institution assuring the availability of funds to construct the required public
utilities; and
            5.   Verification of funds on deposit with an insured bank or
lending institution.
         (b)   1.   The dollar value of the above-referenced 5 acceptable
assurances shall be an amount equal to 120% of the estimated cost of the
unfinished public improvements, as certified by the Director of the Department
of Public Works at such time as final plat approval is requested by the
developer of the City Council.
            2.   At the time the developer completes all required improvements
all assurances, less all costs incurred by the City of Burton shall be returned
to the developer.
            3.   Should the city be required to complete the improvements
required, the developer shall be responsible for the actual costs incurred by
the city irrespective of the amount of the assurances provided.
         (c)   The City Attorney shall approve financial credibility, as it
relates to the use of any of the 5 acceptable assurances.
         (d)   No performance/signatures guarantees or agreements will be
considered acceptable assurances.
      (4)   Upon the approval of the final plat by the City Council, the
subsequent approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the Subdivision
Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 - 560.293.  If
disapproved, the City Council shall instruct the Clerk to give the proprietor
its reasons in writing, as set forth in the minutes of the meeting, and return
the plat to the proprietor.
      (5)   The City Council shall instruct the Clerk to record all proceedings
in the minutes of the meeting, which shall be open for inspection, and to
certify on the approved final plat the Council’s approval and the date thereof
on behalf of the City Council.
      (6)   The Clerk shall transcribe a certificate of approval of the City
Council on the final plat and deliver all copies to the Clerk of the County
Plat Board together with the filing and recording as required by the
Subdivision Control Act.
      (7)   A final plat received by the State Treasurer more than 1 year
following the date of approval of the County Treasurer shall be returned to the
County Treasurer who shall make a new certificate, currently dated, relative to
paid or unpaid taxes, special assessments, and tax liens or titles.
      (8)   The Clerk shall transmit 1 paper print copy to the Planning
Commission, 1 paper print to the City Planner, and retain 1 paper print copy
temporarily in the files of the City Council.
      (9)   After all approvals mentioned in subsection (D)(4) above are
effectuated, and the State Treasurer receives notification of the recording of
the plat, he or she shall return 1 completely transcribed copy to the City
Clerk for filing as a matter of permanent record.
DESIGN STANDARDS; IMPROVEMENTS
§ 156.35   MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The standards set forth in this ordinance shall be the minimum standards
that any other standard tending to create a more hazardous condition shall not
be accepted.  All streets shall be dedicated to public use.  Arterial streets
shall be dedicated to public use in all cases.
§ 156.36   STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   (A)   Standards; conformance required.  The specifications herein set forth
are hereby declared to be the standards and general plan adopted by the City
Council for the width and location of all highways, streets, and alleys which
may hereafter be platted or accepted within the city, except that roads under
the jurisdiction of the County Road Commission shall conform to the road and
right-of-way standards and policies of the County Road Commission.  All
subdivision streets shall also be required to conform to the standards set
forth in the transportation plan adopted by the City Planning Commission.
   (B)   Layout.  The layout of the proposed streets shall provide for the
continuation of existing streets in surrounding areas or shall conform to a
plan for the neighborhood approved by the City Planning Commission in cases
where topographical or other conditions preclude the continuation of existing
streets.  In general, those streets shall be of a width as great as that of the
street so extended.  Due consideration shall be given to traffic safety.  Minor
residential streets shall be laid out so as to discourage their use by through
traffic.  Due consideration shall also be given by the subdivider to the
attractiveness of the street layout in order to obtain the maximum livability
and amenity of the subdivision.  Consideration shall also be given to the
proposed use of the subdivision and proper allowance made in industrial
subdivisions for potential and existing railroad right-of-way as conditions
will permit.  Any intersection occurring on a street which crosses a railroad
track shall not be less than 400 feet from the nearest railroad right-of-way. 
Greater distances may be required if it is deemed necessary for safety,
approach gradients, or future grade separations.
   (C)   Major thoroughfares.  Where the subdivision abuts or contains an
existing or proposed major thoroughfare, the City Planning Commission may, at
its discretion, require the construction of marginal access streets, reverse
frontage lots with provision of screen planting contained in a non-access
reservation along the rear property lines with a minimum width of 15 feet or
with side lot lines parallel to major thoroughfares, deep lots with rear-
service alleys, or other treatment which the Commission considers essential to
adequate protection of residential lots and to separation of through and local
traffic.
   (D)   Private streets and alleys.  Private streets and alleys shall not be
permitted, but rather, all streets and alleys shall be dedicated to the public.
   (E)   Half-street.  Half-streets shall not be permitted where a subdivision
adjoins undeveloped property, except for those major streets of over 60 feet in
right-of-way width as may be recommended in the city’s land use plan.  They
shall be permitted only when the City Planning Commission considers the use of
a half-street essential to the reasonable development of the subdivision in
accordance with the intent of these regulations and where the Commission finds
it practicable to require the dedication of the other half of the right-of-way
when the adjoining property is subdivided.  Wherever there already exists a
dedicated and recorded half-street or half-alley on an adjoining plat, the
other half shall be dedicated on the proposed plat to make the street or alley
complete.
   (F)   Street jogs.  Street jogs with centerline offsets of not less than 150
feet should be avoided.
   (G)   Cul-de-sacs.  Where required for the full and best utilization of the
property, cul-de-sacs may be utilized.  The maximum permissible length of cul-
de-sacs shall be 500 feet measured from the right- of-way line of the nearest
intersecting street to the farthest point on the right-of-way line of the cul-
de-sac.  Each cul-de-sac shall be provided at its closed end with a turnaround
having a diameter at the outside of the roadway pavement of at least 80 feet
and a property line diameter of at least 120 feet.  The remaining portion of
the cul-de-sac shall have a right-of-way width of at least 66 feet.  The
straight portion of the right-of-way shall be joined to the circular portion of
the right-of-way by circular curves with radii not less than 50 feet.
   (H)   Dead-end streets.  Dead-end streets shall be permitted only in cases
where the City Planning Commission is of the opinion that there is a reasonable
expectation that those streets will be extended to a suitable outlet when the
adjacent property is platted.  If the Commission permits the platting of dead-
end streets with the expectation of future expansion, the Commission shall
determine whether the subdivider shall provide an all weather temporary
turnaround at the closed end of the street.
   (I)   Alleys.  Alleys shall not be permitted in single-family detached or 2-
family or multiple-family residential areas, but may be permitted or required
in commercial or industrial areas for the purpose of service access, such as
for off-street parking and loading.  All such alleys shall have a minimum width
of 20 feet.  A diagonal cut-off shall be made at all acute and right-angle
intersections of 2 alleys sufficient to provide an inside turning radius of 30
feet.  Dead-end alleys shall be prohibited.
   (J)   Street names.  Street names shall not be permitted which might cause
confusion with names of existing streets in or near the city.  Streets that
will be continuations of existing streets shall be called by the same names of
the existing streets.  All names shall be approved by the City Planning
Commission.
   (K)   Building lines and setback lines.  Building lines shall conform to the
requirements of
Chapter 157 of this code.
   (L)   Right-of-way width.  The minimum right-of-way width shall be 66 feet. 
Greater right-of-way widths for major thoroughfares and collector streets may
be required by the City Planning Commission or the County Road Commission.
   (M)   Horizontal alignment.  The centerline of the pavement shall coincide
with the centerline of the right-of-way, except for irregular rights-of-way
widths.
   (N)   Street grades.  Profiles may be required on all streets at the
discretion of the City Planning Commission.  The minimum gradient allowed shall
be not less than 0.4% and not greater than 6%, except that upon recommendation
of the City Engineer an exception may be granted by the City Council.
   (O)   Street curvature.  The minimum horizontal centerline radii of curved
local streets shall be 200 feet.  Greater radii may be required for principal
streets having through traffic.
   (P)   Street alignment.  When street lines deflect from each other by more
than 10 degrees in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by a curve
with a minimum radius of 500 feet for major arterial streets, 300 feet for
collector streets, and 150 feet for local or minor streets.  Between reverse
curves, on minor streets, there shall be a minimum tangent distance of 100
feet, and on collector and arterial streets, 200 feet.
   (Q)   Street intersections.
      (1)   The intersection of more than 2 streets at 1 point shall be
avoided.  Exceptions to this requirement shall be considered individually by
the Planning Commission, and authorized only where there are no other
alternatives.
      (2)   Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees or closely thereto, and in no
case at less than 80 degrees.
      (3)   Except on arterials and certain collectors, T-type intersections
shall be used where practical.
      (4)   No street intersection shall be located closer to another
intersection than 200 feet.
      (5)   The intersections shall be provided with a minimum slope to
facilitate drainage.  This minimum slope shall be carried back 150 feet each
way from the intersection, measured from the centerline of the intersected
street.  An allowance of 3% maximum intersection grade will be permitted.
      (6)   There shall be a clear vision zone at all corners of intersecting
roads or road junctions, consisting of a triangular area defined by:  the point
of intersection of the right-of-way lines, and the line drawn between 2 points
extended along those right-of-way lines a distance of 25 feet from the point of
intersection; and within which area no obstruction to vision, excluding
existing topography, shall be permitted from a height of 2 feet to 8 feet above
centerline elevation of abutting streets, except that not more than 1 tree with
a trunk of not more than 30 inches in diameter, and clear of any branches for
those heights, may be located within that area; provided, however, that this
section shall not prohibit the requirement of a greater clear vision zone where
one is necessary in view of permitted traffic turning movements, existing and
anticipated traffic volumes, traffic speeds, intersection configurations,
geographic and topographic conditions, or any other unique characteristics
which may require a greater clear vision zone.  The area of the clear vision
zone shall be shown as an easement on the plat.
   (R)   Surface drainage.  The preferred plan for yard drainage shall provide
for drainage from the rear of the lot to the front of the lot with a minimum
grade of 1% and a maximum grade of 3% (FHA Type A).
      (1)   In the event it is found to be essential to the economic
development of substantial portions of a project, the easement at the rear of
the lot may be below the building grade.  In this event, the grade shall not be
less than 1% nor more than 3%, and the grade from the house to the street shall
not be less than 1%, with the building grade being not less than 12 inches
above the street grade.  Grades in excess of 3% shall be subject to the
approval of the City Engineer after recommendation from the City Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Where low easements are essential to the economical development of
major portions of the project, the longitudinal grade of that easement shall
not be less than 0.4%, and the length of run of that longitudinal easement
shall not exceed 500 feet of continuance drainage, with no more than 100 feet
of that drainage being upstream from an angle point in the easement.
      (3)   Where required by the City Engineer, a 4-inch drainage tile shall
be provided for easement drainage, with that drain tile being laid in a trench
being backfilled with pea gravel or approved bankrun gravel.  The depth of
grade and outlet for the tile being subject to city approval.
   (S)   Access to streets across ditches.  Subdividers shall provide access to
all proposed streets across watercourses or ditches in a standard manner
approved by the County Road Commission, the County Drain Commission, and the
City Engineer, where applicable.
   (T)   Acceleration and deceleration lanes.  Acceleration and deceleration
and passing lanes shall be provided at the intersections of a minor street with
a major thoroughfare as required by the highway authority having jurisdiction.
   (U)   Local or minor streets.  These streets shall be so arranged as to
discourage their use by through traffic.
   (V)   Relation to topography.  Streets shall be arranged in proper relation
to topography so as to result in usable lots, safe streets, and reasonable
gradients.
   (W)   Marginal access streets.  Where a subdivision abuts or contains a
major thoroughfare, the city may require:
      (1)   Marginal access streets approximately parallel to and on each side
of the right-of-way; or
      (2)   Other treatment as it deems necessary for the adequate protection
of residential properties and to afford separation of through and local
traffic.
§ 156.37   PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   Crosswalks.  Right-of-way for pedestrian crosswalks in the middle of
blocks exceeding 1,000 feet in length may be required where necessary to obtain
convenient pedestrian circulation to schools, parks, or shopping areas.  The
right-of-way shall be at least 10 feet wide and extend entirely through the
block.
   (B)   Surfacing.  The entire walkway surface shall be constructed to meet
city concrete sidewalk specifications.  A 4-foot high chain link fence shall be
erected along the right-of-way lines.
§ 156.38   UTILITY AND DRAINAGE EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Underground utility easements.  The proprietor of a residential
subdivision shall make arrangements for all lines for telephone, electric,
television, and other similar services distributed by wire or cable to be
placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided area.  The proprietor in an
industrial or commercial subdivision shall make arrangements for all lines for
telephone, electric, television, and other similar services distributed by wire
or cable to be placed underground where they occur in the front yards of
subdivision lots.  In all subdivisions, these underground conduits or cables
shall be placed within dedicated public ways.  Overhead lines may be permitted
upon written recommendation of the City Engineer and City Planning Commission
and the approval of the City Council at the time of tentative approval of the
preliminary plat in those areas where it is determined that overhead lines will
not constitute a detriment to the health, safety, general welfare, plat design,
and character of the subdivision.  All facilities of this type placed in
dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other
underground utilities.  All facilities of this type shall be constructed in
accordance with standards of construction approved by the State Public Service
Commission.  Except where alleys are provided for the purpose, a private
utility easement, not less than 12 feet in width, with 6 feet located on each
side of the property line, shall be provided along a rear or side lot line as
determined by the Planning Commission.  Utility easements 6 feet in width are
permissible along rear property lines, in cases where the rear property lines
abut unplatted land.
   (B)   Drainage easements.
      (1)   Drainage easements shall be provided which conform substantially
with the lines of any natural watercourse, drainage ditch, channel, or stream. 
These easements shall be of adequate width for the particular conditions of the
site.  The City Planning Commission may, if it considers that requirement
necessary to the proper development of the subdivision and the circulation of
local traffic, require that the drain, if within a public right-of-way, be
filed and fully enclosed.
      (2)   Land within a public easement intended for surface use, or land
within a private utility easement for major electrical power transmission
lines, shall not be considered as satisfying a part of the minimum required lot
area.
   (C)   Private fencing.  Private fencing shall not be permitted within public
drainage easements.
§ 156.39   LOTS.
   (A)   Appropriate size.  The size, shape, and orientation of lots shall be
appropriate for the location of the subdivision and for the type of development
and use contemplated.  Residential lots shall be of such a size as to permit a
variety of house types, to provide side yards for desirable access, light, air,
privacy, and safety from fire hazards, and to provide for setbacks from the
street line and allow sufficient space for household purposes.
   (B)   Access.  All lots shall abut by their full frontage on a properly
dedicated street.  Lots, other than corner lots, shall not be permitted to
front onto 2 streets.
   (C)   Width.  The minimum width of any residential lot shall be 70 feet,
except that greater widths may be required in
Chapter 157 of this code.  Where desirable to plat wedge-shaped lots so as to
best utilize a parcel of land, the required lot width shall be measured at the
front building line and parallel to the front property line; when the front
building line is narrower than the front lot line, the lot width shall be
measured at the rear building line and be parallel to the rear property line.
   (D)   Depth.  No lot shall be less than 120 feet in depth.  The depth of a
lot shall not exceed a depth to width ratio of 2.5 to 1.
   (E)   Corner lots.  Corner lots shall be provided an extra 15 feet of width
sufficient to permit the maintenance of building setback lines on both the
front and side street lines in order to protect similar setbacks on both the
front and side street which exist or are planned.
   (F)   Side lot lines.  Side property lines of lots shall generally be
perpendicular to straight street lines or radial to curved street lines unless
a variation from this rule will give a better lot plan.  Property lines on
sides and rear of lots should be straight.
   (G)   Building and setback lines.  Building and setback lines shall conform
to the requirements of
Chapter 157 of this code.
   (H)   Area.  The width and depth of the lots shall be such that minimum lot
areas will be in accordance with
Chapter 157 of this code.
   (I)   Industrial or commercial lots.  No lot or parcel zoned as industrial
or commercial shall be platted that is less than 50 feet in width.  The area of
the lot or parcel shall be sufficient in size as to provide sufficient area for
off-street parking and loading in accordance with the requirements of
Chapter 157 of this code.
   (J)   Lot division or split.  The division of a lot in a recorded plat, when
permitted, shall be in accordance with the provisions of §
157.091 of this code.  Any person desiring a lot split shall deposit the
necessary fees as provided in §
156.70 of this code.
   (K)   Back-up lots.  Lots shall back into such features as freeways,
arterial streets, shopping centers, or industrial properties, except where
there is a marginal access street, unless a secondary access is provided. 
Consideration shall be given to providing additional lot depth for buffering
purposes.  Lots extending through a block and having frontage on 2 local
streets shall be prohibited.
   (L)   Uninhabitable areas.  Lands subject to flooding or otherwise deemed by
the Planning Commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for
residential purposes, or for uses that may in the judgment of the Planning
Commission increase the danger to health, life, or property, or increase the
flood hazard.  Land of this type within a subdivision shall be set aside for
other uses, such as parks or other open space.
   (M)   Future arrangements.  Where parcels of land are subdivided into
unusually large lots (such as when large lots are required for septic tank
operations), the parcels shall be arranged, where feasible, so as to allow for
re-subdividing into smaller parcels in a logical fashion.
   (N)   Sidewalks.  Sidewalks shall be required on both sides of the street. 
Sidewalks shall be sized and surfaced in accordance with §
156.44(B)(8) of this code.
§ 156.40   BLOCKS.
   (A)   Appropriate design.  The size and shape of blocks shall be appropriate
for the type of lots and land use proposed.  Blocks shall be designed so as to
permit good lot orientation, safe street design, and economical use of the
land.
   (B)   Length.  The length of blocks between intersecting streets shall be no
less than 500 nor more than 1,320 feet in length.
   (C)   Arrangement.  A block shall be so designed as to provide 2 tiers of
lots and shall not be less than 240 feet, except where lots back into a major
thoroughfare, natural feature, or subdivision boundary.
   (D)   Nonresidential blocks.  Blocks intended for purposes other than
residential shall be especially designed for those purposes, and shall have
adequate provision for off-street parking and loading in accordance with the
requirements of
Chapter 157 of this code.
§ 156.41   USE RESTRICTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Restrictions.  Wherever property is proposed for subdividing with the
intention that it shall have a use different than that designated in
Chapter 157 of this code, that use shall be stated in an application for an
amendment to
Chapter 157 or in a separate statement filed with the Planning Commission. 
Conformance with the objectives of the land use plan shall be required so as to
ensure general uniformity of land uses within blocks and neighborhoods.
   (B)   Conformance with zoning ordinance.  Property use and area restrictions
must be in accordance with
Chapter 157 of this code.
   (C)   Business or commercial lots.  Business or commercial lots, when
platted, shall bear a reasonable relation in number to the probable number of
families constituting the purchasing power of the surrounding tributary area. 
The Planning Commission shall recommend the location of business and commercial
lots in accordance with the land use plan and
Chapter 157 of this code.
   (D)   Commercial or industrial modification.  These subdivision design
standards may be modified in accordance with §§
156.55et seq. of this code in the case of subdivision specifically for
commercial or industrial development, including shopping districts, wholesaling
areas, and planned industrial districts.  In all cases, however, adequate
provisions shall be made for off-street parking and loading areas as well as
for traffic circulation.
   (E)   Subject to flooding.  Any areas within the proposed plat which are
subject to flooding, inundation by storm water, or within the floodplain of a
river, stream, creek, or lake, or have inadequate drainage shall not be platted
for any use so as to increase danger to life, health, or property.  If the City
Council determines that a flood problem does exist, then it shall reject all or
part of the proposed plat lying within the floodplain or area subject to
flooding.  Areas of land lying within a floodplain shall require compliance
with the Subdivision Control Act and review by the State Department of Natural
Resources.  The proprietor may show by engineering site plans that a change in
the topography will eliminate flooding and shall demonstrate that any planned
topographical change will not aggravate the flood hazard beyond the limits of
the plat.
   (F)   Public sites and open spaces.
      (1)   Where a site for a park, playground, playfield, school, library,
fire station, or other public use is deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission to fulfill the objectives of the land use plan, the Commission may
recommend the reservation of those areas within the subdivisions.
         (a)   Upon determination by the respective public agency that space
for the public facility is required, the agency involved shall, within 90 days,
enter into an agreement to purchase the site.
         (b)   Acquisition of the site shall be accomplished within 3 years.
      (2)   Reservation of other public open spaces may be required where
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission for preservation of historic sites
and scenic areas or for a particular type of development proposed in the
subdivision but not anticipated in the land use plan.
      (3)   Dedication of planting strips or buffer parks may be required by
the Planning Commission in areas where it deems it desirable to separate and
protect residential subdivisions from adjacent commercial developments,
highways, streets, and railroads, or any obnoxious use.  These strips shall be
a minimum of 20 feet wide and shall not be a part of the normal roadway right-
of-way or utility easement.
   (G)   Reserve strips.
      (1)   Private reserve strips.  Privately held reserve strips controlling
access to streets shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Public reserve strips.  A 1-foot reserve may be required to be
placed at the end of dead-end streets which terminate at subdivision boundaries
and between half-streets.  These reserves shall be deeded in fee simple to the
city for future street purposes.
   (H)   Protection of natural features.  Due regard shall be shown for all
natural features, such as large trees, exceptionally fine groves of trees,
watercourses, scenic points, historic spots, and similar community assets,
which, if preserved, will add attractiveness and value to the subdivision.
§ 156.42   FINANCIAL GUARANTEE ARRANGEMENTS.
   Financial guarantee arrangements shall be in accordance with the city and
county requirements and specifications for proposed plots.
§ 156.43   CONDITION OF FINAL PLAT APPROVAL; GUARANTEE OF REQUIRED
IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Completion or assurance required.  With respect to financial
guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision plats shall be conditioned on
the accomplishment of 1 of the following:
      (1)   The construction of improvements required by this ordinance shall
have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the City Council; or
      (2)   Assurances acceptable to the city for the required improvements
have been provided. (Assurances which may be deemed to be acceptable are set
forth at §
156.24(D)(3)).
   (B)   Special agreements.  A special agreement shall be entered into between
the subdivider and the City Council where street trees and street lights have
been required by the City Council.
   (C)   Inspection of public improvements under construction.  Before
approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public
improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the City Council shall be
made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its conformity
to the submitted plans.
   (D)   Failure to complete construction of a public improvement; remedies. 
In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete the work
within that period of time as required by the conditions of the guarantee for
the completion of public improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the
City Council to proceed to have the work completed.  In order to accomplish
this, the city shall be reimbursed for the cost and expense thereof by
appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of
credit, or negotiable bond which the subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a
surety bond, or may take those steps as may be necessary to require performance
by the bonding or surety company, and as included in a written agreement
between the City Council and the subdivider.
   (E)   Maintenance bond.  Prior to acceptance by the city of improvements, a
2-year maintenance bond in an amount equal to 100% of the total cost shall be
deposited by the proprietor.
§ 156.44   REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The improvements set forth under this section are to be considered as
the minimum acceptable standard.  All those improvements for which standards
are not specifically set forth shall be established by the City Engineer, the
City Planning Commission, or the City Council.
   (B)   In order to provide healthful, clean, and desirable living conditions,
the subdivider shall be entirely responsible for installing the following site
improvements.
      (1)   Responsibility for plans.  There shall be prepared for every
proposed subdivision a complete set of construction plans prepared by a
registered engineer including profiles, cross-section, specifications, and
other supporting data for the hereinafter required public streets, utilities,
and other facilities.  These construction plans shall be based on preliminary
plans which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared
in conjunction with the final plat.  Construction plans are subject to approval
by the responsible public agencies shown.  All construction plans shall be
prepared in accordance with their standards or specifications.
      (2)   Submittal procedures.  When construction has been completed at the
time of filing the final plat, 1 complete copy of as-built engineer plans of
each required public improvement shall be filed with the Clerk coincident with
the filing of the final plat.  Other requirements and procedures in the
submittal of final plats shall be as provided in §
156.24 of this code.
      (3)   Monuments.
         (a)   Required by Subdivision Control Act.  Concrete markers, at least
4 inches in diameter and 36 inches in length with 1/2-inch round steel rod cast
in the center, shall be sunk in the ground at each corner, angle, intersection,
or other location required by the Subdivision Control Act.  All monuments shall
be sunk and set flush with the finish grade.
         (b)   Other requirements.  Iron pipe stakes, not less than 1 inch in
diameter and 18 inches in length, shall be sunk in the ground at all lot
corners at points of tangency of curves, and as required by the Municipal
Engineer at suitable intervals along curves.  Steel stakes of other cross-
sections, and at least 18 inches in length, may be used in lieu of iron pipe
with the written approval of the Building Inspector.
         (c)   Existing benchmarks.  All national, state, county, or other
official benchmarks, monuments, or triangulation station in or adjacent to the
proposed subdivision shall be preserved in precise position.
      (4)   Street pavement and storm drainage.  Subdivisions shall have
streets and storm drainage facilities designed and constructed by the
subdivider in accordance with the standards and specifications of the
comprehensive development plan as may be adopted by the Planning Commission and
the City Engineer.  Enclosed storm sewers, where required, shall be approved by
the County Road Commission or Drain Commission.
      (5)   Water supply facilities.
         (a)   Public water supply accessible.  Where a public water supply
approved by the city is reasonably accessible, each lot within the subdivision
area shall be provided with a connection thereto.
         (b)   Public water supply not accessible.  In a subdivision, pending
accessibility of a public water supply, the subdivider may be required to
construct subdivision wells and a private water supply system in such a manner
that an adequate supply of potable water will be available to every lot in the
subdivision at the time improvements are erected thereon.
         (c)   Fire hydrants.  Fire hydrants shall be installed and located in
all subdivisions in accordance with city standards.  In the case of commercial
or industrial districts, the spacing of hydrants shall be considered on an
individual basis and shall be determined by consultation with the City
Engineer.
      (6)   Sanitary sewer systems.
         (a)   Sanitary sewers accessible.  When a proposed subdivision is to
be serviced by public sanitary sewerage system, sanitary sewers and other
required appurtenances thereto shall be provided by the subdivider.  Sewer
systems shall comply with the requirements of Public Act 98 of 1913, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.201 - 325.213.
         (b)   Sanitary sewers not accessible.  If there is no existing or
accessible public sewer system, a sewer system for the common use of the lot
owners may be required to be provided by the subdivider, if feasible in the
judgment of the Planning Commission with the advice of the City Engineer and
County Health Department, and shall comply with the requirements of Public Act
98 of 1913, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.201 - 325.213.  The system
provided shall be turned over to the city for operation and maintenance.
      (7)   Storm drainage.  All subdivisions shall have an adequate enclosed
storm drainage system, including the necessary storm sewers, drain inlets, and
other appurtenances in accordance with standards and specifications presented
by the City Engineer.  Where county drains are included in the proposed plat, a
letter or document of approval shall be submitted by the proprietor from the
County Drain Commission and other public agencies having jurisdiction.
      (8)   Sidewalks.  Sidewalks shall be provided along streets where lot
widths are less than 100 feet and at any other location where the City Council
shall determine that sidewalks are necessary for public safety or convenience. 
Sidewalks shall not be less than 5 feet in width and 4 inches in thickness and
shall be first approved by the City Engineer and all applicable reviewing
agencies as to suitability, and all work shall be carried out under the
direction of the City Engineer.
      (9)   Curbs and gutters.  Curbs and gutters shall be required on all
neighborhood access streets and minor streets and shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the City Engineer.
      (10)   Installation of public utilities.
         (a)   Telephone and electric lines.  Telephone and electric service
lines shall be placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided area; these
conduits or cables shall be placed within easements or dedicated public ways in
a manner which will not conflict with other underground services.  Further, all
transformer boxes shall be located so as not to be unsightly or hazardous to
the public.  Insofar as in practicable, all lines of this type shall be placed
in rear-line easements.  Service leads to individual customers shall also be
placed underground.  Exact locations shall be approved in advance by the
appropriate utility company in writing.
         (b)   Natural gas lines.  Where natural gas service or transmission
mains or lines are placed underground in a subdivision, those pipes shall be
placed in dedicated public ways in such a manner as will not conflict with
other underground services.
      (11)   Street name signs.  Street name signs shall be placed at all
street intersections within or abutting the subdivision.  These signs shall be
of a type approved by the city, and shall be placed in accordance with
standards of the city.
      (12)   Street trees.  Street trees of a variety and size in accordance
with the following standards shall be planted between the sidewalks and
property line:
         (a)   Each lot shall contain a minimum of 1 street tree;
         (b)   Trees for an entire block shall be planted at the same time; and
         (c)   The minimum tree size shall be 3-inch caliber as measured 6
inches above crown.
      (13)   Street lighting.  Street lighting shall be required for all
streets within those subdivisions containing lots under 150 feet in width. 
Design aspects, such as spacing of poles, height of standards, type of
lighting, distribution of the illumination pattern, intensity of illumination,
and the like, must receive prior approval from the City Engineer and be in
accordance with the standards and specifications of the public utility company.
VARIANCES
§ 156.55   UNDUE HARDSHIP; FACTORS.
   (A)   The City Planning Commission may recommend to the City Council a
variance from the provisions of this ordinance on a finding that undue hardship
may result from strict compliance with specific provisions or requirements of
the ordinance or that application of such a provision or requirement is
impracticable.  The Planning Commission shall only recommend variances that it
deems necessary to or desirable for the public interest.  In making its
findings, as required herein below, the Planning Commission shall take into
account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in
the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the proposed
subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic
conditions in the vicinity.
   (B)   No variance shall be recommended unless the Planning Commission finds,
after a public hearing:
      (1)   There are such special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property that the strict application of the provisions of this ordinance would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable.  In these cases, the subdivider shall
first state his or her reasons in writing as to the specific provision or
requirement involved and submit them to the Planning Commission;
      (2)   The granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the
property is situated;
      (3)   The variance will not violate the provisions of the State
Subdivision Control Act; and
      (4)   The variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this ordinance and the land use plan of the city.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall include its findings and the specific
reasons therefor in its report of recommendations to the City Council and shall
also record its reasons and actions in its minutes.
§ 156.56   TOPOGRAPHICAL OR PHYSICAL LIMITATION VARIANCE.
   Where, in the case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown
that strict compliance with the requirements of this ordinance would result in
extraordinary hardship to the subdivider because of unusual topography, other
physical conditions, or other such conditions which are not self-inflicted, or
that these conditions would result in inhibiting the achievement of the
objectives of this ordinance, the Planning Commission may recommend to the City
Council that variance modification or a waiver of these requirements is
granted.
§ 156.57   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT OR CLUSTER SUBDIVISION VARIANCE.
   (A)   The developer may request a variance from specified portions of this
ordinance in the case of a planned unit development or cluster subdivision.  If
in the judgment of the Planning Commission such a plan provides adequate public
spaces and includes provisions for efficient circulation, light, and air, and
other needs, it shall make findings as required herein below.  The Planning
Commission shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and
existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work
in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity.  The Planning Commission
shall report to the City Council whether:
      (1)   The proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable
community development; and
      (2)   The proposed project will be in harmony with adjacent areas.
   (B)   Application for the development under this section shall be made in
writing and shall be supplemented with maps, plans, or other additional data
which may aid the Planning Commission and City Council in the analysis of the
proposed plat.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 156.70   FEES ADOPTED.
   Plat review fees, engineering fees, lot split fees, inspection fees, water
connection charges, filing fees, and other applicable development charges may
be provided for by resolution of the City Council.
§ 156.71   PLATS AND IMPROVEMENTS; APPROVAL AND CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   No subdivision plat required by this ordinance or the Subdivision Control
Act shall be admitted to the public land records of the county, or received or
recorded by the County Register of Deeds until that subdivision plat has
received final approval by the City Council.  No public board, agency,
commission, official, or other authority shall proceed with the construction of
or authorize the construction of any of the public improvements required by
this ordinance unless that public improvement shall have already been accepted,
opened, or otherwise received the legal status of a public improvement prior to
the adoption of this ordinance, unless that public improvement shall correspond
in its location and to the other requirements of this ordinance.
APPENDIX A:  GOOD SUBDIVISION DESIGN PRACTICES
   (A)   Common mistakes to avoid in lotting.
      (1)   Diagonal streets should be avoided:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-22.jpg]
 
      (2)   Where future street extensions are not required in corners of
property:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-24.jpg]
 
      (3)   Proper treatment of corner lots:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-26.jpg]
 
   (B)   Subdividing along major thoroughfares.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-28.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-30.jpg]
 
   (C)   Replatting land.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-32.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-34.jpg]
 
CHAPTER 157:
ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
157.001   Purpose
   
157.002   Short title
   
157.003   Rules of construction
   
157.004   Interpretation and application; abrogation and greater restrictions
   
157.005   Scope; conformance required
   
157.006   Definitions
District Boundaries and Maps
   
157.020   Districts established
   
157.021   Zoning Map adopted; boundary interpretation
Zoning Districts; Uses and Requirements
   
157.035   Suburban estate residential district, SE
   
157.036   Single-family residential districts; R-1A, R-1B, and R-1C
   
157.037   Multiple-family residential district, RM
   
157.038   Multiple-family residential district, RM-1
   
157.039   High rise multiple-family residential district, HRM
   
157.040   Mobile home park district, RMH
   
157.041   Restricted office district, R-O
   
157.042   Local business district, C-1
   
157.043   General business district, C-2
   
157.044   Highway business district, C-3
   
157.045   Planned shopping center district, C-4
   
157.046   Light industrial district, M-1
   
157.047   General industrial district, M-2
   
157.048   Vehicular parking district, P-1
   
157.049   Central business district overlay, CBD
Regulations
   
157.060   Dwelling unit; zoning lot
   
157.061   Lot area, yards, and open space requirements
   
157.062   Projections into yards
   
157.063   Storage in yards and open areas
   
157.064   Storage on porches and decks
   
157.065   Street access
   
157.066   Visibility at intersection
   
157.067   (Reserved for future use)
   
157.068   Dwelling in nonresidential district
   
157.069   Dwelling other than in main structure
   
157.070   Accessory buildings
   
157.071   Parking and storage of campers, travel trailers, and boats
   
157.072   Parking for purpose of sale prohibited
   
157.073   Sale of merchandise from residential zoned property
   
157.074   Automobile service stations
   
157.075   Drive-in establishments
   
157.076   Building grades
   
157.077   Moving of building
   
157.078   Excavations or holes
   
157.079   Excavation, removal, fill, or deposit
   
157.080   Restoring unsafe buildings
   
157.081   Grandfather clause
   
157.082   Voting location; temporary use
   
157.083   Plat approval; conformance required
   
157.084   Essential services
   
157.085   Radio and television towers
   
157.086   Open air business uses
   
157.087   Protective screening; nonresidential and residential areas
   
157.088   Greenbelts
   
157.089   Fences, walls, and other protective barriers
   
157.090   Incinerators, trash containers and collection/donation containers
   
157.091   Lot splits or land divisions
   
157.092   Site plan review
   
157.093   Single-family clustering option
   
157.094   Planned shopping center
   
157.095   Exterior lighting
   
157.096   Stations; satellite receiving dishes
   
157.097   Residential structures; orientation on lots
   
157.098   Keeping of chickens
   
157.099   Commercial medical marijuana transaction facilities
   
157.100   Home occupations
   
157.101   Marijuana establishments
   
157.102   Temporary land uses
Off-Street Parking and Loading Requirements
   
157.110   General parking requirements
   
157.111   Required off-street parking spaces; minimum
   
157.112   Off-street parking lot; layout, construction, and maintenance
   
157.113   Drive-through facilities; off-street waiting space
   
157.114   Off-street loading and unloading
Nonconforming Uses and Structures
   
157.125   Existing nonconforming uses and buildings; regulations
   
157.126   Nonconforming uses of land; limitations
   
157.127   Nonconforming uses of structures; limitations
   
157.128   Nonconforming structures; limitations
   
157.129   Nonconforming lots of record
   
157.130   Repairs and maintenance; limitations
   
157.131   Reconstruction of damaged nonconforming structures
   
157.132   Discontinued nonconforming use; forfeiture of privilege
   
157.133   Nonconforming structure; change of use
   
157.134   Extension, enlargement, and moving; prohibitions
   
157.135   Acquisition of nonconforming structures by city for removal; hearing
   
157.136   Certificate of occupancy; record of nonconforming uses
   
157.137   Nonconforming signs
   
157.138   Plans already filed
Board of Zoning Appeals
   
157.150   Creation
   
157.151   Meetings
   
157.152   Appeals; special approvals
   
157.153   Hearing; notice
   
157.154   Appeals and variances; Board powers and duties
   
157.155   Information requirements; conditions on approval
Administration and Enforcement
   
157.170   Enforcement; stop work order
   
157.171   Duties of Zoning Administrator
   
157.172   Permit requirements
   
157.173   Certificates of occupancy
   
157.174   Building permit; final inspection
   
157.175   Fees
   
157.176   Amendments
   
157.177   Special approvals; Planning Commission powers and duties
 
   
157.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Schedule of Regulations
   
Appendix B:   Images
   
Appendix C:   Use Matrix
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.001     PURPOSE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the Public Acts of the state in such
case, made and provided and for the purpose of promoting and protecting the
public health, safety, peace, morals, comfort, convenience, and general welfare
of the inhabitants of the city, by protecting and conserving the character and
social and economic stability of the residential, commercial, industrial, and
other use areas; by securing the most appropriate use of land; preventing
overcrowding of the land and undue congestion of population; providing adequate
light, air, and reasonable access; and facilitating adequate and economical
provision of transportation, water, sewers, schools, recreation, and other
public requirements; and by other means, all in accordance with a comprehensive
plan.
§ 157.002     SHORT TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known as the Zoning Ordinance of the city.
§ 157.003     RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules of construction apply to the text of this ordinance.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In the case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this ordinance and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (D)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves 2 or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the
conjunction “and,” “or,” “either ... or,” the conjunction shall be interpreted
as follows.
      (1)   AND.  Indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
      (2)   OR.  Indicates that the connected items, conditions, or provisions,
or events may apply singly or in any combination.
   (E)   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned
to them.
§ 157.004  INTERPRETATION AND APPLICATION; ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Conflicting regulations.  Whenever any provision of this ordinance
imposes more stringent requirements, regulations, restrictions or limitations
than are imposed or required by the provisions of any other law or ordinance,
the provisions of this ordinance shall govern.
   (B)   Interpretation, purpose, and conflict.  In interpreting and applying
the provisions of this ordinance, the provisions shall be held to be the
minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety, health,
convenience, comforts, morals, prosperity, and general welfare.  It is not
intended by this ordinance to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
ordinance, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued, and not
in conflict with any of the provisions of this ordinance, or which shall be
adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises,
and likewise not in conflict with this ordinance; nor is it intended by this
ordinance to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants, or
other agreements between parties; provided, however, that where this ordinance
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings, or requires larger
open spaces, or larger lot areas than are imposed or required by such ordinance
or agreements, the provisions of this ordinance shall control.
§ 157.005     SCOPE; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered, and maintained, and no new use or
change shall be made or maintained of any building, structure, or land, or part
thereof, except in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
§ 157.006     DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY AMUSEMENT USE.  Any nonresidential establishment in which 3 or
less mechanical amusement devices for hire are located as regulated by §§
113.01et seq. of this code.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A subordinate building or a portion of a main building,
the use of which is incidental to that of the main building, and which is
located on the same parcel of property with the principal use.
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use of land or a portion of the building customarily
incidental and subordinate to the actual principal use of the land or building
and located on the same parcel of property with the principal use.
   ADULT BOOK STORE.  An establishment, having as a substantial or significant
portion of its stock in trade, books, magazines, and other periodicals which
are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas (as defined below), or an establishment with a segment or section devoted
to the sale or display of this type of material.
   ADULT MINI MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building or open area with a
capacity of 50 persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (as defined below)
for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building or open area with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing, or relating to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (as defined below)
for observation by patrons therein.
   AGRICULTURE.  Any land or building used for the purpose of producing grain,
vegetables, livestock, or fowl, as a principal means of livelihood.
   ALLEY.  A public way which affords a secondary means of access to abutting
property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS.  Any change, addition, or modification in construction or type
of occupancy; any change in the structural members of a building, such as
walls, partitions, columns, beams, girders; any substantial changes in the roof
or exterior walls; any change in the location of a building; or any change
which may be referred to herein as ALTERED or RECONSTRUCTED.
   APARTMENT.  A room or suite of rooms used as a dwelling for 1 family which
does its cooking therein.
   APARTMENT HOUSE.  A residential structure containing 3 or more attached
apartments.
   APPROVED SERVICE DRIVEWAY. Constructed of concrete, asphalt, aggregate, or
of a like material approved by the Department of Public Works.
   ARCADE.  Any nonresidential establishment in which 4 or more mechanical
amusement devices for hire are located as regulated by §§
113.01et seq. of this code.
   ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.  Architectural features of a building shall include
cornices, eaves, gutters, belt courses, sills, lintels, bay windows, chimneys,
and decorative ornaments.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR.  General repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame, or
fender straightening and repair, overall painting, vehicle rustproofing, and
any related activities.
   AUTOMOBILE WASH ESTABLISHMENTS.  A building, or portion thereof, the primary
purpose of which is that of washing motor vehicles.
   BASEMENT.  The portion of a building wholly or partly below grade, but so
constructed that the vertical distance from the average grade to the basement
floor is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the
basement ceiling.  A BASEMENT shall not be included as a story for height
measurement.  (See
Appendix B - This Chapter.)
   BEDROOM.  A room in a dwelling unit for or intended to be used solely for
sleeping purposes by human beings.
   BILLBOARD.  Any construction or portion thereof upon which a sign or
advertisement used as an outdoor display for the purpose of making anything
known to the general public, but not including bulletin boards used to display
official court of public offer notices.
   BLOCK.  The property abutting 1 side of a street and lying between the 2
nearest intersecting streets, crossing or terminating; or between the nearest
such street, unsubdivided acreage, or between any of the foregoing and any
other barrier to the continuity of development.
   BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS, BOARD OF APPEALS, or BOARD.  The Zoning Board of
Appeals for the city.
   BOARDING HOUSE.  A dwelling where meals, or lodging and meals, are provided
for compensation to 4 or more persons by prearrangement for definite periods of
not less than 1 week.  A BOARDING HOUSE is to be distinguished from a hotel,
motel, or a convalescent or nursing home.
   BUILDABLE AREA.  On a lot, the space remaining after the minimum open space
requirements of this ordinance have been complied with.
   BUILDING.  An independent structure having a roof supported by columns or
walls, intended or used for shelter or enclosure of persons or chattel.  When
any portion thereof is completely separated from every other part by division
walls from the ground up, and without openings, each portion of that building
shall be deemed a separate BUILDING.  This refers to both temporary and
permanent structures and includes tents, sheds, garages, stables, greenhouses,
or other accessory structures.  BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part
thereof.
   BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL.  A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the lot upon which it is situated.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. This term shall refer to the Building Official of the
City, Building Inspector of the City or his or her authorized representative.
   BUILDING PERMIT.  The written authority issued by the Building Official
permitting the construction, removal, repair, moving, alteration, or use of a
building in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE.  The line which pertains to and defines those minimum
(building) setback lines which are established parallel to the front street or
right-of-way line and within which setback area no part of a building shall
project or be located, except as otherwise provided for by this ordinance. 
This line when adjacent to a building is normally formed by the junction of the
outer surface of the building or enclosure wall with the finish grade or
surface of the adjoining ground.
   CLINIC.  A building or group of buildings where human patients are admitted,
but not lodged overnight, for examination and treatment by more than 1
professional, such as a physician, dentist, or the like.
   COLLECTION/DONATION CONTAINER. A portable container primarily designed to
allow individuals to dispose of unwanted items for the purpose of donation and/
or repurpose located on a commercial or industrial property not designated for
same use.
   COMMERCIAL USE.  Relates to the use of property in connection with the
purchase, sale, barter, display, or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise, or
personal services or the maintenance of offices, or recreational or amusement
enterprises, or garage, basement, or yard sales conducted on residential
premises for more than 6 calendar days during a given 1-year period.
   COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION.  The City Planning Commission.
   CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. A home for the care of children or the aged or
the infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily disorders, wherein 3
or more persons are cared for.  This home shall also conform to, and qualify
for license under applicable state laws, even though state law may provide for
different size regulations.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of this city.
   DECK.  Any structure attached or detached from the main structure, with or
without a roof, which allows entrance to that structure, or which is used for
recreational, leisure, or any other purpose.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units developed on an acre of land.
   DESIGNATED CONSUMPTION ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial space that is licensed by
the State of Michigan and City of Burton and authorized to permit adults 21
years of age and older to consume marijuana products at the location indicated
on the state and city license. An establishment that allows consumption of
marijuana products on the premises of a non-residential location and charges a
fee for entry, sells goods or services while individuals are consuming on the
premises, or requires membership for entry shall acquire a designated
consumption establishment license.
   DEVELOPMENTAL.  The DEVELOPMENTAL land use classification represents areas
which have characteristics that make land in those areas suitable for a wide
range of uses.  These parcels are generally large and have access to major
streets, and water and sewer services, may be buffered from nearby residential
areas.  The purpose of this classification is to recognize the wide range of
uses and land classifications appropriate for these parcels and which may be
appropriate for, or the subject of rezoning requests other than for general
industrial.
   DISTRICT.  A portion of the city within which certain uses of land or
buildings are permitted and within which certain regulations and requirements
apply under the provisions of this ordinance.
   DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENTS.  A business establishment so developed that its
principal retail or service character is dependent on providing a driveway
approach or parking spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in
the motor vehicle (e.g., restaurants, cleaners, banks, theaters).
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE.  A building used for and as a residence for 3 or more
families living independently of each other and each having their own cooking
facilities therein, including apartment houses, townhouses, and apartment
hotels, but not including homes.
   DWELLING, ROW, TERRACE, OR TOWNHOUSE.  A row of 3 or more attached single-
family dwellings, not more than 2.5 stories in height, in which each dwelling
has its own front entrance and rear entrance.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY.  A detached building occupied by 1 family and so
designed and arranged as to provide living, cooking, and kitchen accommodations
for 1 family only.  Also known as a 1-FAMILY DWELLING.
   DWELLING, 2-FAMILY.  A detached 2-family dwelling that is occupied by 2
families, each provided with separate facilities for each family for living
accommodations.  Also known as a DUPLEX DWELLING.
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any house or building or portion thereof having cooking
facilities, which is occupied wholly as the home, residence, or sleeping place
of 1 family, either permanently or transiently, but in no case shall a trailer
coach, automobile chassis, tent, or portable building be considered a
DWELLING.  In case of mixed occupancy, where a building is occupied in part as
a dwelling unit, the part so occupied shall be deemed a DWELLING UNIT for the
purpose of this ordinance and shall comply with the provisions thereof relative
to dwellings.
   EFFICIENCY UNIT.  A dwelling consisting of 1 room, exclusive of bathroom,
kitchen, hallway, closets, or dining alcove, directly off the principal room
providing not less than 350 square feet of floor area.
   ERECTED.  Includes built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon, or any
physical operations on the premises required for the building.  Excavations,
fill, drainage, and the like, shall be considered a part of ERECTION.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.  The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of underground,
surface, or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply, or disposal systems,
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles, and other similar equipment
and accessories in connection therewith, as shall be reasonably necessary for
the furnishing of adequate service by those public utilities or municipal
departments or commissions or for the public health or general welfare, but not
including buildings other than those buildings as are primarily enclosures or
shelters of the above essential service equipment.
   FAMILY.  One or more persons related by bonds of marriage, blood, or legal
adoption, or a group of not more than 5 persons (excluding servants and
gratuitous guests) who need not be related by marriage, blood, or legal
adoption, occupying a dwelling unit as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit, as
distinguished from a group occupying a hotel, club, boarding house, or
fraternity or sorority house.
   FARM.  All of the contiguous neighboring or associated land operated as a
single unit on which bona fide farming is carried on directly by the owner,
operator, manager, or tenant farmer, by his or her own labor or with the
assistance of members of his or her household or hired employees; provided,
however, that land to be considered a FARM hereunder shall include a continuous
parcel of 5 acres or more in area; provided further, FARMS may be considered as
including establishments operated as bona fide greenhouses, nurseries,
orchards, chicken hatcheries, poultry or pigeon farms, and apiaries; but the
keeping of fur-bearing animals or game, or the operation of fish hatcheries,
stock yards, piggeries shall not be considered FARMS.
   FARM BUILDING.  Any building or structure other than a dwelling, moved upon,
maintained, used, or built on a farm which is essential and customarily used on
farms of that type for the pursuit of their agriculture activities.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the centerline of walls separating 2 buildings.  The FLOOR AREA of a
building shall include the basement floor area when more than ½ of the basement
height is above the established curb level or finished lot grade, whichever is
higher (see BASEMENT definition).  Any space devoted to off-street parking or
loading shall not be included in FLOOR AREA.  Areas of basements, utility
rooms, breezeways, unfinished attics, porches (enclosed or unenclosed), or
attached garages are not included.  (See illustration in Ord. 19, ser. 2,
entitled Floor Area Terminology.)
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE.  The measurement shall include that portion of the floor
area, measured from the interior face of the exterior walls, used for or
intended to be used for services to the public or customers, patrons, clients,
or patients; including areas occupied by fixtures or equipment used for display
or sale of goods or merchandise, but not including areas used or intended to be
used for storage of merchandise, utility or mechanical equipment rooms, or
sanitary facilities.  In the case of a half-story, the USABLE FLOOR AREA shall
be considered to be only that portion having a clear height above it of 5 feet
or more.  (See
Appendix B - This Chapter.)
   GARAGE, COMMUNITY.  A space or structure or series of structures for the
storage of motor vehicles having no public shop or service operated in
connection therewith, for the use of 2 or more owners or occupants of property
in the vicinity.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  A space or structure suitable for the storage of motor
vehicles having no public shop or service in connection therewith, for the use
solely of the owner or occupant of the principal building on a lot, or his or
her family or domestic employees, and with a capacity of not more than 3
vehicles.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC.  A space or structure other than a private garage for the
storage, care, repair, or refinishing of motor vehicles; provided, however,
that a structure or room used solely for the display and sale of these vehicles
in which they are not operated under their own power, and in connection with
which there is no repair, maintenance, or refinishing service or storage of
vehicles other than those displayed, shall not be considered as a PUBLIC GARAGE
for the purpose of this ordinance.
   GRADE.  The building GRADE shall, in the case of fairly level ground
conditions, be the level of the ground adjacent to the walls.  For
substantially unlevel ground conditions, the GRADE shall be the average
elevation of the ground adjacent to the walls.
   GREEN SPACE.  An area planted with grass, flowers, trees, and the like,
acceptable in species and caliper to the City Planning Commission.
   GREENBELT.  A strip of land which is planted with trees or shrubs acceptable
in species and caliber to the Planning Commission.  Fruit trees, nut trees, box
elders, soft maples, willows, poplars, and all thorned trees shall not be
permitted.
   HEIGHT, BUILDING.  The vertical distance measured from the grade of the
building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line for
mansard roofs; and to the mean height level (between eaves and ridges) for
gable, hip, and gambrel roofs.  Where a building is located upon a terrace, the
HEIGHT may be measured from the average ground level of the terrace at the
building wall.  (See
Appendix B - This Chapter.)
   HOME OCCUPATION.  An occupation, profession, activity, or use that is
clearly an incidental or secondary use of a residential dwelling unit and which
does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the residential character
of the neighborhood.
   HOSPITAL.  A building, structure, or institution in which sick or injured
persons, primarily in- patients, are given medical or surgical treatment and
operating under license by the Health Department of the state.
   HOTEL.  A building occupied as a more or less temporary abiding place for
individuals, who are lodged with or without meals in rooms occupied singly for
hire, in which provision is not made for cooking on any individual plan and in
which there are more than 10 sleeping rooms.
   JUNK.  Any motor vehicles, machinery, appliances, product, merchandise with
parts missing, or scrap metals or other scrap materials that are damaged,
deteriorated, or are in a condition which cannot be used for the purpose for
which the product was manufactured.
   JUNK YARD.  Includes automobile wrecking yards and salvage areas and
includes any area of more than 200 square feet for storage, keeping, or
abandonment of junk, including scrap metals, other scrap materials, or
reclaimed materials, or for the dismantling, demolition, or abandonment of
automobiles or other vehicles or machinery or parts thereof, but does not
include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL.  Any lot or premises on which 3 or more dogs, 4 months or more old,
are kept either permanently or temporarily boarded.
   LOCATIONAL LIMITATIONS. When determining the distance requirements of any
commercial medical marijuana transaction facility and/or marijuana
establishment the term "within" shall mean measured from property line to
property line.
   LOT.  A piece or parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
building and any accessory buildings or by any other use or activity permitted
thereon and including the open spaces and yards required under this ordinance,
and having its frontage upon a public street or road either dedicated to the
public or designated on a recorded subdivision.  Provided, that the owner of
any number of contiguous lots may have as many of those contiguous lots
considered as a single LOT for the purpose of this ordinance as he or she so
elects, and in that case the outside perimeter of the group of lots shall
constitute the front, rear, and side lot lines thereof.  This latter parcel is
then often referred to as a ZONING LOT.
   LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area within the lot lines, as defined, of a
lot.  For lots fronting or lying adjacent to private streets, LOT AREA shall be
interpreted to mean that area within lot lines separating the lot from the
private street, and not the centerline of that street.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot of which at least 2 adjacent sides abut for their full
length upon a street, provided that those 2 sides intersect at an angle of not
more than 135 degrees.  Where a lot is on a curve, if tangents through the
extreme point of the street line of the lot make an interior angle of not more
than 135 degrees, it is a CORNER LOT.  In the case of a CORNER LOT with curved
street line, the corner is that point on the street lot line nearest to the
point of intersection of the tangents described above.
   LOT COVERAGE.  The part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings or
structures, including accessory buildings or structures.
   LOT DEPTH.  The mean horizontal distance from the center of the front street
line to the center of the rear lot line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.  A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on 2
more or less parallel streets.  In the case of a row of DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS, 1
street will be designated as the front street for all lots in the plat and in
the request for a zoning compliance permit.  If there are existing buildings in
the same block fronting on 1 or both of the streets, the required minimum front
yard setback shall be observed on those streets where buildings presently
front.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  A lot other than a corner lot with only 1 lot line fronting
on a street.
   LOT LINES.  Any line dividing 1 lot from another or from the right-of-way,
and thus constitute property lines bounding a lot.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE.  In the case of an interior lot abutting on 1
public or private street, the FRONT LOT LINE shall mean the line separating the
lot from that street right-of-way.  In the case of a corner or double frontage
lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be that line separating the lot from that street
which is designated as the front street in the plat or in the request for a
zoning compliance permit.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE.  The lot line which is opposite and most distant
from the front lot line of the lot.  In the case of an irregular, triangular,
or gore-shaped lot, a line 10 feet in length entirely within the lot parallel
to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line of the lot shall be
considered to be the REAR LOT LINE for the purpose of determining depth of rear
yard.  In cases where none of these definitions are applicable, the Planning
Commission shall designate the REAR LOT LINE.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE.  Any lot line not a front lot line or a rear lot
line.  A side lot line separating a lot from a street is a SIDE STREET LOT
LINE.  A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is an INTERIOR
SIDE LOT LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which actually exists in a subdivision plat as shown
on the records of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between the side lot line, measured at
the 2 points where the building line, or setback line, intersects the side lot
lines.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.  Any street or highway certified as a public roadway by
the State Department of Transportation in accordance with Public Act 51 of 1951
except those streets designated as city local streets.
   MANEUVERING LANE.  The portion of an off-street parking lot for use of
maneuvering a vehicle to or from a parking space.
   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENT. A marijuana grower, marijuana safety compliance
facility, marijuana processor, marijuana microbusiness, marijuana retailer,
marijuana secure transporter, marijuana designated consumption establishment,
or any other type of marijuana-related business licensed by the State of
Michigan.
   MARIJUANA GROWER. A person licensed to cultivate marijuana and sell or
otherwise transfer marijuana to marijuana establishments. Shall include a state
licensed excess marijuana grower.
   MARIJUANA MICROBUSINESS. A person licensed to cultivate not more than 150
marijuana plants; process and package marijuana; and sell or otherwise transfer
marijuana to individuals who are 21 years of age or older or to a marijuana
safety compliance facility, but not to other marijuana establishments.
   MARIJUANA PROCESSOR. A person licensed to obtain marijuana from marijuana
establishments; process and package marijuana; and sell or otherwise transfer
marijuana to marijuana establishments.
   MARIJUANA RETAILER. A person licensed to obtain marijuana from marijuana
establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marijuana to marijuana
establishments and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
   MARIJUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A person licensed to test marijuana,
including certification for potency and the presence of contaminants.
   MARIJUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person licensed to obtain marijuana from
marijuana establishments in order to transport marijuana to marijuana
establishments.
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive and discretionary.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE or MAD.  A machine which, upon the insertion of
a coin or slug, operated or which may be operated for the use of a game or
contest of any description, or which may be used as any such game or contest,
and which contains no automatic payoff device for the return of slugs, money,
coins, checks, tokens, or merchandise or which provides no such payoff by any
other manner or means.  A MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE shall not include a
jukebox or machine whose only function is to provide music, or pool tables and
billiard tables.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CLUB  (also known as Compassion Club). A medical marijuana
club shall mean a facility, owned and operated organization that offers
patients and caregivers the opportunity to connect with others for the purpose
of providing referral services, education, community outreach,  and use of
medical marijuana in a completely enclosed building allowed under the Michigan
Medical Marijuana Act of 2008. This facility shall not be used for storage,
dispensary, sale, growth, cultivation, processing, or packaging of medical
marijuana at any time.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.  A medical marijuana dispensary shall mean a
facility where marijuana is stored, dispensed or offered for sale to
“qualifying patients” under the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008. A
“primary caregiver(s)”, “qualifying patient” and “marijuana” shall have the
meanings ascribed to them in the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITY (GROW FACILITY or GROWING FACILITY). An
industrial facility that cultivates, dries, trims, or cures and packages
marijuana for sale to a processor or provisioning center.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITY (PROCESSING FACILITY). An industrial
facility that purchases marijuana from a grower and that extracts resin from
the marijuana or creates marijuana infused products for sale and transfer in
packaged form to a provisioning center.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROVISIONING CENTER (PROVISIONING CENTER). A commercial
facility that purchases marijuana from a grower or processor and sells,
supplies, or provides to registered qualifying patients directly or through the
patients' registered primary caregivers. PROVISIONING CENTER includes any
commercial property where marijuana is sold at retail to registered qualifying
patients or registered primary caregivers. 
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY (SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY or
COMPLIANCE FACILITY). An industrial facility that received marijuana from a
marijuana facility or registered primary caregiver, tests it for contaminants
and for tetrahydrocannabinol and other cannabinoids, returns the test results,
and may return the marijuana to the marijuana facility.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER FACILITY (SECURE TRANSPORTER FACILITY
or TRANSPORTER FACILITY). An industrial facility that stores marijuana for the
purpose of transporting marijuana between commercial medical marijuana
transaction facilities.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING. Vending, serving, or offering for sale food and/or
beverages from a mobile food vending unit which meets the definition of a food
service establishment under Public Act 92 of 2000, which may include the
ancillary sales of branded items consistent with the food, such as a t-shirt
that bears the name of the organization engaged in mobile food vending.
   MOBILE HOME.  A detached single-family dwelling unit, exceeding 32 feet in
length, designed to be transportable after fabrication on its own wheels,
suitable for year-round occupancy and containing a flush toilet, sleeping
accommodations, a shower or bath, kitchen facilities, plumbing and electrical
connections provided for attachment to appropriate external systems.  A travel
trailer is not to be considered as a MOBILE HOME.  Also known as a TRAILER
COACH or HOUSE TRAILER.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A parcel of land which has been planned and improved for
the placement of mobile homes for residential use.
   MOBILE HOME SITE.  A plot of ground within a mobile home park designed for
the accommodation of 1 mobile home.
   MOTEL.  A series of attached, semi-detached, or detached rental units which
may or may not be independently accessible from the outside parking area,
containing bedroom, bathroom, and closet space and designed for or occupied
primarily for transients.  No kitchen or cooking facilities are to be provided
without the approval of the City Planning Commission, with the exception of
units for use of the manager or caretaker.
   MOTOR HOME.  A motorized vehicular unit primarily designed for travel or
recreational usage, which may also contain facilities for overnight lodging.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING.  A building or portion thereof lawfully existing at
the effective date of this ordinance or amendments thereto, and which does not
conform to the provisions (e.g., setbacks, height, lot coverage, parking) of
this ordinance in the zoning district in which it is located.  (See
Appendix B - This Chapter.)
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date of this ordinance or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the use regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIALS.  A space, building, or structure, or combination
thereof, for the storage of live trees, shrubs, or plants offered for wholesale
or retail sale including products used for gardening or landscaping.  The
definition of NURSERY does not include any space, building, or structure used
for the sale of fruits, vegetables, or Christmas trees.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT.  A facility providing vehicular parking spaces along
with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering so as to provide access for
entrance and exit for the parking of more than 2 automobiles.
   OPEN AIR BUSINESS USES.  Include the following business uses:
      (1)   Retail sale of trees, shrubbery, plants, flowers, seed, topsoil,
humus, fertilizer, trellises, lawn furniture, playground equipment, and other
home garden supplies and equipment;
      (2)   Retail sale of fruits and vegetables;
      (3)   Tennis courts, archery courts, shuffleboard, horseshoe courts,
miniature golf, golf driving range, children’s amusement park, or similar
recreation use;
      (4)   Bicycle, utility truck or trailer, motor vehicles, boats or home
equipment sale; rental or repair services; and
      (5)   Outdoor display, and sale of garages, swimming pools, motor homes,
mobile homes, snowmobiles, farm implements, and similar products.
   OPEN SPACE.  Any area (open to the sky) on a lot not covered by a principal
or accessory building.
   OPEN STORAGE.  All outdoor storage of building materials, sand, gravel,
stone, lumber, equipment, and other supplies.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAYS OF MERCHANDISE.  Any goods displayed for sale on any public
or privately owned property in the city.
      (1)   OUTDOOR DISPLAYS shall comply with the following:
         (a)   If items on display are offered by a business permanently
occupying that site, no permit shall be required;
         (b)   Items shall not be displayed in any setback area, aisle way,
parking, loading zone, or fire lane;
         (c)   All items for sale must maintain a 20-foot setback from any
entrance or exit to the parking or service area;
         (d)   Advertising flags, banners, and temporary signs shall not be
permitted;
         (e)   Displays cannot obstruct view of vehicular traffic; and
         (f)   If the display cannot meet criteria, the business must apply to
Zoning Board of Appeals for a variance to the applicable criteria.
      (2)   OUTDOOR DISPLAYS of seasonal business are subject to the following:
         (a)   Applications for these displays must be submitted on a form
approved by the Department of Public Works not less than 15 days prior to the
installation of the display.  The applications shall include written permission
by the property owner for the outdoor display;
         (b)   A seasonal business outdoor display permit fee in the amount as
set by the City Council shall be paid. This fee may be amended by resolution of
the  City Council from time to time;
         (c)   A cleanup fee in the amount as set by the City Council shall be
paid at the time of the approval of the permit. This fee may be amended by
Resolution of the City Council from time to time.  This fee shall be refundable
in whole or in part in the event the permittee returns the premises to its
original condition.
         (d)   Any permittee may appeal either the necessity of posting a
cleanup fee or the amount of the cleanup fee required directly to the Burton
City Council which shall have the authority to reduce or eliminate this fee
(only) upon good cause shown. (See
Chapter 111.  Subsection
111.55)
   PARKING SPACE.  An area of not less than 9 feet wide by 20 feet long, for
each automobile or motor vehicle, that space being exclusive of necessary
drives, aisles, entrances, or exits and being fully accessible for the storage
or parking of permitted vehicles.
   PERSON.  Includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an
incorporated association, or any other similar entity.
   PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER. 
      (1)   A cluster of attached buildings integrated with a site containing
off-street parking, loading, and pedestrian walkways which provide facilities
to inspect and buy merchandise in a comprehensive pre-planned manner.
         (a)   NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING CENTER.  A PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER, when
used in this context, means a commercial development which has been designed,
developed, and operated as a unit and can satisfy the following criteria:  a
site of 1 acre to 6 acres; a supporting population of at least 750 families in
a trading area of ½ to 1 mile in radius; at least 4 stores; and a gross floor
area of 10,000 to 50,000 square feet in size.
         (b)   COMMUNITY SHOPPING CENTER.  A PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER, when used
in this context, shall mean a commercial development which has been designed to
operate as a unit and has a site of 6 to 10 acres, at least 12 stores, and a
gross floor area of over 50,000 to 130,500 square feet in size.
         (c)   REGIONAL SHOPPING CENTER.  A PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER, when used
in this context, shall mean a commercial development which has been designed to
operate as a unit and has a site of at least 10 acres, at least 12 stores, and
a gross floor area greater than 130,500 feet.
      (2)   A business development consisting of 4 or more retail commercial
outlets characterized by a unified grouping of stores under common architecture
and served by a common circulation and parking system.
   PORCH, ENCLOSED.  A covered entrance to a building or structure which is
totally enclosed, and projects out from the main wall of the building or
structure and has a separate roof or an integral roof with the principal
building or structure to which it is attached.
   PORCH, OPEN.  A covered entrance to a building or structure which is
unenclosed except for columns supporting the porch roof, and projects out from
the main wall of the building or structure and has a separate roof or an
integral roof with the principal building or structure to which it is attached.
   PROPERTY LINE.  A line which marks the boundary or perimeter of a parcel of
land.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, or
board duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under municipal or state
regulation to the public:  transportation, water, gas, electricity, telephone,
steam, telegraph, or sewage disposal.
   RESTAURANT, CARRY-OUT.  An establishment where food is prepared and served
to a customer solely for the consumption off the premises.
   RESTAURANT, DRIVE-IN.  An establishment where food is prepared and served on
the premises for consumption within an automobile, and an establishment with
combined drive-in and sit-down facilities.
   RESTAURANT, SIT-DOWN.  An establishment where food is prepared and served
for consumption within the principal building, with or without carry-out
facilities.
   ROADSIDE STAND.  A temporary or permanent building operated for the purpose
of selling only produce raised or produced by the proprietor of the stand or
his or her family, and its use shall not make into a commercial district land
which would otherwise be agricultural, nor shall its use be deemed a commercial
activity.  The STAND, if of a permanent character, shall not be more than 1
story high nor larger than 20 feet by 20 feet, and must be set back from the
nearest highway right-of-way line at least 25 feet.
   ROOMING HOUSE.  See BOARDING HOUSE.
   SEASONAL SALES. A temporary building operated for the purpose of seasonally
selling agricultural products, a portion of which may or may not be raised or
produced on the same premises but by the proprietor of the stand.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES.  Intended to provide temporary storage needs for
businesses, apartment dwellers, and other individuals, on a self-service basis;
and, under strict standards, to ensure security, prevent storage of flammable
or toxic substances, create a pleasant environment, and allow proper access and
circulation.
   SETBACK.  The minimum horizontal distance required to exist between the
front line of the building, excluding steps or wooden handicapped ramps, and
the front street or right-of-way line.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is always mandatory and not discretionary.
   SIDEWALK SALES. A temporary sale that is conducted by the business owner on
the property in which their principal business is located, during hours of
operation only, which sells items that area also available in the principal
business.
   SIGN, NUMBER AND SURFACE AREA.  For the purpose of determining NUMBER of
signs, a SIGN shall be considered to be a single display surface or display
device containing elements organized, related, and composed to form a unit. 
The SURFACE AREA of a sign shall be computed as including the entire area
within a regular geometric form or combination of regular geometric forms
comprising all of the display area of the sign and including all of the
elements of the matter displayed.  Frames and structural members not bearing
advertising matter shall not be included in computation of SURFACE AREA.
   SIGN, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.  Any card, cloth, paper, metal, glass, wood,
plaster, stone, or sign of other material of any kind, placed for outdoor
advertising purposes on the ground or on any tree, wall, bush, rock, post,
fence, building, structure, or thing whatsoever.  The term PLACED as used in
this definition shall include erecting, construction, posting, painting,
printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking, carving, or other fastening,
affixing, or making visible in any manner whatsoever. The term shall
specifically exclude the following:
      (1)   Signs not exceeding 1 square foot in area and bearing only property
numbers, box numbers, names of occupants of premises, or other identification
of premises not having commercial connotations;
      (2)   Flags and insignia of any government except when displayed in
connection with commercial promotion;
      (3)   Legal notices, identification, informational, or directional signs
erected or required by governmental bodies;
      (4)   Integral decorative or architectural features of buildings, except
letters, trademarks, moving parts, or moving lights; and
      (5)   Signs directing and guiding traffic and parking on private
property, but bearing no advertising matter.
   SINGLE PARCEL OWNERSHIP.  Ownership of a parcel of property wherein the
owner does not own adjoining vacant property.  Owner of a property may include
dual or multiple ownership by a partnership, corporation, or other group. 
Provided, that the owner of any number of contiguous lots of record considered
as a single lot of record for the purpose of this ordinance as he or she so
elects, and in that case the outside perimeter of the group of lots of record
shall constitute the front, rear, and side lot lines thereof.
   SPECIAL EVENTS. Events held by a public entity or that have been approved by
the Zoning Board of Appeals under the regulations of Ordinance 113 - Outdoor
Recreational Events.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
      (2)   Human or animal male genitals in a discernibly turgid state even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Human or animal genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal.
      (2)   Acts of human or animal masturbation, sexual intercourse, or
sodomy.
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human or animal genitals,
pubic region, buttock, or female breast.
   STORY.  The portion of a building, other than a cellar or mezzanine,
included between the surface of any floor and the floor next above it, or, if
there is no floor above it, then the space between the floor and the ceiling
next above it.  (See
Appendix B - This Chapter.)
      (1)   A mezzanine shall be deemed a full STORY when it covers more than
50% of the area of the story underneath that mezzanine, or if the vertical
distance from the floor next below it to the floor next above it is 24 feet or
more.
      (2)   A basement or cellar shall be counted as a STORY if over 50% of its
height is above the level from which the height of the building is measured, or
if it is used for business purposes, or if it is used for dwelling purposes by
other than a janitor or domestic servants employed in the same building,
including the family of the same.
   STORY, HALF.  The part of a building between a pitched roof and the
uppermost full story, that part having a floor area which does not exceed ½ the
floor area of the full story.  (See
Appendix B - This Chapter.)
   STREET.  A public thoroughfare which affords traffic circulation and
principal means of access to abutting property, including avenue, place, way,
drive, lane, boulevard, highway, road, and other thoroughfare, except an alley.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION.  Any change in the supporting members of a building
or structure, such as bearing walls, or partitions, columns, beams, or girders,
or any change in the width or number of exits, or any substantial change in the
roof.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected which requires permanent
location on the ground or attachment to something having such location. 
BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof.
   STRUCTURE, OUTDOOR ADVERTISING.  Any structure of any kind or character
erected or maintained for outdoor advertising purposes, upon which any outdoor
advertising sign or billboard may be placed, including outdoor advertising
statuary.  The term PLACED as used in this definition shall include erecting,
construction, posting, painting, printing, tacking, nailing, gluing, sticking,
carving, or other fastening, affixing, or making visible in any manner
whatsoever.
   SWIMMING POOL.  Any structure or container intended for swimming or bathing,
located either above or below grade, designed to hold water to a depth of
greater than 24 inches.
   TEMPORARY BUILDING AND USE.  A structure or use permitted by the Board of
Zoning Appeals to exist during periods of construction of the main use or for
special events, not to exceed 1 year.
   TEMPORARY MARIJUANA EVENT. A state license with Zoning Board of Appeals
approval held by a marijuana event organizer for an event where the onsite sale
or consumption of marijuana products, or both, are authorized at the location
indicated on the state and city license during the dates indicated on the state
and city license.
   TEMPORARY ROADSIDE STAND. Includes any stand, truck, motor vehicle, trailer,
tent, or other enclosure not permanently affixed to the land, arid not
assessable as a part of the real estate, and from which enclosure merchandise
is sold or held for sale to the public.
   TENT.  A shelter of canvas or the like, supported by poles and fastened by
cords or pegs driven into the ground; and shall not include those types of
tents used solely for children’s recreational purposes.
   TRAVEL TRAILER.  A portable vehicular unit primarily designed for travel and
recreational usage, which may also contain facilities for overnight lodging,
but which does not exceed 8 feet in width or 32 feet in length.  This term also
includes folding campers and truck-mounted campers, but not mobile homes.
   USE.  The purpose for which land or premises of a building thereon is
designed, arranged, or intended, or for which it is occupied, or maintained,
let, or leased.
   USED FOR.  Includes “arranged for,” “designed for,” “intended for,”
“maintained for,” or “occupied for.”
   VARIANCE.  A modification of the literal provisions of this ordinance which
is granted when strict enforcement would cause undue hardship or practical
difficulty, depending on the variance requested, owing to circumstances unique
to the individual property on which the variance is granted. Hardships based
solely on economic considerations are not grounds for a variance.
   VEHICLE ACCESS DRIVE.  The portion of a driveway entrance or exit lane
extending from the edge of a traveled road or highway to or from the edge of a
traveled road or highway to or from an off- street parking lot.
   YARD.  An open space of prescribed width or depth on the same land with a
building or group of buildings, which open space lies between the building or
group of buildings, and the nearest lot line, and is unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein.  This
regulation shall not include eaves, provided that an 8-foot height clearance is
provided above the adjacent ground level.
   YARD, FRONT.  A yard extending the full width of the lot, the depth of which
is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line and the nearest
line of the main building.  (See
Appendix B - This Chapter.)
   YARD, REAR.  A yard between a main building and the rear lot line.  The
depth of the required rear yard shall be measured from the nearest point of the
rear lot line to the nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE.  A yard between a main building and the side lot line, extending
from the front yard to the rear yard.  The width of the required SIDE YARD
shall be measured horizontally from the nearest point of the side lot line to
the nearest point of the main building.
   ZERO LOT LINE SUBDIVISION.  A collection of single-family residences
contained within a common structure or attached together having common wall
spaces.  Each residence shall be sold with an individual lot and that portion
of the structure sitting on that lot.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  This term shall refer to the Zoning Administrator of
the city, or his or her authorized representative.
(Ord. 2017-7-157, passed 12-14-2017; Ord. 2019-10-157, passed 9-16-2019; Ord.
2020-1-157, passed 1- 21-2020; Ord. 2020-1-157, passed 5-1-2020; Ord. 2021-7-
157, passed 7-19-2021)
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES AND MAPS
§ 157.020  DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this ordinance, the city is hereby divided into the
following districts:
   (A)   SE, suburban estate residential;
   (B)   R-1A, single-family residential;
   (C)   R-1B, single-family residential;
   (D)   R-1C, single-family residential;
   (E)   RM, multiple-family residential;
   (F)   RM-1, low density multiple;
   (G)   HRM, high rise multiple-family residential;
   (H)   RMH, mobile home park;
   (I)   R-O, restricted office;
   (J)   C-1, local business;
   (K)   C-2, general business;
   (L)   C-3, highway-oriented business;
   (M)   C-4, planned shopping center;
   (N)   M-1, light industrial;
   (O)   M-2, general industrial; and
   (P)   P-1, vehicular parking.
§ 157.021  ZONING MAP ADOPTED; BOUNDARY INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The boundaries of these districts are shown upon the map made a part
of this ordinance, which map is designated as the Zoning Map of the city.  The
Zoning Map on file in the office of the Clerk of the City, and all notations,
references, and other information shown thereon are a part of this ordinance
and have the same force and effect as if the Zoning Map and all notations,
references, and other information shown thereon were fully set forth or
described herein.
   (B)   Except where reference on the Map to a street or other designated line
by the dimensions shown on the Map, the district boundary lines follow lot
lines or the centerlines of the streets or alleys or such lines extended and
the corporate limits of the city, as they existed at the time of the adoption
of this ordinance.
   (C)   Where a district boundary line, as established in this section or as
shown on the Zoning Map, divides a lot which was in a single ownership and of
record at the time of enactment of this ordinance, the use authorized thereon
and the other district requirements applying to the least restricted portion of
the lot, under this ordinance shall be considered as extending to the entire
lot, provided that the more restricted portion of the lot is entirely within 25
feet of the dividing district boundary line.  The use so extended shall be
deemed to be conforming.
   (D)   Questions concerning the exact location of district boundary lines
shall be determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals after recommendation from
the City Planning Commission, according to rules and regulations which may be
adopted by it.
ZONING DISTRICTS; USES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.035     SUBURBAN ESTATE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, SE.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The suburban estate residential district is
established to permit single- family residential development of a rural non-
farm nature in areas without public sewer and water facilities.  For the
suburban estate residential district, in promoting the general purpose of this
ordinance, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of, and the continued use of the land
for single-family dwellings;
      (2)   To prohibit business, commercial, or industrial use of the land,
and to prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with
development or continuation of single-family dwellings in the district;
      (3)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provisions of this ordinance;
      (4)   To discourage any land use which would generate traffic on minor or
local streets other than normal traffic to serve the residences on those
streets; and
      (5)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as fire and
police protection, water supply, and sewerage, substantially in excess of the
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for single- family
dwellings.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the suburban estate residential district
no uses shall be permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except
the following:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   The growing of vegetables, fruit, flowers, trees, and shrubs;
      (3)   Publicly owned and operated museums, parks, playfields, libraries,
and other recreational facilities;
      (4)   Public, parochial, or private elementary, intermediate, and high
schools offering courses in general education, not operated for profit;
      (5)   Cluster subdivisions pursuant to requirements of §
157.093 of this code;
      (6)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
principal permitted uses;
      (7)   Off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.110 et seq. of this code;
      (8)   Home occupations as defined in §
157.006 which comply with §
157.100(A) of this code;
      (9)   Single-family farm dwellings;
      (10)   Farm buildings and greenhouses;
      (11)   (a)   Farms, including livestock and poultry raising, dairying,
horticulture, farm forestry, sod farming, and similar bona fide agricultural
enterprises or use of land and structure, provided the farm shall be a minimum
of 5 acres.
         (b)   The keeping of horses for farming or for riding purposes,
equines, cattle, or similar livestock shall be permitted only if 1 acre of land
is provided for the use of each such animal. The keeping of fowl, poultry, and
small livestock shall be regulated according to yard setbacks. All land so used
for the keeping of livestock or fowl shall be located no nearer to the front
street line than the rear building line of the dwelling on that lot and no
closer than 50 feet from any adjacent property line. A suitable fence or other
enclosure shall be erected around the entire premises for outside use by
horses, cattle, or similar livestock. There shall be no obnoxious odors, flies,
or other nuisances caused by the keeping of livestock or fowl, or by any
agricultural operation.
   (C)   Permitted uses after special approval.  The following uses shall be
permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed and subject further to
site plan review and approval of the City Planning Commission:
      (1)   Roadside stands for the display and sale of produce raised on the
same premises, which shall be located not less than 25 feet from the street or
highway right-of-way line and further provided that an open space for parking,
25 feet off the highway or street right-of-way, be provided for patrons of the
roadside produce stand.  A maximum of 1 roadside stand shall be permitted on
any premises;
      (2)   Private parks, country clubs, golf courses, and golf driving
ranges, when located on a continuous parcel of 5 acres or more in area; when
any structure on that parcel is located at least 250 feet from a lot line of
any adjacent residential district; and when all ingress and egress from that
parcel is directly onto a major thoroughfare;
      (3)   Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto, subject
to the following conditions:
         (a)   Unless established prior to the enactment of this ordinance, a
church site shall contain an area of at least 2 acres;
         (b)   The site shall be so located as to have at least 1 property line
abutting a major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly onto the major thoroughfare; and
         (c)   Wherever the off-street parking area is adjacent to land zoned
for residential purposes, a continuous and obscuring wall not less than 5 feet
in height shall be provided along the sides of the parking area adjacent to the
residentially zoned land in accordance with §
157.087.
      (4)   Publicly owned buildings, public utility buildings, telephone
exchange buildings, electric transformer stations and substations, and gas
regulator stations, but not including storage yards, when operating
requirements necessitate locating within the district to serve the immediate
vicinity, and the use is not injurious to the surrounding neighborhood;
      (5)   Nursery schools, day nurseries, and child care centers (not
including dormitories), provided that for each child so cared for, there shall
be provided and maintained a minimum of 200 square feet of outdoor play area. 
This play space shall have a total minimum area of at least 1,000 square feet
and shall be screened from any adjoining lot in any residential district in
accordance with §
157.087;
      (6)   Cemeteries, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The cemetery site shall contain an area of at least 20 acres;
         (b)   The site shall be so located as to have at least 1 property line
abutting a major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly onto the major thoroughfare;
         (c)   The perimeter of the site shall be fenced in accordance with §
157.087;
         (d)   Any structure located on the site shall be at least 100 feet
from any lot line; and
         (e)   Any burial plot located on the site shall be located at least 50
feet from any lot line.
      (7)   Temporary buildings for use incidental to construction work for a
period not to exceed 1 year.
   (D)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in 
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
§ 157.036  SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS; R-1A, R-1B, AND R-1C.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The single-family residential districts are
established as districts in which the principal use of land is for single-
family dwellings.  For the single-family residential districts, in promoting
the general purpose of this ordinance, the specific intent of this section is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of, and the continued use of the land
for single-family dwellings;
      (2)   To prohibit business, commercial, or industrial use of the land and
to prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development
or continuation of single-family dwellings in the district;
      (3)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provisions of this ordinance;
      (4)   To discourage any land use which would generate traffic on minor or
local streets other than normal traffic to serve the residences on those
streets; and
      (5)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as fire and
police protection, water supply, and sewerage, substantially in excess of the
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for single- family
dwellings.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the R-1A, R-1B, and R-1C districts, no
uses shall be permitted unless otherwise provided in this ordinance except the
following:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Publicly owned and operated parks, playfields, museums, libraries,
and other recreation facilities;
      (3)   Public, parochial, or private elementary, intermediate, and high
schools offering courses in general education, not operated for profit;
      (4)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
principal permitted uses;
      (5)   Off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.110et seq. of this code;
      (6)   Cluster subdivisions in R-1A districts pursuant to requirements of
§
157.093;
      (7)   Home occupations as defined in §
157.006 and which comply with §
157.100(A) of this code;
      (8)   Single-family farm dwellings;
      (9)   Farm buildings and greenhouses; and
      (10)   (a)   Farms, including livestock and poultry raising, dairying,
horticulture, farm forestry, sod farming, and similar bona fide agricultural
enterprises or use of land and structure, provided the farm shall be a minimum
of 5 acres.
         (b)   The keeping of horses for farming or for riding purposes,
equines, cattle, or similar livestock shall be permitted only if 1 acre of land
is provided for the use of each such animal. The keeping of fowl, poultry, and
small livestock shall be regulated according to yard setbacks. All land so used
for the keeping of livestock or fowl shall be located no nearer to the front
street line than the rear building line of the dwelling on that lot and no
closer than 50 feet from any adjacent property line. A suitable fence or other
enclosure shall be erected around the entire premises for outside use by
horses, cattle, or similar livestock. There shall be no obnoxious odors, flies,
or other nuisances caused by the keeping of livestock or fowl, or by any
agricultural operation.
   (C)   Permitted uses after special approval.  The following uses shall be
permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed and subject further to
site plan review and approval of the City Planning Commission pursuant to §
157.177 of this code:
      (1)   Private parks, country clubs, golf courses, and golf driving
ranges, when located on a continuous parcel of 5 acres or more in area; when
any structure on that parcel is located at least 200 feet from a lot line of
any adjacent residential thoroughfare;
      (2)   Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto, subject
to the following conditions:
         (a)   Unless established prior to the enactment of this ordinance, a
church site shall contain an area of at least 2 acres;
         (b)   The site shall be so located as to have at least 1 property line
abutting a major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly onto the major thoroughfare; and
         (c)   Wherever the off-street parking area is adjacent to land zoned
for residential purposes, a continuous and obscuring wall not less than 5 feet
in height shall be provided along the sides of the parking area adjacent to the
residentially zoned land in accordance with §
157.087.
      (3)   Publicly owned buildings, public utility buildings, telephone
exchange buildings, electric transformer stations and substations, and gas
regulator stations, but not including storage yards, when operating
requirements necessitate locating within the district to serve the immediate
vicinity, and the use is not injurious to the surrounding neighborhood;
      (4)   Nursery schools, day nurseries, and child care centers (not
including dormitories), provided that for each child so cared for, there shall
be provided and maintained a minimum of 200 square feet of outdoor play area. 
This play space shall have a total minimum area of at least 1,000 square feet,
and shall be screened from any adjoining lot in any residential district in
accordance with §
157.087; and
      (5)   Cemeteries, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The cemetery site shall contain an area of at least 20 acres;
         (b)   The site shall be so located as to have at least 1 property line
abutting a major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly onto the major thoroughfare;
         (c)   The perimeter of the site shall be fenced in accordance with §
157.087;
         (d)   Any structure located on the site shall be at least 100 feet
from any lot line; and
         (e)   Any burial plot located on the site shall be located at least 50
feet from any lot line.
   (D)   Planned unit development.  It shall be the intent of this section to
allow a more flexible development of land in the R-1A and R-1B residential
districts by permitting, subject to review and approval of the Board of Zoning
Appeals, a variation in dwelling type, bulk, density, and open space
requirements within prescribed limits.
      (1)   Such a planned unit development (PUD) shall encourage:
         (a)   A more efficient use of residential land;
         (b)   The preservation of natural features in the community such as
open space, wooded areas, creeks, ponds, and floodplains;
         (c)   The provision of areas for open space and recreation; and
         (d)   A more efficient provision of those public facilities required
in connection with residential development, such as schools, fire stations, and
similar public facilities.
      (2)   Planned unit developments permitted under this section shall be
subject to the following requirements.
         (a)   The minimum lot size of any PUD shall be 30 acres.
         (b)   Of the total number of dwelling units permitted in a PUD, a
minimum of 60% of the dwelling units shall be single-family homes.  The
remaining 40% of the dwelling units may be apartments or townhouses.
         (c)   The developer shall provide within the PUD public sanitary
sewer, water, and storm drainage systems which shall connect with the city’s
system, and shall be otherwise constructed and maintained in conformity with
the statutes, ordinances, and regulations of the state, the County Health
Department, the County Drain Commissioner’s office, and the city.
         (d)   Uses permitted in a PUD may include and shall be limited to:
            1.   Single-family, townhouse, or apartment dwelling units;
            2.   Nonresidential uses of a religious, cultural, recreational, or
educational character that are characteristically found in residential areas;
and
            3.   Commercial and office uses of a local or neighborhood
character.
         (e)   Nonresidential uses shall not exceed 10% of the total land area
of the PUD and must meet the following requirements:
            1.   Nonresidential sites may not exceed 10 acres in any 1 site. 
Proposed larger sites must obtain conventional zoning;
            2.   Planned commercial or office sites are to be located at an
intersection of 2 major thoroughfares or a major and a collector street; and
            3.   Not all PUDs automatically receive commercial or office
sites.  The sites depend on the market potential of the area.  It is the burden
of the landowner to submit sufficient evidence to justify the need for
commercial or office development.
         (f)   The Planning Commission, in determining the reasonableness of
the increase in the authorized dwelling units per acre, shall recognize that
increased density may be balanced by additional private amenities and by
increased efficiency in public services to be achieved by the planning unit
development, provided that the densities do not exceed those expressed in Table
157.036A.
            1.   Density shall be determined on that portion of the planned
unit development proposed for residential development and shall not include
land devoted to schools, commercial facilities, office areas, or other
nonresidential properties.
            2.   Open space areas shall be considered as residential property
in determining density.  Existing public rights-of-way shall not be used in
calculating density.
 
Table 157.036A:  Planned Unit Development Requirements
                Maximum        Minimum Single-
Zoning District Permitted      Family Lot      Minimum Single- Minimum Common
                Dwelling Units Frontage at     Family Lot Area Open Space
                per Acre       Building Line
R-1A, single-   4.2            70 ft.          8,400 sq. ft.   15% of total PUD
family                                                         area
R-1B, single-   5.4            60 ft.          7,200 sq. ft.   6% of total PUD
family                                                         area
 
         (g)   The frontage and lot area of single-family lots shall be no less
than shown in Table 157.036A.
         (h)   Common open space areas, as provided in accordance with Table
157.036A, shall be within and part of the single-family portion of the PUD. 
All residents of the single-family area shall be members of a homeowners
association which shall own and maintain the common open space.  Development of
the common open space shall be in accordance with the following provisions:
            1.   All common open spaces are to be part of a subdivision plat
and designated as a private park and given a name.  The developer is
responsible for grading and seeding all portions of the non-wooded areas of the
common open space at the time of the rough grading of the lots;
            2.   All common open spaces are to be of a size, shape, function,
and location satisfactory to the City Planning Commission;
            3.   Drainage courses may be part of the open space provided in the
PUD, provided the drainage courses are part of a contiguous park area, drainage
easements do not constitute more than 30% of the total common open space, and
drain easements shall be maintained as part of the common open space by the
homeowners association;
            4.   The landowner shall turn control of the platted common open
space to the homeowners when 80% of the homes planned are sold to the general
public or within 3 years of the commencement of building, whichever occurs
first; and
            5.   All common open space in and abutting the development stage
shall be established as part of the subdivision plat.
         (i)   Except as provided in this subsection (D), development of
single-family residential uses under this section shall be subject to all
remaining provisions of this section, and
Appendix A, and to all other provisions of this ordinance applicable to this
type of use.
         (j)   Development of the multiple-family residential area shall be in
accordance with the provisions of §
157.037 of this code, which are hereby incorporated herein by reference, and
with the provisions of
Appendix A of this ordinance, to the extent those provisions are not in
conflict with the provisions of this section.
         (k)   Prior to the granting of a building permit for any uses under
this subsection (D), a site plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
for review in accordance with § 157.092 of this code.  A proposed agreement by
the developer of the PUD with the city shall also be submitted for review with
the site plan, stating the duties and obligations of the developer.  In the
course of the site plan review, the Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing therein with notice as provided for hearings to consider ordinance
amendments to change the zoning district of a parcel of land.
         (l)   After completing site plan review as provided in subsection (D)
(2)(k) above, the Planning Commission shall recommend to the City Council that
the site plan be approved or disapproved.  The City Council shall, upon
receiving the recommendation, decide by resolution to reject the site plan, or
proceed with the consideration of the site plan.  If the site plan is rejected,
the developer shall be notified in writing of the rejection.
            1.   If the City Council resolved to proceed, a public hearing on
the site plan shall be held with notice as provided for hearings to consider
ordinance amendments to change the zoning district of a parcel of land.  After
that hearing, which may be adjourned from time to time without further notice,
the City Council shall by resolution approve or disapprove the site plan.
            2.   The developer shall within 6 months of the date of this
approval enter into an agreement with the city, containing those provisions as
the City Council shall deem necessary, stating the duties and obligations of
the developer.  Within 2 years from the date of execution of this agreement,
the developer shall record a plat of the single-family area of the development
in accordance with the approved site plan.  Within 1 year from the date of that
recordation, construction of the single-family area of the development shall
begin.  No construction shall commence in the multiple-family area until
construction of dwellings has commenced in the single-family area on 25% of the
platted lots, or 20 of the lots, whichever shall be smaller.
   (E)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
§ 157.037  MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, RM.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The multiple-family residential district is
designed to permit an intensive residential use of land.  Multiple-family areas
shall abut upon major thoroughfares for good accessibility and may be located
between single-family residential areas and other nonresidential uses.  It is
intended that various sizes of residential accommodations, for ownership and
rental, shall be provided to meet the needs of the community.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the RM district, no uses shall be
permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following:
      (1)   All principal permitted uses, and permitted uses after special
approval under §
157.036(C) in the R-1A and R-1B districts subject to the terms and conditions
therein;
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings, provided that all such dwellings shall
have at least 1 property line abutting a major thoroughfare.  All ingress and
egress shall be directly onto the major thoroughfare;
      (3)   Two-family dwellings;
      (4)   Community garages serving the principal residential building,
containing space for no more than 2 passenger vehicles for each dwelling unit
in the principal building on the lot;
      (5)   Maintenance and management buildings to serve multiple dwellings;
      (6)   Private swimming pool designed and operated as an accessory use
only for occupants of the main building or buildings and their personal guests
in accordance with Standard Code Provisions;
      (7)   Hospitals, provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   All such hospitals shall be developed only on sites consisting
of at least 5 acres in area;
         (b)   The proposed site shall have at least 1 property line abutting a
major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the off-street parking area, for
guests, employees, staff, as well as any other uses of the facilities, shall be
directly onto the major thoroughfare;
         (c)   In the event 1 or more boundaries of the proposed site lies
opposite or contiguous of a residential district, the minimum distances between
any hospital structure or accessory use and the residential district boundary
shall be at least 100 feet for buildings containing 2 stories or less.  For
buildings above 2 stories, the building shall be set back from the initial 100
foot setback an additional 1 foot for each foot of additional height above 2
stories;
         (d)   The minimum distance from any street line shall not be less than
40 feet for buildings containing 2 stories or less, while buildings above 2
stories, regardless of what zoning district is adjacent the proposed hospital
site, shall be set back an additional 1 foot for each 5 feet of height above 2
stories;
         (e)   The minimum distance from a nonresidential lot line shall not be
less than 25 feet;
         (f)   Ambulance and delivery areas shall be obscured from all
residential view with a wall or barrier of suitable material at least 6 feet in
height, and that wall or barrier shall be further subject to the requirements
of §
157.087 of this code;
         (g)   The site plan shall show any future construction and projected
maximum patient census; and
         (h)   Noise-producing activities, such as ambulance and delivery
areas, shall be located not less than 500 feet from any residential area.
      (8)   Convalescent or nursing home, not to exceed a height of 2.5
stories, when the following conditions are met:
         (a)   All these convalescent or nursing homes shall be developed only
on sites consisting of at least 5 acres in area;
         (b)   The proposed site shall have at least 1 property line abutting a
major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the off-street parking area, for
guests, employees, staff, as well as any other uses of the facilities, shall be
directly onto the major thoroughfare; and
         (c)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet from any property line.
      (9)   Boarding house (rooming house) not to exceed a height of 3 stories;
      (10)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
principal permitted uses;
      (11)   Off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.110et seq. of this code; and
      (12)   Zero lot line subdivisions subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The proposed subdivision shall consist of a tract of land at
least 10 acres in area;
         (b)   The application shall be endorsed unequivocally for this type of
development by all the owners of the tract, and procedures and documents shall
be provided to ensure development under a single administration and as approved
by the City Council after recommendation from the Planning Commission;
         (c)   All developments of this nature are to be located on a site
which the City Engineer has determined to have an adequate supply of public
sanitary sewer and public watermain available to service the newly created
needs;
         (d)   Residential densities shall not exceed 2 buildings per acre with
each building containing a maximum of 4 dwelling units based upon the total
gross area of the proposed subdivision including all streets and roads within
the subdivision and dedicated open space;
         (e)   The developer shall dedicate not less than 10% of the total land
area for parks, woodlands, conservation district, playgrounds, golf courses,
tennis courts, or other open space areas, such as to encourage the preservation
of natural features for public or semi-public use.  This land may be dedicated
to the city or may be reserved for use of all residents in the zero lot line
subdivision, in which case satisfactory arrangements shall be made, acceptable
to the city, for the development, operation, and maintenance for all these
areas.  Prior to conveyance of this open space, all open space shall be graded
and seeded, except that portion of the open space may be preserved in a natural
state subject to approval by the City Council after recommendation from the
Planning Commission.
            1.   The location, extent, and purpose of areas dedicated for open
space or recreational use within any subdivision shall be approved by the City
Council after recommendation from the Planning Commission.
            2.   The development, operation, and maintenance of dedicated land
for private open space or recreational use shall be guaranteed by a trust
indenture approved by the city and shall be filed with the County Register of
Deeds simultaneously with the recording of the final plat of the proposed
subdivision.
         (f)   A subdivision association is to be established for the entire
life of development to ensure property owners of an orderly run subdivision. 
After the developer has fulfilled his or her obligations to the city, all
property owners will be members of the subdivision association and each lot
having 1 vote on all issues brought before it.  Items to be addressed by
association are, but not limited to, the following:  obtain funds to utilize
for maintenance, replacement, repair, and care of roofs, gutters, downspouts,
exterior building surfaces, trees, shrubs, grass, walks, common areas, and
other exterior improvements.  The developer will submit format for the
development of the subdivision which will be subject to the approval of the
City Council after receiving recommendation from the Planning Commission and
City Attorney.  Any changes or amendments to approved subdivision association
declaration of covenants, conditions, and regulations must be approved by the
City Council prior to adoption by the subdivision;
         (g)   The exterior of the building(s) is to be constructed of a low
maintenance material, one which does not require continual painting and
staining.  Suggested materials are as follows; however, the developer is not
limited to these if he or she is able to convince the Planning Commission that
the intent is being followed:  brick, masonry materials, aluminum products, and
the like.  All exterior material is subject to Planning Commission approval;
         (h)   At time of, prior to final plat approval, the developer is to
submit final building design and layout subject to approval of the Planning
Commission;
         (i)   Building permits for additions or for renovations of the
existing structures will be issued only through application from the
subdivision architectural committee.  The architectural committee will consist
of a 3-person board; a representative from the City Department of Public Works,
a representative from the Board of Directors from the subdivision association,
and a representative from the developer who must serve for a minimum period of
5 years.  After this time, he or she may elect to be replaced; if so, a
representative from the city’s Building Board of Appeals will be chosen by the
chairperson of that group;
         (j)   Ten-foot minimum access easement required to service rear yard
of each dwelling unit.  The access easement shall be filed with the County
Register of Deeds simultaneously with the recording of the final plat of the
proposed subdivision;
         (k)   Setback requirements:
            1.   Twenty-foot front yard;
            2.   Thirty-foot rear yard;
            3.   Twenty-foot side on end dwelling units; and
            4.   Forty-foot minimum between buildings.
         (l)   Minimum lot size:  24 feet by 110 feet, or 2,640 square feet;
         (m)   Minimum frontage:  24 feet;
         (n)   Minimum living area per dwelling unit to be 1,000 square feet;
         (o)   Maximum lot coverage:  50%;
         (p)   Maximum building height to be 2.5 stories or 35 feet;
         (q)   Yearly maintenance inspection; to provide for compliance with
the current adopted provisions of this ordinance and this code of ordinances
and to abate all on-site deficiencies, the Department of Public Works will
conduct a yearly inspection in the spring of each year.  A list of deficiencies
will be compiled and submitted to the property owner(s).  A time frame of 6
months will be granted to the owners of record to complete the necessary
items.  Failure to update deficiencies will result in abatement procedures;
         (r)   Performance bond required prior to issuance of permits;
         (s)   Household pets permitted as long as they remain in dwelling unit
or on leash accompanied by owner; in no case shall there be exterior dog
kennels or dog houses within subdivision; and
         (t)   A fenced and screened storage area to city specifications shall
be provided on the site for the use of residents of the subdivision to store
recreational vehicles, boats, and the like.  One storage space per dwelling
unit shall be provided.  Size of the storage space shall be 10 feet by 20 feet.
   (C)   Greenbelt.  No use permitted in an RM district shall be erected or
altered on any lot or area adjoining a single-family residential district
unless a greenbelt in accordance with §
157.088 of dimensions and plant materials to be determined by the Planning
Commission or an ornamental masonry opaque wall not less than 5 feet in height
is provided along the adjoining lot line, as determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in an RM district, other
than single-family residences, but including structural restoration,
reconstruction, extension, substitution, or renovation of existing uses, a site
plan of the entire building premises shall be submitted for review and approval
in accordance with §
157.092 of this code.  In addition to the criteria set forth in §
157.092(G), any multiple-dwelling site plan shall also meet the following
criteria:
      (1)   All site plans shall have 2 means of ingress and egress throughout
the project to permit adequate circulation for safety equipment;
      (2)   In all multiple projects of over 100 dwelling units, parking shall
not be allowed along the main circulation drive;
      (3)   All parking lots must be a minimum of 62 feet in width, and if
through traffic is permitted through the lot, the width must be increased to 64
feet;
      (4)   All townhouse units must be constructed to permit the development
of an individual outdoor paved patio area not less than 100 square feet in
area;
      (5)   There shall be no more than 10 townhouses in any 1 attached row,
and there shall be no more than 3 continuous, attached townhouses with the same
building line;
      (6)   An apartment house shall not exceed 200 feet in length; and
      (7)   Townhouse units with attached garages may not include the space
behind the garage door as part of the parking requirement.  Townhouse units
with attached garages may reduce their requirement parking to 1.5 spaces per
dwelling unit.
   (E)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements unless otherwise specified are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
§ 157.038  MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, RM-1.
   (A)   Intent.  The RM-1, multiple-family residential districts, are intended
to provide opportunities for the building of low density multiple-family
dwelling structures.  Generally the type of areas that would be appropriate for
the zoning designation areas adjacent to major thoroughfares that have been
previously subdivided into large estate type lots and may be near existing
single-family residential development.  The intent is further to encourage the
development of small multiple-family structures so that the scale of the
buildings remain somewhat in keeping with a large single-family housing
structure.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted.  In an RM-1, multiple-family residential
district, no building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected
except for 1 or more of the following specified uses unless otherwise provided
in this ordinance:
      (1)   Two-family dwellings;
      (2)   Single-family attached dwelling units, provided they meet the
following requirements:
         (a)   The attachment is affected:
            1.   Through a common party wall which does not have over 25% of
its area in common with an abutting dwelling unit wall;
            2.   By means of an architectural wall detail which does not have
over 25% of its area in common with an abutting dwelling unit wall;
            3.   By means of an architectural wall detail which does not form
interior room space; or
            4.   Through a common party wall in only the garage portion of
adjacent structures, there being no common party wall relationship permitted
through any other portion of the residential unit.
         (b)   The maximum number of dwelling units that in some degree be
attached shall not exceed 4 in a cluster.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above permitted uses.
   (C)   Required conditions.
      (1)   In the case of multiple-dwelling developments, all site plans shall
be submitted to the Planning Commission for its review and approval prior to
the issuance of a building permit.  Approval shall be contingent upon a finding
that:
         (a)   The site plan shows a proper relationship exists between local
streets and any proposed service roads, driveways, and parking areas to
encourage pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety; and
         (b)   All the development features including the principal building or
buildings and any accessory buildings, or uses, open spaces, and any service
roads, driveways, and parking areas, are so located and related to minimize the
possibility of any adverse effects upon adjacent property, such as, but not
limited to:  channeling excessive traffic onto local residential streets, lack
of adequate screening or buffering of parking or service areas, or building
groupings and circulation routes located so as to interfere with police or fire
equipment access.
      (2)   All access to the site shall be from a major thoroughfare.
   (D)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions.  The following
uses may be permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed for each
use and subject further to the review and approval of the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Townhouses not to exceed 6 attached dwelling units subject to the
following conditions:  All townhouse housing structures shall be so situated
that access through single-family detached housing lots is avoided.  Generally,
townhouses shall be restricted to arterial streets unless otherwise approved by
the Planning Commission as a function of site plan approval.  Generally,
townhouse structures shall be limited to the first 300 feet of depth from a
major road;
      (2)   Triplex and fourplex apartment structures subject to the same
conditions as subsection (D)(1) above; and
      (3)   Any configuration of dwelling units may be permitted upon approval
of the Planning Commission who shall, in the review of the project, address the
following conditions:
         (a)   Relationship of the proposed building to adjacent existing land
use to determine scale compatibility;
         (b)   The topography of the land is such that the effect of the size
and bulk of the building is not as large as it might otherwise be; and
         (c)   The Planning Commission is otherwise satisfied that the
development be compatible with adjacent uses.
   (E)   Area and bulk requirement.  See
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations, limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted,
and providing minimum yard setback requirements.
   (F)   Maximum density.  The maximum density for residential development
within this zoning classification shall be 8 units per acre.
§ 157.039  HIGH RISE MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, HRM.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The high rise multiple-family residential
district is designed to permit high-rise apartment residential development. 
Due to the large traffic volume generated by this type of development, this
district shall abut upon a major thoroughfare, and may be utilized as a buffer
between single-family residential areas and other nonresidential uses.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the HRM district, no uses shall be
permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following:
      (1)   All principal permitted uses in the RM district;
      (2)   High rise multiple-family residential structures subject to the
following conditions:
         (a)   No structure shall exceed 10 stories or 100 feet in height;
         (b)   All dwelling units above the first story shall be served by
elevators;
         (c)   The proposed site shall have at least 1 property line abutting a
major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the site shall be directly from
that thoroughfare;
         (d)   The entire area of the site shall be designed to serve the
residents of the lot, and any accessory buildings, uses, or services shall be
developed primarily for the use of residents of the lot.  Uses considered
herein as accessory uses include:  parking structures, swimming pools,
recreation areas, pavilions, cabanas, and other similar uses;
         (e)   All dwelling units shall have at least 1 living room and 1
bedroom, except that not more than 5% of the units may be of an efficiency
type; and
         (f)   Retail or service uses shall be permitted on the site when
developed clearly accessory to the multiple-family use, within the walls of the
multiple-family structures, and totally obscured from any exterior view.  No
identifying sign for any such business or service use shall be visible from any
exterior view.  These businesses or services shall not exceed 50% of the total
floor area of either the first and second floor and shall be prohibited on all
floors above the second floor.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
principal permitted uses; and
      (4)   Off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.110 et seq. of this code.
   (C)   Greenbelt.  No use permitted in an RM district shall be erected or
altered on any lot or area adjoining a single-family residential district
unless a greenbelt in accordance with §
157.088 of dimensions and plant materials to be determined by the Planning
Commission or an ornamental masonry opaque wall not less than 5 feet in height
is provided along the adjoining lot line, as determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in a HRM district, other
than single-family residences, but including structural restoration,
reconstruction, extension, substitution, or renovation of existing uses, a site
plan of the entire building premises shall be submitted for review and approval
in accordance with §
157.092 of this code.
   (E)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
§ 157.040  MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT, RMH.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The purpose of the mobile home park district is
to encourage a suitable environment for persons and families that by preference
choose to live in a mobile home rather than a conventional single-family
structure.  In keeping with the occupancy characteristics of contemporary
mobile homes, this section establishes low density standards and permitted uses
that reflect the needs of residents in the district.  Development is limited to
mobile homes when located in a subdivision designed for that purpose or a
mobile home park with recreation facilities, churches, schools, and necessary
public utility buildings.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the RMH district, no uses shall be
permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following:
      (1)   Mobile homes;
      (2)   Mobile home parks, subject to the requirements as established and
regulated by M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., as amended, except that the same
shall conform to the following requirements:
         (a)   Greenbelt.  The park shall have a greenbelt 20 feet in width at
its rear and sides.  The greenbelt shall be 40 feet at the front of the mobile
home park.  The greenbelt shall be measured from the nearest edge of the road
right-of-way to the line of the closest mobile home site;
         (b)   Recreation.  A minimum of 15% of the total park area should be
left in open space developed for recreation purposes.  This developed area
shall not include roads, sidewalks, or lands under water or having excessive
grades, and shall be so graded and developed as to have adequate drainage and
usability by residents of the park;
         (c)   Site dimensions.  Each mobile home shall have its own home site
which shall be at least 40 feet wide and a minimum of 3,600 square feet in
area.  A double-wide mobile home shall have a mobile home site which shall be
at least 55 feet wide and a minimum of 5,500 square feet in area;
         (d)   Setback from other mobile homes.  Mobile homes shall be at least
30 feet from the rear of the nearest mobile home and 25 feet from the side of
the nearest mobile home;
         (e)   Setback from drive.  Mobile homes shall be placed at least 10
feet from the pavement of the access drive; and
         (f)   Frontage.  The mobile home park shall have a minimum of 400 feet
of frontage on an existing paved road of not less than 86-foot right-of-way.
      (3)   Mobile home subdivisions, provided that minimum lot sizes and yard
spaces shall be:
         (a)   Lot width:  single, 45 feet; or double-wide, 60 feet;
         (b)   Lot area:  single, 5,000 square feet; or double-wide, 7,200
square feet;
         (c)   Minimum front yard:  20 feet;
         (d)   Minimum side yard:  10 feet; and
         (e)   Minimum rear yard:  25 feet.
      (4)   Public, parochial, or private elementary, intermediate, or high
schools offering courses in general education, not operated for profit;
      (5)   Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto, subject
to the following conditions:
         (a)   Unless established prior to the enactment of this ordinance, a
church site shall contain an area of at least 2 acres;
         (b)   The site shall be so located as to have at least 1 property line
abutting a major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly onto the major thoroughfare; and
         (c)   Wherever the off-street parking area is adjacent to land zoned
for residential purposes, a continuous and obscuring screening wall not less
than 5 feet in height shall be provided along the sides of the parking area
adjacent to the residentially zoned land in accordance with §
157.087 of this code.
      (6)   Public utility buildings and uses, but not including service and
storage yards, when operating requirements necessitate locating within the
district to serve the immediate vicinity;
      (7)   Nursery schools, day nurseries, and child care centers (not
including dormitories), provided that for each child so cared for, there shall
be provided and maintained a minimum of 200 square feet of outdoor play area. 
This play space shall have a total minimum area of at least 1,000 square feet
and shall be screened from any adjoining lot in any residential district in
accordance with §
157.087;
      (8)   Temporary buildings for use incidental to construction work for a
period not to exceed 1 year.  These buildings shall not be used for residences;
      (9)   Accessory uses and buildings customarily incidental to the above
permitted principal uses; and
      (10)   Off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.110et seq. of this code.
   (C)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in the RMH district,
including structural restoration, reconstruction, extension, substitution, or
renovation of existing uses, a site plan of the entire building premises shall
be submitted for review and approval in accordance with §
157.092 of this code.
   (D)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
§ 157.041  RESTRICTED OFFICE DISTRICT, R-O.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The R-O restricted office district is intended
to permit those office and restricted business uses which will provide
appropriate land uses adjacent to residential areas and which do not generate
large volumes of traffic or promote traffic congestion.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the R-O district, no uses shall be
permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following:
      (1)   Churches, public schools, public libraries, private schools, and
educational institutions;
      (2)   Nursery schools, day nurseries, or day care centers;
      (3)   Uses resulting from any of the following occupations:  executive,
administrative, professional, accounting, banking, writing, clerical,
stenographic, and drafting.  This shall not be construed to eliminate offices
of recognized manufacturers’ agents; provided, that no display will be in an
exterior show window, and the total area devoted to the display, including both
the objects displayed and the floor space set aside for persons observing the
displayed objects, shall not exceed 15% of the useable floor area of the
establishment using the display of an actual product for sale as a sales
procedure.  There shall be no outdoor storage of goods or material irrespective
of whether or not they are for sale.  There shall be no warehousing or the
indoor storage of goods or material beyond that normally incidental to the
above permitted office type uses;
      (4)   Medical or dental clinics, not including veterinarian hospitals or
any type of medical facility permitting overnight patients;
      (5)   Photography studios;
      (6)   Furriers, dressmaking, and tailoring establishments;
      (7)   Stores selling prescription drugs only;
      (8)   Accessory buildings or structures shall be prohibited;
      (9)   Off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.110et seq.; and
      (10)   Local governmental court facilities.
   (C)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in the R-O district,
including structural restoration, reconstruction, extension, substitution, or
renovation of existing uses, a site plan of the entire building premises shall
be submitted for review and approval in accordance with §
157.092.
   (D)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
§ 157.042   LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT, C-1.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The C-1, local business district is intended to
permit retail business and service uses as needed to serve the nearby
residential areas.  In order to promote these business developments so far as
is possible and appropriate in each area, uses are prohibited which would
create hazards, offensive and loud noises, vibration, smoke, glare, or heavy
traffic.  The intent of this district is also to encourage the concentration of
local business areas to the mutual advantage of both the consumers and
merchants and thereby to promote the best use of land at certain strategic
locations and to avoid marginal strip business development along major
thoroughfares.  Local business districts are not intended as locations for
planned shopping centers requiring larger sites.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the C-1 district, no uses shall be
permitted unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following:
      (1)   All principal permitted uses in the R-O district;
      (2)   Retail establishments for the sale of alcoholic beverages, baked
goods, bicycles, books, confections, drugs, flowers, groceries, hardware, hobby
equipment, jewelry, music, notions, paints, periodicals, sundry small household
articles, tobacco, and similar establishments;
      (3)   Personal service establishments performing services on the
premises, such as barber and beauty shops, watch, radio, television, clothing
and shoe repair, tailor shops, locksmith, and similar establishments;
      (4)   Laundry or dry cleaning customer outlet, coin operated laundromats,
self-serve dry cleaning centers, and the like.  Dry cleaning or laundry plants
serving more than 1 customer service outlet are prohibited;
      (5)   Eating and drinking establishments when food or beverage is
consumed in a completely enclosed building.  Establishments with a character of
a drive-in or a open front store are prohibited;
      (6)   Carry-out restaurants;
      (7)   Public utility buildings and uses but not including storage yards,
when operating requirements necessitate locating within the district to serve
the immediate vicinity;
      (8)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
principal permitted uses;
      (9)   Accessory amusement use; and
      (10)   Off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.110et seq. of this code.
   (C)   Required conditions.  The following conditions are required:
      (1)   All business, service, or processing except automobile service
stations shall be conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building,
provided further that all lighting in connection with permitted business uses
shall be so arranged so as to reflect the light away from all adjoining
residence buildings or residentially zoned property; and
      (2)   All business or service establishments shall be for the purpose of
dealing directly with consumers.  All goods produced or processed on the
premises shall be sold at retail on the premises where produced or processed.
   (D)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in the C-1 district,
including structural restoration, reconstruction, extension, substitution, or
renovation of existing uses, a site plan of the entire building premises shall
be submitted for review and approval in accordance with §
157.092.
   (E)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
§ 157.043   GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT, C-2.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The C-2, general business district is intended
to permit a wider range of business and entertainment activities than those
permitted in the local business district.  These uses generate a large volume
of vehicular traffic, require substantial access for off-street parking and
loading, and require detailed planning particularly as to relationships with
adjacent residential areas.  The general business district is not intended as
locations for planned shopping centers requiring large sites with unified
design of buildings and parking.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the C-2 district, no uses shall be
permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following:
      (1)   All principal permitted uses in the C-1 district;
      (2)   Any retail business whose principal activity is the sale or rental
of merchandise within a completely enclosed building;
      (3)   Business service establishments performing services on the premises
such as office machine and typewriter repair, printing, or blue printing;
      (4)   Any service establishment of an office, showroom, or workshop
nature within a completely enclosed building of a taxidermist, decorator,
upholsterer, caterer, exterminator, building contractor (including electrical,
glazing, heating, painting, paper hanging, plumbing, roofing, ventilating, and
plastering), except outside storage yards and similar establishments that
require a retail adjunct;
      (5)   Photographic film developing and processing;
      (6)   Television and radio studios and towers subject to the requirements
of §
157.085;
      (7)   Other uses similar to the above, subject to the following
restrictions:
         (a)   All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on
the premises where produced; and
         (b)   All business or servicing, except for off-street parking and
loading, shall be conducted within a complete enclosed building.
      (8)   Bus passenger stations;
      (9)   Off-street parking lots;
      (10)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
principal permitted uses;
      (11)   Car wash establishments shall be subject to the following
requirements in addition to all requirements of §
157.092, regarding site plan review:
         (a)   All ingress and egress shall be onto a primary road.  There
shall be no local or residential street access;
         (b)   Vacuum cleaners if utilized shall be placed between the primary
road right-of-way and the front of the building.  Vacuum canisters and hoses
and all appurtenant accessories shall have an enclosure around them matching
the front of the building.  The vacuum canister, hoses, and accessories shall
be shielded from the roadway;
         (c)   The rear setback shall be 30 feet.  There shall be no side yard
setback required unless any side of the property abuts a residentially zoned
parcel; then and in that event, that setback shall be 30 feet.  Any and all 30-
foot setbacks shall have a 3-foot berm landscaped with conifers and shrubs to
act as a landscape buffer.  The 30-foot front setback does not require a berm
but does require landscaping; and
         (d)   Rear lighting to be placed at the inward edge of 30-foot rear or
side setback and shall be directed toward building.
      (12)   Convenience store and gasoline sales shall be subject to the
following requirements, in addition to all requirements of §
157.092 (site plan review):
         (a)   The multi-use convenience store shall be of a minimum size of
2,000 square feet per use;
         (b)   Gasoline sales shall be in conjunction with a convenience store
or restaurant use and shall not be conducted from a separate structure. 
Provisions also allow fast food restaurants with or without a drive-through;
all of these uses may be with or without seating; and
         (c)   The convenience store shall be of a size so as to accommodate
walk-in trade and indoor beverage coolers, shall offer items normally found in
convenience stores.
   (C)   Permitted uses after special approval.  The following uses may be
permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed and subject further to
the review and approval of the City Planning Commission pursuant to §
157.177.
      (1)   Veterinary hospitals and clinics;
      (2)   Bowling alleys, skating rinks, stadium, sports areas, and other
indoor recreational facilities when located at least 150 feet from any property
zoned in a residential classification;
      (3)   Arcade (4 machines or more);
      (4)   Drive-in restaurants or other drive-in establishments serving food
or beverage, provided that the entrance to or exit from any such use is located
at least 35 feet from the intersection of any 2 streets; that all such uses
shall have direct access to a major thoroughfare; that all lighting or
illuminated display shall not reflect onto any adjacent residential zone; and
that consideration is given to proximity of existing places of congregation of
children (e.g., schools) regarding traffic safety and sanitation;
      (5)   Automobile gasoline and automobile service stations subject to the
requirements of §
157.074 of this code; and
      (6)   Wholesale and warehouse establishments, other than self-storage
facilities; distribution terminals; and freezer and locker facilities.
      (7)   Medical marijuana provisioning center, shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §
157.092 of this Code for site plan review provided that the provisioning center
shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility;
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (8)   Medical marijuana club (also known as compassion club) , provided
that the club shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other medical ; marijuana dispensary or
club;
         (b)   Within 500 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution;
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park; and
         (f)   Shall be subject to all requirements as set forth in §
157.092 of this code for site plan review.
      (9)   Marijuana retailer.
         (a)   Shall be subject to all requirements as set forth in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the marijuana retailer shall not be
permitted within the locational limitations as follows:
            1.   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment;
            2.   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
            3.   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
            4.   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
            5.   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
         (b)   While subject to all other requirements of this ordinance, it is
not the intention of the City of Burton to require an additional special use
approval for the marijuana establishment if the Planning Commission has already
approved a special use for a medical marijuana provisioning center and said
provisioning center has been operating under that approval with a State of
Michigan approved license.
      (10)   Designated consumption establishment. Shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the marijuana designated consumption
establishment shall not be permitted within the locational limitations as
follows:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment;
         (b)   Within 500 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
   (D)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in the C-1 district,
including structural restoration, reconstruction, extension, substitution, or
renovation of existing uses, a site plan of the entire building premises shall
be submitted for review and approval in accordance with §
157.092.
   (E)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
(Ord. 2017-7-157, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 2019-10-157, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 157.044    HIGHWAY BUSINESS DISTRICT, C-3.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The C-3 highway business district is intended
to be that district which permits extensive business uses along heavily
traveled highways.  The permitted uses would require large parcels of property
and would serve the general needs of all local residents.  The purpose of this
zone is to provide a development pattern along designated major thoroughfares
which will not create unsafe conditions by allowing numerous curb cuts along
the highway.  Business conditions exist along the highway, but property depths
and large acreage suggest a type of business use which required deep, large
lots.  Access onto the major highway should be limited to permit more extensive
use of the property without substantially contributing to traffic hazards along
the highway.  The highway business district is not intended to provide for
planned shopping centers.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the C-3 district, no uses shall be
permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following:
      (1)   All principal permitted uses in the C-2 district;
      (2)   Hotels and motels;
      (3)   Assembly halls or other places of assembly;
      (4)   New and/or used car sales rooms;
      (5)   Salesrooms for recreation vehicles, including boats, snowmobiles,
travel trailers, campers, tents, and accessory equipment;
      (6)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
principal permitted uses; and
      (7)   Off-street parking in accordance with the requirements of §§
157.110et seq. of this code.
   (C)   Permitted uses after special approval.  The following uses may be
permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed and subject to the
review and approval of the City Planning Commission pursuant to §
157.177 of this code:
      (1)   All permitted uses after special approval in the C-2 district
subject to the terms and conditions imposed therein;
      (2)   Automobile car wash establishments including steam-cleaning, but
not rustproofing, provided off-street waiting space is provided in accordance
with §
157.111;
      (3)   Open air business uses as follows, in conformance with §
157.086:
         (a)   Retail sale of trees, shrubbery, plants, flowers, seed, topsoil,
humus, fertilizer, trellises, lawn furniture, playground equipment, and other
home garden supplies and equipment;
         (b)   Retail sale of fruits and vegetables;
         (c)   Tennis courts, archery courts, shuffleboard, horseshoe courts,
miniature golf, golf driving range, children’s amusement park, or similar
recreation uses;
         (d)   Bicycle, trailer, motor vehicle, boat, or home equipment rental
services;
         (e)   Outdoor display and sale of garages, swimming pools, and similar
uses; and
         (f)   Outdoor sales space for sale of new and/or used automobile or of
new and/or used house trailers or boats; provided that all automobiles offered
for sale are in good working condition.
      (4)   Adult book stores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini motion
picture theaters;
      (5)   Physical culture establishments including gymnasiums, reducing
salons, masseurs, and steam baths; and
      (6)   Hotels, motels, or public lodging houses employing facilities for
the presentation of material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on
matter depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   (D)   Required conditions.  Required conditions shall be in conformance with
§
157.042(D).
   (E)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in the C-3 district,
including structural restoration, reconstruction, extension, substitution, or
renovation of existing uses, a site plan of the entire building premises shall
be submitted for review and approval in accordance with §
157.092.
   (F)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements unless otherwise specified are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
   (G)   Additional restrictions.  Special approval for the uses permitted
under subsections (C)(4), (C)(5), and (C)(6) shall not be granted by the City
Planning Commission if the proposed structure is located within 2,000 feet of
any building containing a residential dwelling or rooming unit.  This
prohibition may be waived if the person applying for the waiver shall file with
the Zoning Board of Appeals a petition which indicates approval of the proposed
use by 51% percent of the persons owning, residing, or doing business within a
2,000 foot radius of the location.  The petitioner shall attempt to contact all
eligible locations within this radius and must maintain a list of all addresses
at which no contact was made.  A minimum of 200 responses is required.  In the
event that the 2,000 foot radius is not sufficiently populated to provide 200
residences or business places eligible to respond, the radius will be increased
in increments of 100 feet until there shall be an area large enough to contain
200 eligible residence or business places.  The City Planning Commission shall
adopt rules and regulations governing the procedure for securing the petition
of consent provided for in this section.
§ 157.045  PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER DISTRICT, C-4.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The C-4, planned shopping center district is
intended to provide shopping facilities to serve the city.  As such, it should
permit a sufficient size site for integrated off-street parking, landscaping,
and loading and be located adjacent to major thoroughfares to permit safe and
efficient vehicular traffic circulations.  These districts and the traffic that
the community shopping centers therein may generate must be planned so as not
to cause adverse effects on adjacent residential property.  The size of the
center is intended to be directly related to the quality of purchasing power
available for the support of those uses permitted in this zone.  The protective
standards contained in this section are intended to minimize any adverse effect
of the shopping center on nearby property values and to provide for safe and
efficient use of the shopping center itself.  Submission of a market analysis
is intended in order to establish evidence of a need for a change in the
comprehensive zoning plan for the city and to substantiate a finding that the
change will promote the general welfare of the city.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the C-4 district, no uses shall be
permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following
(telescoping use provisions of R-O, C-1, C-2, and C-3 do not apply to this
district):
      (1)   Planned shopping centers, including the following uses pursuant to
the provisions of §
157.094 of this code:
         (a)   Antique shops;
         (b)   Bakeries, retail sales;
         (c)   Banking and loan institutions;
         (d)   Barber and beauty shops;
         (e)   Bicycle shops, sales and service;
         (f)   Book and stationery stores;
         (g)   Clothing and accessories, retail sales;
         (h)   Confectionary and delicatessen stores;
         (i)   Department stores;
         (j)   Drug stores;
         (k)   Dry cleaning;
         (l)   Dry goods stores;
         (m)   Electric and electronic appliances, retail sales and service;
         (n)   Fruit and vegetable stores, retail sales (when enclosed within a
building);
         (o)   Florist, retail sales;
         (p)   Food markets and supermarkets;
         (q)   Furniture stores, retail sales, repair, and reupholstering;
         (r)   Hardware shops;
         (s)   Meat markets (no butchering);
         (t)   Musical instruments, sales and service;
         (u)   Novelty shops;
         (v)   Nursery stock, retail sales;
         (w)   Offices, professional and business (including sample rooms, but
no warehouses);
         (x)   Optical goods, retail sales;
         (y)   Paint stores, retail sales;
         (z)   Pet shops, retail sales (when enclosed within a building);
         (aa)   Photographer’s studio;
         (bb)   Photographic supplies, retail sales;
         (cc)   Plumbing shops, retail sales and service;
         (dd)   Radio and television, retail sales and service;
         (ee)   Restaurants, without curb or drive-in service (service entirely
within building);
         (ff)   Shoe repair shop;
         (gg)   Sporting goods stores, retail sales;
         (hh)   Tailor shops;
         (ii)   Theaters (indoor);
         (jj)   Wallpaper stores, retail sales;
         (kk)   Other retail uses similar to the above;
         (ll)   TBA sales (tires, batteries, and accessories); and
         (mm)   Gas stations and public garages in conjunction with shopping
centers (subject to §
157.074).
      (2)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental, related to,
and reasonably necessary or convenient for the satisfactory and efficient
operation of a complete and integrated shopping center, which use is not
obnoxious or offensive to the locality by reason of the emission of odor,
fumes, dust, smoke, waste, vibration, or noise, including buildings and
facilities for furnishing utility services, including heat, light, water, and
power; and
      (3)   Restaurants with curb or drive-in service may be located in a
planned shopping center district subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Must exist as an outbuilding, not as a portion or segment of the
shopping center; and
         (b)   Subject to the provisions set forth in §
157.075 (drive-in establishment).
   (C)   Greenbelt.  A greenbelt of dimensions and materials as determined by
the Planning Commission in accordance with §
157.088, but not less than 20 feet in width, shall be provided wherever any
planned community shopping center abuts a residential district.
   (D)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in the C-4 district, a site
plan shall be submitted for review and approval.  The following provisions in
this subsection (D) shall apply to site plan review procedures for the C-
4 district.  The procedures of this subsection shall be minimum requirements,
and additional procedures may be required by this ordinance or by the Planning
Commission.
      (1)   Submission of application for shopping center development.  A
developer shall submit to the Planning Commission 12 copies of a sketch
development plan of the shopping center, with 12 copies of the supporting data
including, but not limited to, a market analysis, financial report, time
schedule, traffic study, and substantiation of ownership, all of which shall be
prepared by qualified professional persons.
         (a)   Sketch development plan.  Designed in accordance with the
planning standards, regulations, and criteria established in this ordinance and
shall show:  a unified and organized arrangement of buildings, off-street
parking, internal pedestrian and vehicular circulation, and service facilities.
         (b)   Market analysis.  Shall include:
            1.   Identification of the trade area of the proposed shopping
center;
            2.   Trade area population, present and future; and
            3.   Net potential customers’ buying power for stores in the
proposed shopping center.
         (c)   Financial report.  To satisfy the Planning Commission as to the
financial responsibility of the proponent to carry the proposal to completion
in full compliance with this ordinance, shall include:
            1.   The source of construction funds;
            2.   The names of persons who have a financial interest in the
shopping centers; and
            3.   Information on leasing arrangements and terms.
         (d)   Traffic study.  Shall include an estimate of traffic volume to
be generated by the development and the assignment of traffic to proposed
entrances and exits.
         (e)   Substantiation of ownership.  Shall include a certification of
title company that the recorded owners of the property as represented on the
application for shopping center development are correct.
      (2)   Referral for review and reports; sketch development plan.  Upon
receipt of the sketch development plans with supporting data for the
development of a shopping center, the Planning Commission shall transmit the
copies to the City Fire Chief, Police Chief, Attorney, Engineer, Planning
Consultant, and other individuals and agencies as deemed necessary by the
Planning Commission for their review, report, and recommendation.  The Planner,
city officials, and the like, shall, within 30 days from receiving a sketch
development plan and supporting data, provide and furnish to the Planning
Commission their reports.
         (a)   Report to Council.  Within 60 days after a sketch development
plan has been filed with the Planning Commission, it shall evaluate the plan
and reports from the City Planner and city officials, and shall furnish to the
Council its detailed report and recommendations with respect thereto.  The
report of the Planning Commission shall include a finding either that the
sketch development plan and supporting data comply with the regulations,
standards, and criteria prescribed by this ordinance for planned shopping
centers applicable to the proposal, or a finding of any failure of compliance,
and the Commission’s action that the sketch development plan is approved,
disapproved or modified.  If, at any such evaluation, the Planning Commission
finds that any regulations, standards, or criteria prescribed by this ordinance
are inapplicable because of unusual conditions related to the shopping center,
or the nature and quality of the proposed design, it may recommend to Council
that an adjustment be made; provided, however, the adjustment will not be in
conflict with the promotion of the public health, safety, and general welfare
of the city.
         (b)   Action by Council.  The Council, at not later than its next
regular meeting following receipt of the Planning Commission report, shall set
a date for a public hearing on the shopping center proposal.  Following the
completion of the public hearing, the Council shall then proceed to act upon
the site plan review as provided in this subsection (D).
      (3)   Authority to proceed; preliminary development plan.  Following
affirmative action by the Council, the Planning Commission shall notify the
developer of the action and authorize him or her to proceed with the
preparation of a preliminary development plan of the shopping center.
         (a)   Content.  The preliminary development plan shall contain the
following:
            1.   The location, orientation, and exterior dimensions of all main
and accessory buildings as set forth in Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations;
            2.   The location and dimensions of vehicular and service
entrances, exits, and drives as per city site development specifications;
            3.   The location, arrangement, and dimensions of paved parking
lots, of automobile parking spaces, width of aisles, width of bays, and angle
of parking as per §§
157.110et seq. of this code and the city site development specifications;
            4.   The location, arrangement, and dimensions of truck loading and
unloading spaces and docks as per §§
157.110et seq. of this code;
            5.   The location and dimensions of pedestrian entrances, exits,
walks, and walkways as per §§
157.110et seq. of this code;
            6.   Topography information at contour intervals of 2 feet or less
and general on-site drainage system as per city site development
specifications;
            7.   The location and dimension of all walls and fences as provided
by §§
157.087,
157.088, and
157.089;
            8.   The location, size, height, orientation, and design of all
freestanding signs as per §§
153.01et seq.;
            9.   The location of all buildings, streets, and other
topographical features within 500 feet of the proposed shopping center
boundary;
            10.   The location, dimensions, and arrangement of areas to be
devoted to planted lawns, trees, or any other purpose as per §
157.088; and
            11.   The location and capacity of private or public water and
sanitary sewerage services, storm drains, and solid waste disposal facilities
serving the site.
         (b)   Action by Planning Commission.  Within not more than 30 days
from the date on which the preliminary development plan is filed with the
Planning Commission, the Commission shall review, approve, or disapprove the
plan in writing, stating, in the case of disapproval, the reason for
disapproval, and in all cases given due notice to the applicants.  In the case
of disapproval, the applicant may submit to the Planning Commission an amended
plan which shall include those changes made necessary to accomplish compliance
with the conditions for approval stated by the Commission.
      (4)   Final development plan; shopping center district.
         (a)   A complete final development plan covering the entire shopping
center district shall be prepared by the developer and filed with the Planning
Commission within not more than:
            1.   One calendar year from the effective date of any ordinance
designating an area a neighborhood shopping center district within the C-
4 zoning classification;
            2.   Two calendar years from the effective date of any ordinance
designating an area a community shopping center district within the C-4 zoning
classification; or
            3.   Three calendar years from the effective date of any ordinance
designating an area a regional shopping center district within the C-4 zoning
classification.
         (b)   The Council may extend the time period provided in this
subsection for good cause.
         (c)   The final development plan shall be a refined version of the
preliminary development plan and shall incorporate all conditions stipulated by
the Planning Commission in its approval of the preliminary development plan.
         (d)   Within not more than 30 days from the date on which the final
development plan is filed with the Council, the City Council shall review,
approve, or disapprove the plan.  If the City Council finds that a proposed
final development plan of a shopping center is in substantial compliance with,
and represents a detailed expansion of the preliminary plan heretofore
approved, that it complies with all of the conditions which may have been
imposed in the approval of the preliminary development plan, that it is in
accordance with the design criteria and provisions of this ordinance which
apply particularly to any plan of a shopping center district, and that all
applicable provisions of the city regulations have been complied with, the City
Council shall then approve the final development plan.  Whenever more than 20
occupied residences within the city are within 1,000 feet of premises now or
hereafter zoned C-4, no development or site plan relating to the premises shall
be approved and no building, site, or other permits shall be issued under
subsection (D)(5) below until the site plan has been first approved by an
affirmative vote of the majority of the City Council members present at the
meeting at which the matter is considered.
      (5)   Permits; shopping center development.  Following the approval of a
final development plan of a shopping center, the Director of the Department of
Public Works shall be so notified and building, site, and other permits may be
so issued upon payment of the required fees as required by §
157.172.
      (6)   Amendments to final development plan; shopping center development. 
If the developer of a planned shopping center in any shopping center district
wishes to make any change, alteration, amendment, or extension to any approved
final development plan, he or she shall submit a request to the Department of
Public Works.  If, in the opinion of the Department, the requested change is in
substantial compliance with the final development plan, the Department shall
approve the change and notify the Department of Public Works Director or
designee, who shall issue permits accordingly.
      (7)   Progressive development; shopping center development.
         (a)   A developer, having obtained approval of any final development
plan of a shopping center, may accomplish the development in progressive stages
as may be approved by the City Council.
         (b)   If the development of a shopping center is to be carried out in
progressive stages, each stage shall be so planned that the foregoing
requirements and the intent of this ordinance shall be fully complied with at
the completion of any stage.  Each stage of development shall be reviewed and
approved by the City Council before any permits can be issued.
      (8)   Construction time limitation; shopping center development.  The
permits shall be secured and construction begun in accordance with the final
development plan for a shopping center district within 12 months from the date
of approval of the final development plan as provided in §
157.045(D).  The Council may extend the time limit provided in this subsection
for good cause.
      (9)   Performance bond; shopping center development.  A performance bond
shall be required guaranteeing the completion of all public improvements on-
site and in public rights-of-way required by the city before permits may be
issued.  The scope of the improvements and the amount of the bond shall be
determined by the Department of Public Works.
      (10)   Business area plans.
         (a)   In order to implement the Comprehensive Plan (1990 land use
plan) and supplement the regulations and criteria of this ordinance, the
Planning Commission may prepare area plans for the construction, completion, or
rehabilitation of any business area or for coordinating the proposed
development with surrounding areas.  These designs may include, but are not
limited to, the Planning Commission’s recommendations on:  the use, location,
bulk, and general design of buildings; the relationship of buildings to each
other, yards, and other open spaces; the location and width of streets and
pavements; the location, width, and control of accessways to major streets,
parking, and loading area; pedestrian ways, paved areas, landscaped planting,
exterior lighting, signs, street furniture, and other exterior and landscape
features.
         (b)   The area plans shall be developed in accordance with the
objectives of the Comprehensive Plan and criteria set forth in this subsection
(D) and any other applicable provisions of the ordinance.  After the plans are
duly adopted by the Planning Commission and Council, they shall be construed as
being a part of this ordinance, and any new construction, additions to, or
rebuilding of such a business area, or parts thereof, shall be in substantial
compliance therewith.
      (11)   Sign regulations.  Signs in local business, general business, and
shopping center districts shall be designed, erected, altered, moved, or
maintained, in whole or in part, in accordance with the regulations as set
forth in §§
153.01et seq.
      (12)   Parking.  Parking in any district shall be in accordance with the
regulations as set forth in §§
157.110et seq. of this code (off-street parking and loading requirements).
      (13)   Yearly maintenance inspection.  To provide for compliance with the
newly adopted provisions of this ordinance and this code of ordinances and to
abate all on-site deficiencies, the Department of Public Works will conduct a
yearly inspection in the spring of each year.  A list of deficiencies will be
compiled and submitted to the property owner(s).  A time frame of 6 months will
be granted to the owners of record to complete the necessary items.  Failure to
update deficiencies will result in abatement procedures.
   (E)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulation.
§ 157.046  LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT, M-1.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  In the M-1 district, the intent is to permit
certain industries which are of a light manufacturing character to locate in
planned areas of the city.  So that these uses may be integrated with nearby
land uses, such as commercial and residential uses, limitations are placed upon
the degree of noise, smoke, glare, waste, and other features of industrial
operations so as to avoid adverse effects.  It is further intended that these
light industrial uses act as a transition between heavier industrial uses and
non-industrial uses and not necessarily require railroad access or major
utility facilities.  Certain commercial uses which are desirable to service the
employees and visitors of the industrial uses are also permitted in this
district.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  Any of the following uses when the
manufacturing compounding or processing is conducted entirely within a
completely enclosed building.  That portion of the land used for open storage
facilities for materials or equipment used in the manufacturing, compounding,
final product storage, or processing shall be totally obscured by a 6-foot
masonry wall on those sides abutting any residential district:
      (1)   Wholesale and warehousing.  The sale at wholesale or warehousing of
automotive equipment; dry goods and apparel; groceries and related products;
raw farm products except livestock; electrical goods; hardware, plumbing,
heating equipment and supplies; machinery and equipment; petroleum bulk
stations and terminals; tobacco and tobacco products; paper and paper products;
furniture and home furnishings, and any commodity the manufacture of which is
permitted in this district; truck terminals;
      (2)   Industrial establishments.
         (a)   The assembly, fabrication, manufacture, packaging, or treatment
of such products as food products (excluding butchering, animal slaughtering),
candy, drugs, cosmetics and toiletries, musical instruments, optical goods,
toys, novelties, electrical instruments and appliances, radio and phonographs,
or pottery and figurines or other ceramic products using only previously
pulverized clay.
         (b)   The assembly, fabrication, manufacture, or treatment of products
from the following previously prepared materials:  bone, canvas, cellophane,
cloth, cork, felt, fiber, glass, horn, leather, paper, plastics, precious or
semi-precious metals or stones, sheet metal (excluding large stampings such as
automobile fenders or bodies), shell, textiles, wax, wire, wood (excluding saw
and planing mills), and yarns.
         (c)   Tool and die shops; metal working machine shops involving the
use of grinding or cutting tools; manufacturing of tools, dies, jigs, and
fixtures; publishing, printing, or forming of box, carton, and cardboard
products.
         (d)   Laboratories; research or testing.
         (e)   Central dry cleaning plants and laundries.
      (3)   Public utility uses.  Electric transformer station and substation;
electric transmission towers; municipal buildings and uses; gas regulator and
municipal utility pumping stations; and
      (4)   Accessory buildings and uses.  Accessory buildings and uses
customarily incidental to the above principal permitted uses.
      (5)   Medical marijuana provisioning center, shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §
157.092 of this Code for site plan review provided that the provisioning center
shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility; if the same applicant has one parcel of land in which
they have the ability to co-locate a provisioning center, a grow facility and/
or processing center, there may be an exception given to permit these uses on
that one parcel of land. Each facility will provide separate applications and
will be given separate consideration along with individual annual fees.
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (6)   Medical marijuana growing facility shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §
157.092 of this Code for site plan review provided that the grow facility shall
not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility; if the same applicant has one parcel of land in which
they have the ability to co-locate a provisioning center, a grow facility and/
or processing center, there may be an exception given to permit these uses on
that 1 parcel of land. Each facility will provide separate applications and
will be given separate consideration along with individual annual fees.
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (7)   Medical marijuana processing facility: Shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §
157.092 of this Code for site plan review provided that the processing facility
shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility. If the same applicant has 1 parcel of land in which they
have the ability to co-locate a provisioning center, a grow facility and/or
processing center, there may be an exception given to permit these uses on that
1 parcel of land. Each facility will provide separate applications and will be
given separate consideration along with individual annual fees.
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (8)   Medical marijuana safety compliance facility: Shall be subject to
all requirements as set forth in §
157.092 of this Code for site plan review provided that the safety compliance
facility shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility; 
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (9)   Medical marijuana secure transporter facility:  Shall be subject to
all requirements as set forth in §
157.092 of this Code for site plan review provided that the secure transporter
facility shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility; 
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (10)   Open air business uses as follows, in conformance with §
157.086:
         (a)   Retail sale of trees, shrubbery, plants, flowers, seed, topsoil,
humus, fertilizer, trellises, lawn furniture, playground equipment, and other
home garden supplies and equipment;
         (b)   Retail sale of fruits and vegetables;
         (c)   Tennis courts, archery courts, shuffleboard, horseshoe courts,
miniature golf, golf driving range, children’s amusement park, or similar
recreation uses;
         (d)   Bicycle, trailer, motor vehicle, boat, or home equipment rental
services;
         (e)   Outdoor display and sale of garages, swimming pools, and similar
uses; and
         (f)   Outdoor sales space for sale of new and/or used automobile or of
new and/or used house trailers or boats; provided that all automobiles offered
for sale are in good working condition.
      (11)   Marijuana retailer. Shall be subject to all requirements as set
forth in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the marijuana retailer shall not be
permitted within the locational limitations as follows:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment; if the same applicant has
one parcel of land in which they have the ability to co-locate a provisioning
center/retailer, a grow facility/grower and/or processing center/processor,
there may be an exception given to permit these uses on that one parcel of
land. Each facility will provide separate applications and will be given
separate consideration along with individual annual fees.
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (12)   Marijuana microbusiness. Shall be subject to all requirements as
set forth in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the marijuana microbusiness shall
not be permitted within the locational limitations as follows:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment;
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (13)   Marijuana grower. Shall be subject to all requirements set forth
in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the marijuana grower shall not be
permitted within the locational limitations as follows:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment; if the same applicant has
one parcel of land in which they have the ability to co-locate a provisioning
center/retailer, a grow facility/grower and/or processing center/processor,
there may be an exception given to permit these uses on that one parcel of
land. Each facility will provide separate applications and will be given
separate consideration along with individual annual fees;
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (14)   Marijuana processor. Shall be subject to all requirements as set
forth in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the marijuana processor shall not be
permitted within the locational limitations as follows:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment; if the same applicant has
one parcel of land in which they have the ability to co-locate a provisioning
center/retailer, a grow facility/grower and/or processing center/processor,
there may be an exception given to permit these uses on that one parcel of
land. Each facility will provide separate applications and will be given
separate consideration along with individual annual fees.
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care of instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (15)   Marijuana safety compliance facility. Shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the safety compliance facility shall
not be permitted within the locational limitations as follows:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment;
         (b)   Within 200 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (16)   Marijuana scene transporter. Shall be subject to all requirements
as set forth in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the secure transporter facility
shall not be permitted within the locational limitations as follows:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment;
         (b)   Within 200 feet of any residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
      (17)   Designated consumption establishment. Shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §
157.092 for site plan review provided that the marijuana designated consumption
establishment shall not be permitted within the locational limitations as
follows:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of any other commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility and/or marijuana establishment;
         (b)   Within 500 feet of a residential district or use;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet of any school, nursery, licensed day care
center or other building used for the care or instruction of children under 18
years of age;
         (d)   Within 1,000 feet of any church, house of worship or other
religious facility or institution; and
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet of any public or municipal park.
   (C)   Permitted uses after special approval.  The following uses may be
permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed and subject further to
the review and approval of the City Planning Commission pursuant to §
157.177.
      (1)   The following retail and service establishments, provided that the
establishments are clearly ancillary to the permitted industrial uses and are
in keeping with the intent of this district:
         (a)   Eating and drinking establishments when food or beverage is
consumed within a completely enclosed building.  Establishments with a
character or drive-in or open front store are prohibited;
         (b)   Barber shops;
         (c)   Truck tractor and trailer sales, rental, and repair; new
automobile rental and leasing agency;
         (d)   Dog kennels;
         (e)   Motels; and
         (f)   Automobile service stations in accordance with §
157.074.
      (2)   Drive-in theaters, provided that any such site is adjacent to a
major thoroughfare; that there shall be no vehicular access to any residential
street; that suitable screening is provided to ensure that there shall be no
highlight or other illumination directed upon any residentially zoned or
developed property; and that the picture is not visible from a major
thoroughfare; and that any drive-in theaters shall be located no closer than
1,000 feet to any residentially zoned or developed property.
      (3)   Industrial park, subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Permitted uses shall include all principal permitted uses in
this M-1 district;
         (b)   The minimum site size for an industrial park shall be 5 acres;
         (c)   All industrial parks shall be so located as to have at least 1
property line abutting a major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress shall be
directly on to the major thoroughfare;
         (d)   No main or accessory building shall be situated less than 50
feet from any residential property line;
         (e)   No parking access or service area may be located less than 25
feet from any residential property line;
         (f)   Parking, loading, or service areas used by motor vehicles shall
be located entirely within the boundary lines of the industrial park and shall
be in accordance with §§
157.110et seq. of this code;
         (g)   A planting strip of at least 10 feet wide shall be provided
around the entire perimeter of the site except for driveways onto the public
street system.  A wall or barrier of suitable material not less than 5 feet
high shall be constructed along those property lines which abut a residential
district;
         (h)   A landscape plan which includes the entire site shall be
submitted for approval to determine compliance with screening and planting
strips; and
         (i)   Lighting facilities shall be required where deemed necessary for
the safety and convenience of employees and visitors.  These facilities will be
arranged in a manner so as to protect abutting streets and adjacent properties
from unreasonable glare or hazardous interference of any kind.
      (4)   Self-storage facilities, subject to the following:
         (a)   The minimum size of the site devoted entirely to this use shall
be not less than 5 acres;
         (b)   This use shall not be directly adjacent to residentially zoned
property on more than 1 side;
         (c)   All ingress and egress from the site shall be directly onto a
principal arterial or major thoroughfare as designated on the city’s
comprehensive development plan;
         (d)   All yard setbacks established in the M-1 district for buildings
shall be complied with, except that setbacks between self-storage buildings on
the same site must be at least 25 feet apart, side to side or front to rear;
         (e)   Maximum lot coverage may not exceed 40%;
         (f)   Maximum length of any self-storage building shall be 250 feet;
         (g)   No separate storage of combustible or flammable liquids,
combustible fibers, or explosive materials as defined in the fire prevention
code, or toxic materials, shall be permitted within the self-storage buildings
or upon the premises.  A lease agreement between the lessee and lessor shall
state:
            1.   No flammable, combustible, or toxic material shall be stored
or used on premises; and
            2.   The property shall be subject to periodic and unannounced
inspections for flammable, toxic, and other hazardous materials by city
officials.
         (h)   No storage outside of the self-storage buildings shall be
permitted;
         (i)   Except as provided herein, the use of the premises shall be
limited to storage only and shall not be used for operating any other business,
for maintaining or repairing of any vehicles, recreational equipment, or other
items, or for any recreational activity, hobby, or purpose other than the
storage of personal items and business items as hereinbefore set forth;
         (j)   The entire site shall be provided with fencing meeting
requirements at §
157.087 and §
157.089;
         (k)   A security manager shall be permitted to reside on the premises
to the extent required by this use (see §
157.068);
         (l)   All access aisles, parking areas, and walkways on the site shall
be graded, drained, hard surfaced, and maintained in accordance with the
standards and specifications of the city and applicable governmental agencies;
         (m)   Limited retail sales to tenants of products and supplies
incidental to the principal use, such as packing materials, packing labels,
tape, rope, protective covers, and locks and chains shall be permitted on the
site devoted to this use, provided the sale is conducted from the main office
of the self- storage facility;
         (n)   Access to the self-storage facility premises shall be restricted
to tenants only, by use of an attendant, mechanical or electronic locking
device, or other entrance-control device;
         (o)   Fire hydrants and fire suppression devices shall be provided,
installed, and maintained in compliance with all requirements of the Fire
Department;
         (p)   No self-storage building shall exceed 15 feet in height, except
that 1 office building and caretaker’s quarters may be allowed up to 25 feet;
and
         (q)   Self-storage buildings, including storage buildings and
caretaker’s quarters, shall be architecturally designed so as not to have a
flat roof, and shall instead have a mansard, gable, hip, or gambrel roof
design.
   (D)   Industrial performance standards.  Any use established in the M-
1 district shall not be permitted to carry on any activity, operation, use of
land, building, or equipment that produces irritants to the sensory perceptions
greater than the measures herein established which are hereby determined to be
the maximum permissible hazard to humans or human activity.
      (1)   Noise.  No operation or activity shall be carried out in the M-
1 district which cause or create measurable noise levels exceeding the maximum
sound intensity levels prescribed below, as measured on or beyond the boundary
lines of the districts.
         (a)   A sound level meter and an octave band analyzer shall be used to
measure the intensity and frequency of the sound or noise levels encountered. 
Sounds of very short duration, which cannot be measured accurately with the
sound level meter, shall be measured by an impact noise and analyzer; the
measurements so obtained may be permitted to exceed the maximum levels provided
in the
Table 157.046A by no more than 5 decibels. 
         (b)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
            IMPACT NOISES.  Those noises where peak values are more than 7
decibels higher than the values indicated on the sound level meter.
         (c)   Where street traffic noises directly adjacent to the property
line exceed these maximum permitted levels, the intensity levels permitted may
then exceed those levels specified in the table but may not exceed the level of
the subject adjacent street traffic noises.
         (d)   In addition, sounds of an intermittent nature, or characterized
by high frequencies, which the Zoning Administrator deems to be objectionable
in adjacent districts, shall be controlled so as not to generate a nuisance in
adjacent districts, even if the decibel measurement does not exceed that
specified in the table.
 
Table 157.046A:  Maximum Permitted Sound Intensity Levels in Decibels
(Post-1960 Preferred Frequencies)
Center Frequency (Cycles per Second) M-1
31.5                                 72
63.0                                 68
125.0                                62
250.0                                57
 
 
Center Frequency (Cycles per Second) M-1
500.0                                50
1,000.0                              46
2,000.0                              39
4,000.0                              32
8,000.0                              28
 
      (2)   Smoke, dust, dirt, and fly ash.  The emission of smoke, dust, dirt,
and fly ash shall in no manner be unclean, destructive, unhealthful, hazardous,
or deleterious to the general welfare. 
         (a)   This type of emission shall be in strict conformance with all
applicable state and county health laws as pertaining to air pollution and
smoke abatement.
         (b)   A person shall not discharge into the atmosphere, from any
single source of emission, any smoke of a density equal to, or greater than,
that density described as No. 2 on the Ringlemann Chart as published by the
U.S. Bureau of Mines; provided that the following exceptions to the provisions
of this rule be permitted:
            1.   Smoke the shade or appearance of which is equal to but not
darker than No. 2 of the Ringlemann Chart for a period or periods aggregating 4
minutes in any 30 minutes; or
            2.   Smoke the shade or appearance of which is equal to but not
darker than No. 3 of the Ringlemann Chart for a period or periods aggregating 3
minutes in any 15 minutes when building a new fire or when breakdown of
equipment occurs such as to make it evident that the emission was not
reasonably preventable.
      (3)   Glare and heat.  Any operation producing intense glare or heat
shall be performed within an enclosed building or behind a solid fence in a
manner so as to be completely imperceptible from any point beyond the lot lines
of the lot upon which the source of the glare or heat is located.
      (4)   Odor.  The emission of noxious, odorous matter in such quantities
as to be readily detectable at a point along any property line, when diluted in
the ratio of 1 volume of odorous air to 4 or more volumes of clean air, so as
to produce a public nuisance or hazard beyond lot lines, is prohibited.
      (5)   Vibration.  Machines or operations which cause vibration shall be
permitted, but no operation shall be permitted to produce ground transmitted
oscillations which cause a displacement exceeding that specified in the
following Tables 157.046B and 157.046C as measured at the property line.  These
vibrations shall be measured with a seismograph or accelerometer; preferably
the former.
         (a)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
            IMPACT VIBRATIONS.  Discrete impulses which do not exceed 60 per
minute.
            STEADY STATE VIBRATIONS.  Vibrations which are continuous, or
vibrations in discrete impulses more frequent than 60 per minute.
         (b)   Between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., all the maximum
vibration levels below, as measured on or beyond the boundary line of
residentially used areas adjacent to an M-1 district, shall be reduced to ½ the
indicated permissible values.
 
Table 157.046B:  Maximum Permitted Steady State Vibration in Inches
Frequency (Cycles per Second) Permitted Vibrations
10 and below                  0.001
10 to 19                      0.0008
20 to 29                      0.0005
30 to 39                      0.0003
40 and above                  0.0001
 
 
Table 157.046C:  Maximum Permitted Impact Vibration in Inches
Frequency (Cycles per Second) Permitted Vibration
10 and below                  0.002
10 to 19                      0.0015
20 to 29                      0.001
30 to 39                      0.0005
40 and above                  0.0002
 
      (6)   Fire and safety hazards.  The storage and handling of flammable
liquids, liquefied petroleum gases, and explosives shall comply with all state
rules and regulations, and regulations as established by the Fire Prevention
Act, Public Act 207 of 1941, as amended.  Further, all storage tanks for
flammable liquid materials above ground shall be located at least 150 feet from
all property lines, and shall be completely surrounded by earth embankments,
dikes, or other types of retaining wall which will contain the total capacity
of all tanks so enclosed.  Bulk storage tanks of flammable liquids below ground
shall be located not closer to the property line than the greater depth to the
bottom of the buried tank.
      (7)   Sewage wastes.  No industrial sewage wastes shall be discharged
into sewers that will cause chemical reaction, either directly or indirectly,
with the materials of the pipe or other structure construction to impair the
strength or durability of sewer structures; cause mechanical action that will
destroy or damage the sewer structures; cause restriction of the hydraulic
capacity of sewer structures; cause placing of unusual demands on the sewage
treatment equipment or process; cause limitation of the effectiveness of the
sewage treatment process; or cause danger to public interest.  Specific
conditions controlling sewage wastes are as follows:
         (a)   The acidity or alkalinity shall be neutralized within an average
pH range of between 5.5 and 7.5 as a daily average on a volumetric basis, with
a permissible temporary variation in pH of 4.50 to 10.0;
         (b)   The wastes shall contain no cyanides.  Wastes shall contain no
chlorinated solvents in excess of 0.1 p.p.m.; no fluorides in excess of 10
p.p.m.; no more than 5 p.p.m. of hydrogen sulphide; and shall contain no more
than 10 p.p.m. of chromates;
         (c)   The wastes shall not contain any insoluble substance in excess
of 10,000 p.p.m.; exceed a daily average of 500 p.p.m.; fail to pass a No. 8
standard sieve; or have a dimension greater than 0.5 inch;
         (d)   The wastes shall not have chlorine demand greater than 15
p.p.m.;
         (e)   The wastes shall not contain phenols in excess of 0.05 p.p.m.;
         (f)   The wastes shall not contain any grease or oil or any oily
substance in excess of 100 p.p.m. or a daily average of 25 p.p.m.;
         (g)   The wastes shall not contain any explosive substance; and
         (h)   The wastes shall not contain any toxic or irritating substance
which will create conditions hazardous to public health and safety.
      (8)   Gases.  The escape of or emission of any gas which is injurious or
destructive or explosive shall be unlawful and may be summarily caused to be
abated.  Sulphur dioxide gas, as measured at the property line at ground
elevation, shall not exceed an average of 0.3 p.p.m.; hydrogen sulfide likewise
shall not exceed 1 p.p.m.; fluorine shall not exceed 0.1 p.p.m.; nitrous fumes
shall not exceed 5 p.p.m.; and carbon monoxide shall not exceed 15 p.p.m.; all
as measured as the average intensity during any 24-hour sampling period.
      (9)   Electromagnetic radiation.  Applicable rules and regulations of the
Federal Communications Commission in regard to propagation of electromagnetic
radiation are hereby made a part of this ordinance.
      (10)   Drifting and airborne matter, general.  The drifting or airborne
transmission beyond the lot line of dust, particles, or debris from any open
stock pile shall be unlawful and shall be summarily caused to be abated.
   (E)   Compliance with county and state regulations.  Any use permitted in
the M-1 district must also comply with all applicable county and state health
and pollution laws and regulations.
   (F)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in the M-1 district,
including structural restoration, reconstruction, extension, substitution, or
renovation of existing uses, a site plan of the entire building premises shall
be submitted for review and approval in accordance with §
157.092.
   (G)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
(Ord. 2017-7-157, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 2019-10-157, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 157.047  GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT, M-2.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. 
      (1)   The intent of the M-2 district is to permit certain industrial uses
to locate in desirable areas of the city, which uses are primarily of a
manufacturing, assembling, and fabricating character, including large scale or
specialized industrial operations requiring good access by road or railroad,
and needing special sites or public and utility services.
      (2)   Reasonable regulations apply to users in this district so as to
permit the location of industries which will not cause adverse effects on
residential and commercial areas in the city.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the M-2 district, no uses shall be
permitted, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance, except the following:
      (1)   All principal permitted uses and permitted uses after special
approval in the M-1 district subject to the terms and conditions imposed
therein; and
      (2)   Industrial establishments:
         (a)   The assembly and manufacture of automobiles, automobile bodies,
parts, and accessories, cigars and cigarettes, electrical fixtures, batteries,
and other electrical apparatus, and hardware;
         (b)   Processing, refining, or storage of food and foodstuffs;
         (c)   Breweries, bumpshops, distilleries, machine shops, metal
buffing, plastering and polishing shops, millwork lumber and planing mills,
painting and sheet metal shops, undercoating and rustproofing shops, and
welding shops;
         (d)   Automobile bumpshops, tire vulcanizing and recapping shops;
         (e)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to the above
permitted principal uses, including living quarters of a watchperson or
caretaker; and
         (f)   Any other uses similar to any of the above principal permitted
uses.
   (C)   Permitted uses after special approval.  The following uses may be
permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed and subject further to
the review and approval of the City Planning Commission pursuant to §
157.177:
      (1)   Open storage yards of construction contractor’s equipment and
supplies, building materials, sand, gravel, or lumber.
         (a)   These uses shall be located at least 200 feet from any
residential district.
         (b)   If it is deemed essential by the Planning Commission to prevent
loose materials from blowing into adjacent properties, a fence, tarpaulin, or
obscuring wall of dimensions and materials specified by the Planning Commission
shall be required around the stored material.
         (c)   No required yard spaces shall be used for the storage of
equipment or material.
      (2)   Junk yards; and
      (3)   Mining, excavating, or other removal of sand, earth, minerals, or
other material naturally found in the earth.
   (D)   Industrial performance standards.  Any use established in the M-
2 district shall not be permitted to carry on any activity or operation or use
of land, building, or equipment that produces irritants to the sensory
perceptions greater than the measures herein established which are hereby
determined to be maximum permissible hazard to humans or human activity.
      (1)   Noise.  No operation or activity shall be carried out in the M-
2 district which causes or creates measurable noise levels exceeding the
maximum sound intensity levels prescribed below, as measured on or beyond the
boundary lines of the district.
         (a)   A sound level meter and an octave band analyzer shall be used to
measure the intensity and frequency of the sound or noise levels encountered. 
Sounds of very short duration, which cannot be measured accurately with the
sound level meter, shall be measured by an impact noise and analyzer; and the
measurements so obtained may be permitted to exceed the maximum levels provided
in the Table 157.047A by no more than 5 decibels. 
         (b)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
            IMPACT NOISES.  Those noises whose peak values are more than 7
decibels higher than the values indicated on the sound level meter.
         (c)   Where street traffic noises directly adjacent to the property
line exceed these maximum permitted levels, the intensity levels permitted may
then exceed those levels specified in the table but may not exceed the level of
the subject adjacent street traffic noises.
         (d)   In addition, sounds of an intermittent nature, or characterized
by high frequencies, which the Zoning Administrator deems to be objectionable
in adjacent districts, shall be controlled so as not to generate a nuisance in
adjacent districts, even if the decibel measurement does not exceed that
specified in the table.
Table 157.047A:  Maximum Permitted Sound Intensity Levels in Decibels
(Post-1960 Preferred Frequencies)
Center Frequency (Cycles Per Second) M-2
Table 157.047A:  Maximum Permitted Sound Intensity Levels in Decibels
(Post-1960 Preferred Frequencies)
Center Frequency (Cycles Per Second) M-2
31.5                                 77
63.0                                 73
125.0                                67
250.0                                62
500.0                                55
1,000.0                              51
2,000.0                              44
4,000.0                              37
8,000.0                              33
 
      (2)   Other performance standards.  All other performance standards
relative to smoke, dust, dirt, and fly ash; glare and heat; odor; vibration;
fire and safety hazards; sewage wastes; gases; electromagnetic radiation; and
drifting and airborne matter shall be in conformance with the industrial
performance standards of the M-1 district as provided in §
157.046(D).
   (E)   Site plan review.  For all uses permitted in the M-2 district,
including structural restoration, reconstruction, extension, substitution, or
renovation of existing uses, a site plan of the entire building premises shall
be submitted for review and approval in accordance with §
157.092.
   (F)   Area, height, and placement requirements.  Area, height, and placement
requirements, unless otherwise specified, are as provided in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
§ 157.048  VEHICULAR PARKING DISTRICT, P-1.
   (A)   Statement of purpose.  The vehicular parking district is intended to
permit the establishment of areas to be used for off-street vehicular parking
of private cars, so as to service office, commercial, industrial, and
institutional land uses.  This district is designed to afford maximum
protection to next adjacent residential areas by providing landscaped setbacks,
fences, and well-designed parking lot facilities.  It is also intended that
this district act as a transitional area between office, commercial,
industrial, and institutional uses, and residential areas, thereby permitting
private developers as well as public agencies to provide needed off-street
parking.
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  Vehicular parking only, subject to
requirements in subsection (C) below, is permitted in the P-1 district.
   (C)   Limitation of the use.  The following regulations shall apply:
      (1)   Parking areas shall be used only for parking of passenger vehicles
operated by the management, the employees, customers, and guests of the
enterprise doing business in the city;
      (2)   Parking may be with or without charge;
      (3)   No business involving the repair or services to vehicles, trailers,
mobile homes, travel trailers, boats, or boat trailers, or sale, display, or
storage of same, shall be permitted from or upon property zoned in a P-
1 district;
      (4)   No building other than those for shelter of attendants shall be
erected upon the premises, except as provided for in subsection (O) below. 
There shall not be more than 2 buildings of this type in the area and each
building of this type shall not be more than 50 square feet in area nor shall
exceed 15 feet in height; and
      (5)   No advertising signs shall be erected on the premises, except that
not more than 1 directional sign at each point of ingress or egress may be
erected which may also bear the name of the operator of the lot and enterprise
it is intended to service.  These signs shall not exceed 6 feet in area; shall
not extend more than 10 feet in height above the nearest curb; and shall be
entirely upon the parking area.
   (D)   Location.  All P-1 districts shall be contiguous to an office,
commercial, or industrial district.  In all cases, lots which are used for
parking shall be the adjacent successive lots from the office, commercial, or
industrial property.
   (E)   Ingress and egress.  Adequate ingress and egress shall be provided for
vehicles to premises used for parking and shall be in accordance with the plan
which shall be submitted in triplicate for approval in accordance with
subsection (M) below.
   (F)   Surface of the parking area.  The parking area shall be provided with
a pavement in accordance with §
157.112(C)(7).
   (G)   Front yard. 
      (1)   Where a P-1 district is contiguous to a residentially zoned
district which has a common frontage on the same block with the P-1 district,
and wherein residential structures have been erected, there shall be provided a
yard space equal to the average setback of homes in the block on the same side
of the street.
      (2)   Where the P-1 district is contiguous to a residentially zoned
district which has a common frontage in the same block with the P-1 district
and wherein residential structures have been erected having a front yard of
greater than 20 feet in depth, there shall be provided a yard space equal in
depth to the minimum distance of any residential structure so located, or to
the minimum distance required by those restrictions, except in cases where
residential structures have been erected at the rear lots.  In those cases, the
yard space shall not be less than 20 feet in depth or equal to the minimum
required by the private restrictions.
      (3)   Where the P-1 district lies across a street and opposite a
residentially zoned district wherein the lots front upon that street, there
shall be provided a yard space not less than 20 feet in depth and a protective
wall as set forth in subsection (I) below.
   (H)   Side yards.
      (1)   Where a P-1 district is contiguous to side lot lines of premises in
a residentially zoned district, there shall be provided a side yard not less
than 10 feet in width between the side lot lines and the parking area.
      (2)   Where the P-1 district lies across a street and opposite a
residentially zoned district where the side lot lines are contiguous to that
street, there shall be provided a yard space not less than 10 feet in depth.
   (I)   Protective wall.  Where the P-1 district adjoins or fronts upon
residentially zoned or used property, there shall be provided around the
parking area between the required yard spaces and the actual parking area a
wall in accordance with §
157.087 and §
157.089.
   (J)   Bumper rail.  There shall be provided a bumper rail in accordance with
§
157.112(C)(4).
   (K)   Landscaping.  Wherever the wall is required, all land between the wall
and the boundaries of the P-1 district shall be kept free from refuse or debris
and shall be landscaped.  The landscaped area adjacent to the wall shall be
planted with deciduous shrubs, evergreens, or ornamental trees.
      (1)   Fruit trees shall not be used.  Where the arrangement of planting
materials will result in exposure of the walls, those walls shall be covered
with ivy, spirea border, or similar plant material.  The remainder of the
landscaped area which is not planted with the aforementioned stock shall be in
well-kept lawn.  All landscaping shall be maintained in a healthy growing
condition, neat and orderly in appearance.
      (2)   All planting plans shall be first submitted to the Zoning
Administrator for approval as to suitability of planting materials and
arrangement thereof in accordance with the provisions of the preceding
subsection and requirements of §
157.112(C)(4).
      (3)   Where required landscaping is not sufficiently and properly
maintained, the Zoning Administrator may, after 5 days’ notice has been given
to the property owner as shown on the latest assessment roll, order whatever
steps are necessary to suitably maintain the landscaped area and charge all of
the costs plus a fee as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from
time to time to the property owner.
   (L)   Lighting.  Where lighting facilities are provided, they shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from all residentially zoned properties
which are adjacent to the P-1 district and shall be in accordance with §
157.112(C)(7).
   (M)   Approval.  All plans for the development of any P-1 district must
first be approved by the Zoning Administrator before construction is started.
   (N)   Modification of requirements.  The Board of Zoning Appeals, upon
application by the property owner of the parking area, may modify the yard,
wall, and ingress and egress requirements where in unusual circumstances, undue
hardship would be suffered or no good purposes would be served in compliance
with the requirements of this section.  In all cases where such a protective
wall extends to any alley which is a means of ingress or egress to a parking
area, it shall be permissible to end the wall not more than 10 feet from the
alley line in order to permit a wider means of access to the parking area and
better visibility.
   (O)   Parking structures.  Notwithstanding requirements set forth in
subsection (C)(4) above and under special conditions, parking structures may be
permitted in the P-1 district subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A site plan shall be submitted for review and approval in
accordance with §
157.092 showing the proposed parking structure, ingress and egress points,
relationship to adjacent properties and to the building it is planned to serve,
and landscaping at a scale sufficient to permit study of all elements of the
plan.  Typical elevations of the structure shall also be provided so that the
exterior building material and architectural style will be in harmony with the
principal building or buildings the parking structure is intended to serve and
with the surrounding area; and
      (2)   Specific design standards for the parking structure and
appurtenances (e.g., signs) thereto follow:
         (a)   When the parking structure is contiguous to side lot lines of a
residentially zoned or used district, there shall be provided a minimum side
yard of 15 feet between those side lot lines and the structure;
         (b)   The permitted height of any parking structure shall not exceed
30 feet.  For every 1 foot the parking structure exceeds 10 feet in height, the
yard requirements shall be increased by 1 foot beyond the minimum 15-foot
requirement in subsection (O)(2)(a) above;
         (c)   When parking is permitted on the roof of a parking structure, an
ornamental wall shall be provided around the perimeter of the roof.  This wall
shall be of suitable material and in harmony with the architecture of the
parking structure and sufficiently opaque as to substantially conceal parked
cars;
         (d)   All exterior lighting, especially that which may be provided on
the roof, shall be glare- free and so arranged as to reflect away from all
residentially zoned or used properties affected by the parking structure. 
There shall be no lighting of elevations of a parking structure facing any
residentially zoned or used property;
         (e)   Signs shall be in accordance with all related ordinances of the
city; and
         (f)   Unless otherwise specified, parking structures shall observe all
requirements of subsections (A) through (N) above.
§ 157.049  CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT OVERLAY, CBD. 
   (A)   Statement of purpose. The CBD, central business district is intended
to promote development, to retain and create a vibrant and cohesive center for
the City of Burton with a variety of quality places to work, live, shop, learn,
recreate and be entertained. This district is intended to recognize and support
the City of Burton central business district as the centerpiece of the City of
Burton community.
   (B)   Intent. These special regulations are intended to assist with the
implementation of goals and objectives contained in the City of Burton Downtown
Development Authority (DDA) Strategic Vision Plan. Included in this plan are
goals to promote development of a compact, walkable, mixed-use district,
consisting of a variety of retail, entertainment, office, service, residential,
cultural, recreation and municipal uses. To provide for the desired traditional
downtown environment and accommodate the wide variety of permitted uses, this
district includes specific design standards for site layout, setback
continuity, building design, pedestrian amenities, parking arrangements,
vehicular circulation and coordination of features between adjoining sites. One
intent of this district is that buildings be placed close to the street, with
parking in the side, or preferably, rear yard. Permitted uses shall be designed
and arranged to minimize any adverse impact on street capacity or public
services, and contribute to the overall image and function of the district. A
mixture of uses within a building, such as retail on the ground floor and
office or residential on upper floors is permitted. It is the further intent of
this district to prohibit automotive related services and non-retail uses which
tend to disrupt the continuity of the retail frontage.
   (C)   Principal permitted and special uses shall be in accordance with the
following:
      (1)   All permitted and/or special uses allowed by the underlying zoning
district (as designated on the zoning map) shall be permitted for that lot
within the CBD. (For example, if the underlying zoning district is C-2, the
uses permitted in C-2 are permitted for that lot).
      (2)   All uses shall meet the standards for the CBD district listed below
in §
157.049(D) and as set forth in the Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations. The
Planning Commission shall encourage and allow for zero front lot line setbacks
to promote the appearance of a traditional downtown.
      (3)   Any building fronting on Saginaw Street or Bristol Road and having
commercial or office on the first floor of said street frontage may contain
office or residential uses on upper stories when adequate off-street parking is
provided. Any non-conforming or previously approved uses other than commercial
or office would require special use approval to contain residential mixed uses.
      (4)   Multi-story single family attached or townhouse (row house)
buildings may be permitted as special land uses on lots that do not front along
Saginaw Street or Bristol Road. Each dwelling shall comprise a single unit from
the lowest floor to the highest floor of the building between common walls
except that the Planning Commission may permit stacked units where the front
building facade retains a traditional townhouse (row house) appearance.
      (5)   Open-air markets, outdoor restaurants, bars or cafes located on
private property, temporary or permanent. This section shall not include
roadside stands or food trucks which are provided for in
Chapter 111 or outdoor recreational events, which are provided for in
Chapter 113.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street
parking or loading, shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building,
provided that public plazas, sidewalk sales and open air markets may be
permitted as an accessory use upon approval as a special land use.
      (2)   Exterior walls facing public rights-of-way, customer parking areas
and adjoining property that is zoned or used for residential purposes shall
have a finished appearance, using the same materials as used on the front
facade of the building. Wherever possible, meter boxes, waste receptacles and
mechanical equipment should not be located in the side of the building when
visible from public views or when facing property zoned or used as residential.
      (3)   Ornamental lighting consistent with the established lighting system
in the central business district shall be provided along public street
frontages. Except for ornamental fixtures, all lighting shall be downward
directed shall cut-off fixtures. Site, building and parking lot lighting shall
be at a scale appropriate for the downtown and to prevent glare off-site.
      (4)   Whenever feasible parking shall be located in the side or rear
yards, not in the front yard; however, parking in one front yard shall be
permitted for corner lots.
      (5)   All garage doors, loading or service areas and waste receptacles
shall be located in the rear yard of the lot and screened from view of any
public street, adjacent residential zoning district or public property. Unless
otherwise approved by the Planning Commission the screening shall consist of a
fence consistent with the building, landscaping or a combination, as
appropriate. The waste receptacles shall be screen in accordance with §
157.090.
      (6)   The number of access points shall be the minimum on Saginaw Street
to provide reasonable access. Access points shall be designed and located to
minimize conflicts with traffic operations along the street and be placed as
far from intersections as practical at a minimum of 30 feet. The Planning
Commission shall encourage and allow access off local streets, whenever it is
feasible. The Planning Commission may require the applicant to provide a
traffic impact study prepared by a qualified traffic engineer to evaluate
traffic circulation and access concerns.
      (7)   Parking shall be provided for all uses in accordance with the
requirements of §
157.111  except that the Planning Commission may reduce the amount of onsite
parking required in the CBD by up to 50% in the following instances:
         (a)   The parking requirement may be satisfied through shared parking
with an adjacent use. All uses must be located within 300 feet of the shared
parking with a copy of an executed shared parking agreement provided to the
city. Where uses with different peak hour parking demands, such as a restaurant
and office share the same parking lot, the total cumulative parking requirement
for all uses may reduce by up to 50%.
         (b)   A mixed-use development that has uses with different peak hour
parking demands, such as a restaurant in an office building, may reduce the
total cumulative parking requirement for all uses by up to 50%.
         (c)   The parking requirement maybe reduced by up to 50% where the
applicant can demonstrate, based on supporting documentation provided by the
applicant, the parking need for that particular use is less than required by
this ordinance.
         (d)   Total parking requirements shall not be reduced by more than 50%
even where a site satisfies more than 1 of the above criteria.
      (8)   All lawn and landscaping shall be maintained at a minimum of 6
inches, suggested height at 4 inches.
      (9)   Require maintenance of approved landscaping areas as approved
through the Site Plan Review Process.
   (E)   Architectural conditions. All new buildings, additions and significant
exterior changes or renovations shall be found to be architecturally compatible
with the intent of the central business district. In making such a
determination, the following will be considered:
      (1)   The exterior finish material of all building facades visible from
the public street, parking lot or adjacent residentially zoned land, exclusive
of window areas may consist of the following: brick, cut stone, field stone,
cast stone, dimensional wood with an opaque stain, fiberglass reinforced
concrete, polymer plastic (fypon), or BIFS. Exterior Insulation and Finishing
Systems (EIFS) materials shall not be the primary building material. The
Planning Commission may permit other materials for facades that are consistent
with adjoining land uses.
      (2)   Blank walls shall not face a public street. Walls facing a public
street shall include windows and architectural features customarily found on
the front facade of a building, such as awnings, cornice work, edge detailing
or other decorative finish materials. A usable public building entrance shall
be provided at the front of the building. Wall massing shall be broken up with
vertical pilasters or other architectural elements to reduce scale.
      (3)   Colors shall be consistent with the majority of the established
buildings. Stark or bold colors, white and similar "non-traditional" downtown
colors are not permitted.
      (4)   Facades may be supplemented by awnings which shall be straight
sheds or made of an opaque material; translucent awnings shall not be permitted
along the front building line.
      (5)   Sites shall be designed at a pedestrian scale with relationship to
the street and sidewalk. Convenient and safe pedestrian access shall be
provided between the public sidewalk and the building entrance. Bicycle racks
may be provided for uses expected to attract bicyclists, such as fast food
restaurants, ice cream parlors and convenience food stores.
      (6)   Rear or side entrances should be provided where parking is on the
side or rear of the building.
      (7)   Building height may be increased to a maximum of 50 feet for a
mixed use building with retail/office in the first floor and office and/or
residential use on the floors above the first floor. Parking structures
incorporated into the design of a mixed use building may also warrant the
aforementioned increase in building height.
      (8)   Building design, facades and materials shall be consistent and
adopted by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   For buildings proposed for expansion or renovation that existed prior
to the effective date of this ordinance, the Planning Commission shall
determine the extent of compliance based on the existing building and site
arrangement, the extent of the changes proposed and the site design elements
found to be most in need of modification.
(Ord. 2018-157.049, passed 12-4-2017; Ord. 2018-8-157.049, passed 11-5-2018)
REGULATIONS
§ 157.060  DWELLING UNIT; ZONING LOT.
   Every building hereafter erected or structurally altered to provide dwelling
units shall be located on a lot as herein defined, and in no case shall there
be more than 1 such building on 1 lot unless otherwise provided in this
ordinance.
§ 157.061  LOT AREA, YARDS, AND OPEN SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
   Space which has been counted or calculated as part of a side yard, rear
yard, front yard, court, lot area, or other open space to meet the requirements
of this ordinance for a building, shall not be counted or calculated to satisfy
or comply with a yard, court, lot area, or other open space requirement for any
other building.  An open porch or paved terrace may occupy a required front
yard or rear yard, provided that the unoccupied portion of the front yard or
rear yard furnishes a depth of not less than 21 feet.
§ 157.062  PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   Architectural features, not including vertical projections, may extend or
project into a required side yard not more than 2 inches for each 1 foot of
width of the side yard, and may extend or project into a required front yard or
rear yard not more than 3 feet.  Architectural features shall not include those
details which are nominally demountable.
§ 157.063  STORAGE IN YARDS AND OPEN AREAS.
   (A)   No front or other yard shall be used for the storage or parking of
automobiles or any other material or equipment; provided that in residential
areas not more than 3 automobiles with a current license and in operating
condition may be parked on an approved service driveway, extending from the
street directly to a side yard or a garage.  No machinery, equipment, vehicles,
lumber piles, crates, boxes, building blocks, or other materials either
discarded, unsightly, or showing evidence of a need for repairs, with or
without a current license, shall be stored, parked, abandoned, or junked in any
open area and should such a use of land occur, it shall be declared to be a
nuisance.  If the nuisance is not abated within 10 days after the owner of the
land is notified by the Code Enforcement Officer, then the city may perform the
necessary work to eliminate the nuisance at the expense of the property owner;
and in the event the property owner fails to reimburse the city within 30 days
after receiving notice of the amount due from the City Treasurer, then the
amount shall become a lien upon the property.
   (B)   Firewood kept for personal use (defined as 5 or fewer face cords of
wood) may be kept in any back yard or side yard outside of all required set
backs if that firewood is stacked no higher than 4 feet, in columns not
exceeding 8 feet in length and 18 inches in width.
§ 157.064  STORAGE ON PORCHES AND DECKS.
   (A)   No porch or deck shall be used to keep or store any couch or other
furniture which is not specifically intended and designed for outdoor usage,
such as patio furniture or wrought iron type of furniture.
   (B)   This restriction shall not apply to the storage of couches and other
furniture within enclosed rooms or sun porches.
§ 157.065  STREET ACCESS.
   No dwelling shall be built, moved, or converted upon a lot having a frontage
of less than 20 feet upon a public street or upon a private street or other
permanent easement giving access to a public street.  No building permit shall
be issued for any construction located on any lot or parcel of land in the city
that does not abut on a public street or highway; provided that this ordinance
shall not be the basis for preventing the issuance of a building permit for
ordinary repair or maintenance of any building that is already erected on the
date of the adoption of this ordinance upon a lot or parcel of land that does
not so abut such a street or highway.  Must comply with schedule of
regulations.
§ 157.066  VISIBILITY AT INTERSECTION.
   No structure, wall, fence, shrubbery, or trees shall be erected, maintained,
or planted on any lot which will obstruct the view of the driver of a vehicle
approaching an intersection, excepting that shrubbery and low retaining walls
not exceeding 2.5 feet in height above the curb level and shade trees where all
branches are not less than 8 feet above the street level will be permitted. 
For residential corner lots, this unobstructed area will be a triangular
section of land formed by the 2 street curb lines and a line connecting them at
points 30 feet from the intersection of those curb lines.
§ 157.067  RESERVED FOR FUTURE USE
§ 157.068  DWELLING IN NONRESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   No dwelling unit shall be erected in the R-O, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, M-1, and
M-2 districts.
§ 157.069  DWELLING OTHER THAN IN MAIN STRUCTURE.
   No residential structure shall be erected upon the rear of a lot or upon a
lot with another dwelling.
§ 157.070  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this ordinance, shall
be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to and must conform to all regulations of this
ordinance applicable to main or principal buildings.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall not be erected in any required yard except a
rear yard, providing further that in no instance shall such a building be
nearer than 18 inches to any adjoining lot line.
   (C)   An accessory building shall not exceed 1 story or 16 feet in height;
further, accessory buildings may occupy not more than 25% of a required rear
yard, or 40% of any non-required rear yard.
   (D)   An accessory building shall be located on the rear ½ of the lot except
when structurally attached to the main building.
   (E)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than 10 feet to
any main building or main or accessory buildings on adjacent property.
   (F)   When an accessory building is located on a corner lot, the side lot of
which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the lot to its
rear, that building shall not project beyond the front yard line required on
the lot in rear of that corner lot.
   (G)   In the case of double frontage lots, accessory buildings shall observe
front yard requirements on both street frontages whenever there are any
principal buildings fronting on those streets in the same block or adjacent
blocks.
   (H)   No detached or attached accessory building(s) intended for the parking
and storage of private motor vehicles shall exceed, in total aggregate floor
space of all such accessory buildings on a lot, 1,152 square feet in gross
floor area in a residential district.
      (1)   In addition to the above allowable space for the parking and
storage of private motor vehicles, there may be up to 250 square feet of space
attached with the garage, or a separate detached accessory building not larger
than 12 by 12 feet may be located on the same lot for the storage of tools and
recreation equipment or for a dog house.  Use of any detached accessory
building in any residential, business, or office district for a use other than
the parking and storage of private motor vehicles, tools, recreation equipment,
or dog houses requires review and approval by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
      (2)   Where lots or parcels exceed ½ of an acre (21,780 square feet),
accessory buildings may exceed the above limits, provided that lot coverage
limits as established at
Appendix A are not exceeded and total aggregate floor space of all accessory
buildings does not exceed 1,512 square feet.
      (3)   Where lots or parcels exceed 3/4 of an acre (32,670 square feet),
accessory buildings may exceed the above limits, provided that lot coverage
limits as established at
Appendix A are not exceeded and total aggregate floor space of all accessory
buildings does not exceed 1,824 square feet.
      (4)   Where lots or parcels exceed 1 acre (43,560 square feet) and less
than 87,119 square feet or 2 acres, accessory buildings may exceed the above
limits, provided that lot coverage limits as established at
Appendix A are not exceeded and total aggregate floor space of all accessory
buildings does not exceed 2,250 square feet.
      (5)   Where lots or parcels exceed 2 acres (87,120 square feet),
accessory buildings may exceed the above limits, provided that lot coverage
limits as established at Appendix A are not exceeded and total aggregate floor
space of all accessory buildings does not exceed an additional 250 square feet
per full acre.
      (6)   There may only be 2 detached accessory structures allowed per
parcel. 
   (I)   All accessory buildings shall conform to the architectural style of
the main structure and match the color and material of the main structure.
(Ord. 2018- -157, passed 4-2-2018)
§ 157.071  PARKING AND STORAGE OF CAMPERS, TRAVEL TRAILERS, AND BOATS.
   Campers, travel trailers, motorized homes, (specifically excluding
commercial vehicles such as school buses, semi-tractor trailers, and box trucks
where they have been converted for private use or not) snowmobiles, and
trailers specifically designed to transport such vehicles, may be parked or
stored outdoors in any zoning district on occupied lots subject to the
following requirements.
   (A)   No more than 1 camper or travel trailer, no more than 1 boat, and no
more than 2 snowmobiles may be parked on a lot of record which is zoned and
used for residential purposes, and ownership of same must be in the name of a
member of the immediate family of the lot’s owner, tenant, or lessee.
   (B)   Campers and travel trailers may be parked anywhere on the premises for
loading and unloading purposes for a period not to exceed 48 hours.
   (C)   Campers, travel trailers, snowmobiles, trailers, boats, and the like,
where parked or stored, shall be located only in the rear yard, and, in
addition, shall conform to the required yard space requirements for accessory
buildings in the zoning district wherein located.
   (D)   The maximum permitted lot coverage of all buildings plus any camper,
travel trailer, or boat parking or storage space, shall not be exceeded.
   (E)   All campers, travel trailers, boats, and the like, shall be locked or
secured at all times when not in use so as to prevent access thereto by
children.
   (F)   A suitable covering, specifically excluding tarpaulins, shall be
placed over boats, snowmobiles and vehicles whenever such items are not
enclosed, in order to prevent vandalism or injury to children. In the event a
motor vehicle is so covered, that covering shall be specifically designed for
that purpose and the use of tarpaulins is specifically prohibited.
   (G)   Recreational equipment parked or stored shall not be connected to
electricity, water, gas, or sanitary facilities, and at no time shall same be
used for living, lodging, or housekeeping purposes.
   (H)   All recreational equipment must be kept in good condition and have a
current year’s license or registration.
   (I)   The parking or storage of a mobile home unit outside of a mobile home
park, under these provisions, is expressly prohibited.
§ 157.072  PARKING FOR PURPOSE OF SALE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, firm, or corporation shall stand or park a motor vehicle,
trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft on public or private property
zoned for commercial or industrial use, for the purpose of offering or
advertising the same for sale.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, proof that a sign was in or on a
standing or parked vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft, and
which sign was capable of drawing attention to same, and which sign was clearly
visible to any person located off the property, shall create a presumption that
the sign was for the purpose of offering the motor vehicle, trailer,
recreational vehicle, or watercraft for sale.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, proof that the subject motor
vehicle, trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft was standing or parked in
violation of this section, together with proof that the defendant named in the
complaint was, at the time, the registered owner of same, shall create a
presumption that the defendant was the person who parked the motor vehicle,
trailer, recreational vehicle, or watercraft, when the violation occurred.
   (D)   This section shall not apply to currently licensed motor vehicles,
trailers, recreational vehicles, or watercraft sales lots licensed by the City
of Burton.
   (E)   A city code enforcement officer or police officer may, at the owner’s
expense, impound any vehicle, if it remains standing or parked in violation of
this section.  In addition to the costs of towing and storage of the vehicle,
the owner shall be responsible for payment of the expense incurred by the city
in the administration and enforcement of this section.
§ 157.073  ALE OF MERCHANDISE FROM RESIDENTIAL ZONED PROPERTY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall display for sale, sell, purchase or
exchange any goods, wares or merchandise from any residentially zoned property
for more than 6 calendar days during any 1 calendar year period.
§ 157.074  AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   In order to regulate and control the problems of noise, odor, light,
fumes, vibration, dust, danger of fire and explosion, and traffic congestion
which result from the unrestricted and unregulated construction and operation
of automobile service stations, and to regulate and control the adverse effects
which these and other problems incidental to the automobile service station may
exercise upon adjacent and surrounding areas, the following additional
regulations and requirements are provided herein for automobile service
stations located in any zone.
   (B)   All automobile service stations erected after the effective date of
this ordinance shall comply with all requirements of this section.  No
automobile service station existing on the effective date of this ordinance
shall be structurally altered so as to provide a lesser degree of conformity
with the provisions of this section than existed on the effective date of this
ordinance.
      (1)   An automobile service station shall be located on a lot having a
frontage along the principal street of not less than 150 feet, and having a
minimum area of not less than 15,000 square feet.
      (2)   An automobile service station building housing an office or
facilities for servicing, greasing, or washing motor vehicles shall be located
not less than 40 feet from any street lot line, and not less than 25 feet from
any side or rear lot line adjoining a residentially zoned district.
      (3)   All driveways providing ingress to or egress from an automobile
service station shall be not more than 30 feet wide at the property line.  No
more than 1 curb opening shall be permitted for each 50 feet of frontage or
major fraction thereof along any street.  No driveway or curb opening shall be
located nearer than 20 feet to any corner or exterior lot line, as measured
along the property line.  No driveway shall be located nearer than 30 feet, as
measured along the property line, to any other driveway giving access to or
from the same automobile service station.
      (4)   A raised curb 6 inches in height shall be erected along all street
lot lines, except for driveway openings.
      (5)   All lubrication equipment, motor vehicle washing equipment,
hydraulic hoists, and pits shall be enclosed entirely within a building.
      (6)   An automobile service station located on a lot having an area of
15,000 square feet shall include not more than 8 gasoline pumps and 2 enclosed
stalls for servicing, lubricating, greasing, and washing motor vehicles.  An
additional 2 gasoline pumps and 1 enclosed stall may be included with the
provision of each additional 2,000 square feet of lot area.
      (7)   All gasoline pumps shall be located not less than 15 lineal feet
from any lot line, and shall be arranged so that motor vehicles shall not be
supplied with gasoline or service while parked upon or overhanging any public
sidewalk, street, or right-of-way.
      (8)   Where an automobile service station adjoins property located in any
residential zone, a masonry wall 5 feet in height shall be erected and
maintained along the service station property line.  All masonry walls shall be
protected by a fixed curb or barrier to prevent vehicles from contacting the
wall.
      (9)   All exterior lighting, including illuminated signs, shall be
erected and hooded or shielded so as to be deflected away from adjacent and
neighboring property.
      (10)   (a)   When a structure designed and used for automobile service
station or filling station purposes ceases to operate on a continuing basis for
a period of 90 days within any period of 18 months, the owner of the premises
shall be served written notice by the Zoning Administrator of the requirement,
within 60 days of the date of the notice, to either:
            1.   Resume operation of the premises on a continuing basis as a
lawful automobile service station or filling station;
            2.   Lawfully convert the structure to another permitted use in
that district; or
            3.   Demolish the structure and completely remove the debris from
the premises.
         (b)   All new automobile service stations or filling stations
constructed after the effective date of this ordinance shall be required to
post a bond with the Zoning Administrator in an amount equal to the estimated
cost of demolition and clearance of improvements on the premises.  Failure to
comply with one of the above mentioned 3 alternatives shall empower the Zoning
Administrator to utilize the bond for the demolition and clearance of the
premises in question.  If there should be declared a national emergency which
would curtail the operation of motor vehicles or if the Planning Commission
should determine that there exists a state of general economic depression or
hardship, the provisions of this subsection (B)(10) shall not apply.
§ 157.075  DRIVE-IN ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   When a drive-in establishment adjoins property located in any
residential district, an ornamental masonry wall 5 feet in height shall be
erected and maintained along the interior line, or if separated from the
residential zone by an alley, there along the alley lot line.  In addition, all
outside trash areas shall be enclosed by the 5-foot masonry wall.  This wall
shall be protected from possible damage inflicted by vehicles using the parking
area by means of pre-cast concrete wheel stops at least 6 inches in height, or
by firmly implanted bumper guards not attached to the wall, or by other
suitable barriers.
   (B)   The entire parking area shall be paved with a permanent surface of
concrete or asphaltic cement.  Any unpaved area of the site shall be landscaped
with lawn or other horticultural materials, maintained in a neat and orderly
fashion at all times, and separated from the paved area by a raised curb or
other equivalent barrier.
   (C)   Lighting shall be installed in a manner which will not create a
driving hazard on abutting streets or which will not cause direct illumination
on adjacent residential properties.
   (D)   Before approval is given for any use, a site plan shall first be
submitted to the Board of Zoning Appeals for review as to suitability of
location of entrances and exits to the site, parking area, screening, lighting,
and other design features.
§ 157.076  BUILDING GRADES.
   (A)   Any building requiring yard space shall be located at such an
elevation that a sloping grade shall be maintained to cause the flow of water
to run away from the walls of the structures thereon.  The balance of yard
spaces shall be graded and adequate drainage provided where necessary to
deflect proper drainage of surface waters from the premises.
   (B)   When a new building is constructed on a vacant lot between 2 existing
buildings or adjacent to an existing building, the existing established grade
shall be used in determining the grade around the new building, and the yard
around the new building shall be graded in such a manner as to meet existing
grades.
   (C)   Final grade shall be approved by the Building Official only after a
certificate of grading and location of building within the city has been duly
completed and certified by a registered engineer or land surveyor.
§ 157.077  MOVING OF BUILDING.
   Any building or structure which has been wholly or partially erected on any
premises within or outside the city shall not be moved to or placed upon any
premises in the city unless a building permit or the building or structure
shall have been secured under §
157.172 of this code.  Any such building or structure shall fully conform to
all the provisions of this ordinance in the same manner as a new building or
structure.
§ 157.078  EXCAVATIONS OR HOLES.
   The construction, maintenance, or existence within the city of any
unprotected, unbarricaded, open, or dangerous excavations, holes, pits, or
wells, or of any excavations, holes, or pits which constitute or are reasonably
likely to constitute a danger or menace to public health, safety, or welfare,
is hereby prohibited; provided, however, this section shall not prevent any
excavation under a permit issued pursuant to this ordinance or the Building
Code of the city, where those excavations are properly protected and warning
signs posted in such a manner as may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
§ 157.079  EXCAVATION, REMOVAL, FILL, OR DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The use of land for the excavation, removal, filling, or depositing of
any type of earth material, topsoil, gravel, rock, garbage, rubbish, or other
wastes or byproducts, is not permitted in any zoning district except under a
certificate from, and under the supervision of the Zoning Administrator in
accordance with a topographic plan, approved by the City Engineer, submitted by
the feeholder owner of the property concerned.  The topographic plan shall be
drawn at a scale of not less than 1 inch equals 50 feet and shall show existing
and proposed grades and topographic features and other data as may from time to
time be required by the City Engineer.  The certificate may be issued in
appropriate cases upon the filing with the application of a cash bond or surety
bond by a surety company authorized to do business in the state running to the
city in an amount as established by the City Engineer which will be sufficient
in amount to rehabilitate the property upon default of the operator or other
reasonable expenses.  This regulation does not apply to normal soil removal for
basement or foundation work when a building permit has previously been duly
issued by the Building Official.
   (B)   Any material filled or deposited on any property within the city,
whether it be of any type of earth material, topsoil, gravel, rock, stone,
broken concrete or asphalt or any other material shall not be piled higher than
25 feet from ground elevation of the surrounding area prior to the filling or
depositing of the material.
§ 157.080  RESTORING UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition of any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by the
Building Official or required compliance with his or her lawful order.
§ 157.081  GRANDFATHER CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this ordinance shall be deemed to require any change in the
plans, construction, or design use of any building upon which actual
construction was lawfully begun prior to the adoption of this ordinance, and
upon which building actual construction has been diligently carried on, and
provided further, that the building shall be completed within 2 years from the
date of passage of this ordinance.
§ 157.082  VOTING LOCATION; TEMPORARY USE.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall not be so construed as to interfere
with the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with
municipal or other public election.
§ 157.083  PLAT APPROVAL; CONFORMANCE REQUIRED.
   No proposed plat of a new subdivision shall hereafter be approved by either
the City Council or the City Planning Commission, unless the lots within the
plat equal or exceed the minimum size and width requirements set forth in the
various districts of this ordinance, and unless the plat fully conforms with
the statutes of the state and all other provisions of this city code.
§ 157.084  ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized under any franchise or
that may be regulated by any law of the state or any ordinance of the city, it
being the intention hereof to except those essential services from the
application of this ordinance.
§ 157.085  RADIO AND TELEVISION TOWERS.
   All commercial radio, television, and other transmitting or relay antenna
towers shall be permitted in any business, commercial, or industrial district
which has access upon a major thoroughfare.  The setbacks for these towers from
all abutting streets or adjacent property shall be a distance equal to the
height of the tower.  The structural plans must be approved by the Building
Official.
§ 157.086  OPEN AIR BUSINESS USES.
   Open air business uses, where permitted in a C-3, M-1, or M-2 district,
shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (A)   The minimum area of the site shall be 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   The minimum street frontage shall be 100 feet.
   (C)   There shall be provided around all sides of the site, except at
entrances, exits, and along sides of premises enclosed by building a fence or
wall 5 feet in height in order to intercept wind-blown trash and other debris. 
Where the site abuts any residentially zoned district, the requirements for
protective screening shall apply as specified in §
157.087.
   (D)   Off-street parking areas and aisles, as required under §§
157.110et seq. of this code, shall be paved in accordance with the requirements
of §
157.112(C)(8).
   (E)   Lighting shall be installed in a manner which will not create a
driving hazard on abutting streets or which will cast direct illumination on
adjacent properties.
   (F)   Before approval is given for any use, a site plan shall be first
submitted to the Planning Official for review as to suitability of location of
entrances and exits to the site, parking area, fencing, lighting, and other
design features.
   (G)   All open air business uses shall comply with all city and county
health regulations regarding sanitation and general health conditions.
§ 157.087  PROTECTIVE SCREENING; NONRESIDENTIAL AND RESIDENTIAL AREAS.
   In order to provide adequate protective screening for residential areas
adjacent to or near nonresidential areas, the following regulations shall
apply.
   (A)   Where an RM, HRM, RMH, R-O, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, M-1, M-2, or P-
1 district abuts directly upon a residential district, those districts shall be
screened from the contiguous, residentially zoned district by a screened fence,
approved by the City Planning Commission or a person designated by the
Commission.
   (B)   Where required fences are provided on the business side of public
alleys, fence requirements may be waived to provide necessary entrance to or
exit from required off-street parking and loading areas.
   (C)   Where a C-4 district abuts directly upon a residential district, that
district shall be screened from the contiguous, residentially zoned district by
a solid ornamental masonry wall 5 feet in height above grade no closer than 20
feet to the property line of commercial use in the C-4 district.
   (D)   Any nonconforming land or building use shall be required to comply
with all the above requirements of this section.
§ 157.088  GREENBELTS.
   Whenever a greenbelt is required by the Planning Commission, it shall be
completed prior to the issuance of any certificate of occupancy and shall
thereafter be maintained with permanent plant materials, to provide a screen to
abutting properties.  The greenbelts shall be planted and maintained with trees
or shrubs deemed acceptable by the Planning Commission.
§ 157.089  FENCES, WALLS, AND OTHER PROTECTIVE BARRIERS.
   All fences, walls, and other protective barriers (referred to in this
section as “fences”) of any nature, description located in the city, shall
conform to the following regulations.
   (A)   Fences in other than M-1 or M-2 districts, unless specifically
provided otherwise, shall conform to the following requirements.
      (1)   (a)   No fence shall hereafter be located in the front yard without
the prior written approval of the Director of the Department of Public Works or
his or her designate.  Upon the request for a permit to construct a fence in a
front yard, the Director of the Department of Public Works or his or her
designate shall notify the persons to whom the adjacent real property is
assessed of the proposed fence.  The adjoining property owner shall, within 7
days of the notice, request a hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals if he
or she has an objection to the construction of the fence in the front yard.  If
no objection is received within 7 days of the date of notice, the Director of
the Department of Public Works or his or her designate may issue a permit to
construct the fence; provided, however, the fence shall be of an ornamental
nature and of a design so as to be non-sight-obscuring and not in excess of 48
inches in height.
         (b)   Bushes and hedges must be kept trimmed to a maximum height of 42
inches.  Setbacks of bushes and hedges must be at least 3 feet from the edge of
any sidewalk and must be kept trimmed back to this setback.  Fences may have up
to 50% screen, and be of decorative design as required in §
157.089(A)(2).  There shall be a 20-foot free vision zone measured from a
street curb and private driveway intersection if no sidewalk exists; also,
observance of a 30-foot free vision zone requirement at intersecting streets
per §
157.066.
      (2)   (a)   Fences of an ornamental nature which may be located in a
front yard and any other yard shall be of approved materials, of a fence type
listed below:
            1.   Post and rail;
            2.   Split rail;
            3.   Picket;
            4.   Wrought iron;
            5.   Chain link;
            6.   Wood; or
            7.   Vinyl.
         (b)   Fences of a type not listed above must be approved by the City
Zoning Board of Appeals before placement in any yard.
      (3)   Barbed wire, spikes, nails, or any other sharp instruments of any
kind are prohibited on top of or on the sides of any fence, except that barbed
wire cradles may be placed on top of fences enclosing public utility buildings
or equipment in any district or wherever deemed necessary by the City Zoning
Board of Appeals in the interests of public safety or protection of private
property.
      (4)   No chain link or wire fence shall hereafter be erected in any
required yard space in excess of 5 feet in height above the grade of the
surrounding land, unless the Zoning Board of Appeals shall give its special
approval as provided in §§
157.152et seq. of this code.
      (5)   Wooden fences may hereafter be erected in all residential districts
to enclose property within a required side or rear yard, shall not exceed 6
feet in height above the natural, average existing grade or ground adjacent
thereto, and shall not extend toward the front of the lot nearer than the front
of the house or the required minimum front yard, whichever is greater.
   (B)   No fence shall be erected, established, or maintained on any corner
lot which will obstruct the view of a driver of a vehicle approaching the
intersection, with the exception that shade trees shall be permitted where all
branches are not less than 8 feet above the road level.
   (C)   Fences in M-1 or M-2 districts with a maximum height of 6 feet may be
located on property or road right-of-way lines of a lot, provided that those
fences shall be located on parcels with an approved industrial use, maintained
in good condition, and shall not constitute an unreasonable hazard.  The fences
shall be of an approved type located within the city’s Specifications Governing
the Granting of Permits for Commercial or Residential Driveways and Site
Improvements, adopted November 3, 1980.
   (D)   Required walls and screening barrier shall have no openings for
vehicular traffic or other purposes, except as otherwise provided in this
ordinance and except such openings as may be approved by the Chief of Police
and the Zoning Administrator.  All walls herein required shall be constructed
of materials approved by the City Planning Commission to be durable, weather
resistant, rustproof, and easily maintained; constructed in accordance with
city specifications.
   (E)   Screen plantings may be approved to be utilized to comply with
screening requirements set forth in this ordinance.  Individuals wishing to
utilize plantings are to submit a landscaping detail to the City Planning
Commission for approval.
      (1)   Screen plantings shall consist of plant materials which shall
constitute a closed planting strip and height of 5 feet within 2 years after
planting
      (2)   Owners of required screen plantings have the obligation to replace
or maintain the condition of the plantings.
      (3)   Screen plantings shall be placed in a planting strip of at least 5
feet in width.
   (F)   All required walls, fences, trash container enclosures, and screening
barriers are to be maintained in a good condition, shall not constitute an
unreasonable hazard, and shall comply with the intent for which they were
required.
   (G)   Fencing for lots or parcels of land which abut more than 1 street
frontage (private or public) shall maintain front yard setback requirements
unless special approval of Zoning Board of Appeals is granted.
   (H)   All fences shall be constructed in such a manner that all structural
members, including braces, posts, poles and other projections, shall be on the
interior side of the fence.
   (I)   No person shall use rope; string; wire products including but not
limited to chicken wire, hog wire, wire fabric, and similar welded or woven
wire fabrics; chain; netting; cut or broken glass; paper; unapproved corrugated
metal panels; galvanized sheet metal; plywood; or fiberglass panels in any
fence or any other materials that are not manufactured specifically as fencing
materials. The Building Official may require the applicant to provide the
manufacturer’s standards to establish the intended use of a proposed fencing
material.
   (J)   (1)   Fences must be maintained so as not to endanger life, property,
or be in a stage of disrepair in the opinion of the Code Enforcement Officer. 
No fence shall be attached in any way to a neighboring fence. Any fence which,
through lack of maintenance or type of construction or otherwise, imperils life
or property, shall be deemed a nuisance.  No fence, regardless of the zoning
district in which it is located, shall be constructed in such a manner as to
interfere with the vision of any motorist or pedestrian on any street.  No
hedge shall be erected or grown in excess of 42 inches in height in front of
the setback line for that property which shall unreasonably interfere with the
visibility from any street or adjoining property.  If any fence or hedge shall
constitute a nuisance or otherwise violate this ordinance, the owner of the
property on which that fence or hedge is located shall abate the nuisance
within 10 days of written notice thereof.
      (2)   If the nuisance is not abated within 10 days after the owner of the
land is notified by the Code Enforcement Officer, then the city may perform the
necessary work to eliminate the nuisance at the expense of the property owner;
and in the event the property owner fails to reimburse the city within 30 days
after receiving notice of the amount due from the City Treasurer, then the
amount shall become a lien upon the property and be collected in the same
manner as collection of city real property taxes.
§ 157.090  INCINERATORS, TRASH CONTAINERS AND COLLECTION/DONATION CONTAINERS.
   (A)   All commercial buildings constructed after the passage of this
ordinance shall have incinerator facilities subject to all city, county, and
state health requirements.
   (B)   Outside trash containers shall be permitted in the RM, HRM, R-O, C-1,
C-2, C-3, C-4, M-1, and M-2 districts, provided that they comply with the
following requirements:
      (1)   Adequate vehicular access shall be provided to the containers for
truck pick-up either via a public alley or vehicular access aisle which does
not conflict with the use of off-street parking areas or entrances to or exits
from principal buildings nearby and whenever possible be located in the rear of
the property;
      (2)   A solid ornamental screening wall or fence shall be provided around
all sides of trash containers which shall be provided with a gate for access
and be of a height so as to completely screen the containers, the maximum
height of which shall not exceed 6 feet;
      (3)   The trash container(s), the screening wall or fence, and the
surrounding ground area shall be maintained in a neat and orderly appearance,
free from rubbish, waste paper, or other debris. This maintenance shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the premises on which the containers are placed;
and
      (4)   There shall be compliance with all city, county, and state health
ordinances and statutes.
   (C)   Outside trash containers shall be permitted in the SE, R-1A, R-1B, and
R-1C districts, provided that they comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   All conditions of regulation as outlined in §
142.04 in regards to littering.
      (2)   All trash containers located outside the building must be placed at
a minimum behind the front face of the dwelling and in a manner designed to be
directed away from adjoining property lines and not offensive to a reasonable
person.
      (3)   No commercial trash container (dumpster) shall be allowed that
would be intended for the collection of normal household garbage/food waste.
   (D)   Collection/donation containers. Outside collection containers shall be
permitted in the RM, HRM, R-O, C-1, C-2, C-3, C-4, M-1, and M-2 districts,
provided that they comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   Permit required.
         (a)   No person shall place, operate, maintain, or allow a collection
bin within the city without having first obtained a permit issued by the
Department of Public Works.
         (b)   An application must be submitted to include all locations, along
with written permission from each property owner. A permit fee shall be paid
for each collection bin. At no time shall there be more than 2 permits allowed
for anyone parcel.
         (c)   A permit fee in an amount set by resolution of the Council shall
be paid at the time the application is made for the license or renewal thereof.
A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall be nontransferable and non-
assignable.
         (d)   All collection containers must obtain a collection container
permit and must include an affidavit and acknowledgment of the property owner
giving permission to locate a collection container on real property on which
collection containers are placed.
         (e)   A permit issued to a collection bin that meets the requirements
of this chapter shall automatically renew for successive 1-year terms upon
payment of a renewal fee, provided the city did not issue a written notice of
violation of any provision of this chapter to the bin owner or property owner
during the preceding 1-year term. A license that does not qualify for automatic
renewal may be renewed upon payment of a renewal fee if the bin meets the
standards of this chapter and has no open citations, unpaid fines, or
unresolved violations at the time of license renewal. A permit shall not be
renewed for a period of 1 year if the city issued three or more written notices
of violations of this chapter against the collection bin during the preceding
12 months. The Department of Public Works shall notify the applicant in writing
of the decision to deny the renewal permit and state the specific reasons for
denial.
      (2)   Application and review.
         (a)   Any person desiring a permit pursuant to this chapter shall file
with the DPW a permit fee together, which application shall contain the
following information:
            1.   Name, address, telephone number, email, and website address
(if any) of the applicant, and of each officer if a corporation or each partner
if a partnership. The same information shall be provided for the collection bin
operator if different from the applicant.
            2.   Name, address, telephone number, email, and website address
(if any) of the owner of the real property on which the collection bin will be
located.
            3.   Name, address, telephone number, email, and website address
(if any), including 24-hour contact information, of the person responsible for
the daily operation and management of the collection bin.
            4.   A signed and notarized affidavit and authorization from the
property owner to allow placement of the collection bin on the property.
            5.   Signed and notarized acknowledgments from the property owner
and from the collection bin owner acknowledging receipt of a copy of this
chapter and responsibility for joint and several liability for violations of
this chapter.
            6.   A textual description and scaled drawing or map on 8 1/2-inch
by 11- inch paper or other size accepted by the city that shows:
               a.   The proposed location of the collection bin(s). Adequate
vehicular access shall be provided to the containers for truck pick-up either
via a public alley or vehicular access aisle which does not conflict with the
use of off-street parking areas or entrances to or exits from principal
buildings nearby and whenever possible be located in the rear of the property.
               b.   The location and dimensions of all parcel boundaries,
buildings, driveways, sidewalks, parking spaces, easements, and landscaped
areas, and the distance from each to the proposed location of the collection
bin.
               c.   Calculation of required, existing, and proposed number of
parking spaces.
               d.   The distance between the proposed location of the
collection bin and the nearest residential property.
               e.   The location and distance of all collection bins within
1,000 feet of the proposed collection bin location.
               f.   A photograph of the collection bin to be installed.
               g.   A description of the locking mechanism of the collection
bin.
               h.   A maintenance plan that includes a plan for graffiti
removal, rust protection, pick up schedule, and litter and trash removal on and
around the collection bin that is sufficient to prevent and/or eliminate
blight-related conditions.
      (3)   Maintenance and hours of operation.
         (a)   Containers shall be maintained in good condition and appearance,
with no damage such as holes, rust, or graffiti.
         (b)   The collection container operator and property owner shall
maintain, or cause to be maintained, the area surrounding the containers free
from any junk, noxious odor, debris and donated items.
         (c)   Collection containers shall be serviced not less than monthly or
more frequently if containers are observed by the Planning and Community
Development Department to be full. Servicing shall occur between 7:00 a.m. and
7:00 p.m. on weekdays and 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on weekends. This servicing
includes maintenance of the container, removal of collected material and
abatement of any graffiti, litter, or other nuisance condition.
         (d)   Containers shall have an identification plate with the name,
mailing address, email address, website and phone number of the operator. This
plate shall be mounted near the donation chute.
      (4)   Exceptions. Notwithstanding the above regulation of this ordinance,
any non-profit organization or religious institution that engages in collection
of goods and materials as part of its organizational mission may maintain up to
3 accessory collection bins on its own building site. All such collection
containers shall be exempt from Section 1, "Permit Required," and Section 2,
"Permit Application and Review," but shall adhere to all other standards and
requirements of this ordinance. The separation and setback requirements in the
above shall be replaced with the following: no bin shall be placed closer than
50 feet to any residentially zoned property nor closer than 10 feet from any
other non-residentially zoned property.
      (5)   Violations. A violation of any provision or requirement of this
section is a civil infraction, subject to enforcement and the fines and
penalties for civil infraction violations as set forth in this code, in
addition to the penalties set forth herein.
(Ord. 2021-7-157, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 157.091  LOT SPLITS OR LAND DIVISIONS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to carry out the provisions of the
State Land Division Act (Public Act 288 of 1996, as amended, formerly known as
the Subdivision Control Act), to prevent the creation of parcels of property
which do not comply with applicable ordinances and the Act, to minimize
potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly development of the community,
and otherwise provide for the health, safety, and welfare of the residents and
property owners of the city by establishing reasonable standards for prior
review and approval of land divisions within the city.
   (B)   For the purpose of this ordinance, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      APPLICANT.  A natural person, firm, association, partnership,
corporation, or combination of any thereof that holds ownership interest in
land whether recorded or not.
      DIVIDED or DIVISION.  The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract
of land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns, for the purpose
of sale or lease of more than 1 year, or of building development, that results
in 1 or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent and that satisfies
the requirements of State Land Division Act, §§ 108 and 109.  DIVIDE and
DIVISION do not include a property transfer between 2 or more adjacent parcels,
if the property taken from a parcel is added to an adjacent parcel; and any
resulting parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the parcel
conforms to the requirements of the State Land Division Act, or the
requirements of the other applicable local ordinance.
      EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION.  The partitioning or splitting of a
parcel or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs,
executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors, or assigns, that
does not result in 1 or more parcels of less than 40 acres of the equivalent.
   (C)   Land in the city shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the city in accordance with this section and the State Land
Division Act; provided that the following shall be exempted from this
requirement.  Any person who sells or agrees to sell any lot, piece, or parcel
of land which has been split or divided from an existing parcel of land without
final approval by the Assessor or the Assessor’s designee shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $1,000.00 in accordance with Section 26.430.264 of the State
Land Division Act; provided that the following shall be exempt from this
requirement:
      (1)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant
to the State Land Division Act;
      (2)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be further divided in
accordance with the State Land Division Act and
Chapter 156 of this code; or
      (3)   An exempt split as defined in this section, or other partitioning
or splitting that results in parcels of 20 acres or more if each is not
accessible and the parcel was in existence on March 31, 1997 or resulted from
exempt splitting under the Act.
   (D)   An applicant shall file an application for Land Division and all of
the following information and documentation with the Assessor’s office; these
applications shall be reviewed and approved by the following administrative
officials before making any division either by deed, land contract, lease for
more than 1 year, or for building development.
      (1)   Officials.
         (a)   The Assessor;
         (b)   The Road Department;
         (c)   The Water and Sewer Department;
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator;
         (e)   The Planning and Zoning Administrator; and
         (f)   The Controller Department.
         (g)   The City Treasurer;
         (h)   The County Treasurer.
      (2)   Information and documentation.
         (a)   A completed application on a form as may be provided by the City
Assessor’s Office;
         (b)   Proof of fee simple ownership of the land proposed to be
divided;
         (c)   A tentative parcel map drawn to scale, prepared by a registered
civil engineer or a registered land surveyor, including an accurate legal
description of each proposed division, and showing the boundary lines,
approximate dimensions, and the accessibility of each division for vehicle
traffic and public utilities; the drawing shall contain the following
information.
            1.   All existing buildings and structures on the site, and
building and structures located on abutting property within 50 feet of the lot
to be divided with set backs.
            2.   Boundaries of any water body, floodplain, wetland, drainage
way and woodlot.
            3.   Boundaries of all proposed divisions, with complete
dimensions; area of each proposed resultant parcel.
            4.   Proposed locations and dimensions of any easements.
         (d)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act and this
ordinance have been met;
         (e)   Detailed information about the terms and availability of the
proposed division rights transfer if a transfer of division rights is proposed
in the land transfer; and
         (f)   A fee to cover the costs of review of the application and
administration of this ordinance and the State Land Division Act.  The amount
of the fee shall be established and amended from time to time by resolution to
the City Council.
   (E)   The following procedure for review of application for land division
approval shall apply:
      (1)   The unanimous approval of all 8 city and county officials
referenced in subparagraph (D) above shall be required to approve a land
division;
      (2)   The city shall approve or disapprove the land division applied for
within 15 business days after receipt of a complete application conforming to
this ordinance’s requirements and the State Land Division Act, and shall
promptly notify the applicant of the decision, and if denied, the reasons for
denial;
      (3)   (a)   Any applicant aggrieved by a denial of a lot split
application may, within 30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the
City Council, which shall consider and resolve the appeal by a majority vote of
the Council, or by the appellate designee, at its next regular meeting or
session.  The meeting or session shall be scheduled to afford sufficient time
for a written notice to be sent to the applicant not less than 20 days prior to
the meeting.  The notice shall show the time, date, and place of the meeting
and the appellate hearing;
         (b)   The City Council shall not have the authority to grant variances
to the requirements of the zoning ordinance provision as they may relate to lot
sizing and set back requirements.
      (4)   The City Assessor, under the direction of the Clerk, shall maintain
an official record of all approved and accomplished land divisions or
transfers;
      (5)   Approval of a division is not determination that the resulting
parcels comply with other ordinances or regulations; and
      (6)   The city and the city’s officers, employees, and consultants shall
not be liable for damages resulting from approval of a land division if
building permits for construction on the parcels are subsequently denied
because of inadequate water supply, sewage disposal facilities, requirements of
this ordinance, and violations of other ordinance, or any other reason, and any
notice of approval shall include a statement to this effect.
      (7)   All property taxes and bills due to the City or County Treasurer
must be current before final approval will be given.
   (F)   Applications for a proposed land division shall be approved by the
city if the following criteria are met:
      (1)   All parcels created by the proposed division(s) have a minimum
width as specified by this ordinance for the zoning district in which the
subject property is located, as amended from time to time;
      (2)   All those parcels shall contain a minimum area as specified by this
ordinance for the zoning district in which the subject property is located, as
amended from time to time; and
      (3)   For parcels greater than 1 acre in area, the ratio of depth to
width of any parcel created by the division does not exceed a 4 to 1 ratio
exclusive of access roads, easements, or non-development sites.  For parcels
equal to or less than 1 acre in area, the ratio of depth to width of any parcel
created by the division does not exceed a 3 to 1 ration exclusive of access
roads, easements, or non-development sites.  The depth of a parcel created by a
land division shall be measured as described in this ordinance.  The width to
depth ratio requirement may be appealed in accordance with the procedure
described in subsection (E)(3) above in the following circumstances:
         (a)   Unusual shape or configuration or excessive depth of the parent
parcel;
         (b)   Narrow or other unusual configuration of the parent parcel;
         (c)   Existing building placement or site improvements will not
accommodate the required width to depth ratio;
         (d)   Unusual topographic, wetland, geologic, or other natural
features make the required width to depth ratio impractical; or
         (e)   Any other feature(s) determined to be appropriate for
consideration by the city’s representative.
   (G)   The following constitutes the consequences of noncompliance with land
division approval requirements:
      (1)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this section
shall not be recognized as a land division of the city tax roll and no
construction thereon which requires the prior issuance of a building permit
shall be allowed.  The city shall further have the authority to initiate
injunctive or other relief to prevent any violation or continuance of any
violation of this section; and
      (2)   An unlawful division or split shall also be voidable at the option
of the purchaser and shall subject the seller to forfeiture of all
consideration received or pledged therefore, together with any damages
sustained by the purchaser, recoverable in an action at law.
§ 157.092  SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   The following provisions in this section shall apply to all site plan
review procedures unless otherwise provided in this ordinance.  The procedures
of this section shall be minimum requirements, and additional procedures may be
required by this ordinance or by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Zoning review (rather than site plan review) is required whenever
there is a change of ownership or change of use within a multiple tenant space
having previously received site plan approval, so long as the use does not
differ from an approved use for that zoning. In instances where this applies,
the Department of Public Works or authorized representative is hereby
authorized to make the review and issue an approval or disapproval. Any
interested party may appeal any decision made during this zoning review to the
Planning Commission within 7 days of notification of the decision.
   (C)   (1)   Administrative site plan review (rather than site plan review)
is required whenever there is a change of ownership, or change of use within
the parameters of a permitted use within that zoning district when exterior
construction is not being done or the construction of an enclosed structure to
be used exclusively for storage provided that the structure does not exceed the
following size limitations.  Where the parcel is less than 5 acres, the
structure cannot exceed 2% of the area of the subject parcel.  Where the parcel
exceeds 5 acres, the structure cannot exceed 2% of the first 5 acres plus ½%
per acre, but in no event shall the structure exceed 10,000 square feet in
total size.  In the event the structure does exceed these size limitations then
site plan review shall be required.  Administrative site plan review is also
applicable to the construction of structures used for recreational purposes
that are unenclosed except for columns supporting the roof, or exterior
construction that does not require a building permit.
      (2)   The Director of the Department of Public Works, City of Burton, or
his authorized representative, is hereby authorized to make the review and
issue an approval or disapproval.  Any interested party may appeal any decision
made during the administrative site plan review of the Director of the
Department of Public Works or his designate to the Planning Commission within 7
days of notification of the decision.
   (D)   Site plan review with Planning Commission approval is required when
there is a change of use in conjunction with exterior construction that
requires a building permit, additional use of an attached building or portion
of building with a prior approved site plan on file of a use permitted in the
same zoning district, development of a property, or construction of a
previously developed property, except as provided in subsections (B) and (C)
hereof.  Whenever a site plan review is required by the provisions of this
ordinance, 12 copies of the site plan to an architectural or engineering scale,
including all items required together therewith, shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission to permit study of all elements of the plan.  The Planning
Commission may prepare forms and require the use of such forms in site
preparation.
   (E)   A copy of the site plan shall be distributed by the Planning
Commission to the City Fire Chief, Police Chief, Attorney, Engineer, Planning
Consultant, and other individuals and agencies as deemed necessary by the
Planning Commission.
   (F)   The following information shall accompany all plans submitted for
review:
      (1)   A legal description of the property under consideration;
      (2)   A map indicating the gross land area of the development, the
present zoning classification thereof, and the zoning classification and land
use of the area surrounding the proposed development, including the location of
structures and other improvements;
      (3)   A fully dimensioned map of the land showing topographic information
a contour interval of 2 feet or less, if requested by the City Engineer;
      (4)   A statement of the adverse effects, if any, upon any property in
the city which may result from the proposed development;
      (5)   A general development plan with at least the following details
shown to scale and dimensioned:
         (a)   Location of each existing and each proposed structure in the
development area, the use or uses to be contained therein, the number of
stories, gross building areas, distances between structures and lot lines,
setback lines and approximate location of vehicular entrances and loading
points;
         (b)   All streets, driveways, service aisles, and parking areas,
including general layout and design of parking lot spaces;
         (c)   All pedestrian walks, malls, and open areas for parks and
recreation;
         (d)   Location and height of all walls, fences, and screen plantings,
including a general plan for the landscaping of the development and the method
by which landscaping is to be accomplished and be maintained;
         (e)   Types of surfacing, such as paving, turfing, or gravel, to be
used at the various locations;
         (f)   A grading plan of the area; and
         (g)   The location and capacity of private or public water and
sanitary sewerage services, storm drains, and solid waste disposal facilities
serving the site.
      (6)   Plans and elevations of 1 or more structures, indicating proposed
architecture and construction standards;
      (7)   Such other information as may be required by the city to assist in
the consideration of the proposed development, such as signs and lighting.
      (8)   A statement of financial responsibility, including the posting of
bonds or cash to ensure the installation of the improvements required by the
city as a condition to the development.
   (G)   (1)   The purpose of site plan review is to determine compliance with
the provisions set forth herein and to promote the orderly development of the
city, the stability of land values and investments, and the general welfare,
and to help prevent the impairment or depreciation of land values and
development by the erection of structures or additions or alterations thereto
without proper attention to siding and appearances.
      (2)   In order that buildings, open space, and landscaping will be in
harmony with other structures and improvements in the area, and to ensure that
no undesirable health, safety, noise, and traffic conditions will result from
the development, the Planning Commission shall determine whether the site plan
meets the following criteria, unless the Planning Commission determines that 1
or more of the following criteria are inapplicable:
         (a)   The vehicular transportation system shall provide for
circulation throughout the site and for efficient ingress and egress to all
parts of the site by fire and safety equipment.  (Basis for Burton City Council
Side-Street Paving Requirements). The Planning Commission shall consider the
following factors in exercising its discretion over site plan approval
regarding traffic:
            1.   Whether traffic access to the site is such that vehicular
congestion or other impairment of traffic may result from access to and from
the site.  Consideration will also be given to traffic patterns, curb cut
locations, and access for adjacent development and for development across
street;
            2.   Whether the traffic circulation features within the site and
location of automobile parking areas are designed to ensure safety and
convenience of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic both within the site and
in relation to access streets; and
            3.   Whether there is a need, after consultation with city, county,
and state agencies as may be necessary, for a requirement of acceleration,
deceleration, or bypass lineage to serve the particular site.
         (b)   Pedestrian walkway systems shall be provided to connect the
areas of the site, and to connect the site with schools and shopping areas and
other public gathering areas.  Pedestrian walkways shall be provided as deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission for separating pedestrian and vehicular
traffic. (Basis for Burton City Council Sidewalk Construction Requirement).
         (c)   Recreation and open space areas shall be provided;
         (d)   The site plan shall comply with the district requirements for
minimum floor space, height of building, lot size, yard space, density, and all
other requirements as set forth in
Appendix A of this ordinance, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance;
         (e)   The requirements for greenbelt, fencing, walls, and other
protective barriers shall be complied with as provided in§
157.087, §
157.088, §
157.089;
         (f)   The site plan shall provide for adequate storage space for the
use therein, including, where necessary, storage space for recreational
vehicles; and
         (g)   The site plan shall comply with all requirements of the
applicable zoning district, unless otherwise provided in this ordinance.
   (H)   The site plan shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and
approved, approved with any conditions the Planning Commission deems necessary
to carry out the purpose of the ordinance and other regulations of the city, or
disapproved.  Any interested party shall have the right to appeal to the Zoning
Board of Appeals any decision of the Planning Commission within 7 days after
the decision of the Planning Commission.
   (I)   Following the approval of a site plan by the Director of the
Department of Public Works or his or her designate or by the Planning
Commission, the Zoning Administrator may issue a building permit and shall
ensure that development is undertaken and completed in conformance with the
approved plans.
   (J)   The building permit may be revoked in any case where the conditions of
the permit have not been or are not being complied with.  The Zoning
Administrator shall give the permittee notice of intention to revoke the permit
at least 7 days prior to the revocation of the permit.  The permittee may
appeal the revocation of the building permit to the Planning Commission within
7 days of the revocation of the permit.
   (K)   Every site that requires site plan review approval shall be designed
to provide for a 5-foot concrete sidewalk along entire road frontage.  This
sidewalk is required within any right-of-way abutting a parcel of land or
platted lot requiring a site plan review.  Unless determined to be required by
the Planning Commission during site plan review, sidewalks shall not otherwise
be required for interior streets in a platted subdivision.
   (L)   Once site plan approval has been granted by the City’s Planning
Commission, an applicant has a period of 1 year from that date to obtain the
mandatory building or site permit.  Failure to do so will result in the site
plan approval being revoked.
   (M)   In the event that construction is not begun within 1 year from the
date of the issuance of the building and site permits, the site plan approval
shall be revoked, after which time no further consideration of the proposed
development may be taken until a new site plan has been approved subject to the
requirements of §
157.045(D).  Application may be made to the City Council for a 1-year extension
of the site plan approval.
   (N)   Every site that requires zoning review, administrative site plan
review, or site plan review approval shall be designed to provide for a numeric
address with a minimum of 6" high, black or white numbers on the front face of
the building visible from the street. (example: 1234).
§ 157.093  SINGLE-FAMILY CLUSTERING OPTION.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to permit, through design innovation,
flexibility in the development of single-family residential housing patterns on
sites where the conventional subdivision approach to residential development
would either destroy the unique environmental significance of the site, or
where a transitional type of residential development is desirable.
   (B)   To accomplish this purpose, the following modifications to the single-
family residential standards of this ordinance may be permitted, subject to the
conditions herein imposed.
      (1)   The area to be set aside for open space (including usable
recreation areas, open space, and watercourses) accomplished through
application of the single-family cluster option shall represent at least 15% of
the total horizontal area of the site in an R-1A or R-1B district, and at least
25% in an SE district, and shall be distributed throughout the development.
      (2)   The overall permitted unit density within an unplatted parcel which
qualifies for consideration under either§
157.093(B)(1) or §
157.093(B)(2) shall not exceed the following dwelling unit densities by
district, averaged over the entire area included within the site.
 
Zoning District Dwellings Per Acre
SE              2.8
R-1A            3.5
R-1B            4.0
 
      (3)   Under this section, the attaching of single-family homes in
clusters, or the detaching of single-family homes in clusters, shall be
permitted subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The attaching of single-family homes within a cluster shall be
permitted when those homes are attached either through a common party wall or
garage wall which does not have over 50% of an individual wall or more than 25%
of the total exterior walls of the living area of a single-family home in
common with the wall or walls of the living area of an adjoining home; or by
means of an architectural detail which does not form interior room space; or
through a common party wall in only the garage portion of adjacent structures;
         (b)   The detaching of single-family homes within clusters shall be
permitted provided those homes shall be spaced not less than 6 feet apart when
opposing dwelling unit walls contain no openings, and not less than 10 feet
apart when opposing dwelling unit walls contain openings.  The distance between
opposing garage walls within a cluster shall meet local fire codes, except that
in no case shall those walls be less than 6 feet apart;
         (c)   The maximum number of homes in a cluster shall be subject to
review by the Planning Commission, except that in no case shall a cluster
contain less than 2 homes or more than 4 homes; and
         (d)   No structure within a cluster shall be located closer than 25
feet to any interior private street, drive, or public right-of-way, or in the
case of any peripheral property line, not less than 25 feet.  Clusters of
single-family homes shall be arranged on the site so that none shall face
directly into a freeway, principal arterial, major thoroughfare, nonresidential
district, or nonresidential use.
      (4)   Each cluster of attached or detached single-family homes shall be
separated from any other cluster of single-family homes by a distance
determined by the number of homes in opposing clusters as set forth in the
following scale; except that the Planning Commission, after review of site
development plans, may modify the strict application of the distance in those
instances where it is found that a natural amenity would be destroyed or
topographical or soil conditions limit a practical dimensional separation of
clusters.
 
Total Homes in Opposing Minimum Distance Between  Minimum Distance Between
Clusters                Clusters (Front and Rear) Clusters (Side)
8                       100                       75
7                       85                        75
6                       75                        60
5                       65                        60
4                       55                        50
 
      (5)   An applicant seeking use of the single-family cluster option shall
submit a site plan to the Planning Commission for consideration.  The Planning
Commission, in making its review, shall find that the site possesses at least 1
of the requirements for qualifications as outlined in§
157.093(B)(1) before approving the application.  The Planning Commission shall
conduct its review in accordance with the public hearing requirements set forth
and regulated in §
157.177(D) of this code.
      (6)   The site plan shall be prepared as follows.  Site plans, in
addition to providing all data at §
157.092(F), shall provide the following:
         (a)   The structural outline (building envelope) of all structures
proposed on the site;
         (b)   Architectural renderings of building facade elevations within a
typical cluster;
         (c)   The areas to be dedicated as open space and recreational use,
showing access, location, and any improvements.  Assurance of the permanence of
the open space and its continued maintenance shall be submitted for review and
approval by the City Attorney.  The City Attorney shall review and render an
opinion with respect to:
            1.   The proposed manner of holding title to the open space;
            2.   The proposed manner of payment of taxes;
            3.   The proposed method of regulating the use of open land;
            4.   The proposed method of maintenance of property and the
financing thereof; and
            5.   Any other factor relating to the legal or practical problems
of ownership and maintenance of the open land.
         (d)   The location of access drives, streets, and off-street parking
areas, sidewalks, trash receptacles, and the like; and
         (e)   The location, extent, and type of landscaping in accordance with
the requirements of §
157.088 of this code.
      (7)   The applicant shall submit as a part of his or her site plan
proposed building elevations and typical floor plans.  Building elevation
drawings shall be drawn to scale and need only be a sample of development
throughout the site.  Where more than 1 type of structural design is intended,
sample elevation and corresponding floor plans for each type shall be
submitted.
§ 157.094  PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER.
   (A)   All developers of proposed planned shopping centers shall submit a
market analysis suitable for the size center proposed, showing the need for a
shopping center in the location requested and the inadequacy of existing
shopping facilities to meet demands.
   (B)   For these purposes, the market analysis shall contain the following
determinations:
      (1)   Determination of the trade area of the proposed shopping center;
      (2)   Determination of trade area population, present and future;
      (3)   Determination of effective buying power in the trade area; and
      (4)   Determination of net potential customer buying power for stores in
the proposed shopping center.
§ 157.095  EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   All outdoor lighting in use districts used to light the general area
of a specific site shall be shielded to reduce glare into adjacent
residentially used dwellings and shall be so arranged in all use districts,
except R-1A, R-1B, and SE, to reflect lights away from all adjacent residential
single-family zoned districts.
   (B)   All outdoor lighting in all use districts shall be directed toward and
confined to the ground areas of lawns or parking lots.
   (C)   All lighting in nonresidential districts used for the external
illumination of buildings, so as to feature those buildings, shall be placed
and shielded so as not to interfere with the vision of persons on adjacent
highways or adjacent property.
   (D)   Illumination of signs shall be directed or shaded downward so as not
to interfere with the vision of persons on the adjacent highways or the
adjacent property.
   (E)   All illumination of signs and any other outdoor feature shall not be
of a flashing, moving, or intermittent type.  Artificial light shall be
maintained stationary and constant in intensity and color at all times when in
use.
§ 157.096  STATIONS; SATELLITE RECEIVING DISHES.
   (A)   Dish type satellite signal receiving stations (hereafter “stations”),
subject to the following regulations, may be located within the city.
   (B)   Stations shall be maintained in the rear yard whenever possible, and
set back at least 5 feet from all lot lines and 10 feet from rear yard lot
lines. The sitting of stations shall be regulated by the Federal Communication
Commission rules and regulations as they may be promulgated and amended from
time to time.
   (C)   The height of the ground mounted station, should the dish antenna be
turned perpendicular to the ground, shall not extend above 15 feet; and the
maximum diameter of any dish antenna shall not exceed 12 feet.
   (D)   Stations may be roof mounted on structures, provided they are anchored
in an approved manner outlined by the Building Code.
   (E)   All roof mounted stations shall be viewed to be a portion of a
building with regard to height determination subject to the height limitations
of each zoning district as outlined in
Appendix A, Schedule of Regulations.
   (F)   The Zoning Board of Appeals of the city may grant variances to this
ordinance when, in its discretion, enforcement of this ordinance will result in
practical difficulties and unnecessary hardships on person, firms, or
corporations affected hereby.  A hearing shall be held pursuant to the
procedures set forth in §
157.154 of this code.
§ 157.097  RESIDENTIAL STRUCTURES; ORIENTATION ON LOTS.
   (A)   All dwelling structures shall be located on their lots in such a
manner that the dwelling’s front entrance shall be in a similar location to the
entrance location of other homes in the neighborhood in which it is located. 
The front entrance shall be located in the wall facing the front yard of the
dwelling, or not less than 25% of the total side wall distance from the front
wall, on a wall facing a side yard of the dwelling.
   (B)   All dwelling structures shall have windows located on the wall facing
the front yard and exterior doors either on the front and rear or front and
side as generally found in homes in the neighborhood in which it is to be
located.
§ 157.098  KEEPING OF CHICKENS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding other regulations contained within the city's Zoning
Ordinance  (Chapter 157 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Burton), and
subject to the regulations set forth in this section, chickens may be owned,
kept and possessed within the boundaries of certain non-agriculturally zoned
areas within the City of Burton as a permitted accessory use.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who keeps chickens on non-agriculturally zoned
property shall first obtain a permit. An application shall be submitted to the
Department of Public Works and a fee paid as shall be established, and from
time to time be amended, by resolution of the Burton City Council. Initially
this fee shall be set at $25.
      (2)   Permits shall expire and become invalid upon the expiration of a
period of 5 years. Any person  wishing to continue to house chickens shall
obtain a new permit on or before the expiration date of the previous permit.
      (3)   Permits shall be issued for property zoned SE (Suburban Estate
Residential), R-1A (Single Family Residential), R-1B (Single Family
Residential), or, R-1C (Single Family Residential).
      (4)   Notwithstanding the issuance of a permit by the city, private
restrictions on the use of property shall remain enforceable and take
precedence over a permit. Private restrictions include, but are not limited to,
deed restrictions, condominium master deed restrictions, neighborhood
association by-laws and covenant deeds. A permit issued to a person whose
property is subject to private restrictions that prohibit the keeping of hens
is void. The interpretation and enforcement of the private restriction is the
sole responsibility of the private parties involved.
      (5)   No permit shall be issued to any person who shall have been
judicially determined to have violated any of the provisions of this section
without obtaining the affirmative vote of the City Council.
      (6)   (a)   Permits are non-transferable and do not run with the land.
Permits shall provide a limited license to conduct the activity as an accessory
use, but no vested zoning rights shall arise from the issuance of a permit.
         (b)   Permits do not grant any right or authority to conduct
commercial activities. Accordingly, the sale of eggs or the slaughtering of
chickens at the permitted site shall not be allowed and shall result in the
revocation of any existing permit.
         (c)   This section shall not regulate the keeping of chickens upon
agriculturally zoned property where the raising of poultry is a permitted
principal use when conducted in compliance with the Michigan Right to Farm Act
and the Generally Accepted Agricultural Management Practices promulgated
thereunder.
      (7)   No permit shall be issued to any person intending to house chickens
upon any lot less then 1/2 acre unless such permit shall receive special use
approval by the City Planning Commission pursuant to §
157.177.
   (C)   All persons receiving a permit to house chickens shall comply with all
of the following requirements:
      (1)   No more than 6 female chickens (hens) may be kept.
      (2)   No male chickens (roosters) may be kept.
      (3)   Any such chickens must be provided a covered shelter which shall be
located in the "rear yard" as that term is defined in §
157.006 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Burton.
      (4)   All shelters for the keeping of hens shall be constructed, repaired
and maintained to prevent rats, mice or other rodents from being harbored
underneath, within or within the walls of the shelter.
      (5)   The shelter shall be maintained in a sanitary manner, free from
offensive odors.
      (6)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens
shall be stored and secured in such a manner as to prevent access by mice, rats
and other rodents.
      (7)   No person shall be permitted to slaughter chickens upon the
property where chickens are kept pursuant to this section.
      (8)   Shelters housing chickens must be kept a minimum of 10 feet from
any property line and minimum of 30 feet from any neighboring residential or
commercial building.
   (D)   Any violation of the requirements set forth herein shall result in the
immediate revocation of any permit granted pursuant to this section.
§ 157.099  COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIJUANA TRANSACTION FACILITIES.
   It is the intent of this section to regulate any commercial medical
marijuana transaction facilities by the following requirements:
   (A)   Operational limitations.
      (1)   A commercial medical marijuana transaction facility shall only
operate between 8:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 12:00 noon
and 6:00 p.m. Sunday.
      (2)   A commercial medical marijuana transaction facility shall comply at
all times with each and every provision of the State of Michigan Medical
Marijuana Act of 2008 (M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421, et seq.) and House Bill 4209,
4210 and 4827.
      (3)   Any permitted activities conducted by a commercial medical
marijuana transaction facility must be done inside a fully enclosed structure
or building that is kept secured with locks to prevent unintended or uninvited
access.
      (4)   Persons under the age of 18 years of age are not permitted to be on
the property of any commercial medical marijuana transaction facility unless
they possess a valid Medical Marijuana Registry Card issued by the State of
Michigan or other state.
      (5)   Advertising and/or marketing for a commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility, viewed from the exterior, shall not appeal to or have the
effect of appealing to minors. This shall include but is not limited to
signage, flyers, banners, etc. as permitted in §§
153.01et seq. of the City Code of Ordinances.
      (6)   Any owners and/or operators of any commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility who violates these sections shall be liable for all costs
associated with the investigation, prosecution and enforcement of that
violation.
   (B)   Site plan requirements.
      (1)   Any person who wished to operate any commercial medical marijuana
transaction facility  shall submit an application for site plan review to the
City of Burton as set forth in §
157.092,  consistent with the zoning of the property, showing required
locational limitations as set forth in §
157.043(C)(7), §
157.046 (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(9), and (B)(10) as they apply, shall pay a
nonrefundable fee as shall be established, and from time to time be amended by
resolution of the Burton City Council, and which shall include the following:
         (a)   Security system details which shall include, at the minimum,
audible and silent alarms and video surveillance cameras.
         (b)   Details regarding the building electrical system, power demands
of specialized lighting and other necessary equipment, and method proposed to
prevent excessive heat build-up and risk of fire within the building.
         (c)   Ventilation equipment details, including fresh air intake and
filtration of exhaust air to prevent offensive odors from leaving the site.
         (d)   Proposed methods for controlling insects within the building and
preventing insects from becoming a nuisance or health hazard, off the site.
         (e)   A description of the operation of the commercial medical
marijuana transaction facility in sufficient detail to permit the city to
determine if the operation, as described would be lawful and fully compliant
with the State of Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008 (M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421, et seq.) and House Bill 4209, 4210 and 4827.
      (2)    Once the application is approved and within 30 days, the applicant
must then submit any further documentation necessary to receive a certificate
of occupancy which shall include but is not limited to building permits,
inspections, and audits as deemed necessary by the Department of Public Works.
At this time the applicant must also pay an annual, nonrefundable license fee
as shall be established, and from time to time be amended by resolution of the
Burton City Council. 
      (3)   Annual renewal of the application is required for any commercial
medical marijuana transaction facility and must comply with §
157.099(E).
      (4)   All applicants must provide a copy of the State of Michigan
approved operating license before certificate of occupancy can be issued.
      (5)   Any change of ownership of the property and/or facility or change
of use will be considered a new application for all purposes of this ordinance,
with the exception of §
157.099(F). In the case in which the existing facility has not vacated the new
application will be secured from any new locational limitation.
   (C)   Periodic inspections. All approved commercial medical marijuana
transaction facilities shall submit and allow authorized city zoning and
building inspection and/or law enforcement personnel to make unannounced,
periodic inspections for purposes of verifying compliance with all requirements
of this ordinance and section, and any reasonable conditions placed upon any
special land use approval.
   (D)   Existing facilities.  Commercial medical marijuana transaction
facilities (also known as "medical marijuana dispensaries" and "medical
marijuana grow facilities") that have been approved to operate prior to the
enactment of this ordinance shall remain approved provided that the facility
comply with the following:
      (1)   Within 90 days of the enactment of this ordinance, the applicant
shall submit an application for site plan review to the City of Burton as set
forth in §
157.099 (B)(1) - (B)(3) and the applicant must pay an annual, nonrefundable
license fee as shall be established, and from time to time be amended by
resolution of the Burton City Council.
      (2)   Within 90 days of the acceptance of state operating licenses in
accordance with M.C.L.A. § 333.27101, the applicant must apply to the state for
an operating license as appropriate for the use.
         (a)   Medical marijuana dispensary - must apply for a medical
marijuana provisioning center and;
         (b)   Medical marijuana growing facility - must apply for a medical
marijuana growing facility.
      (3)   Once the State of Michigan operating license is secured, a copy
must be submitted to the Department of Public Works and a new certificate of
occupancy may be issued.
      (4)   Any change of ownership of the property and/or facility or change
of use will be considered a new application.
   (E)   Annual renewal. A site plan approval shall be issued for a 1-year
period and is renewable annually.
      (1)   Except as set forth in this ordinance, the Department of Public
Works shall renew a license if all of the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The applicant submits a renewal application provided by the City
of Burton and pay an annual, nonrefundable license fee as shall be established,
and from time to time be amended by resolution of the Burton City Council; and
         (b)   The application is received by the city on or before the
expiration date of the current approval.
      (2)   It is the sole responsibility of the applicant to apply for renewal
prior to the expiration. Upon or after the date of expiration the City of
Burton shall notify the applicant at the last known address on file advising
them they have 30 days to apply for renewal and pay any applicable late fees
and the annual non-refundable fee. Failure to renew 30 days from date notice
was mailed will revoke the facilities certificate of occupancy and require any
future application to be considered new.
      (3)   Renewal shall be considered 1-year from the date in which the
annual fee is paid and the site plan is approved.
      (4)   In its decision on an application for renewal, the City of Burton
shall consider any input from the building official, code enforcement officer,
fire department and/or police department.
   (F)   Securing locational limitations. Applications are considered on a
first come basis for purpose of required locational limitations as set forth in
§
157.043(C)(7), §
157.046 (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7), and (B)(8).  Consideration is only taken when
the complete application is submitted to the City of Burton and any required
fees are paid in full. Consideration may be taken when there is a pending
application to the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning Commission, as
appropriate. Application for a state operating license does not secure any
position for locational limitations.
(Ord. 2017-7-157, passed 12-4-2017)
§ 157.100  HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   The intent of this section is to ensure that any home occupation is
compatible with other permitted uses in residential districts and to maintain
and preserve the residential character of the surrounding neighborhood by the
following requirements:
   (A)   A home occupation permit may be granted by the Department of Public
Works within a single-family residential dwelling unit when a home occupations
application, provided on forms furnished by the city, has been submitted
subject to all of the following conditions and provided all of such conditions
are agreed to by the applicant.
      (1)   No person other than members of the family residing on the premises
shall be engaged in such occupation. Non-resident persons shall not be
employed.
      (2)   The use of the dwelling unit for the home occupation shall be
clearly incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants, and not more than 25% of the total first floor area of the dwelling
unit (exclusive of an attached garage, breezeway, and enclosed or unenclosed
porches) shall be used for the purposes of the home occupation and the home
occupation shall be carried out completely within such dwelling. No accessory
building (attached or detached) shall be used in the home occupation.
      (3)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the structure
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than 1 sign that shall comply with requirements at
Chapter 153;
      (4)   No home occupation shall be conducted upon or from the premises,
which would constitute a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining residents by reason
of noise, dust, glare, heat, smoke, fumes, odor, vibrations or electrical
disturbances. There shall be no discharge of polluting materials, fluids, or
gases into the ground or surface water, soil or atmosphere.
      (5)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood. Any need
for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be provided
by an off-street parking area, located in other than in a required front or
side yard setback area. There shall be no deliveries to or from a home
occupation with a vehicle with a rated capacity of greater than 1 ton.
      (6)   There shall be no sale of any goods manufactured elsewhere in
connection with such home occupation. The outdoor storage of goods and
materials shall be prohibited. No interior displays shall be visible from the
exterior of a dwelling unit used for the purposes of a home occupation.
      (7)   The home occupation shall not be open to the public earlier than 8:
00 a.m. or later than 8:00 p.m.
      (8)   No more than 1 home occupation per dwelling unit shall be
permitted.
      (9)   No home occupation may be carried out without a valid permit issued
by the Building Official. Home occupation permits shall be reviewed and
obtained annually. Fees for any required reviews, public hearings and permits
shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   When in the opinion of the Zoning Administrator any proposed or
existing home occupation that will not or does not currently comply with the
specific items as listed in division (A) above, a home occupation application
or renewal shall be submitted for review and approval through the City Planning
Commission for a Special Use Permit. Home occupations reviewed and approved by
the Planning Commission would be subject to compliance with the additional
divisions below. The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing in
compliance with the city's public hearing notification requirements for a
Special Use Permit prior to approving or renewing a home occupation permit.
      (1)   No persons other than family members of the family residing on the
premises, or up to 3 non-family members not residing on the premises, shall be
engaged in such home occupation.
      (2)   No more than 2 home occupations per dwelling unit shall be
permitted.
      (3)   The use of an attached or detached accessory structure shall be
limited to 30% of the total first floor area of the dwelling unit exclusive of
attached garages, breezeways and enclosed or unenclosed porches.
      (4)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the structure
or premises, or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation
other than 1 sign that shall comply with requirements at
Chapter 153;
      (5)   Home occupations approved for a Special Use Permit by the Planning
Commission shall be renewed annually through the Building Department. In the
event that complaints have been received by the Building Department on a home
occupation, the Building Official may require an additional public hearing
prior to renewal consideration by the Planning Commission. Fees for any
required reviews, public hearings and permits shall be established by
resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   (1)   All home occupation permits administratively approved and issued
by the Zoning Administrator under division (A) above shall be forwarded to the
Planning Commission within 30 days of the date of issuance. When in the opinion
of the Planning Commission a home occupation may not be in compliance with the
requirements of division (A), as issued by the Zoning Administrator, the
Planning Commission, by a majority vote, may require that the licensee appear
at the next regular scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission to address any
concerns.
      (2)   After the hearing set forth in division (C) (1) above, if the
Planning Commission concludes the licensee cannot, or will not, comply with all
of the requirements of division (A) above, the Planning Commission may revoke
an administratively approved home occupation permit.
   (D)   Home occupation approved for a Special Use Permit by the Planning
Commission may be revoked by the Planning Commission after notice to the
licensee at least 15 days prior to a hearing by the Planning Commission called
to consider the revocation of the permit.
§ 157.101  MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It is the intent of this section to regulate any marijuana establishments by
the following standards:
   (A)   Operational limitations.
      (1)   A marijuana establishment shall only operate between 8:00 a.m. and
8:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 12:00 noon and 6:00 p.m. Sunday.
      (2)   A marijuana establishment shall comply at all times with each and
every provision of the State of Michigan, Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act (MRTMA).
      (3)   Any permitted activities conducted by a marijuana establishment
must b done inside a fully enclosed structure or building that is kept secured
with locks to prevent unintended or uninvited access.
      (4)   Persons under the age of 21 years of age are not permitted to be on
the property of any marijuana establishments unless they possess a valid
Medical Marijuana Registry Card issued by the State of Michigan or other state
the marijuana establishment is co-located with an approved medical marijuana
transaction facility.
      (5)   Advertising and/or marketing for a marijuana establishment, viewed
from the exterior, shall not appeal or have the effect of appealing to minors,
this shall include but is not limited to signage, flyers, banners, etc. as
permitted in §
153.10.
      (6)   Any owners and/or operators of any marijuana establishments who
violates these sections shall be liable for all costs associated with the
investigation, prosecution and enforcement of that violation.
      (7)   Unless otherwise permitted through co-location with another
commercial medical marijuana transaction facility and/or marijuana
establishment, no license will be approved on a property that has any other
approved uses.
   (B)   Site plan requirements.
      (1)   Any person who wished to operate any marijuana establishments shall
submit an application for site plan review to the City of Burton as set forth
in §
157.092, consistent with the zoning of the property, showing required
locational limitations as set forth in §
157.043(C)(10), § 157.046(B)(11) (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), (B)(15), and (B)
(16) as they apply, shall pay a nonrefundable fee as shall be established, and
from time to time be amended by resolution of the Burton City Council, and
which shall include the following:
         (a)   Security system details which shall include, at the minimum,
audible and silent alarms and video surveillance cameras.
         (b)   Details regarding the building electrical system, power demands
of specialized lighting and other necessary equipment, and method proposed to
prevent excessive heat build-up and risk of fire within the building.
         (c)   Ventilation equipment details, including fresh air intake and
filtration of exhaust air to prevent offensive odors from leaving the site.
         (d)   Proposed methods for controlling insects within the building and
preventing insects from becoming a nuisance or health hazard, off the site.
         (e)   A description of the operation of the commercial marijuana
establishments in sufficient detail to permit the city to determine if the
operation, as described would be lawful and fully compliant with the Michigan
Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (MRTMA).
      (2)   Once the application is approved and within 30 days, the applicant
must then submit any further documentation necessary to receive a certificate
of occupancy which shall include but is not limited to building permits,
inspections, and audits as deemed necessary by the Department of Public Works.
At this time the applicant must also pay an annual nonrefundable license fee as
shall be established, and from time to time be amended by resolution of the
Burton City Council.
      (3)   Annual renewal of the application is required for any marijuana
establishments and must comply with §
157.101(D).
      (4)   All applicants must provide a copy of the State of Michigan
approved operating license before certificate of occupancy can be issued.
      (5)   Any change of ownership of the property and/or facility or change
of use will be considered a new application for all purposes of this ordinance,
with the exception of §
157.101(E). In the case in which the existing facility has not vacated the new
application will be secured from any new locational limitation.
      (6)   A licensed marijuana establishment shall maintain a clearly legible
sign, not less than 18 inches by 24 inches in size, and white background with
black lettering in color, reading "No Loitering" at or near each public
entrance. The sign shall also display the ordinance number as the following
design:
 
NO LOITERING
Ordinance 144.08(B)(1)(c)
 
   (C)   Periodic inspections. Prior to the start of operations all marijuana
establishments shall submit and allow authorized city zoning and building
inspection and/or law enforcement personnel to make unannounced, periodic
inspections for purposes of verifying compliance with all requirements of this
ordinance and section, and any reasonable conditions placed upon any special
land use approval. Once operations begin, all marijuana establishments shall
submit and allow authorized city zoning and building inspection and/or law
enforcement personnel to make inspections in accordance with applicable codes.
   (D)   Annual renewal. A marijuana establishment approval shall be issued for
a 1-year period and is renewable annually.
      (1)   Except as set forth in this ordinance, the Department of Public
Works shall renew a license if all of the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The applicant submits a renewal application provided by the City
of Burton and pay an annual, nonrefundable license fee as shall be established,
and from time to time be amended by resolution of the Burton City Council; and
         (b)   The application is received by the city on or before the
expiration date of the current approval.
      (2)   It is the sole responsibility of the applicant to apply for renewal
prior to the expiration. Upon or after the date of expiration the City of
Burton shall notify the applicant at the last known address on file advising
them they have 30 days to apply for renewal and pay any applicable late fees
and the annual nonrefundable fee. Failure to renew 30 days from date noticed
mailed will revoke the establishment's certificate of occupancy and require any
future application to be considered new.
      (3)   Renewal shall be considered 1-year from the date in which the
annual fee is paid.
      (4)   In its decision on an application for renewal, the City of Burton
shall consider any input from the Building Official, Code Enforcement Officer,
Fire Department and/or Police Department.
   (E)   Securing locational limitations. Applications are considered on a
first come basis for purpose of required locational limitations as set forth in
§
157.043(C)(9) and (C)(10), §
157.046 (B)(11), (B)(12), (B)(13), (B)(14), (B)(15), (B)(16) and (B)(17).
Consideration is only taken when the complete application is submitted to the
City of Burton and any required fees are paid in full. Consideration may be
taken when there is a pending application to the Zoning Board of Appeals or
Planning Commission, as appropriate. Application for a state operating license
does not secure any position for locational limitations.
   (F)   Special consideration for temporary marijuana event permits.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful on commercial or industrial property, without
first obtaining a permit from the city's Zoning Board of Appeals, for any
person or firm to conduct or to take part in, or for the landowner of any
private land to permit upon his or her land, an establishment that allows
consumption of marijuana products on the premises of a non-residential location
and charges a fee for entry, sells good or services while individuals are
consulting on the premises, or requires membership for entry shall acquire a
temporary marijuana event license.
      (2)   Any cease of operations order issued under the provisions of this
ordinance will include a penalty in an amount as established by resolution of
the City Council.
      (3)   Permit for any of these activities shall be known as a "Temporary
Marijuana Event Permits".
      (4)   All applications for an temporary marijuana event permits under
this ordinance shall conform to the requirements set forth in the city's zoning
ordinance,
Chapter 157 of this code, as amended, for applications to the Zoning Board of
Appeals, including form, signatures, and notice requirements, and to the rules
and regulations of the Board of Appeals relating thereto. Applications must
include the following:
         (a)   The address of the location where the temporary marijuana event
will be held.
         (b)   The name of the temporary marijuana event.
         (c)   A diagram of the physical layout of the temporary marijuana
event. The diagram shall clearly indicate all of the following:
            1.   Where the temporary marijuana event will be taking place on
the location grounds.
            2.   All entrances and exits that will be used by participants
during the event.
            3.   All marijuana consumption areas.
            4.   All marijuana retail areas where marijuana products will be
sold.
            5.   Where marijuana waste will be stored.
         (d)   The dates and hours of operation for which the temporary
marijuana event permit is being sought.
      (5)   Any permits issued by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall only be
issued for a single day or up to 7 consecutive days. No temporary marijuana
event permit will be issued for more than 7 days.
      (6)   The applicant must secure approval from the Zoning Board of Appeals
before a written attestation will be authorized to the State of Michigan. It is
the applicant's sole responsibility to ensure the deadlines for applications
are met.
(Ord. 2019-10-157, passed 9-16-2019)
§ 157.102  TEMPORARY LAND USES.
   (A)   Statement of purpose. It is the intent of this section to permit and
regulate temporary sales and uses in the commercial and industrial areas when
the sale/use is intended to be for a limited period of time and not designed to
be an alternative to occupying a permanent structure. Further to promote the
economic well-being of the community by creating an alternative to the
traditional uses and encourage the use of underused land. Finally, to provide
for exemptions from strict regulations during community events.
   (B)   Permitted uses. The following types of temporary uses are permitted in
conjunction with a commercial or industrial zone or use of the property.
      (1)   Temporary roadside stands.
      (2)   Seasonal sales.
      (3)   Sidewalk sales.
      (4)   Special events.
      (5)   Mobile food vending.
   (C)   Regulations. All temporary land uses are required to meet at a minimum
the following:
      (1)   No temporary use shall be built, erected, or operated on the
highway right-of-way nor so close thereto as to encourage or promote the use of
the highway right-of-way for parking or standing of customers. All temporary
uses shall provide adequate off-street parking areas which shall be readily
accessible from the highway abutting thereto.
      (2)   The premises shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times.
      (3)   Temporary uses must have written permission of the owner of the
property.
      (4)   The principal use of the property must still be able to accommodate
the parking requirements for that use.
      (5)   All temporary uses shall obtain a permit from the city's Department
of Public Works upon submission of an application for such a permit unless
specifically stated exempt in this chapter.
      (6)   Applications for temporary use permits must be submitted on a form
approved by the Department of Public Works not less than 15 days prior to the
intended set up date. Must include a drawing of all items to be located on the
property for the purpose of the use.
      (7)   A permit fee in the amount as set by the City Council, and amended
by resolution from time to time shall be paid at the time of the submission of
the application, and a clean-up fee in the amount as set by the City Council,
and amended by resolution from time to time shall be paid at the time of
approval of the permit. The clean-up fee shall be refundable in whole or in
part in the event the permittee returns the premises to its original condition
at the conclusion of the activities. The fees established in this subsection
may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City Council. Any
violation notice enforcement will be deducted from the cleanup bond before the
refund is released, but shall not preclude any other recovery by the city for
violation or damages arising therefrom.
      (8)   Any person, firm or organization may appeal either the necessity of
posting a bond, or the amount of the bond required by the city's Department of
Public works directly to the Burton City Council, which shall have the
authority to reduce or eliminate the bond upon good cause shown.
   (D)   Operational regulations. Temporary use permit shall comply, unless
specified as follows:
      (1)   Temporary roadside stands as follows:
         (a)   Tents, stand, truck, or other are permitted in connection with
any permitted, accessory, temporary or special use with the following
requirements:
            1.   No permit will be issued for more than 10 consecutive days for
the temporary use from the date of sale as specified on the permit, unless as
approved by the Planning Commission as part of a special land use permit.
            2.   No enclosure shall be allowed to remain for a period of more
than 15 consecutive days from the date of sale as specified on the permit,
unless as approved by the Planning Commission as part of a special land use
permit.
         (b)   All enclosures shall comply with the bulk, space and setback
requirements applicable to accessory uses pursuant to the Zoning Ordinance.
         (c)   Items to be presented must be new and prepackaged at a separate
location.
      (2)   Seasonal sales as follows:
         (a)   Such sales shall be limited to a period not to exceed 30
consecutive days, including set up and take down of any enclosures and
materials.
         (b)   Plant displays need not comply with the setback requirements of
the Zoning Ordinance.
         (c)   All refuse or debris resulting from such sales shall be wholly
contained on the premises and removed from the premises after the end of the
sale.
      (3)   Sidewalk sales as follows:
         (a)   Tents, trailers and other temporary structures are not permitted
and no sales or display of merchandise is permitted in the parking lot.
         (b)   Sidewalk sale merchandise may only be located on the sidewalk
directly in front of the store having the sale.
         (c)   Display of items for sale shall not impede foot traffic. A path
of 4-feet wide shall be reserved for pedestrians.
         (d)   Sales may not exceed 2 consecutive weeks in duration. Two
sidewalk sales are permitted per calendar year for the commercial property.
         (e)   Flammable or hazardous items are prohibited.
      (4)   Special events, as follows: All approved special events as defined
in §
157.006 shall be exempt from additional permitting as long as the temporary use
is in conjunction with the event and approved by the designated event sponsor,
including but not limited to, location, dates and times.
      (5)   Mobile food vending, as follows:
         (a)   The provisions of this ordinance apply to mobile food vehicles
engaged in the business of cooking, preparing and distributing food or beverage
with or without charge upon or in public and private restricted spaces. This
ordinance does not apply to vehicles which dispense food and that move from
place to place and are stationary in the same location for no more than 15 
minutes at a time, such as ice cream trucks, or food vending pushcarts and
stands located on sidewalks.
         (b)   Permit application shall include the following:
            1.   Name, signature, phone number, email contact and business
address of the applicant.
            2.   A description of the preparation methods and food product
offered for sale including the intended menu.
            3.   Information on the mobile food vehicle to include year, make
and model of the vehicle and dimensions, which shall not exceed 30 feet in
length and 10 feet in width.
            4.   Information setting forth the proposed hours of operation,
area of operations, plans for power access, water supply and wastewater
disposal.
            5.   Copies of all necessary license or permits issued by the
Genesee County Health Department, including a copy of the "letter of intent"
provided to Genesee County.
         (c)   All mobile food vehicle vendors shall offer a waste container
for public use which the vendor shall empty at its own expense. All trash and
garbage originating from the preparation of mobile food vehicles shall be
collected and disposed of off-site by the operators each day. Spills of food or
food by-products shall be cleaned up, and no dumping of gray water on the
street is allowed.
         (d)   Mobile food vendors shall comply with the city's noise
ordinance, sign ordinance and all other city ordinances.
         (e)   A vendor shall not operate a mobile food vehicle within 500 feet
of any fair, festival, special event or civic event that is licensed or
sanctioned by the city unless the vendor has obtained permission from the event
sponsor.
         (f)   No permit will be issued for more than 10 consecutive days for
the mobile food vending from the date of sale as specified on the permit,
unless as approved by the Planning Commission as part of a special land use
permit.
(Ord. 2020-1-157, passed 5-1-2020)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.110  GENERAL PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   Off-street parking in conjunction with all land and building uses shall be
provided as herein prescribed.
   (A)   For the purpose of this ordinance, 300 square feet of lot area shall
be deemed a parking space for 1 vehicle, including access aisle, except that
the standard shall be 325 square feet where parking is perpendicular to the
access aisle, and except that 180 square feet of lot area which has a direct
means of ingress and egress from an alley or street may also be deemed a
parking space.
   (B)   When units or measurements determining the number of required parking
spaces result in requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up to and
including 1/2 shall be disregarded and fractions over 1/2 shall require 1
parking space.
   (C)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces shall be determined in
accordance with the following table in §
157.111.  For uses not specifically mentioned therein, off-street parking
requirements shall be interpreted by the Board of Zoning Appeals from
requirements for similar uses.
   (D)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall never be
changed to any other use unless and until equally required facilities are
provided elsewhere.  Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this
ordinance in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall
not be reduced to an amount less than would hereinafter be required for that
building or use.
   (E)   The off-street parking may be provided either by individual action or
by a parking program carried out through public action, whether by a special
assessment district or otherwise.
   (F)   Required off-street parking shall be for the use of occupants,
employees, visitors, and patrons and shall be limited in use to motor
vehicles.  The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, or the repair
of vehicles is prohibited.  All off-street parking, whether public or private,
for nonresidential uses shall be either on the same lot or within 300 feet of
the building it is intended to serve, measured from the nearest point of the
building to the nearest point of the off-street parking lot.
   (G)   Residential off-street parking space shall consist of a parking strip,
garage, or a combination thereof and shall be located on the premises it is
intended to serve and not closer than 3 feet from any street lot line.
   (H)   Nothing in this ordinance shall be construed to prevent collective
provision of off-street parking facilities for 2 or more buildings or uses,
provided those facilities collectively shall not be less than the sum of the
requirements for the various individual uses computed separately in accordance
with the table.
   (I)   In stadiums, sports arenas, churches, and other places of assembly in
which patrons or spectators occupy benches, pews, or other similar seating
facilities, each 24 inches of the seating facilities shall be counted as 1 seat
for the purpose of determining requirements for off-street parking facilities
under this ordinance.
§ 157.111  REQUIRED OFF-STREET PARKING SPACES; MINIMUM.
   The amount of required off-street parking space for new uses or buildings,
additions thereto, and additions to existing buildings as specified above shall
be determined in accordance with the following table, and the space so required
shall be stated in the application for a building permit and shall be
irrevocably reserved for this use, or shall comply with the initial part of
this section.
Use Category Specific Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces
Use        Specific Use   Number of Minimum Parking Spaces
Category
Business   Automobile
and        serv. stations 2 for each lubrication stall, rack, or pit, and 1 for each employee
commercial
Business
and        Auto wash      1 for each 1 empl.
commercial
Business   Beauty parlor  3 spaces for each of the first 2 beauty or barber chairs, and 1 space
and        or barber shop for each additional chair
commercial
Business
and        Bowling alleys 7 for each 1 bowling lane
commercial
Business   Convenience    1 for each 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area, 1 space per employee; the
and        store with     area on each side of a gas pump constitutes a parking space “2 spaces/
commercial gasoline       pump”
           Dance halls,
           pool or
           billiard
           parlors,
Business   roller or ice
and        skating rinks, 1 for each 3 seats, or 1 for each 100 sq. ft. of gross floor area
commercial exhibition
           halls and
           assembly halls
           without fixed
           seats
Business   Drive-in       1 for each 40 feet of gross floor area, with a minimum of 25 parking
and        establishments spaces
commercial
           Establishments
           for sale and
Business   consumption on
and        the premises   1 for each 100 sq. ft. of gross floor area
commercial of beverages,
           food, or
           refreshments
           Furniture and
           appliances,
           household
           equipment,
           repair shops,
Business   showroom of a  1 for each 1,000 sq. ft. of floor area, exclusive of the floor occupied
and        plumber,       in processing or manufacturing, for which requirements see industrial
commercial decorator,     establishments below
           electrician,
           or similar
           trade, shoe
           repair, and
           other similar
           uses
 
Use Category Specific Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces
Use        Specific Use    Number of Minimum Parking Spaces
Category
Business   Laundromats and
and        coin operated   1 for each 2 washing machines
commercial dry cleaners
Business   Miniature golf
and        courses         3 for each 1 hole, plus 1 for each 1 employee
commercial
Business   Mortuary
and        establishments  1 for each 100 sq. ft. of gross floor area
commercial
           Motel, hotel,
Business   or other        1 for each 1 occupancy unit, plus 1 for each 1 employee, plus extra spaces
and        commercial      for dining rooms, ballrooms, or meeting rooms
commercial lodging
           establishments
           Motor vehicle
           sales and
Business   service
and        establishments, 1 for each 400 sq. ft. of gross floor area of sales room
commercial trailer sales
           and rental,
           boat showrooms
Business   Open air
and        businesses      1 for each 600 sq. ft. of lot area
commercial
Business   Restaurant,
and        carry-out       1 for each 150 sq. ft. of gross floor area
commercial
           Retail stores,
Business   except as
and        otherwise       1 for each 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
commercial specified
           herein
Business   Shopping center
and        of clustered    5 for each 1,000 sq. ft. of gross floor area
commercial commercial
Business   Toning and
and        tanning salons  1.5 for each workout machine and tanning booth, plus 1 for every employee
commercial
Business
and        Video stores    1 for each 200 sq. ft. of gross floor area
commercial
           Industrial or   5, plus 1 for every 1.5 employees in the largest working shift.  Space on-
Industrial research        site shall also be provided for all construction workers during periods of
           establishments  plant construction
 
Use Category Specific Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces
                                                                                         Number of
Use Category Specific Use                                                                Minimum
                                                                                         Parking Spaces
                                                                                         5, plus 1 for
                                                                                         every 1
                                                                                         employee in
                                                                                         the largest
                                                                                         working shift,
Industrial   Wholesale establishments                                                    or 1 for every
                                                                                         2,000 sq. ft.
                                                                                         of gross floor
                                                                                         area,
                                                                                         whichever is
                                                                                         greater
                                                                                         1 for each 3
                                                                                         seats, based
                                                                                         on maximum
Institutions Churches, temples, or synagogues                                            seating
                                                                                         capacity in
                                                                                         the main unit
                                                                                         of worship
                                                                                         1 for each 1
                                                                                         teacher,
                                                                                         administrator,
                                                                                         and 1 for each
Institutions Elementary and junior high schools                                          10 students,
                                                                                         in addition to
                                                                                         the
                                                                                         requirements
                                                                                         of the
                                                                                         auditorium
                                                                                         1.5 parking
                                                                                         spaces to
                                                                                         every 2
Institutions Fraternities                                                                persons based
                                                                                         upon the
                                                                                         capacity of
                                                                                         the houses
                                                                                         6 for each 1
Institutions Golf courses open to the general public, except miniature or par 3 courses  golf hole, and
                                                                                         1 for each 1
                                                                                         employee
                                                                                         2 for each
Institutions Hospitals                                                                   bed, plus 1
                                                                                         for every 3
                                                                                         staff
                                                                                         1 for each 3
                                                                                         persons
                                                                                         allowed within
                                                                                         the maximum
                                                                                         occupancy load
Institutions Private clubs or lodge halls                                                as established
                                                                                         by local
                                                                                         county or
                                                                                         state fire,
                                                                                         building, or
                                                                                         health codes
                                                                                         1 for each 2
Institutions Private golf clubs, swimming pool clubs, tennis clubs, or other similar     member
             uses                                                                        families or
                                                                                         individuals
             Sanitariums, convents, homes for the aged, convalescent homes, children’s 1 per 600 sq.
Institutions homes                                                                       ft. of gross
                                                                                         floor area
                                                                                         1 for each 1
                                                                                         teacher,
                                                                                         administrator,
                                                                                         and 1 for each
Institutions Senior high schools                                                         10 students,
                                                                                         in addition to
                                                                                         the
                                                                                         requirements
                                                                                         of the
                                                                                         auditorium
                                                                                         1 parking
                                                                                         space for
                                                                                         every 2
Institutions Sororities                                                                  persons based
                                                                                         upon the
                                                                                         capacity of
                                                                                         the houses
                                                                                         1 for each 3
Institutions Stadium, sports arena, or similar place of outdoor assembly                 seats or 6
                                                                                         feet of
                                                                                         benches
 
Use Category Specific Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces
Use Category Specific Use                     Number of Minimum Parking Spaces
Institutions Theaters and auditoriums         1 for each 3 seats, plus 1 for
             (indoor)                         each 2 employees
Offices      Banks, savings and loan offices  1 for each 200 sq. ft. of gross
                                              floor area
             Business offices or professional
Offices      offices except as indicated in   1 for every 200 sq. ft. of gross
             the following item for medical   floor area
             or dental uses
             Medical or dental clinics,       10 for the first doctor, plus 1
Offices      professional offices of doctors, for each 300 sq. ft. of gross
             dentists, or similar             floor area
             professionals
Residential  Boarding and rooming house       1 for each sleeping room
Residential  Housing for the elderly          1 for every 2 living units, and 1
                                              for each employee
Residential  Residential, single-family and   2 for each dwelling unit
             2-family
Residential  Residential, multiple-family     2 for each dwelling unit
             Trailer park and mobile home     2 for each trailer or mobile home
Residential  courts                           site, and 1 for each employee of
                                              the trailer or mobile home court
 
§ 157.112  OFF-STREET PARKING LOT; LAYOUT, CONSTRUCTION, AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Wherever a parking lot is built as required off-street parking, the
parking lot shall be laid out, constructed, and maintained in accordance with
the following requirements.
   (B)   The building of a parking lot is subject to the same requirements as
for a building permit.  The Zoning Administrator, in reviewing the application,
may request the findings of the City Engineer on the basis of the requirements
set forth in section (C)(1) through (C)(10) below.
   (C)   (1)   Each parking space shall constitute a net land area of at least
180 square feet.  The total parking lot space, including access lanes, shall
constitute at least 300 square feet of land area per parking space.
      (2)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of clearly
limited and defined drives shall be provided for vehicles (P-1 parking district
only).
      (3)   Where the parking lot abuts a residential district, the required
setback of parking spaces shall be as follows.
 
Abutment                                 Required Setback of Parking Spaces
Across the street and opposite with      10 feet from the street lot line
residential lots fronting on that street
Contiguous common frontage in same block 10 feet from the street lot line
Rear lot line                            None
Side lot lines                           2 feet from that side lot line
 
      (4)   The land between the setback line and the lot line in a parking lot
is, for the purposes of this ordinance, called a “buffer strip.”  There shall
be bumper stops or wheel chocks provided so as to prevent any vehicle from
projecting over the buffer strip.  The ground of the buffer strip shall only be
used for the purpose of plant materials.  All parking areas, except for single-
and 2-family dwellings, shall be screened on all sides abutting a residential
district or a street.  This screening shall consist of an ornamental fence or
planting hedge not less than 3 feet or more than 4 feet in height, of a type
which will obscure vision at all seasons from adjoining property.  In the event
that a hedge is used, the minimum height shall be achieved within 3 years of
initial planting.
      (5)   Where buffer strips are not required, bumper stops or wheel chocks
shall be provided, so located as to prevent any vehicle from projecting over
the lot line.
      (6)   The parking lot shall be drained to eliminate surface water.
      (7)   The surface of the parking lot, including drives and aisles, except
the buffer strips, shall be constructed of a concrete or bituminous concrete
surfacing.  Lighting shall be arranged to reflect away from residential
buildings, residential districts, and streets.
      (8)   Parking structures shall be built to satisfy off-street parking
requirements, when located in commercial or industrial districts, subject to
the area, height, bulk, and placement regulations of the districts in which
located. (See
Appendix A).
      (9)   Every parcel of land hereafter used as an automobile or trailer
sales area or as an automobile service station shall be subject to the above
requirements of this section.
      (10)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accordance with the following minimum requirements.
 
                                                    Total Width  Total Width of
Parking     Maneuvering Parking Space Parking Space of 1 Tier of 2 Tiers of
Pattern     Lane Width  Width         Length        Spaces Plus  Spaces Plus
                                                    Maneuvering  Maneuvering
                                                    Lane         Lane
0 (parallel 12 feet     8 feet        23 feet       20 feet      28 feet
parking)
30 to 53    13 feet     9 feet        20 feet       32 feet      52 feet
54 to 74    18 feet     9 feet        21 feet       39 feet      60 feet
75 to 90    25 feet     9 feet        19 feet       44 feet      63 feet
 
      (11)   All shopping center developments shall have direct access to a
primary road as determined by the City Planning Commission.  No regular public
access shall be made through a residential local street.
§ 157.113  DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES; OFF-STREET WAITING SPACE.
   (A)   An off-street waiting space is defined as an area 10 feet wide by 24
feet long, shall not include the use of any public space, street, alley, or
sidewalk, and shall be located entirely within the commercial zoning district.
   (B)   On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof,
erected and occupied for the purpose of serving customers in their automobiles
by means of a service window or similar arrangement where the automobile engine
is not turned off, there shall be provided 5 off-street waiting spaces for each
service window.
   (C)   Self-serve motor vehicle wash establishments shall provide 4 off-
street waiting spaces for each washing stall.  Motor vehicle wash
establishments, other than self-service, shall provide 10 waiting spaces for
each washing stall.  A drying lane 50 feet long shall also be provided at the
exit of each washing stall in order to prevent undue amounts of water from
collecting on the public street.
§ 157.114  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   Adequate space required.  On the same premises with every building,
structure, or part thereof, erected and occupied for manufacturing, storage,
warehousing, retailing, display, including a department store, a wholesale
store, a market, hotel, motel, hospital, mortuary, laundry, dry cleaning, or
other uses, similarly involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or
materials or merchandise, there shall be provided and maintained on the lot
adequate space for standing, loading, and unloading services adjacent to the
opening used for loading and unloading, designed to avoid interference with
public use of the street or alleys.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial districts except C-4.
      (1)   The loading and unloading space shall be an area in minimum 10 feet
by 40 feet with a 14-foot height clearance, and shall be provided according to
the following table.
 
Gross Floor Area          Loading and Unloading Spaces Required
0 - 2,000 sq. ft.         None
2,000 - 20,000 sq. ft.    1 space
20,000 - 100,000 sq. ft.  1 space, plus 1 space for each 20,000 sq. ft. in
                          excess of 20,000 sq. ft.
100,000 - 500,000 sq. ft. 5 spaces, plus 1 space for each 40,000 sq. ft. in
                          excess of 100,000 sq. ft.
Over 500,000 sq. ft.      15 spaces, plus 1 space for each 80,000 sq. ft. in
                          excess of 500,000 sq. ft.
 
      (2)   No loading space shall be located closer than 50 feet from any
residentially zoned district unless located within a completely enclosed
building or enclosed on all sides facing a residential zoning district by a
solid masonry wall or ornamental fence of a type approved by the Board of
Zoning Appeals not less than 6 feet in height.
   (C)   C-4, planned shopping center district.
      (1)   One off-street loading space for standing, loading, and unloading
shall be provided for each 25,000 square feet of aggregate gross floor space
for all buildings in this district.  Such a space is defined as an area of
appropriate dimensions, at least 50 feet in depth, 12 feet in width, with an
overhead clearance of not less than 14 feet, exclusive of access, platform, or
maneuvering area, to be used exclusively for the loading and unloading of
merchandise.
      (2)   All truck loading and unloading facilities shall be designed with
appropriate means of truck access to a street or alley as well as maneuvering
areas and shall not block pedestrian or drive line of vision or visible from
the front entrance to the shopping center.  In addition, parking, loading, or
service areas used by motor vehicles shall be located entirely within the lot
lines of the shopping center and shall be physically separated from public
streets.
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 157.125  EXISTING NONCONFORMING USES AND BUILDINGS; REGULATIONS.
   Any lawful use of the land or buildings existing at the date of passage of
this ordinance and located in a district in which it would not be permitted as
a new use under the regulations of this ordinance, is hereby declared to be a
nonconforming use and not in violation of this ordinance; provided, however,
that a nonconforming use shall be subject to, and the owner comply with, the
regulations in this ordinance.
§ 157.126  NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND; LIMITATIONS.
   Where at the time of passage of this ordinance lawful use of land exists
which would not be permitted by the regulations imposed by this ordinance, and
where that use involves no individual structure with an assessed value
exceeding an amount as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from
time to time, the use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful,
provided:
   (A)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance;
   (B)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
portion of the lot or parcel other than that occupied by the use at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this ordinance;
   (C)   If any such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 1 year, the land shall conform to the regulations specified
by this ordinance for the district in which the land is located; and
   (D)   No additional structure not conforming to the requirements of this
ordinance shall be erected in connection with the nonconforming use of land.
§ 157.127  NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES; LIMITATIONS.
   If lawful use involving individual structures with an assessed value in an
amount as set by the City Council, and amended by resolution from time to time,
or of structure and premises in combination, exists at the effective date of
adoption of this ordinance that would not be allowed in the district under the
terms of this ordinance, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this ordinance
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located;
   (B)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for that use at the time of
adoption or amendment of this ordinance, but no such use shall be extended to
occupy any land outside that building;
   (C)   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a
structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another nonconforming
use provided that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more appropriate
to the district than the existing nonconforming use.  Whenever a nonconforming
use has been changed to a conforming use, or to a use permitted in a district
of greater restrictions, it shall not thereafter be changed to a nonconforming
use; and
   (D)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the entire structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of land.
§ 157.128  NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES; LIMITATIONS.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption of this
ordinance that could not be built under the terms of this ordinance by reason
of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, its location on the lot,
or other requirements concerning the structure, that structure may be continued
as long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No such nonconforming structure may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity, except that the extension of any established
nonconforming setback building line (such as foundation wall, parking lot
edge), does not violate the intent of this provision even though the extension
may result in the addition of structure or parking lot square footage; and
   (B)   Any nonconforming structure or portion thereof may be altered to
decrease its nonconformity.
   (C)   If any such nonconforming structure ceases being used for any reason
for a period of more than 6 months, any subsequent use of the structure shall
conform to the regulations specified by this ordinance for the district in
which the structure is located.
§ 157.129  NONCONFORMING LOTS OF RECORD.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this ordinance, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory building may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
ordinance.  This provision shall apply even though the lots fail to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; provided that yard dimensions and other requirements, not involving
area or width or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which the lot is located.
   (B)   If 2 or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this ordinance, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements for lot width and area as established by this ordinance, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
ordinance, and no portion of that parcel shall be used or occupied which does
not meet lot width and area requirements established by this ordinance, nor
shall any division of the parcel be made which leaves remaining any lot width
or area below the requirements stated in this ordinance.
   (C)   Administrative clarification of 1-29-1987:  The extension of any
established nonconforming setback building line (foundation wall/parking lot
edge), does not violate the intent of this provision, which results in the
addition of structure or parking lot square footage.
§ 157.130  REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE; LIMITATIONS.
   On any nonconforming structure or portion of a structure containing a
nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on
ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement or non-bearing walls, fixtures,
wiring, or plumbing, to an extent not exceeding 25% of the current city
assessed value of the nonconforming structure or nonconforming portion of the
structure as the case may be, provided that the cubic content existing when it
became nonconforming shall not be increased.  If a nonconforming structure or
portion of a structure containing a nonconforming use becomes physically unsafe
or unlawful due to a lack of repairs and maintenance, and is declared by the
Building Official to be unsafe or unlawful by reason of physical condition, it
shall not thereafter be restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in conformity
with the regulations of the district in which it is located.
§ 157.131  RECONSTRUCTION OF DAMAGED NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Nothing in this ordinance shall prevent the reconstruction, repair, or
restoration and the continued use of any nonconforming building or structure
damaged by fire, collapse, explosion, acts of God, or acts of public enemy,
subsequent to the effective date of this ordinance, provided that the
restoration and resumption shall take place within 6 months of the time of the
damage and that it be completed within 1 year from time of the damage, and
provided further that the use be identical with nonconforming use permitted and
in effect directly preceding the damage.  Where pending insurance claims
require an extension of time, the Zoning Administrator may grant a time
extension, provided that the property owner submit a certification from the
insurance company attesting to the delay.  Until that time when the debris from
the fire damage is fully removed, the premises shall be adequately fenced or
screened from access by children who may be attracted to the premises.  No fee
shall be charged for an appeal under the provisions of this section.
§ 157.132  DISCONTINUED NONCONFORMING USE; FORFEITURE OF PRIVILEGE.
   When nonconforming use of property is discontinued through vacancy, lack of
operation, or other similar condition, and upon a showing of intent of the
owner or holder of the nonconforming use status to discontinue said use, for a
period of 6 months or more, thereafter no right shall exist to maintain on that
property a nonconforming use unless the Board of Zoning Appeals grants that
privilege within 6 months after the discontinuance.  No nonconforming use, if
changed to a use permitted in the district in which it is located, shall be
resumed or changed back to a nonconforming use.
§ 157.133  NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE; CHANGE OF USE.
   The use of a nonconforming building or structure may be changed to another
use permitted in the most restricted district in which that nonconforming use
is permitted.  Where the use of a nonconforming building or structure is
hereafter changed to a use permitted in a more restricted district, it shall
not thereafter be changed to a use which is not permitted in a more restricted
district.  The proposed use shall be subject to all the requirements applying
to that proposed use in the most restricted district in which the nonconforming
use to be changed is permitted.
§ 157.134  EXTENSION, ENLARGEMENT, AND MOVING; PROHIBITIONS.
   No nonconforming use of any land or structure shall hereafter be enlarged or
extended.  No nonconforming building or structure shall be moved in whole or in
part to another location unless that building or structure and the off-street
parking spaces, yard, and other open spaces provided are made to conform to all
the regulations of the district in which the building or structure is to be
located.
§ 157.135  ACQUISITION OF NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES BY CITY FOR REMOVAL;
HEARING.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may from time to time recommend to the City
Council the acquisition of such private property as does not conform in use or
structure to the regulations and restrictions of the various districts defined
in this ordinance, and the removal of that use or structure.  The Planning
Commission shall submit its reasons and estimates of cost and expenses of the
acquisition and removal of the nonconformity and probable resale price of the
property to be acquired after removal of the nonconformity as obtained from the
appropriate city department, board, or commission.  The Planning Commission
shall recommend that portion of the difference between the estimated cost of
acquisition and removal of the nonconformity and the probable resale price
which in its opinion should be assessed against a benefitted district.
   (B)   Whenever the City Council has under advertisement the acquisition by
purchase, condemnation, or otherwise as provided by law of any nonconforming
building, structure, or use, a preliminary public hearing thereon shall be held
before the City Council.  Not less than 15 days before the hearing, a notice of
time, place, and purpose of the public hearing shall be published in a paper
circulating in the city and the City Clerk shall send by mail addressed to the
respective owners of any such properties at the addresses given in the last
assessment roll, a written notice of time, place, and purpose of the hearing. 
If the cost and expense or any portion thereof is to be assessed to a special
district, the City Assessor shall be directed to furnish the City Council with
a tentative special assessment district and the tentative plan of assessment,
the names of the respective owners of the property in that district, and
addresses of those owners in the last assessment roll.  The City Clerk shall
also send the notice to the respective owners in the tentative assessment
district.
   (C)   Whenever the City Council, after a public hearing as required in the
preceding section, shall declare by resolution that proceedings be instituted
for the acquisition of any property on which is located a nonconforming
building, structure, or use in accordance with the laws of the state, the City
Charter, this ordinance, and other applicable ordinances of the city, the City
Clerk shall send by registered mail a certified copy of the resolution to the
respective owners of the properties and to the owners of the properties in any
special assessment district, at the address given in the last assessment roll.
   (D)   Upon the passing of title to the private property so acquired as
provided in the preceding section to the city, the City Council shall cause the
discontinuance or removal of the nonconforming use or the removal, demolition,
or remodeling of the nonconforming structure.  The City Council shall
thereafter order the property sold or otherwise disposed of, but only for a
conforming use.  The City Council shall confirm the cost and expense of the
project and report any assessable cost to the City Assessor, who shall then
prepare an assessment roll in the manner provided for in the City Charter, this
code, and other applicable ordinance of the city.  Such an assessment roll may,
in the discretion of the City Council, be in 1 or more but not to exceed 10
annual installments.
§ 157.136   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY; RECORD OF NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   At any time after the adoption of this ordinance, should the city
become aware of a nonconforming use, the owner of the nonconforming use shall
be notified by the City Clerk of the provisions of this section, and that his
or her property constitutes a nonconforming use.  Within 30 days after receipt
of the notice, the owner shall apply for and be issued a certificate of
occupancy for the nonconforming use.  The application for this certificate
shall designate the location, nature, and extent of the nonconforming use, and
other details as may be necessary for the issuance of the certificate of
occupancy.  If the owner of a nonconforming use fails to apply for a
certificate of occupancy within 30 days after receipt of the foregoing notice,
the use ceases to be nonconforming and is hereby declared to be in violation of
this ordinance.  The City Clerk and the City Attorney shall take appropriate
action to enjoin the violation.
   (B)   If the Zoning Administrator shall find, upon reviewing the application
for a certificate of occupancy, that the existing use is illegal or in
violation of any other ordinance or law, or if he or she finds that the
building for which the certificate is requested has been constructed or altered
for the existing use or any other use without full compliance with the Building
Code or the zoning ordinance in effect at the time of construction or
alteration, he or she shall not issue the certificate of occupancy but shall
declare the use to be in violation of this ordinance.
   (C)   After the adoption of this ordinance, or any amendments thereto, the
Zoning Administrator shall prepare a record of all known nonconforming uses and
occupations of lands, buildings, and structures, including tents and trailer
coaches, existing at the time of the ordinance or amendment.  This record shall
contain the names and addresses of the owners of record of the nonconforming
use and of any occupant, other than the owner, the legal description of the
land, and the nature and extent of use.  The list shall be available at all
times in the office of the City Clerk.
§ 157.137   NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this section to recognize that the eventual
elimination, as expeditiously as it is reasonable, of existing signs that are
not in conformity with the provisions of this ordinance, is as much a subject
of health, safety, and welfare as is the prohibition of new signs that would
violate the provisions of this ordinance.  It is also the intent of this
section that any elimination of nonconforming signs shall be effected so as to
avoid any unreasonable invasion of established private property rights.
   (B)   Any sign, billboard, commercial advertising structure, or similar
object which lawfully existed and was maintained at the time this ordinance
became effective may be continued although the use does not conform with the
provisions of this ordinance, provided that it shall not be:
      (1)   Changed to another nonconforming sign;
      (2)   Structurally altered as to prolong the life of the sign;
      (3)   Expanded;
      (4)   Reestablished after its discontinuance for 90 days; or
      (5)   Reestablished after damage or destruction if the estimated expanse
of reconstruction exceeds 50% of the appraised replacement cost.
§ 157.138   PLANS ALREADY FILED.
   In any case where plans and specifications for a building or structure have
been filed, which would conform with the zoning regulations effective at the
date of the filing but not with the regulations of this ordinance, and where a
building permit for the building or structure has been issued and construction
work started at the effective date of this ordinance, the work may proceed,
provided it is completed within 1 year of that date.
BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS
§ 157.150  CREATION.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board of Zoning Appeals, which shall
perform its duties and exercise its powers as provided in Public Act 207 of
1921, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 - 125.590, in such a way that the
objectives of this ordinance shall be observed, public safety secured, and
substantial justice done.  The Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of not
less than 5 members appointed by the City Council.  Appointments for the first
year respectively, so as nearly as may be possible to provide.
   (B)   Thereafter each member shall be appointed and hold office for the full
3-year term.  The first member shall be the chairperson of the Planning
Commission, the second member shall be a member of the City Council appointed
by the City Council, and the remaining members shall be appointed by the City
Council.
   (C)   The City Council may appoint not more than 2 alternate members to the
Board of Zoning Appeals for 3-year terms.  The alternate members so appointed
shall be called on a rotating basis to sit as regular members of the Board in
the absence of a regular member.  An alternate member may also be called to
serve in the place of a regular member for the purpose of reaching a decision
on a case in which the regular member has abstained for reason of conflict of
interest.  The alternate member shall serve in any case before the Board
through its conclusion and until a final decision or resolution has been made
on that case.  The alternate member shall have the same voting rights as a
regular member of the Board of Zoning Appeals.
§ 157.151  MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be held at the call of the
chairperson, and at those times as the Board of Zoning Appeals may determine. 
All meetings of the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be open to the public.  The
Board of Zoning Appeals shall keep minutes of its proceedings, showing the vote
of each member on each question, or if absent or failing to vote, indicating
that fact, and shall keep records of its findings, proceedings at hearings, and
other official actions, all of which shall be immediately filed in the office
of the City Clerk and shall be a public record.
§ 157.152  APPEALS; SPECIAL APPROVALS.
   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Zoning Appeals by any person, firm,
or corporation, or by any officer, department, board, or bureau affected by a
decision of the Zoning Administrator.  These appeals shall be taken within that
time as shall be prescribed by the Board of Zoning Appeals by general rule, by
filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the Board of Zoning Appeals a
notice of appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.  The Zoning Administrator
shall forthwith transmit to the Board of Zoning Appeals all of the papers
constituting the record upon which action appealed from was taken.  An appeal
shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed from unless
the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Board of Zoning Appeals after the
notice of appeal shall have been filed with him or her, that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent
peril of life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order which may be granted by a court of
record.  Request for special approval may be taken to the Board of Zoning
Appeals by any person, firm, or corporation having an interest in the subject
matter thereof by filing with the Zoning Administrator and with the Board of
Zoning Appeals a notice thereof.  The Board of Zoning Appeals shall select a
reasonable time and place for the hearing of the appeal or request for special
approval and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a decision
on the appeal without unreasonable delay.  Any person may appear and testify at
the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
§ 157.153  HEARING; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall make no recommendation in any
specific case until after a public hearing, conducted by the Board of Zoning
Appeals, has been held.
   (B)   Notice of the hearing of the appeal shall be given pursuant to Section
103 of Act No. 110, Public Acts of 2006, the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act.
§ 157.154  APPEALS AND VARIANCES; BOARD POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals as herein created, is a body of limited
powers.
   (B)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the following specific powers
and duties concerning appeals and requests for variances:
      (1)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is an error of
law in any order, requirement, decision, or determination made by the Zoning
Administrator in the enforcement of this ordinance, and to hear and decide
appeals where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of this ordinance so that the spirit of
the ordinance shall be observed, public health and safety secured, and
substantial justice done;
      (2)   In hearing and deciding appeals, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
have the authority to grant such variances as may be in harmony with the
general purposes and intent of this ordinance, so that public health, safety,
and welfare are secured, and substantial justice done, and may:
         (a)   Interpret the provisions of the ordinance in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the Zoning Map
fixing the use districts, accompanying this ordinance, where the street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the Map;
         (b)   Permit the erection and use of a building or use of land for
public utility purposes in any zoning district and waive height restrictions
when the Board considers it necessary for the general public welfare;
         (c)   Permit the modification of the off-street automobile parking
space or loading space requirements where, in the particular instance, the
modifications will not be inconsistent with the purpose and intent of those
requirements;
         (d)   Permit modification of the height, lot area, yard, setbacks,
floor area, and lot width regulations as may be necessary to secure an
appropriate improvement of a lot which is of such a shape or size, or so
located with relation to surrounding development or physical characteristics,
that it cannot otherwise be appropriately improved without that modification,
provided that modification of lot area regulations shall be permitted only in
instances where the nature of the soil and drainage is such that there is
sufficient area for safe water supply and sanitary disposal of waste (unless
central water distribution or sanitary sewerage are provided).  Whenever the
Board of Zoning Appeals determines that the same are necessary in order to
render a decision, it may require the appellant to submit a topographical
survey or the results of percolation tests certified by the City Engineer or
other registered engineer or land surveyor; or
         (e)   Permit temporary buildings and uses for periods not exceeding 1
year.
      (3)   (a)   In consideration of all appeals and all proposed variances
under this ordinance, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall, before granting any
appeals or variance in a specific case, first determine that the proposed
variance:
            1.   Involves unnecessary hardship for a use variance and practical
difficulty for a non-use variance which precludes the reasonable use of the
property, and involves exceptional and unique circumstances inherent in the
property itself or in the immediately surrounding area not found in other areas
of the same zoning district;
            2.   Will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to
adjacent property or increase the congestion in public streets;
            3.   Will not increase the hazard of fire or flood, or endanger the
public safety;
            4.   Will not unreasonably diminish or impair established property
values within the surrounding area;
            5.   Will not in any other respect impair the public health,
safety, comfort, morals, or welfare of the inhabitants of the city; and
            6.   Will not alter the essential character of the neighborhood.
         (b)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirement, decision,
or determination of the Zoning Administrator, or to decide in favor of the
applicant any matter upon which it is authorized by this ordinance to render a
decision.  Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board of Zoning Appeals the power or authority to alter or change this
ordinance or the Zoning Map, that power and authority being reserved to the
City Council in the manner provided by law.
      (4)   In exercising the above powers, the Board of Zoning Appeals may
reverse, or affirm wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement,
decision, or determination appealed from, and may make such order, requirement,
decision, or determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all
the powers of the Zoning Administrator from whom the appeal is taken.
§ 157.155  INFORMATION REQUIREMENTS; CONDITIONS ON APPROVAL.
   The Board of Zoning Appeals may require the appellant or applicant
requesting a variance or special approval to submit all necessary surveys,
plans, or other information the Board may reasonably require.  The Board of
Zoning Appeals may impose conditions or limitations in granting a variance or
special approval as it may deem necessary to comply with the spirit and
purposes of this ordinance.
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 157.170  ENFORCEMENT; STOP WORK ORDER.
   The provisions of this ordinance shall be administered and enforced by the
Zoning Administrator or any other employees, inspectors, and officials as the
Zoning Administrator may delegate to enforce the provisions of the ordinance. 
Upon notice that work is being done contrary to the provisions of or without a
permit required by this ordinance, the work shall be immediately stopped.  The
stop work order shall be in writing and shall be posted on the site or be given
to the owner of the property involved, the owner’s agent, or the person doing
the work.  The work may resume only after approval from the Building Department
of the city.  Any person who shall continue to work after a stop work order is
issued shall be in violation of this ordinance.
§ 157.171  DUTIES OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to grant building, site,
and occupancy permits and to make inspections of buildings, sites, or lots
necessary to carry out his or her duties in the enforcement of this ordinance. 
It shall be unlawful for the Zoning Administrator to approve any plans or issue
a building, site, or occupancy permit for any excavation or construction until
he or she has inspected those plans in detail and found them in conformity with
this ordinance.  To this end, the Zoning Administrator shall require that every
application for a permit for excavation, construction, moving, or alteration or
change in type of use or the type of occupancy, be accompanied by written
statement and plans or plats drawn to scale, in triplicate (site plan review -
12 copies), and showing the following in sufficient detail to enable the Zoning
Administrator to ascertain whether the proposed work or use is in conformance
with this ordinance:
      (1)   The actual shape, location, and dimensions of the lot;
      (2)   The shape, size, and location of all buildings or other structures
to be erected, altered, or moved and of any buildings or other structures
already on the lot;
      (3)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all such structures
upon it, including, in residential areas, the number of dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate; and
      (4)   Other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be
essential for determining whether the provisions of this ordinance are being
observed as required in previous sections (i.e., site plan review, lot splits,
and the like).
   (B)   If the proposed excavation, construction, moving, alteration, or use
of the land as set forth in the application are in conformity with the
provisions of this ordinance, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a building
or site permit.  If any application for these permits is not approved, the
Zoning Administrator shall state, in writing, on the application, the cause for
disapproval.  Issuance of a permit shall in no case be construed as waiving any
provisions of this ordinance.
   (C)   Whenever an application for a building or site permit indicates the
necessity for constructing an on-site sewage disposal system or water well
system on the premises, the Zoning Administrator shall not issue the permit
unless the County Health Department shall have approved the site for the
construction of those facilities.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator is under no circumstances permitted to grant
exceptions to the meaning of any clause, order, or regulation contained in this
ordinance to any person making application to excavate, construct, move, alter,
or use buildings, structures, or land within the city.  The Zoning
Administrator shall record all nonconforming uses existing at the effective
date of this ordinance.
§ 157.172  PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following shall apply in the issuance of any permit.
   (A)   Permits required.  It shall be unlawful for any person to commence
excavation for, construction of any building or structure, structural changes
or repairs in any existing building or structure, or moving of an existing
building, without first obtaining a building or site permit from the Zoning
Administrator or Building Official.  No permit shall be issued for
construction, alteration, or remodeling of any building or structure until an
application has been submitted in accordance with the provisions of this
ordinance showing that the construction proposed is in compliance with the
provisions of this ordinance, with the Building Code, and with other applicable
ordinances.
      (1)   No plumbing, electrical, drainage, or other permit shall be issued
until the Zoning Administrator or Building Official has determined that the
plans and designated use indicate that the structure and premises, if
constructed as planned and proposed, will conform to the provisions of this
ordinance.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
         ALTERATION or REPAIR.  Of an existing building or structure, shall
include any changes in structural members, stairways, basic construction type,
kind or class of occupancy, light or ventilation, means of egress and ingress,
or any other changes affecting or regulated by the Building Code, the housing
law of the state, or this ordinance, except for minor repairs or changes not
involving any of the aforementioned provisions.
   (B)   Permits for new use of land.  A building permit or site permit shall
also be obtained for the new use of land, whether the land is presently vacant
or a change in land use is proposed.
   (C)   Permits for new use of buildings or structures.  A building permit or
site permit shall also be obtained for any change in use of an existing
building or structure to a different class or type.
§ 157.173  CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to use or permit the use of any land, building,
or structure for which a building permit and site permit is required and to use
or permit to be used any building or structure hereafter altered, extended,
erected, repaired, or moved until the Building Official and/or Zoning
Administrator shall have issued a certificate of occupancy stating that the
provisions of this ordinance have been complied with.
   (B)   The following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   Certificate validity.  The certificate of occupancy, as required
for new construction or of renovations to existing buildings and structures in
the Building Code, shall also constitute a certificate of occupancy.
      (2)   Records of certificates.  A record of all certificates of occupancy
shall be kept in the office of the Building Official and/or Zoning
Administrator and copies of the certificates of occupancy shall be furnished
upon request to a person or persons having a proprietary or tenancy interest in
the property involved.
      (3)   Certificates for accessory buildings to dwellings.  Accessory
buildings or structures to dwellings shall not require a separate certificate
of occupancy, but rather, may be included in the certificate of occupancy for
the principal dwelling, building, or structure on the same lot when the
accessory buildings or structures are completed at the same time as the
principal use.
      (4)   Temporary certificates.  Certificates of temporary occupancy may be
issued for a part of a building or structure prior to the occupation of the
entire building or structure, provided that the certificate of temporary
occupancy shall not remain in force more than 120 days, nor more than 5 days
after the building or structure is fully completed and ready for occupancy, and
provided further that those portions of the building or structure are in
conformity with the provisions of this ordinance.
      (5)   Application for certificates of occupancy.  Any person applying for
a site permit or building permit shall at the same time apply to the Building
Official and/or Zoning Administrator, in writing, for a certificate of
occupancy. It shall be the duty of that person to notify the Building Official
and/or Zoning Administrator upon completion of the building or structure. The
Building Official and/or Zoning Administrator shall, within 5 business days
after actual receipt of that notification, inspect the building or structure,
and if he or she shall determine that the building or structure or part thereof
or the proposed use of the premises is in conformity with this and other
applicable ordinances and laws, the Building Official and/or Zoning
Administrator shall determine that a violation exists, he or she shall not
issue a certificate of occupancy and shall forthwith notify the applicant of
that refusal and the cause therefor.
§ 157.174  BUILDING PERMIT; FINAL INSPECTION.
   The recipient of any building permit and site permit for the construction,
erection, alteration, repair, or moving of any building, structure, or part
thereof shall notify the Building Official and/or Zoning Administrator or
Public Works Director immediately upon the completion of the work authorized by
that permit for a final inspection.
§ 157.175  FEES.
   Fees for inspections and the issuance of permits or certificates or copies
thereof required or issued under the provisions of this ordinance shall be
collected by the Zoning Administrator or Public Works Director in advance of
the issuance of the permits or certificates.  The amount of the fees shall be
established by the City Council and shall cover the cost of inspection and
supervision resulting from the enforcement of this ordinance.
§ 157.176  AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may, upon recommendation from the Planning Commission, on a
motion or petition from the Commission, amend, supplement, or change the
regulations of the district boundaries of this ordinance as established herein,
subsequently pursuant to the authority and procedure set forth in Public Act
207 of 1921, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 - 125.590.  Any applicant
desiring to have any change made in this ordinance shall, with his or her
petition for that change, deposit a fee as determined by the City Council with
the City Treasurer at the time that the petition is filed to cover the
publication and other miscellaneous costs for the change.
§ 157.177  SPECIAL APPROVALS; PLANNING COMMISSION POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Planning Commission, as herein created, shall have the following
specific powers and duties concerning special approvals.
   (A)   Purpose.  In hearing and deciding upon special approvals, the Planning
Commission shall base its actions on the theory that the development and
execution of a comprehensive zoning ordinance is founded upon the division of
the city into districts within which districts the use of land and buildings
and the bulk and location of buildings and structures in relation to the land
are substantially uniform.  It is recognized, however, that there are
variations in the nature of special uses which, because of their unique
characteristics, cannot be properly classified in any particular district or
districts without consideration in each case of the impact of those uses upon
neighboring land and of the public need for the particular use at the
particular location.  These special uses fall into 2 categories:
      (1)   Uses either municipally operated or operated by publicly regulated
utilities or uses traditionally affected with a public interest; and
      (2)   Uses entirely private in character but of such an unusual nature
that their operation may give rise to unique problems with respect to their
impact upon neighboring property or public facilities.
   (B)   Authorization.  The special approval of specific land uses and
activities, as required under §§
157.035(C),
157.036(C),
157.043(C),
157.044(C),
157.046(C), and
157.047(C), may be authorized by the Planning Commission pursuant to the
requirements of this section.
   (C)   Application.  An application for special approval for a land use shall
be filed and processed in the manner prescribed for application for site plan
review in §
157.092 and shall be in that form and accompanied by that information as shall
be established from time to time by the Planning Commission.  Any application
for special land use approval shall be filed simultaneously with an application
for site plan review for the subject use.
   (D)   Notice of request for special approval.  Notice of a request for
special approval of a land use shall be in the form of 1 notice published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, plus a notice sent by mail or by
personal delivery to the owners of property for which approval is being
considered, to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of
the boundary of the use in question, and to the occupants of all structures
within 300 feet, except that the notice shall be given not less than 5 and not
more than 15 days before the application will be considered.
      (1)   If the name of the occupant is not known, the term “occupant” may
be used in making notification.  Notification need not be given to more than 1
occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains more than 1
dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses, or organizations, 1 occupant of each unit or spatial
area shall receive notice.
      (2)   In the case of a single structure containing more than 4 dwelling
units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses, or organizations, notice may be given to the manager
or owner of the structure, who shall be requested to post the notice at the
primary entrance to the structure.  The notice shall:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the special land use request;
         (b)   Indicate the property which is the subject of the special land
use request;
         (c)   State when and where the special land use request will be
considered;
         (d)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request; and
         (e)   Indicate that a public hearing on the special land use request
may be requested by a property owner or the occupant of a structure located
within 300 feet of the boundary of the use being considered for a special use.
   (E)   Hearing.  At the initiative of the Planning Commission, or upon the
request of the applicant for special approval of a land use, or a property
owner or the occupant of a structure located within 300 feet of the boundary of
the use being considered, a public hearing shall be held with notice as
provided in subsection (D), before a decision on the special approval request
is made.  If the applicant or the Planning Commission requests a public
hearing, only notification of the public hearing need be made and no notice of
request for special approval, as provided in subsection (D), is required.  A
decision on a special approval request which is based on discretionary grounds
shall not be made unless notification of the request for special approval, or
notification of a public hearing on a special approval request is given as
required by this section.
   (F)   Standards.  No special approval shall be granted by the Planning
Commission unless the special use:
      (1)   Will reasonably promote the use of land in a socially and
economically desirable manner for those persons who will use the proposed land
use or activity, for those landowners and residents who are adjacent, and for
the city as a whole;
      (2)   Is compatible with adjacent uses of land;
      (3)   Is so designed, located, and proposed to be operated that the
public health, safety, and welfare will be protected;
      (4)   Can be adequately served by public services and facilities without
diminishing or adversely affecting public services and facilities to existing
land uses in the area;
      (5)   Will reasonably protect the natural environment and help conserve
natural resources and energy;
      (6)   Is within the provisions of uses requiring special approval as set
forth in the various zoning districts herein, is in harmony with the purposes
and conforms to the applicable regulations of the zoning district in which it
is to be located, and meets applicable site design standards for the particular
use; and
      (7)   Is related to the valid exercise of the city’s police power and
purposes which are affected by the proposed use or activity.
   (G)   Approval.  Planning Commission may deny, approve, or approve with
conditions, requests for special approval of a land use.  The decision on a
special approval shall be incorporated in a statement of conclusions relative
to the specific land use under consideration.  The decision shall specify the
basis for the decision, and any conditions imposed.  If, within 15 days of the
decision of the Planning Commission, there is an objection by the applicant or
by a property owner or occupant of a structure within 300 feet of the special
use being considered, then the matter shall be referred to the City Council for
review and action.
   (H)   Record.  The conditions imposed with respect to the special approval
of a land use or activity shall be recorded in the record of the special
approval action and shall remain unchanged except upon the mutual consent of
the Planning Commission and the landowner.  The Planning Commission shall
maintain a record of changes granted in conditions.
§ 157.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   The violation of any provision of the zoning ordinance shall be deemed
a municipal civil infraction.
APPENDIX A:  SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS
                                  Maximum     Minimum Yard,
                                  Building    Unobstructed (Ft.)      Minimum
                 Minimum          Height                              Floor
         Minimum Lot     Maximum                                      Area Per
Zoning   Lot     Area    Lot                                          Dwelling
District Width   (Sq.    Coverage                   1    2            Unit
         (Ft.)   Ft.)    (%)      Stories Ft. Front Side Sides Rear   (Sq.
                                                                      Ft.)
                                       Maximum     Minimum Yard,
                                       Building    Unobstructed (Ft.)    Minimum
                                       Height                            Floor
             Minimum Minimum  Maximum                                    Area Per
Zoning       Lot     Lot Area Lot                                        Dwelling
District     Width   (Sq.     Coverage                   1    2          Unit
             (Ft.)   Ft.)     (%)      Stories Ft. Front Side Sides Rear (Sq.
                                                                         Ft.)


C-1          -       k        40       2       30  25b   m    m     25n  -
C-2          -       k        40       2       30  30l,b m    m     25n  -
C-3          -       k        40       2       30  35l,b 20   40    25n  o
C-4,
community    -       6 acres  30       2       -   30l   25m  m     25n  -
shopping
center
C-4,
neighborhood -       1 acre   30       2       -   25l   20m  m     25n  -
shopping
center
C-4,
regional     -       10 acres 30       4       50  100l  50   100   50n  -
shopping
center
HRM          h       1 acre   15       10      100 j,b   j    j     j    g
M-1          -       -        50       2.5     35  35b   20   40    35   -
M-2          -       -        50       2.5     35  50b   30   60    50   -
P-1          -       -        100      -       30+ 20r,b 10s  20    -    -
R-1A with    85      10,625   35       2.5     35  30    10   20    35   1,000
public sewer
R-1Aq
without      100u    15,000   35       2.5     35  35b   15   30    45   (1,000)
public sewer
R-1B with    75      9,000    35       2.5     35  25    10   20    30   1,000
public sewer
R-1B without 100u    12,000   35       2.5     35  35b   15   30    40   (1,000)
public sewer
R-1C with    60      7,200    35       2.5     35  20    5    15    30   800
public sewer
R-1C without 100u    12,000   35       2.5     35  35    15   30    35   800
public sewer
RM           200u    2        35       2.5     35  35b   25f  50f   35   g
                     acresd,e
RM-1         200u    2 acres  35       2.5     35  35b   25f  50f   35   g
RMH          400u    -        30       1       15  35b   25   50    35   -
R-O          -       k        40       2p      30  30b   20   40    30   -
SEq          150u    43,560   30       2.5     35  50b   20   40    50   1,200
SE with      100     15,000   30       2.5     35  50    20   40    50   1,200
public sewer
 
   FOOTNOTES TO SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS
   a.   The minimum floor area per dwelling unit shall not include areas of
basements, breezeways, unenclosed porches, terraces, attached garages, attached
sheds, or utility rooms.
   b.   In all residential, office through industrial districts, the required
front yard setback shall not be used for off-street parking, loading, or
unloading, and shall remain as open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the
ground upward except for landscaping, plant materials, or vehicle access
drives, as directed by the Planning Commission. Steps and wooden handicapped
ramps shall also be permitted to intrude into required front yard setback
space.
   c.   Except where otherwise provided in this ordinance, all exterior side
yards abutting a street shall be provided with a setback equal to the front
yard setback requirement of the district in which located and all regulations
applicable to a front yard shall apply, except further, where a nonresidential
district abuts a residential district, the exterior side yard setback
requirement shall not be less than the minimum front yard setback requirement
of the abutting residential district, but may be more depending on the
applicable setback requirement of the nonresidential district.
   d.   Density calculation for the RM district indicated shall be based upon
the area of the parcel exclusive of:
      (1)   Publicly designated properties;
      (2)   Public or utility easements;
      (3)   Lands reserved for nonresidential purposes, except that designated
recreation space being considered for public dedication may be included in the
density calculation; and
      (4)   Land not physically usable for residential purposes, such as
ravines and swamp lands.
   e.   Minimum land area required for each dwelling unit in the RM district
shall be:
 
RM Dwelling Unit Size        Minimum Land Area (Sq. Ft.)
                             Apartments Townhouses
Efficiency or 1-bedroom unit 3,000      4,200
Two-bedroom unit             4,200      5,400
Three-bedroom unit           5,400      6,200
Four- or more bedroom units  6,200      6,200
 
   f.   For every lot on which a multiple, row, or terrace dwelling is erected,
there shall be provided a side yard on each side of the lot, as indicated in
the schedule.  Each side yard shall be increased beyond the yard spaces
indicated by 1 foot for each 10 feet or part thereof by which the length of the
multiple, row, or terrace dwelling exceeds 40 feet in overall dimension along
the adjoining side lot line.
   g.   Required minimum floor area for each dwelling unit shall be:
 
Dwelling Unit Size Minimum Floor Area (Sq. Ft.)
                   Apartment Townhouses
Efficiency         450       -
One-bedroom unit   600       -
Two-bedroom unit   850       600
Three-bedroom unit 1000      800
 
   h.   Lot width and depth is based upon lot area requirements.
   i.   Minimum land area required for each dwelling unit in the HRM district
shall be:
 
HRM Dwelling Unit Size       Minimum Land Area ( Sq. Ft.)
Efficiency or 1-bedroom unit 1,400
Two-bedroom unit             1,700
Three-bedroom unit           1,900
Four- or more bedroom unit   2,100
 
   j.   The minimum front, side, and rear yard requirements shall be 40 feet. 
For every 5 feet the building exceeds 40 feet in height, the yard requirement
shall be increased by 1 foot.  Where 2 or more buildings are erected on the
same lot, the yard spaces between those buildings shall be at least 40 feet.
   k.   Every lot in the R-O, C-1, C-2, and C-3 districts, used as a business,
shall have an area sufficient in size to comply with the requirements
pertaining to the particular use with an adequate and safe water supply and a
safe and adequate sewage disposal system as established by standards required
by the State or County Health Department rules and regulations.  In no case
shall a business lot be less than 4,000 square feet in area.
   l.   Where existing front setback line has been established by existing
commercial buildings occupying 40% or more of the frontage within the same
block, that established setback shall apply.
   m.   In a C-1 or C-2 district, side yards are not required along interior
side lot lines if all walls abutting or facing those lot lines are of fireproof
construction and wholly without windows or other openings, but if the side wall
is not of fireproof construction, or if fireproof construction but containing
windows or other openings, a 10-foot side yard shall be provided.
   n.   Where an alley separates the C-1, C-2, and C-3, and C-4 commercial
districts from any residential district, the full alley width may be counted as
part of the required yard.
   o.   Where motels are permitted in the C-3 district, a minimum of 250 square
feet of floor area per motel unit shall be provided.
   p.   The City Council may approve waivers in the regulations for the R-
O district in regard to area, height, and placement requirements after a
written advisory recommendation has been received from the Planning Commission,
provided the following conditions are met:
      (1)   No structure shall exceed 10 stories or 100 feet in height;
      (2)   The location of the proposed site shall reflect the intent and
purpose of the land use plan;
      (3)   The proposed site shall have at least 1 property line abutting a
major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the site shall be directly onto
the thoroughfare;
      (4)   The minimum yard width between buildings and adjoining lot lines
and between unconnected buildings on the same lot shall be at least 40 feet
plus 5 feet for each story in the building; and
      (5)   Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance with the
requirements of §§
157.110et seq. of this code.
   q.   Cluster subdivisions (as in §
157.093) approved in SE and R-1A districts shall permit lot sizes and widths of
lesser areas and dimensions as provided for under §
157.035(B)(5) for the SE district, and §
157.036(B)(6) for the R-1A district, and as regulated by §
157.093 of this code.
   r.   Where a P-1 district is contiguous to a residentially zoned district
which has a common frontage on the same block with the P-1 district, and
wherein residential structures have been erected, there shall be provided a
yard space equal to the average setback of homes in the block on the same side
of the street.
      Where the P-1 district is contiguous to a residentially zoned district
which has a common frontage in the same block with the P-1 district, and
wherein residential structures have been erected having a front yard of greater
than 20 feet in depth, there shall be provided a yard space equal in depth to
the minimum distance of any residential structures so located, or to the
minimum distance required by those restrictions, except in cases where
residential structures have been erected at the rear lots.  In those cases, the
yard space shall not be less than 20 feet in depth and a protective wall as set
forth in §
157.048(I).
   s.   Where a P-1 district (on ground level) is contiguous to side lot lines
of premises in a residentially zoned district, there shall be provided a side
yard not less than 10 feet in width between the side lot lines and the parking
area.
      Where the P-1 district lies across a street and opposite a residentially
zoned district where the side lot lines are contiguous to that street, there
shall be provided a yard space not less than 10 feet in depth.  When the
parking structure (5 ft. - 3 off) is contiguous to side lot lines of a
residentially zoned or used district, there shall be provided a minimum side
yard of 15 feet between those side lot lines and the structure.
   t.   Permitted height of any parking structure shall not exceed 30 feet. 
For every 1 foot the parking structure exceeds 10 feet in height, the yard
requirements shall be increased by 1 foot beyond the minimum 15-foot
requirement.
   u.   Shall be measured as road frontage.
APPENDIX B:  IMAGES
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-36.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-38.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-40.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-42.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-44.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-46.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-48.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-50.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/590d56d96696a9002821ef762ad4a545f951632d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-52.jpg]
 
APPENDIX C: USE MATRIX
PU =                                C-                                                                              HRM -
Permitted    C-1 - C-2 -            4 -                                   R-1A -  R-1B -  R-1C -  RM -     SE -     High     RMH -
Use          Local General C-3 -    Plan RO -       M-1 -      M-2 -      Single  Single  Single  Multiple Suburban Rise /   Mobile
SU = Special Busi  Busi    Highway  ned  Restricted Light      General    Family  Family  Family  Family   Estate   Multiple Home
Use          ness  ness    Oriented Shop Office     Industrial Industrial Resi    Resi    Resi    Resi     Resi     Family   Park
WR = With                           ping                                  dential dential dential dential  dential  Resi
Restrictions                                                                                                        dential
                                              C-                                                                              HRM -
                       C-1 - C-2 -            4 -                                   R-1A -  R-1B -  R-1C -  RM -     SE -     High     RMH -
PU = Permitted Use     Local General C-3 -    Plan RO -       M-1 -      M-2 -      Single  Single  Single  Multiple Suburban Rise /   Mobile
SU = Special Use       Busi  Busi    Highway  ned  Restricted Light      General    Family  Family  Family  Family   Estate   Multiple Home
WR = With Restrictions ness  ness    Oriented Shop Office     Industrial Industrial Resi    Resi    Resi    Resi     Resi     Family   Park
                                              ping                                  dential dential dential dential  dential  Resi
                                                                                                                              dential
Accessory Structure to PU    PU      PU       PU             PU         PU         PU      PU      PU      PU       PU       PU       PU
Principal
Apartments                                                                                        PU               PU        
Arcade                      SU      SU                                                                                       
Assembly Halls                     PU                                                                                       
Assisted Living Homes  PU    PU      PU           PU                                                  PU               PU        
Automobile Repair           SU      SU                     SU         PU                                                       
Banks / Credit Union   PU    PU      PU       PU   PU                                                                           
Beauty Parlor or       PU    PU      PU       PU             SU         PU                                                       
Barber
Bowling Alley               SU      SU                                                                                       
Carry out Restaurant   PU    PU      PU       PU                       SU                                                       
Cemetery (20 Acres                                                           SU      SU      SU      PU       SU       PU        
Required)
Churches               PU    PU      PU           PU                             SU      SU      SU      PU       SU       PU       PU
Convalescent Homes     PU    PU      PU           PU                                                  PU               PU        
Daycare Center         PU    PU      PU           PU                             SU      SU      SU      PU       SU       PU       PU
Dog Kennel                                               SU         PU                                                       
Dwelling, Multi Family                                                                            PU               PU        
Dwelling, Single                                                             PU      PU      PU      PU       PU       PU        
Family
Fabrication                                              PU         PU                                                       
Family Care Center                                                           PU      PU      PU      PU       PU       PU       PU
(less than 6)
Farm Animals (5 Acres                                                        PU      PU      PU              PU                
Required)
Furniture/ appliance        PU      PU       PU                                                                               
repair shop
Gasoline Station            PU      PU       WR                                                                               
Golf Courses (5 Acres                                                        SU      SU      SU      PU       SU       PU        
Required)
Gym                         PU      PU       PU                                                                               
High Rise Multi-Family                                                                                            PU        
Home Occupation                                                              PU      PU      PU      PU       PU       PU        
Hospitals                   SU      SU                                                              PU               PU        
Housing for Elderly    PU    PU      PU           PU                                                  PU               PU        
Industrial Park                                          SU         PU                                                       
Junk Yard                                                          SU                                                       
Landscaping Yard                                                   SU                                                       
Laundromats / Dry      PU    PU      PU       PU             PU         PU                                                       
Cleaning
Manufacturing –                                                  PU                                                       
Automobiles
Manufacturing - not                                      PU         PU                                                       
automobiles
Medical / Dental       PU    PU      PU           PU                                                                           
Offices or Clinics
Medical Marijuana Club      SU      SU                     PU         PU                                                       
Medical Marijuana           SU      SU                     PU         PU                                                       
Dispensary
Medical Marijuana Grow                                   PU         PU                                                       
Facility
Mobile Homes / Parks                                                                                                      PU
Motel, Hotel or                    PU                     SU         PU                                                       
Lodging
Office - Professional  PU    PU      PU       PU   PU                                                                           
(not medical)
Open Air Business                  SU                     PU         PU                                                       
Open Storage Yards –                                             SU                                                       
Contractor
Photography Studio     PU    PU      PU       PU   PU                                                                           
Planned Unit                                                                 WR      WR             PU               PU        
Development
Private Clubs (5 Acres                                                       SU      SU      SU      PU       SU       PU        
Required)
Recreational use –               SU                     PU         PU                                                       
Indoor
Recreational use -          SU      SU                                                                                       
Outdoor
Recreational Vehicles              PU                     SU         PU                                                       
Sales
Restaurant -           PU    PU      PU       PU             SU         PU                                                       
Completely Enclosed
Restaurant with a           SU      SU       WR                                                                               
Drive Thru
Retail Stores          PU    PU      PU       PU                                                                               
Schools – Private    PU    PU      PU           PU                                                                           
Schools – Public     PU    PU      PU           PU                             PU      PU      PU      PU       PU       PU       PU
Self-Storage Facility                                    SU         PU                                                       
Shopping Center – Mal                    PU                                                                               
Tailor                 PU    PU      PU       PU   PU                                                                           
Tanning Salons              PU      PU                                                                                       
Theaters - Completely                      PU                                                                               
Enclosed
Theaters - Drive-in                                      SU         PU                                                       
Tool and Die Shop                                        PU         PU                                                       
Towing Facility                                                    SU                                                       
Townhouses                                                                                        SU                        
Vehicle Sales – Insid            PU                     PU         PU                                                       
Vehicle Sales -                    SU                     PU         PU                                                       
Outdoor
Veterinarian Hospital       SU      SU                                                                                       
Warehouse                   SU      SU                     PU         PU                                                       
Welding                                                            PU                                                       
Wholesale                   SU      SU                     PU         PU                                                       
Establishment
 
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Adopted Description
Ord.   Date      Description
No.    Adopted
87(C)  3-2-1998  Sale of Revenue Bonds for Water and Sewer System
2011-  11-10-
4-87   2011      Sale of Revenue Bonds for Water and Sewer System
(C)
92(C)  4-08-2002 Blackberry Creek Village Pilot Ordinance
               HUD’s release of interest in Blackberry Creek - dated: 4-30-10
                 Regulating Use of Public Sewers, Sewer Installations and
                 Connections, and Discharges of Wastewater and Pollutants from
2014-            Users or Premises Located within the City of Burton to the
1-SO   2-3-2014  Genesee County Publicly Owned Treatment Works; To Require
                 Pretreatment; To Require User Permits, Monitoring, and
                 Reporting; and to Provide for the Enforcement, Penalties, and
                 other Relief
                 Providing for the Acquisition and Construction of Additions,
2014-            Extensions, and Improvements to the Water Supply and Sewage
2-SO   5-5-2014  Disposal System of the City of Burton; Issuance and Sale of
                 Junior Lien Revenue Bonds; Collection of Revenue; Costs of
                 Operation and Maintenance
2015-  effective Addition of Chapter 54 to Regulate Storm Water Control;
1-54-  2-12-2015 Provide Permits and Payment or Reimbursement; Provide
SO               Penalties
2015-  effective Adoption of Additional Storm Water Control Regulations;
2-54-  2-12-2015 Provide Standards and Penalties
SO
      effective 54.14(A)(1) Amended 2018 to clarify "non-stormwater
       3-17-2018 discharges"
                 Providing for the Acquisition and Construction of Additions,
2015-            Extensions, and Improvements to the Water Supply and Sewage
3-87   5-18-2015 Disposal System of the City of Burton; Issuance, Sale,
(C)-SO           Payments, and Security of Junior Lien Revenue Bonds;
                 Collection of Revenue; Costs of Operation and Maintenance
                 Providing for the Acquisition and Construction of Additions,
2015-            Extensions, and Improvements to the Water Supply and Sewage
4-87   8-3-2015  Disposal System of the City of Burton; Issuance, Sale,
(C)-SO           Payments, and Security of Junior Lien Revenue Bonds;
                 Collection of Revenue; Costs of Operation and Maintenance
                
 
CODE PENALTY
CODE PENALTY
   All ordinances proscribing conduct are either:
   (A)   Misdemeanors punishable by up to 90 days in the county jail, a fine of
not more than $500, or both, based on Charter limitations; or
   (B)    Misdemeanors punishable by up to 93 days in the county jail, a fine
of not more than $500, or both. These are specifically authorized by state
statutory authority in specific instances, such as domestic assault. To be
punishable as a 93-day misdemeanor, the ordinance should specifically provide.
Cross-reference:
   Municipal Civil Infractions, see
Chapter 131 of this code of ordinances
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites      Code Section
15.231              90.015
15.231 - 15.246     90.004
15.243(1)(a)        50.03
15.243(1)(g)        152.03
123.165             51.144
125.527             151.25
                    Ch. 157,
125.581 - 125.590   157.150,
                    157.176
125.1401 et seq.    116.03 -
                    116.05
125.1601 - 125.1680 31.03
125.2301 et seq.    157.040
215.246             90.015
247.183             154.02
247.184             154.02
247.185             154.02
247.186             154.02
257.1 et seq.       70.01
257.1 - 257.923     142.03
257.648             72.03
323.1 - 323.12      155.09,
                    155.14
324.3101 et seq.    52.001,
                    52.002
324.80104(q)        142.03
325.1001 - 325.1023 51.100
325.201 - 325.213   156.44
333.26421 et seq.   157.099
333.27101           157.099
484.2251            90.004
559.101 - 559.272   151.35
                    151.35,
                    156.03,
560.101 - 560.293   156.06,
                    156.07,
                    156.20,
                    156.24
560.113 - 560.119   156.23
600.2913            136.02
712A.2              143.08
722.673             144.07
752.362             144.07
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.         Date Passed               Code Section
2014-1-SO        2-3-2014                  T.S.O.
2014-2-SO        5-5-2014                  T.S.O
2015-1-54-SO     eff. 2-12-2015            T.S.O.
2015-2-54-SO     eff. 2-12-2015, 3-17-2018 T.S.O.
2015-3-87(C)-SO  5-18-2015                 T.S.O.
2015-4-87(C)-SO  8-3-2015                  T.S.O.
                                           157.006,
2017-7-157       12-4-2017                 157.043,
                                           157.046,
                                           157.099
                                           92.02,
2017-92          12-18-2017                92.10 -
                                           92.15
- -              12-18-2017                152.02,
                                           152.13
2017-153         12-18-2017                153.01 -
                                           153.10
2018-152         2-5-2018                  152.13
2018-157         4-2-2018                  157.070
2018-51          6-4-2018                  51.135,
                                           51.137
2018-52          6-4-2018                  52.002,
                                           52.080
                                           92.02,
2018-92          6-4-2018                  92.25 -
                                           92.31
2018-157.049     11-5-2018                 157.049
2018-8-157.049   11-5-2018                 157.049
2019-1-30.03  1-22-2019                 30.03
                                           52.002,
                                           52.033,
                                           52.080,
2019-6-52        1-22-2019                 52.082 -
                                           52.084,
                                           52.100,
                                           52.103
2018-2-30.03     2-4-2019                  30.03
2018-3-30.03     2-4-2019                  30.03
2019-4-91.05     4-15-2019                 91.05
                                           51.001,
                                           51.003,
                                           51.005,
                                           51.023,
                                           51.029,
                                           51.041,
                                           51.045,
2019-5-51        5-6-2019                  51.067,
                                           51.085,
                                           51.115 -
                                           51.118,
                                           51.135,
                                           51.137,
                                           51.141,
                                           51.144,
                                           51.145
2019-9-140.04(C) 8-8-2019                  140.04
                                           51.139,
2019-7-51        8-19-2019                 51.143,
                                           51.144
2019-8-52        8-19-2019                 52.085
                                           157.006,
2019-10-157      9-16-2019                 157.043,
                                           157.046,
                                           157.101
2020-1-157       1-21-2020                 157.006
2020-1-157       5-1-2020                  157.006,
                                           157.102
2021-1-91.01     1-7-2021                  91.01
                                           92.02,
2019-92          1-14-2021                 92.10 -
                                           92.12
                                           154.02,
                                           154.04 -
2021-2-154       2-1-2021                  154.06,
                                           154.08,
                                           154.10,
                                           154.12
2021-4-30.03     4-19-2021                 30.03
2021-5-30.03  5-17-2021                 30.03
2021-6-30.03     6-21-2021                 30.03
                                           72.01 -
2021-8-72.01     7-8-2021                  72.04,
                                           72.99
2021-7-157       7-19-2021                 157.006,
                                           157.090
                                          
 
