CALUMET, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Current through Ord. 161, passed 8-16-2022
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not re-enacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “The Village of Calumet
Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”, “this
code” or “code” may be substituted.
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. A police officer, building inspector or
other designated official or employee of the city authorized by this code to
issue municipal civil infraction citations or municipal civil infraction
violation notices.
      CODE. The Village of Calumet Code, as designated in §
10.01 of this chapter.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last; except that, if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall
be excluded; and, when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council of Calumet, Michigan.
      COUNTY. The County of Houghton, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of
Calumet, Michigan”. Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the city is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the city and all amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE, THE STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Michigan.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Calumet.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or re-enacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city, any evidence of the city’s
indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the city;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like any street or public way in the city;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the city;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the city;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any city
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the Village Office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT RE-ENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or re-enacted by virtue of this code, unless
specifically re-enacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section        of the Village of Calumet
Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...”. The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Village of Calumet Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered               , which
section reads as follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as
desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “§§          through         ” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth which
provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, such greater penalty shall
control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such violation
shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided by this
section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to the
amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is re-enacted
in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
31.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
32.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   FINANCE
      
34.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS VIOLATIONS
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
30.01   Compensation
   
30.02   Elections
§ 30.01 COMPENSATION.
   The Village President and each Trustee of the Village Council shall receive
$35 for each regular meeting of the Village Council which he or she shall
attend. There shall be no more than one regular meeting per month for which the
Village President or any Village Trustee may receive such compensation. The
Village President and the Trustees of the Village Council shall not be
compensated for any other meeting which they may attend regarding village
business, including, but not limited to, special meetings and meetings of
committees of the Village Council.
(Ord. 125A, passed 6-19-1984)
§ 30.02 ELECTIONS.
   Three of the Village Trustees shall be elected at each biennial village
election for the term of four years and until their successors are qualified.
The President, Clerk and Treasurer of the village shall also be elected for
terms of four years and until their successors are qualified. Elections of
village officers and trustees shall occur in the month of November in even
years contemporaneously with the regular November election conducted by the
Township Clerk of the Township of Calumet.
(Ord. 143, passed 12-15-2009)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
Village Manager
   
31.01   Definitions
   
31.02   Establishment of office
   
31.03   Appointment of Village Manager
   
31.04   Acting Village Manager
   
31.05   Compensation
   
31.06   Duties
   
31.07   Purchasing responsibilities
   
31.08   Dealing with employees
Village Clerk
   
31.20   Establishment
   
31.21   Term of office
Village Treasurer
   
31.35   Establishment
   
31.36   Term of office
VILLAGE MANAGER
§ 31.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COUNCIL or VILLAGE COUNCIL. All of the Trustees and the President of the
Village presently serving, whether elected or appointed who may also be
referred to collectively as the members of the Council.
   MAJORITY VOTE. A vote equal to or greater than a majority of the Council
presently serving. A MAJORITY VOTE of a quorum of the Council present for a
meeting of the Council is not a MAJORITY VOTE unless it is at least equal to a
majority of all Trustees and the President of the Village presently serving.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Calumet.
   VILLAGE MANAGER or MANAGER. A village manager appointed and serving under
the terms of this subchapter.
   VILLAGE OFFICIAL. Any person elected or appointed to the Council, the
Downtown Development Authority, the Historic District Commission, the Planning
Commission and any committees established by the Council, the Downtown
Development Authority, the Historic District Commission or the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 154, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 31.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE.
   In accordance with the authority for the appointment of a Village Manager
granted to the village in Public Act 3 of 1895, being M.C.L.A. § 65.8, General
Law Village Act, Chapter II, § 2 and Chapter V, § 8, the office of Village
Manager is established with attendant duties of the office as set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 154, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 31.03 APPOINTMENT OF VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   The Council by a majority vote shall appoint a Village Manager. The
Council may enter into an employment contract with a Village Manager with terms
and conditions of employment determined by a majority vote of the Council. The
term of such contract may be for a period extending beyond the terms of the
members of the Council, but not exceeding four years. An employment contract
with a Manager shall be in writing and shall specify the compensation to be
paid to the Manager, any procedure for changing compensation, any fringe
benefits and any other conditions of employment. The contract shall state that
the Manager serves at the pleasure of the Council. The contract may provide for
severance pay or other benefits in the event the employment of the Manager is
terminated by the Council. In the event of a conflict between the contract and
this subchapter, the terms of this subchapter shall prevail.
   (B)   The Council may suspend the Manager by a majority vote with or without
full pay and benefits. Within seven days of this action, the Council shall hold
a public hearing. At that hearing the Council shall decide by a majority vote
whether the Manager shall be discharged from service, be suspended with pay
pending further review by the Council and/or be subjected to disciplinary
action. The vote shall be a roll call vote.
   (C)   The Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and may be
removed by a majority vote of the Council. The Manager shall be selected solely
on the basis of administrative and executive abilities, with special reference
to training and experience.
   (D)   The Village Manager shall be available to deal with emergency
situations throughout the day. The Manager must reside within 16 miles of the
village to assure 24-hour availability for service. However, in the event of
sickness, the Village Manager need not be available for duty. Except in an
emergency declared by the Village President or the Council, the Village Manager
need not be available for duty during authorized absences such as a vacation.
   (E)   In general, the Council will typically review the performance of the
Manager after the initial 180 days of the Manager’s employment and thereafter
on an annual basis.
(Ord. 154, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 31.04 ACTING VILLAGE MANAGER.
   Upon the termination, suspension, resignation or incapacitation of the
Manager, the Council shall appoint or designate an Acting Manager by a majority
vote during a vacancy in the office of Village Manager and shall make a
permanent appointment within 180 days from the effective date of the vacancy
also by a majority vote.
(Ord. 154, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 31.05 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Manager shall receive such compensation as the Council shall
determine by resolution. Pursuant to §
31.03, this compensation will be specified in a written contract made by the
village and the Village Manager.
(Ord. 154, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 31.06 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the
village and shall be responsible to the Village President and the Village
Council for the efficient administration of all affairs of the village. The
Manager shall exercise management supervision over all departments and over all
public property belonging to the village. The Manager shall keep the Council
informed regarding village affairs. The Manager shall follow directives
established for the Manager by resolutions or motions passed by the Council.
The Manager shall keep and make available all records of the village to the
Council and to the public except such information which is exempted from
disclosure by the Open Meetings Act, being Public Act 267 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§
15.261 through 15.275, or other laws of the state which protect privacy.
   (B)   The Manager shall have the following functions, duties and
responsibilities:
      (1)   To attend and participate in all meetings of the Village Council
and village committees but the Manager shall not have a vote on such Council or
committees;
      (2)   To be responsible for personnel management and the issuance,
subject to Council approval, of personnel rules applicable to all village
employees;
      (3)   To appoint, suspend or remove all appointed administrative officers
and department heads, subject to Council approval. The Manager shall recommend
to the Council the salary or wage for each such official;
      (4)   To exercise supervisory control over all employees working in the
central office of the village as well as all village departments including the
Police Department, the Department of Public Works and the Fire Department;
      (5)   To hire, discipline or discharge any village employee who is not a
department head but only after consultation with the appropriate department
head. The Manager shall recommend the salary or wage for each such employee;
      (6)   To exercise supervisory responsibility over the accounting,
budgeting, personnel, purchasing and related management functions of the
Village Clerk. With approval of the Council by a majority vote, the Manager may
delegate duties of the Village Clerk to appointed officers or employees unless
prohibited by law. The Manager shall nevertheless have the ultimate
responsibility for supervision and the proper conduct of all such delegated
duties;
      (7)   To attend and participate in all meetings of village boards and
commissions, including the Village Planning Commission, but the Manager shall
not have a vote on such boards or committees;
      (8)   Shall be the fiscal officer and shall prepare and administer the
budget as provided for in the Uniform Budgeting and Accounting Act, Public Act
2 of 1968, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 141.434, and any village ordinance that
may be adopted;
      (9)   To be the purchasing agent of the village subject to constraints
established by resolutions and ordinances adopted by the Village Council;
      (10)   To prepare and maintain written policies and procedures defining
the duties and functions of the several officers and departments of the village
subject to approval by the Council;
      (11)   To investigate complaints concerning the administration of the
village, having at all times the authority to inspect the books and papers of
any agent, employee or officer of the village except books and papers of the
Village Attorney and books and papers related to matters that require
separation of duties such as those of the Village Treasurer;
      (12)   To make recommendations to the Council for adoption of such
measures as the Village Manager shall deem to be in the best interest of the
village;
      (13)   To perform all duties related to zoning and land use
administration as set forth in the village zoning regulations as set forth in
Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances;
      (14)   To perform duties necessary for the administration and enforcement
of village ordinances;
      (15)   To perform other duties as required by the Village Council from
time to time; and
      (16)   To keep and maintain an inventory of all village property.
(Ord. 154, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 31.07 PURCHASING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall act as purchasing agent for all village
offices and departments. The Manager, with the approval of the Village Council,
may delegate some or all of these duties as purchasing agent to another officer
or employee, provided that such delegation shall not relieve the Manager of the
responsibility for the proper conduct of those duties.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall in any event have the authority to purchase
any product or service if such purchase is in accordance with purchasing
policies established by the Village Council.
   (C)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any product
or service the cost of which does not exceed an amount to be set from time to
time by resolution adopted by the Village Council, provided that funds have
been appropriated. The cost of the product or service shall not exceed the
unencumbered balance of the appropriation for that account. Any product or
service the cost of which exceeds the above dollar amount shall be purchased
only if prior approval of the Village Council has been obtained. The Village
Manager may promulgate rules governing the purchase of products or services.
   (D)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any product
or service regardless of its cost when such purchase is necessitated by an
emergency condition. EMERGENCY CONDITION is defined to mean any event which
presents an imminent threat to the public health or safety, or any event which
would result in the disruption of a village service which is essential to the
public health or safety.
(Ord. 154, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 31.08 DEALING WITH EMPLOYEES.
   Neither the Council, the Downtown Development Authority, the Historic
District Commission, the Planning Commission, nor the Village President or any
elected or appointed officer shall attempt to influence the employment of any
person by the Village Manager or the conduct by the employee of the employee’s
duties or in any way interfere in the management of departments under the
jurisdiction of the Manager. Except for the purpose of inquiry or when
authorized by a majority vote of the Council, the President, Trustees and all
other elected or appointed officials, shall deal with departments under the
jurisdiction of the Village Manager through the Manager.
(Ord. 154, passed 10-15-2019)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 31.20 ESTABLISHMENT.
   As authorized by § 1(3) of Chapter II of the General Law Village Act, Public
Acts of Michigan of 1895, as amended, M.C.L.A. § 62.1(3), the Village Clerk
shall be chosen by nomination by the Village President and appointment by a
majority vote of the Village Council.
(Ord. 157, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 31.21 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office shall be two years, beginning November 15 of each even
year with the first full term of the Village Clerk commencing in 2022. A
Village Clerk initially appointed under this subchapter shall serve from the
date of appointment until November 15, 2022.
(Ord. 157, passed 7-20-2021)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 31.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   As authorized by § 1(3) of Chapter II of the General Law Village Act, Public
Acts of Michigan of 1895, as amended, M.C.L.A. § 62.1(3), the Village Treasurer
shall be chosen by nomination by the Village President and appointment by a
majority vote of the Village Council.
(Ord. 158, passed 7-20-2021)
§ 31.36 TERM OF OFFICE.
   The term of office shall be two years, beginning November 15 of each even
year with the first full term of the Village Treasurer commencing in 2022. A
Village Treasurer initially appointed under this subchapter shall serve from
the date of appointment until November 15, 2022.
(Ord. 158, passed 7-20-2021)
CHAPTER 32: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
32.01   Purpose and establishment
   
32.02   Membership
   
32.03   Removal
   
32.04   Compensation
   
32.05   Officers and committees
   
32.06   Bylaws, meetings and records
   
32.07   Conflicts of interest
   
32.08   Master plan
   
32.09   Zoning Commission authority
   
32.10   Capital improvements program
   
32.11   Land division responsibilities
   
32.12   Annual report
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.01 PURPOSE AND ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   As authorized by the Michigan Planning Enabling Act (Public Act 33 of
2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., as amended), and the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act (Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as
amended), the purpose of this subchapter is to establish a Planning Commission
for the village with the authority, powers and duties provided by those Acts
and subject to the terms and conditions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission established by this subchapter is hereby
confirmed to the successor to the Commission established by the village under
former legislation which governed the creation and operation of planning
commissions for villages.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consist of five members serving for
terms of three years and eligible for re-appointment. Members serving on the
Planning Commission as of the effective date of this subchapter who are re-
appointed by the Village President and confirmed by the Village Council, shall
continue to serve for the remainder of their existing terms, which shall be set
by the Village Council after the date of this restatement in such a way as to
create staggered terms of appointment, so long as they continue to meet
eligibility requirements.
   (B)   One member of the Village Council shall be appointed to the Planning
Commission as an ex officio member and Village Council representative with full
voting rights. An ex officio member’s term shall expire with his or her term as
a member of the Village Council. No other elected officer or employee of the
village is eligible to be a member of the Planning Commission. In the event
another member of the Planning Commission is elected to the Village Council,
increasing the number of Council members serving on the Commission to more than
one, then such member’s seat on the Planning Commission shall be deemed vacant.
   (C)   The Village President shall appoint all Planning Commission members,
including the ex officio member, subject to approval by the Village Council. A
Planning Commission member shall hold office until his or her successor is
appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner
as the original appointment.
   (D)   Of the four members of the Planning Commission who are not ex officio
members, at least two shall be qualified electors of the village and the
remaining member or members (but not more than two) may be residents and
qualified electors of another local unit of government in the state.
   (E)   Planning Commission membership may, to the extent practicable and in
general, be representative of major interests in the village, including, but
not limited to, (if they exist in the village) agriculture, natural resources,
recreation, education, public health, government, transportation, industry and
commerce, but taking into account the small size of the village, both in
population and in area. The membership may also be representative of the
geography and population of the village to the extent practicable. This
provision may be applied as new members are appointed to fill Commission
vacancies, and shall not be construed to restrict the re-appointment of any
member serving at the effective date of restatement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.03 REMOVAL.
   Members of the Planning Commission may be suspended or removed from office
in accordance with direction of the General Law Village Act, Act 3 of 1895,
being M.C.L.A. § 64.3(3), as amended.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.04 COMPENSATION.
   The Planning Commission members may be compensated for their services if the
Village Council so provides by resolution. The Planning Commission may request
from the Village Council compensation for member travel, registration and pre-
authorized expenses when performing official activities authorized by the
Village Council, including, but not limited to, attendance at conferences,
workshops and training programs.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.05 OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and Secretary from its membership, and may create and fill other offices as it
considers advisable. The term of each office shall be one year, with
opportunity for re-election, but subject to Commission bylaws, if the
Commission adopts bylaws.
   (B)   There shall be no standing committees of the Planning Commission. The
Chairperson of the Planning Commission may appoint special or ad-hoc advisory
committees, as the Planning Commission deems necessary to carry out the work of
the Commission. Advisory committee members may or may not be members of the
Planning Commission. The Chairperson shall be an ex officio member of all
committees of the Commission.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.06 BYLAWS, MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business. The Planning Commission shall hold a minimum of four regular meetings
per year, and shall determine the time, place and schedule of regular meetings
by resolution.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided in the Planning Commission bylaws, a special
meeting may be called by the Chairperson or by two other members upon written
request to the Secretary.
   (C)   All Planning Commission business shall be conducted at a public
meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of 1976,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq., as amended.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its resolution,
transactions, findings and determinations. At least one copy of all documents
and materials in any format that are prepared, owned, used, in the possession
of or retained by the Planning Commission in the performance of its official
functions shall be placed on file at the Village Office, per state retention
guidelines and made available to the public in compliance with the Freedom of
Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.07 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a Planning Commission
member may reasonably be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member
shall disclose the potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission.
The member shall be disqualified from voting on the matter upon a concurring
majority vote of the remaining members of the Planning Commission. Failure of a
member to disclose a potential conflict of interest as required by this
subchapter constitutes a malfeasance in office.
   (B)   For the purposes of this section, the Planning Commission shall define
conflict of interest in the Planning Commission bylaws, if they exist. The
Village Council may also adopt additional conflict of interest policies for the
village by resolution.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.08 MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall be responsible for making and
maintaining a master plan to promote public health, safety and general welfare;
encourage the use of resources in accordance with their character and
adaptability; preserve the rural and agricultural character of the village;
provide for planned and orderly land use and development; avoid the
overcrowding of land by buildings or people; lessen congestion on public roads
and streets; ensure that land uses will be situated in appropriate locations
and relationships; and meet the needs of residents for food, fiber and other
natural resources, places of residence, recreation, industry, trade, service
and other uses of land within the village’s planning jurisdiction.
   (B)   The master plan is intended to be the plan as provided for in the
State Planning Enabling Act, being Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801
et seq., and incorporated within this plan is the zoning plan referred to in
the State Zoning Enabling Act, being Public Act 110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq. as the basis for the village’s zoning regulations as set out
in Chapter 155 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.09 ZONING COMMISSION AUTHORITY.
   The Village Council hereby confirms the transfer of all authority, powers
and duties provided for zoning commissions under the State Zoning Enabling Act,
being Public Act 110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq. to the Village
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall be responsible for
formulation of the zoning regulations and amendments thereto, and reporting its
findings and recommendations concerning the zoning regulations or proposed
amendments to the Village Council. The Planning Commission shall also be
responsible for holding hearings, reviewing and making determinations regarding
applications for approval as required the zoning regulations.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.10 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM.
   (A)   In accordance with the State Planning Enabling Act, § 65 being Public
Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. § 125.3865, the Village Council hereby exempts the
Planning Commission from responsibility for preparation, approval and updating
of the village’s capital improvements program of public structures and
improvements, and delegates this responsibility to the Village President,
subject to final approval by the Village Council.
   (B)   Each village department with authority for public structures or
improvements shall furnish annually, upon request by the Village President,
updated lists, plans and estimates of time and cost for recommended public
structures and improvements to the Village President.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may make recommendations to the Council about
programs and financing for public structures and improvements, and may advise
the Council of the consistency of the village’s capital improvements program
with the adopted master plan’s goals, objectives and policies.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.11 LAND DIVISION RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend to the Village Council
amendments or revision to the village’s subdivision ordinance, if such an
ordinance exists, and rules governing the subdivision of land. Before
recommending such an ordinance or rule, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing, giving notice of the date, time and place of the hearing not
less than 15 days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general
circulation within the village and posting at the Village Office.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendations on any
proposed plat before action thereon by the Village Council in accordance with
the village’s subdivision ordinance, if such an ordinance exists, and the State
Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.,
as amended.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
§ 32.12 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the Village
Council concerning its operations and the status of activities, including
recommendations regarding actions by the Village Council related to the
Planning Commission’s scope of authority, powers and duties under this
subchapter, the State Planning Enabling Act, being Public Act 33 of 2008,
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq. and the State Zoning Enabling Act, being Public
Act 110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
(Ord. 94, passed 10-17-2017)
CHAPTER 33: FINANCE
Section
Budget
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Fiscal year
   
33.03   Chief Administrative Officer and Fiscal Officer
   
33.04   Budget policy statement
   
33.05   Budget estimates required
   
33.06   Budget forms
   
33.07   Agency budget review
   
33.08   Budget document
   
33.09   Transmittal of budget to Council
   
33.10   Consideration of budget by Council
   
33.11   Passage of budget resolution
   
33.12   Procedure for disbursements
   
33.13   Limit on obligations and payments
   
33.14   Periodic finance reports
   
33.15   Transfers
   
33.16   Supplemental appropriations
   
33.17   Appropriation adjustment required
Real Estate Tax Exemption
   
33.30   Purpose and policy
   
33.31   Definitions
   
33.32   Class of housing developments applicable
   
33.33   Approval of applicable developments; Morrison School Apartments
   
33.34   Establishment of annual service charge
   
33.35   Contractual effect of subchapter
   
33.36   Payment of service charge
   
33.37   Duration
 
   
33.99   Penalty
BUDGET
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Village of Calumet Budget Ordinance”.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.02 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin on March 1 in each year and close
on the following February 28 or 29.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.03 CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER AND FISCAL OFFICER.
   The Village President shall be the Chief Administrative Officer referred to
in this subchapter, and shall be responsible for the performance of the duties
of that officer enumerated in this subchapter. The Village President may
appoint a Fiscal Officer and delegate to that officer any or all of the
budgeting duties specified in §§
33.05 through
33.08. The Fiscal Officer shall be responsible to the Chief Administrative
Officer for the performance of budgetary duties.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.04 BUDGET POLICY STATEMENT.
   No later than November 1 of each year, the Chief Administrative Officer
shall send to each officer, department, commission and board of the local unit,
a budget policy statement for the use of those agencies in preparing their
estimates of budgetary requirements for the ensuing fiscal year.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.05 BUDGET ESTIMATES REQUIRED.
   Any officers, elected or appointed, departments, commissions and boards of
the local unit financed in whole or in part by the local unit shall, on or
before December 31 of each year, transmit to the Chief Administrative Officer
their estimates of the amounts of money required for each activity in their
agencies for the ensuing fiscal year. They shall also submit any other
information deemed relevant by the Chief Administrative Officer.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.06 BUDGET FORMS.
   The Chief Administrative Officer shall prescribe forms to be used in
submitting budget estimates and shall prescribe the procedures deemed necessary
for the guidance of officials in preparing such budget estimates. The Chief
Administrative Officer may also require a statement of the purposes of any
proposed expenditure and a justification of the services financed by any
expenditure.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.07 AGENCY BUDGET REVIEW.
   The Chief Administrative Officer shall review the estimates with a
representative from each agency. The purpose of the review shall be to clarify
the estimates, ensure their accuracy and to determine their adherence to the
policies enumerated by the Chief Administrative Officer pursuant to §
33.04.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.08 BUDGET DOCUMENT.
   (A)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall prepare a budget, which shall
present a complete financial plan for the ensuing year, utilizing those
estimates received from the various agencies. The budget will be prepared in
such a manner that shall ensure that the total of estimated expenditures
including an accrued deficit in any fund does not exceed the total of expected
revenues including an unappropriated surplus.
   (B)   The budget shall consist of the following parts:
      (1)   Estimates of all proposed expenditures for each department and
office of the village showing the expenditures for corresponding items for the
current and last preceding fiscal year;
      (2)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the village,
showing the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
      (3)   An estimate of the amount of surplus expected in the current fiscal
year;
      (4)   (a)   An estimate of all anticipated income of the village which
will be necessary to meet the proposed expenditures and commitments during the
ensuing year.
         (b)   This should include:
            1.   Sources other than taxes;
            2.   Income from borrowing;
            3.   Current and delinquent taxes; and
            4.   Bond issues.
         (c)   Included in the above estimate should be corresponding figures
for the current and preceding fiscal years.
      (5)   Such other supporting schedules as the Council may deem necessary;
and
      (6)   An informational summary of projected revenues and expenditures of
any special assessment funds, public improvement or building and site funds,
intragovernmental service funds, or enterprise funds, including the estimated
total cost and proposed method of financing each capital construction project,
and the projected additional annual operating cost and the method of financing
the operating costs of each capital construction project for three years beyond
the fiscal year covered by the budget.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.09 TRANSMITTAL OF BUDGET TO COUNCIL.
   (A)   No later than January 20 of each year, the Chief Administrative
Officer shall transmit the budget to the Council.
   (B)   The budget shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   A draft resolution for the adoption by the Council, consistent with
the budget, which shall set forth the anticipated revenue and requested
expenditure authority for the ensuing fiscal year in such form and in such
detail deemed appropriate by the Chief Administrative Officer, provided that it
is consistent with the uniform chart of accounts prescribed by the state. No
budget resolution shall be submitted to the Council in which estimated total
expenditures, including an accrued deficit, exceed estimated total revenues,
including an available surplus; and
      (2)   A budget message which shall explain the reasons for increases or
decreases in budgeted items compared with the current fiscal year, the policy
of the Chief Administrative Officer as it relates to important budgetary items,
and any other information that the Chief Administrative Officer determines to
be useful to the Council in its consideration of the proposed budget.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.10 CONSIDERATION OF BUDGET BY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Council shall fix the time and place of a public hearing to be
held on the budget and proposed budget resolution. The Clerk shall then have
published, in a newspaper of general circulation within the village, notice of
the hearing and an indication of the place at which the budget resolution may
be inspected by the public.
   (B)   The Council may direct the Chief Administrative Officer to submit any
additional information it deems relevant in its consideration of the budget and
proposed budget resolution. The Council may conduct budgetary reviews with the
Chief Administrative Officer for the purpose of clarification or justification
of proposed budgetary items.
   (C)   The Council may not revise, alter or substitute for the proposed
general budget resolution in a way that would cause total appropriations,
including an accrued deficit, to exceed total estimated revenues, including an
unappropriated surplus. An accrued deficit shall be an item or items of
expenditure in the general appropriations measure.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.11 PASSAGE OF BUDGET RESOLUTION.
   (A)   No later than February 10, the Council shall pass a resolution
providing the authority to make expenditures and incur obligations on behalf of
the village.
   (B)   The Council may authorize transfers between appropriation items by the
Chief Administrative Officer within limits stated in the resolution. In no
case, however, may such limits stated in the resolution or motion exceed those
provided for in §
33.16.
   (C)   The village budget may include information concerning the amount of
tax levy expected to be required to raise those sums of money included in the
budget resolution. In conformance with state law, and, at such time as the
Council shall determine to be appropriate, the Council shall order to be raised
by taxation, those sums of money necessary to defray the expenditures and meet
the liabilities of the village for the fiscal year. The Council may take such
action after the value of the property in the village as finally equalized has
been determined.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
§ 33.12 PROCEDURE FOR DISBURSEMENTS.
   (A)   No money shall be drawn from the local unit treasury except in
pursuance of budget authorization.
   (B)   Each warrant, draft or contract of the local unit shall specify the
fund and appropriation designated by number assigned in the accounting system
classification establishing pursuant to law from which it is payable and shall
be paid from no other fund or appropriation.
   (C)   Expenditures shall not be charged directly to any contingent or
general account. Instead, the necessary amount of the appropriation from such
account shall be transferred pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter to
the appropriate general appropriation account and expenditure then charged
thereto.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.13 LIMIT ON OBLIGATIONS AND PAYMENTS.
   No obligation shall be incurred against, and no payment shall be made from,
any appropriation account adopted by the budget resolution unless there is
sufficient unencumbered balance in the account and sufficient monies are or
will be available to meet the obligation.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.14 PERIODIC FINANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   The Chief Administrative Officer may require the appropriate agencies
to prepare and transmit to him or her monthly, a report of village financial
obligations, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   A summary statement of the actual financial condition of the
General Fund at the end of the previous month;
      (2)   A summary statement showing the receipts and expenditures and
encumbrances for the previous month and for the then current fiscal year to the
end of the previous month;
      (3)   A detailed listing of the expected revenues by major sources as
estimated in the budget, actual receipts to date for the current fiscal year,
the balance of estimated revenues to be collected in the current fiscal year
and any revisions in estimates occasioned by experience to date; and
      (4)   A detailed listing for each organizational unit and activity of the
amount appropriated, the amount charged to each appropriation in the previous
month and the current fiscal year to date, and the unencumbered balance of
appropriations, and any revisions in the estimate of expenditures.
   (B)   The Chief Administrative Officer shall transmit the above information
to the Council on a monthly basis.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.15 TRANSFERS.
   Transfers of any unencumbered balance, or any portion thereof, in any
appropriation account to any other appropriation account may not be made
without amendment of the budget resolution as provided in this subchapter,
except that transfers within a fund and department may be made by the Chief
Administrative Officer within limits set by the budget resolution.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.16 SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS.
   (A)   The Council may take supplemental appropriations by amending the
original budget resolution as provided by this subchapter, provided that
revenues in excess of those anticipated in the original resolution become
available due to:
      (1)   An unobligated surplus from prior years becoming available; and
      (2)   Current year revenue exceeding original estimates in amounts great
enough to finance increased appropriations.
   (B)   The Council may make a supplemental appropriation by increasing the
dollar amount of an appropriation item in the original budget resolution or by
adding additional items. At the same time, the estimated amount from the source
of revenue to which the increase in revenue may be attributed shall be
increased, or a new source and amount added, in a sum sufficient to equal the
supplemented expenditure amount. In no case may such appropriations cause total
estimated expenditures, including an accrued deficit, to exceed total estimated
revenues, including an unappropriated surplus.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982) Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.17 APPROPRIATION ADJUSTMENT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Whenever it appears to the Chief Administrative Officer or the Council
that actual and probable revenues in any fund will be less than the estimated
revenues upon which appropriations from such fund were based, the Chief
Administrative Officer shall present to the Council recommendations which, if
adopted, will prevent expenditures from exceeding available revenues for the
current fiscal year. Such recommendations shall include proposals for reducing
appropriations, increasing revenues or both.
   (B)   Within 15 days of receiving this information, the Council shall amend
the budget resolution or motion to reduce appropriations or shall approve such
measures necessary to provide revenues sufficient to equal appropriations, or
both. The amendment will recognize the requirements of state law and collective
bargaining agents. If the Council does not make effective such measures within
this time, the Chief Administrative Officer shall, within the next five days,
make adjustments in appropriations in order to equalize appropriations and
estimated revenues and report such action to the Council.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982) Penalty, see §
33.99
REAL ESTATE TAX EXEMPTION
§ 33.30 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the state and
its political subdivisions to provide housing for its elderly citizens of low
and moderate income and to encourage the development of such housing by
providing for a service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the
State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966, Public Act 346 of 1966, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   The village is authorized by said Act to establish or change the
service charge to be paid in lieu of taxes by any or all classes of housing
exempt from taxation under the Act at any amount it chooses, not to exceed the
taxes that would be paid but for the Act.
   (C)   It is further acknowledged that such housing for elderly persons of
low and moderate income is a public necessity, and as the village will be
benefitted and improved by such housing, the encouragement of the same by
providing certain real estate tax exemption therefor is a valid public purpose;
further, that the continuance of the provisions of this subchapter for tax
exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during the periods
hereinafter contemplated are essential to the determination of economic
feasibility of housing developments which are constructed and financed in
reliance thereon.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 33.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346 of
1966, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq., as amended.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENT. The total collections during an agreed annual period
from all occupants of a housing project representing rents or occupancy
charges, exclusive of any charges for gas, electricity, heat or other utilities
furnished to the occupants.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   ELDERLY. A single person who is 55 years of age or older or a household in
which at least one member is 55 years of age or older and all other members are
50 years of age or older.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for elderly persons of low and moderate income and such elements of
other housing, commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational
facilities as the Authority determines improve the quality of the development
as it relates to housing for elderly persons of low or moderate income.
   MORTGAGE LOAN. A loan to be made by the Authority to the sponsor for the
construction and permanent financing of the housing development.
   SPONSOR. Persons or entities which have applied to the Authority for a
mortgage loan or for the low income housing tax credit program to finance a
housing development.
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service
which are paid by the Housing Development.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 33.32 CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS APPLICABLE.
   It is hereby determined that the class of housing developments to which the
tax exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu
of taxes, shall be housing developments for elderly persons of low and moderate
income which are financed or assisted pursuant to the Act.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 33.33 APPROVAL OF APPLICABLE DEVELOPMENTS; MORRISON SCHOOL APARTMENTS.
   The village acknowledges that Morrison Development Limited Dividend Housing
Association Limited Partnership has offered, subject to award of tax credits
from the Authority, to erect, own and operate a housing development identified
as the Morrison School Apartments on Lots 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, N 1/2 of Lot 6, and
Lots 14, 15, 16, 17 and 18, all in Block 32 of the Village of Red Jacket (now
Village of Calumet) to serve elderly persons of low and moderate income, and
that the Morrison Development Limited Dividend Housing Association Limited
Partnership (the sponsor) has offered to pay the village on account of said
development an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all taxes.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 33.34 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The housing development identified above and the property on which it
shall be constructed shall be exempt from all property taxes from and after the
commencement of construction. The village, acknowledging that the sponsor and
the Authority have established the economic feasibility of the housing
development in reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of this
subchapter and the qualification of the housing development for exemption from
all property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established herein, and in
consideration of the sponsor’s offer, subject to receipt of a tax credit
allocation from the Authority, to construct, own and operate said housing
development, hereby agrees to accept payment of an annual service charge for
public services in lieu of all property taxes.
   (B)   (1)   The annual service charge for Morrison Apartments shall be equal
to 4% of the annual shelter rents.
      (2)   This provision shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so
long as the Morrison Apartments are designated and serve only low income
elderly persons as defined by the Authority; provided, that construction of the
said housing development must commence within one year from the effective date
of this subchapter, otherwise said provision is null and void.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 33.35 CONTRACTUAL EFFECT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of Public Act 346 of 1966, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1415a(5) of the Act to the contrary, a contract between the village and the
sponsor with the Authority as third party beneficiary thereunder, to provide
tax exemption and accept payments in lieu thereof as previously described is
effected by enactment of this subchapter.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 33.36 PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined hereunder shall be payable
and collected in the same manner as general property taxes are payable to and
collected by the village except that the annual payment shall be paid on or
before August 14 of each year.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 33.37 DURATION.
   This subchapter shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as
the Authority’s mortgage remains outstanding and unpaid or the Authority has
any interest in the property, but not more than 45 years, or the housing
development remains subject to income and rent restrictions pursuant to § 42 of
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. § 42), as amended, provided that
construction of the housing development commence within one year from the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 144, passed 9-12-2006)
§ 33.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of §§
33.12,
33.13,
33.14,
33.15,
33.16 or
33.17 may be cause for removal of any elected or appointed officer or employee
in the manner prescribed by the Council for the removal of such officer or
employee.
(Ord. 119, passed 9-7-1982)
CHAPTER 34: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS VIOLATIONS
Section
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Establishment, location and personnel of Municipal Civil Infractions
Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
34.04   Bureau authority
   
34.05   Authorized village officials
   
34.06   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement
   
34.07   Issuance and service of municipal ordinances violation notice or
municipal civil infraction citation
   
34.08   Ordinance violation notice requirements admission or denial of
responsibility
   
34.09   Municipal civil infraction citation requirements
   
34.10   Schedule of civil fines and costs applied to municipal civil
infractions ordinance violation notices
   
34.11   Records and accounting
   
34.12   Availability of other enforcement options
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Calumet Municipal
Civil Infractions Violations Ordinance”.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended.
   AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. Peace officer or other personnel of the village
authorized by this chapter or any ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction
citations or municipal civil infraction violation notices.
   BUREAU. The Village Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance Violations Bureau,
as established by this chapter.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which a person is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized village official directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation
by the person cited.
   MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE CIVIL INFRACTIONS VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice
prepared by an authorized village official, directing a person to appear at the
Village Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the
fine and costs, if any, prescribed for the violation by the schedule of civil
fines adopted by the village.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.03 ESTABLISHMENT, LOCATION AND PERSONNEL OF MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Establishment. The Village Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance
Violations Bureau (hereafter “Bureau”) is hereby established pursuant to Public
Act 12 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8396, as it may be amended from time to
time, for the purpose of accepting admissions of responsibility for ordinance
violations designated as municipal civil infractions, and to collect and retain
civil fines and costs for such violations as prescribed herein.
   (B)   Location. The Bureau shall be located at the Village Office, 340 6th
Street, Calumet, Michigan 49913.
   (C)   Personnel. All personnel of the Bureau shall be village employees. The
Village Board may by resolution designate a Bureau Clerk with the duties
prescribed herein and as otherwise may be delegated by the Village Board.
   (D)   Operational procedure. The Village Board may adopt rules and
regulations for the operation of the Bureau.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.04 BUREAU AUTHORITY.
   The Bureau shall only have authority to accept admissions of responsibility
(without explanation) for municipal civil infractions for which a municipal
ordinance violation notice (as compared to a citation) has been issued and
served, and to collect and retain the scheduled civil fines and costs for such
violations as specified in a resolution adopted pursuant to this chapter. The
Bureau shall not accept payment of fines and costs from any person who denies
having committed the alleged violation or who admits responsibility only with
explanation. The Bureau shall not determine or attempt to determine the truth
or falsity of any fact or matter relating to an alleged ordinance violation.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.05 AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The following personnel are authorized to issue municipal civil
infractions ordinance violation notices and/or municipal civil infraction
citations:
      (1)   Any peace officer or Deputy Sheriff;
      (2)   Fire Department officers;
      (3)   Building or other duly authorized Code Inspector or officer;
      (4)   Ordinance enforcement officers;
      (5)   Utilities and public works officers; and
      (6)   Village Administrator.
   (B)   The Village Board may by resolution authorize such other personnel to
issue municipal civil infractions ordinance violation notices or municipal
civil infraction citations as it deems necessary and proper.
   (C)   Authorized village officials also include any other individual
authorized under any other ordinance of the village as an authorized village
official.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.06 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION; COMMENCEMENT.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized village official of:
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged violator
to appear in court; or
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the Village Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.07 ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF MUNICIPAL ORDINANCES VIOLATION NOTICE OR
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.
   (A)   Issuance. An authorized local official may issue a municipal civil
infractions ordinance violation notice or a municipal civil infraction citation
to a person when:
      (1)   The official witnesses a person violate an ordinance which is a
municipal civil infraction;
      (2)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that a person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (3)   Based upon an investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person violate a municipal civil infraction ordinance, the
official has reasonable cause to believe that said person is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and the Village Attorney approves in writing the
issuance of a citation or notice pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Personal service. The authorized local official must personally serve
a copy of the municipal civil infractions ordinance violation notice or the
municipal civil infraction citation upon the alleged violator, except as
provided in division (D) below.
   (C)   Exception to personal service for citation after notice of violation.
If an authorized local official issues and serves a municipal civil infractions
ordinance violation notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made
and the civil fine and costs, if any, are not paid at the Municipal Civil
Infractions Ordinance Violations Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation
may be filed with the court and a copy of the citation may be served by first-
class mail upon the alleged violator at his or her last known address.
   (D)   Posting. If the alleged violation involves the use or occupancy of
land, or a building or other structure, the municipal civil infractions
ordinance violation notice or municipal civil infraction citation may be served
by posting the notice or citation on the land, building or structure and
mailing a copy by first-class mail to the owner of the land, building or
structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.08 ORDINANCE VIOLATION NOTICE REQUIREMENTS ADMISSION OR DENIAL OF
RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Ordinance violation notice requirements.
      (1)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices shall be issued and
served by authorized village officials as provided in this chapter and by law.
      (2)   A municipal civil infractions ordinance violation notice shall
include all of the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
         (b)   The violation charged;
         (c)   The time, date and location of the alleged violation;
         (d)   The time within which the person must appear at the Bureau for
purposes of admitting or denying responsibility for the violation;
         (e)   A statement that the alleged violator may appear at the Bureau
in person or by mail;
         (f)   The amount of the scheduled fines/costs for the violation;
         (g)   The methods by which the violation may be admitted or denied;
         (h)   The consequences of failing to pay the required fines/costs or
appear at the Bureau within the required time;
         (i)   The address and telephone number of the Bureau; and
         (j)   The days and hours that the Bureau is open.
   (B)   Denial of responsibility. Where a person fails to admit responsibility
(without explanation) for a violation within the jurisdiction of the Bureau and
pay the required civil fines/costs within the designated time period, the
Bureau Clerk or other designated village employee(s) shall advise the
complainant to issue and file a municipal civil infraction citation for such
violation with the court having jurisdiction of the matter. The citation filed
with the court shall consist of a sworn complaint containing, at a minimum, the
allegations stated in the municipal civil infractions ordinance violation
notice and shall fairly inform the alleged violator how to respond to the
citation. A copy of the citation may be served by first-class mail upon the
alleged violator at the alleged violator’s last known address. The citation
shall thereafter be processed in the manner required by law.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.09 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized village officials as provided in this chapter and by law.
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   The citation shall be in a form approved by the State Court
Administrator;
      (2)   Citations shall be numbered consecutively;
      (3)   The original shall constitute a complaint and notice to appear and
shall be filed with the District Court. Additional copies shall be distributed
pursuant to § 8705 of Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8705 (M.S.A.
§ 27A.8705);
      (4)   The citation shall be signed by an authorized local official and
shall be treated as made under oath;
      (5)   The citation shall specify the time and place for the violator to
appear in court;
      (6)   The citation shall contain all of the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
         (b)   The violation charged;
         (c)   The name, address and phone number where the alleged violator
shall appear in court; and
         (d)   The time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
      (7)   The citation shall advise the alleged violator of the following
alternatives.
         (a)   The alleged violator may admit responsibility at or by the time
set for appearance in court by mail, in person or by representation.
         (b)   The alleged violator may admit responsibility with explanation.
If the alleged violator wishes to admit responsibility “with explanation” in
person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to the court in
person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time specified
for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an appearance.
         (c)   The alleged violator may deny responsibility. If the alleged
violator desires to deny responsibility, the alleged violator must apply to the
court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time
specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time to appear for a
hearing, unless a hearing date is specified on the citation.
         (d)   A hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the municipality.
         (e)   At an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or magistrate without the opportunity of being
represented by an attorney.
         (f)   At a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
         (g)   A notice that the failure of the alleged violator to appear
within the time specified in the citation or at the time scheduled for a
hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will result in entry of a default
judgment against the alleged violator on the municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.10 SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES AND COSTS APPLIED TO MUNICIPAL CIVIL
INFRACTIONS ORDINANCE VIOLATION NOTICES.
   (A)   The Village Council may establish by resolution a schedule of civil
fines and costs payable to the Bureau upon admission of responsibility by
persons served with municipal civil infractions ordinance violation notices.
   (B)   The fine schedule is supplemental to any fine identified in an
ordinance. To the extent the fine schedule is inconsistent with the ordinance,
the ordinance will govern.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.11 RECORDS AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The Bureau Clerk or other designated village official/employee shall
retain a copy of all municipal civil infractions ordinance violation notices
and citations, and shall account to the Village Council once a month or at such
other intervals as the Village Council may require concerning the number of
admissions and denials of responsibility for ordinance violations within the
jurisdiction of the Bureau and the amount of fines and costs collected with
respect to such violations.
   (B)   The civil fines and costs collected shall be delivered/paid to the
Village Treasurer or his or her designated representative, and shall be
deposited in the General Fund of the village.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 34.12 AVAILABILITY OF OTHER ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require the village to
initiate its municipal civil infraction ordinance enforcement activity through
the issuance of an ordinance violation notice.
   (B)   As to each ordinance violation designated as a municipal civil
infraction, the village may, at its discretion, proceed directly with the
issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation or take such other
enforcement action as is authorized by law.
(Ord. 149, passed 10-16-2018)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WASTEWATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Operation of garbage collection or removal service
   
50.03   Compliance
   
50.04   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food and miscellaneous waste resulting
from normal living, housekeeping, premises up-keep and ordinary mercantile
enterprises and trades, including, but not limited to, ashes, paper, or plastic
cartons, tin cans, packing boxes and papers, animal waste and other household
residue, but specifically excluding human waste, hazardous waste as regulated
by state or federal law, sheet metal, steel or white goods (excluding tin cans
of one gallon or less capacity), building materials, industrial refuse, rubber
parts, oils, solvents, paints, varnishes, lead acid batteries, and logs or
sticks in excess of one inch diameter or three feet in length.
   GARBAGE COLLECTION OR REMOVAL SERVICE. A business operated to collect or
remove garbage for a fee or other valuable compensation or consideration.
   LANDFILL. Any licensed facility for the final disposal of garbage.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
association, trust, municipality or other identifiable legal entity.
   RECEPTACLE. Any container (can, barrel, box, bag and the like) used for the
temporary storage of garbage outside the structure which generates such garbage
and intended to be handled by a commercial garbage collection or removal
service.
   TRANSFER STATION. Any licensed facility for the collection of garbage
immediately prior to its delivery to a landfill.
   UNIT. Any identifiable residential living structure or quarters or
commercial or industrial business or structure which generates garbage at any
time during the calendar year.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Calumet.
(Ord. 132, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 50.02 OPERATION OF GARBAGE COLLECTION OR REMOVAL SERVICE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a garbage collection or removal service within
the village unless such person complies with the following conditions.
      (1)   Such person shall use for garbage collection only vehicles designed
exclusively for such purpose and no other so as to avoid creating a nuisance on
the public ways of the village as a result of blowing of garbage, leakage,
falling of garbage or other public nuisance.
      (2)   Such person shall have a contract with or shall be able to dispose
of all collected garbage at a facility (landfill or transfer station) licensed
and approved by the state.
      (3)   Such person shall comply with, and be responsible for compliance
with, all applicable laws and regulations of the county, state, government of
the United States, and other applicable laws and regulations regarding the
operation of a business for the collection or removal of garbage.
   (B)   No person shall operate as a garbage collection service within the
village in contravention of the conditions and requirements of this chapter. No
person shall knowingly deliver to, or leave for pick-up by, a commercial
garbage collection or removal service if that service is in violation of this
chapter. Any person and the principals and agents of any person who shall be a
violation of this section shall be subject to the penalties as hereinafter
provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 132, passed 5-15-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.03 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   All persons within the village shall personally comply with the
requirements of this chapter in the collection, removal and disposal of garbage
or shall contract independently for their own garbage collection and removal
with a commercial garbage collection or removal service that complies with the
requirements and conditions of §
50.02.
   (B)   The owner, occupant, lessee or manager of every premises where garbage
accumulates or is generated shall cause to be provided for the premises
sufficient and proper receptacles for the storage and collection of all garbage
generated thereon. The receptacles shall be kept on the premises, out of public
view to the extent possible. If a contract exists with a commercial garbage
collection or removal service for the collection or removal of garbage, the
receptacles for garbage shall be placed out for pick-up not earlier than 8:00
p.m. in the evening of the day before scheduled pick-up nor later than 7:00
a.m. on the morning of the day scheduled for pick-up. All such containers must
be securely bound and closed. Receptacles shall be placed beside the premises
driveway or on or near the sidewalk serving the premises at the edge of the
street so as to be readily available to collectors. During the winter months
when snow is plowed, all garbage containers and receptacles shall be placed at
such times and in such locations as to be accessible for pick-up but so as not
to interfere with or be damaged by municipal snow removal activities. The
occupants of each unit shall be responsible for determining the time of
anticipated pick-up and the time of snow removal activity and for coordinating
the placing of all such garbage for pick-up so as not to interfere with or be
damaged by normal, scheduled snow removal activities.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Persons using commercial garbage collection or removal
services shall store all garbage for collection or removal in plastic bags,
properly sealed and in good condition and at their sole expense.
         (b)   The size of garbage bags shall not exceed a capacity of 30
gallons.
      (2)   Containers in which garbage bags are stored shall weigh less than
50 pounds.
      (3)   Receptacles that are broken, leaking, without handles, or in such
condition as to be unfit for use may be treated as garbage by the collection
service and disposed of as garbage.
   (D)   No ashes, garbage, rubbish, dirt or other refuse, waste or thing by
which its decomposition could become offensive to human beings or detrimental
to health, or create or tend to create a nuisance, shall be placed by any
person upon any vacant lot or land, public or private, within the village,
whether such lot be enclosed or otherwise, without the authorization of the
Village President.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person or his, her or its employees,
designees, or agents to deposit or place in any manner whatsoever in or upon
any sidewalk, street, alley or public place in the village garbage of any kind
whatsoever except as permitted by this chapter for scheduled pick-up by a
commercial garbage collection or removal service.
(Ord. 132, passed 5-15-2018) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   The village may establish and promulgate rules and regulations governing all
aspects of the collection of garbage within the village and the enforcement of
this chapter as permitted by law and pass the same by resolution.
(Ord. 132, passed 5-15-2018)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a civil infraction punishable by a fine of not more
than $500. Any person so convicted shall be liable for the costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. 132, passed 5-15-2018)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
Required Use of Public Sewers
   
51.015   Generally
   
51.016   Waste discharges prohibited
   
51.017   Wastewater discharges prohibited
   
51.018   Unapproved on-site
   
51.019   Public sewer connection
   
51.020   Allowable on-site systems
Building and Connections
   
51.035   Permit requirements
   
51.036   Permit classes
   
51.037   Connection costs
   
51.038   Building sewer connection
   
51.039   Use of old building sewers
   
51.040   Building sewer construction
   
51.041   Sewer evaluation
   
51.042   Clearwater sources not allowed
   
51.043   Building sewer connection
   
51.044   Connection approval
   
51.045   Construction safety
   
51.046   Connection charge
On-Site Wastewater Disposal
   
51.060   Waste disposal
   
51.061   Wastewater discharges
   
51.062   Wastewater disposal
   
51.063   Connection to wastewater disposal system
   
51.064   Additional requirements
Use of the Public Sewers
   
51.075   Sanitary sewers
   
51.076   Inspections
   
51.077   Storm sewers
   
51.078   Prohibitions and limitations
   
51.079   Variances
Control of Industrial Wastes Directed to Public Sewers
   
51.090   Industrial waste discharge characterization
   
51.091   Extension
   
51.092   Acceptance of industrial waste
   
51.093   Control manholes
   
51.094   Flow metering
   
51.095   Rate relief
   
51.096   Wastewater sampling
   
51.097   Monitoring charges
   
51.098   Pretreatment
   
51.099   Interceptors
   
51.100   Measuring and testing
   
51.101   Plan review
Right of Entry, Safety and Identification
   
51.115   Right of entry
   
51.116   Safety
   
51.117   Identification, right to enter easements
Damage or Tampering with Sewage Facilities
   
51.130   Willful, negligent or malicious damage
Violations
   
51.145   Written notice of violation
   
51.146   Liability for losses
   
51.147   Appeals
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in five days at 20°C, expressed in milligrams per liter as
determined in accordance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the
Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the buildings and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet (1.4 meters) outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. Also called HOUSE CONNECTION or SERVICE CONNECTION, means
the pipe extending from the building drain to the public sewer, also called
house connection or service connection, or from the building drain to the
septic tank.
   CHLORINE REQUIREMENT. The amount of chlorine, in milligrams per liter, which
must be added to sewage to produce a specified residual chlorine content in
accordance with procedures set forth in Standard Methods.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intended to receive both wastewater and storm or
surface water.
   EASEMENT. An acquired legal right for the specific use of land owned by
others.
   FLOATABLE OIL. Oil, fat or grease in a physical state such that it will
separate by gravity from wastewater by treatment in an approved pretreatment
facility. A wastewater shall be considered free of FLOATABLE OIL if it is
properly pretreated and the wastewater does not interfere with the collection
system.
   GARBAGE. The animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and service of foods.
   GROUND GARBAGE. Garbage that has been shredded to such degree that all
particles will be carried freely in suspension under the flow conditions
normally prevailing in public sewers with no particle greater than one-half
inch in any dimension.
   GROUNDWATER DISCHARGE PERMIT. The state’s groundwater discharge licensing
program which is administered by the Groundwater Quality Division of the
Department of Natural Resources under the village by Public Act 451 of 1994,
being M.C.L.A. § 324.3122, as amended, and under the direction of Part 22 and
which sets monitoring requirements and maximum contaminant levels for
discharges to the groundwater in excess of 10,000 gallons per day.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater from industrial processes or trade as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet, including storm sewers and combined sewer
overflows, into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other body of surface of
groundwater.
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. A liquid waste that is generated by a
typical residence with the assumed concentrations of 200 mg/l BOD and 240 mg/
l suspended solids.
   NPDES PERMIT (NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT). The
permit issued pursuant to the licensing method used to maintain effluent
quality standards by the Department of Natural Resources when authorizing the
discharge of a liquid pollutant into a surface water of the state, and includes
monitoring requirements and maximum contaminant levels for the discharge.
   ON-SITE SEPTIC SYSTEM. The structures, processes, equipment and arrangements
necessary to treat and discharge safely underground wastewaters originating on
the site from individual dwellings and/or structure, and shall include
facilities located off-site other than where sewage is generated.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST (O&M COSTS). The expenses related to the cost
of the operation, maintenance and administration of the wastewater treatment
facility or on-site septic system.
   PARTS PER MILLION. Also MILLIGRAMS PER LITER is a weight to weight ratio;
the parts per million value multiplied by a factor 8.345 shall be equivalent to
pounds per million gallons of water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH. The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration. The
concentration is the weight of hydrogen ions, in grams, per liter of solution.
Neutral water, for example, has a pH value of 7 and a hydrogen ion
concentration of 107.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer serving two or more residences and controlled
by a governmental agency or public utility.
   SANITARY SEWAGE.
      (1)   Synonymous with NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE and shall mean any
combination of liquid and water-carried wastes discharged from sanitary
plumbing facilities.
      (2)   SANITARY SEWAGE shall be assumed to have the following waste
parameters and concentrations:
         (a)   BOD: 200 mg/l;
         (b)   Suspended solids: 240 mg/l; and
         (c)   Other: substances as prohibited or limited in this chapter.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried wastes from
residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions together
with minor quantities of ground, storm and surface waters that are not admitted
intentionally.
   SEPTIC TANK.
      (1)   An underground storage tank that meets the requirements of the
State Department of Public Health Guidelines for Subsurface Sewage Disposal
(Dec. 1977), Part VIII.
      (2)   The minimum tank size shall be 1,000 gallons for a residence and a
commercial building with water use comparable to a residence and at least a
1,500 gallon for a commercial business with water use greater than a typical
residence.
   SEWAGE. The spent water of a community. The preferred term is WASTEWATER.
   SEWER. A pipe of conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SLUG. Any discharge of water or wastewater which, in concentration of any
given constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any period of duration
longer than 15 minutes more than five times the average 24 hour concentration
or flows during normal operation and shall adversely affect the collection
system and/or performance of the wastewater treatment works.
   STANDARD METHODS. The examination and analytical procedures set forth in the
most recent edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water, Sewage
and Industrial Wastes published jointly by the American Public Health
Association, the American Water Works Association and the Federation of Sewage
and Industrial Wastes Associations.
   STORM DRAIN. Sometimes termed STORM SEWER, shall mean a drain or sewer for
conveying water, groundwater, subsurface water or unpolluted water from any
source.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF. The portion of the rainfall that is drained into the
sewers.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS). Total suspended matter that either floats on the
surface of, or is in suspension in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and
that is removable by laboratory filtering as prescribed in Standard Methods for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater and referred to as NONFILTERABLE
RESIDUE.
   UNPOLLUTED WATER. Water of quality equal to or better than the effluent
criteria in effect or water that would not cause violation of receiving water
quality standard and would not be benefitted by discharge to the sanitary
sewers and wastewater treatment facilities provided.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Calumet or its duly authorized deputy, agent or
representative.
   WASTEWATER. The spent water of a community. From the standpoint of source,
it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried wastes form residences,
commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, together with any
groundwater, surface water and storm water that may be present.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any facility, appurtenant structure or
arrangement of devices used for the treatment of sewage and includes the sewer
system.
   WASTEWATER FACILITIES OR SEPTIC SYSTEM. The structures, equipment and
processes required to collect, carry away and treat domestic and industrial
wastes and dispose of the effluent.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT WORKS. An arrangement of devices and structures for
treating wastewater, industrial wastes and sludge.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
REQUIRED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.015 GENERALLY.
   The chapter pertains to all wastewater generators within the service area of
the village.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.016 WASTE DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
service area of the village any human or animal excrement, garbage or
objectionable waste.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.017 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge into any natural outlet within the service
area of the village any wastewater or other polluted waters, except where
suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.018 UNAPPROVED ON-SITE.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain within the service area of the village any non-Health Department
approved, on-site treatment and disposal system, such as any privy, privy
vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the
disposal of wastewater.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.019 PUBLIC SEWER CONNECTION.
   The owner(s) of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the service
area of the village abutting on any streets, alley or right-of-way in which
there is now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer,
is hereby required at the owner(s) expense to install suitable toilet
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, within 90 days
after the date of official notice to do so, provided that said public sewer is
within 200 feet (61.0 meters) of and adjacent to the property line.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.020 ALLOWABLE ON-SITE SYSTEMS.
   On-site disposal shall be allowed for all wastewater generators who do not
have a public sewer within 200 feet of the property line and who have a
construction permit from the State Department of Public Health or who have an
on-site system that was constructed and maintained by the village.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
BUILDING AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.035 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   No person(s) shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into, use,
alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the village.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.036 PERMIT CLASSES.
   (A)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   For industrial service; and
      (2)   For non-industrial service.
   (B)   (1)   In either case, the owner(s) or his or her agent shall make
application on a special form furnished by the village. The permit application
shall be supplemented by any plans, specifications or other information
considered pertinent in the judgment of the village.
      (2)   A permit and inspection fee of $10 for a residential or commercial
building sewer permit and $25 for an industrial building sewer permit shall be
paid to the village at the time the application is filed.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.037 CONNECTION COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner(s). The owner(s) shall indemnify the
village for any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by
the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.038 BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building discharging wastewater.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.039 USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only when
they are found on examination and test by the village to meet all requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.040 BUILDING SEWER CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The size, slope, alignment, materials and construction of a building
sewer, and the methods to be used in excavating, placing of the pipe, jointing,
testing and backfilling the trench shall all conform to the requirements of the
building and plumbing code or other applicable rules and regulations of the
village.
   (B)   Sewage facilities shall also conform to the Water Pollution Control
Federation Manual of Practice No. 9 - Design and Construction of Sanitary and
Storm Sewers and 10 - States Standards.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.041 SEWER EVALUATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building at an
elevation below the basement floor. In all buildings in which any building
drain is too low to permit gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage
carried by such building drain shall be lifted by an approved means and
discharged to the building sewer.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.042 CLEARWATER SOURCES NOT ALLOWED.
   No persons(s) shall make connection of roof downspouts, foundations, drains,
areaway drains, sump pumps, or other sources or surface runoff, or groundwater
to a building sewer or building drain which in turn is connected directly or
indirectly to a public sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.043 BUILDING SEWER CONNECTION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall conform to
the requirements of the aforesaid building and plumbing code and the other
applicable rules and regulations of the village. All such connections shall be
made gas-tight and water-tight and verified by proper testing. Any deviation
from the prescribed procedures and materials must be approved by the village
before installation.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.044 CONNECTION APPROVAL.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the village when
the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.
The connection and testing shall be made under the supervision of the village
of his or her representative.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.045 CONSTRUCTION SAFETY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the village.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.046 CONNECTION CHARGE.
   The village may levy a connection charge upon the application for connection
of a building sewer to the public sewer. The amount of this charge shall be
determined by a resolution adopted by the village. The amount shall be paid by
the person(s) owning the building served by the building sewer.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
ON-SITE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.060 WASTE DISPOSAL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited, in any unsanitary manner on public or private property within the
service area of the village, any wastewater, garbage or other objectionable
waste.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 WASTEWATER DISCHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful to discharge wastewater without approval
from the village, the Western Upper Peninsula District Health Department
(WUPDHD) or the Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
      (2)   Wastewater discharges to wastewater facilities within the service
area of the village are not authorized unless approved by the village in
accordance with provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Wastewater discharges to the wastewater disposal system shall meet the
limitations imposed in §§
51.075 through
51.079.
   (C)   Wastewater discharges of a non-sanitary nature, such as automobile
washwater from a gasoline station or service garage must be collected and
treated in a manner consistent with DNR rules and regulations and the BOCA
Building Code.
   (D)   No person shall connect roof, foundation, seepage, areaway, parking
lot, roadway or other surface runoff or groundwater drains to any sanitary
sewer or on-site septic system unless such connection is authorized in writing
by the village. The roof, foundation, areaway, parking lot, roadway or other
surface runoff or groundwater drains shall discharge to natural outlets or
storm sewers.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.062 WASTEWATER DISPOSAL.
   Except as provided in this chapter, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility within
the service area of the village intended or used for the disposal of
wastewater.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.063 CONNECTION TO WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM.
   (A)   Buildings.
      (1)   All properties provided a septic tank by the village shall connect
all occupied buildings and all building sewers to the septic tank. Building
drains shall not be connected to the septic tank.
      (2)   An unoccupied building may be connected to the village wastewater
facilities provided the owner requests such service and complies with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Buildings within the service area of the village shall not be used
for purposes which require sanitary wastewater facilities without said
facilities being connected to the village wastewater disposal system.
      (4)   All buildings within 200 feet of the service area of the village
wastewater system which have gravity sewers smaller than eight inches diameter,
shall connect all building sewers to the village facilities through a village
approved septic tank.
      (5)   Future construction: the building owner shall be responsible for
the installation of all necessary facilities related to the connection to the
village system upon the completion of the initial wastewater project proposed
by the village. Such facilities shall include the building sewer from the inlet
port of the septic tank to the building.
      (6)   A minimum tank size for a residence shall be 1,000 gallons. All
septic tanks residential or commercial shall meet the requirements of the State
Department of Public Health Guidelines for Subsurface Sewage Disposal (Dec.
1977), Part VIII.
   (B)   Special buildings (restaurants, garages, stores and the like).
      (1)   A grease interceptor conforming to PDI-G101(1) is required for all
food service preparation establishments.
      (2)   An oil separator is required for all floor drains from gas stations
or repair garages. The separator shall have a minimum capacity of six cubic
feet for the first 100 square feet of area to be drained, plus one cubic foot
for each additional 100 square feet of area to be drained into the separator.
(2) See Attachment 1 to this chapter, which is adopted by reference as if set
out at length herein, for sample specifications.
      (3)   The village in consultation with an engineer and/or the local
Health Department, shall decide which of the special buildings, if any, will
need the additional devices.
      (4)   Commercial businesses with water use greater than a typical
residence requires a septic tank or tanks with at least 1,500 gallon capacity.
For commercial buildings with water use comparable to a residence, a minimum
tank size of 1,000 gallons is required.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.064 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statements in this chapter shall be construed to interfere with any
additional requirements that may be imposed by the village, Western Upper
Peninsula District Health Department or any other office or agency having
proper jurisdiction:
   (A)   Testing and Rating Procedures for Grease Interceptors Plumbing and
Drainage Institute, 4352 Blvd. Place, Indianapolis, IN 46208; and
   (B)   BOCA Plumbing Code (1984) P-1002.5.2 Subparagraph 2.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.075 SANITARY SEWERS.
   No person(s) shall discharge or cause to be discharged any unpolluted waters
such as storm water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage or cooling
water to any sanitary sewer, except that storm water runoff from limited areas,
which may be polluted at times, may be discharged to the sanitary sewer by
permission of the village.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.076 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Authorized personnel from the village may make inspections throughout
the limits of the village boundaries for sump pump connections to public
sanitary sewers and illegal downspout connections.
   (B)   Violations will be reported to the village.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.077 STORM SEWERS.
   Storm water other than that exempted under §
51.075 and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to such sewers as
are specifically designated as storm sewers or to a natural outlet approved by
the village. Unpolluted industrial cooling water or process waters may be
discharged on approval of the village to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.078 PROHIBITIONS AND LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   Discharges of various substances, materials, waters or wastes to the
sewer systems shall be limited to concentrations or quantities which in the
judgment of the village will not harm the sewers, wastewater treatment process
or equipment, will not have an adverse effect on the groundwater, or will not
otherwise endanger, lives, limb, public property or constitute a nuisance. The
village may set limitations more restrictive than the limitations established
in the regulations below if, in its own opinion, such limitations are necessary
to meet the above prohibitions. In forming its opinion as to the acceptability
of a particular waste being discharged to the sanitary sewer, the village will
give consideration to such factors as the quantity of subject waste in relation
to flows and velocities in the sewers, materials or construction of the sewers,
the wastewater treatment process employed, the treatability of the waste in the
wastewater treatment plant, and other pertinent factors.
   (B)   The limitations or restrictions on materials or characteristics of
waste or wastewater discharged to the sanitary sewer, which shall not be
violated without approval of the village, are as follows:
      (1)   Wastewater having a temperature higher than 150°F (65°C);
      (2)   Wastewater containing more than 25 milligrams per liter of
petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oils, or products of mineral oil
origin;
      (3)   Gasoline, benzine, naptha, fuel oil or other flammable or explosive
liquid solid or gas;
      (4)   Water or wastes containing toxic or poisonous solids, liquids or
gases pursuant to the Clean Water Act § 307(a) (33 U.S.C. § 1317) in sufficient
quantity, either singularly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or
interfere with any waste treatment process, to constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, or to create a public nuisance in the receiving waters or the
wastewater treatment works;
      (5)   Wastewater from industrial plants containing floatable oil, fat or
grease;
      (6)   Solid or viscous substances in quantities of or in such size
capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other interference with
the proper operation of the wastewater facilities such as, but not limited to,
ashes, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, manure, hair and
fleshing, entrails, and paper dishes, cups, milk containers and the like,
either whole or ground by garbage grinders;
      (7)   (a)   Garbage that has not been properly shredded.
         (b)   Garbage grinders may be connected to sanitary sewers from homes,
hotels, institutions, restaurants, hospitals, catering establishments or
similar places where garbage originates from the preparation of food in
kitchens for the purpose of consumption on the premises or when served by
caterers;
      (8)   Water or wastes containing iron, chromium, copper, zinc and similar
objectionable or toxic substances in concentrations that would result in the
composite wastewater at the wastewater treatment works exceeding the limits
established by the approved village;
      (9)   Water or wastes containing odor-producing substances exceeding
limits which may be established by the village;
      (10)   Water or wastes having a pH lower than 6.0 or having other
corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel or the wastewater works;
      (11)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of such half-life or concentrations
as may exceed limits established by the village in compliance with state and
federal regulations;
      (12)   Quantities of flow, concentrations or both which constitute a slug
as defined herein;
      (13)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the wastewater treatment processes employed, or are
amendable to treatment only to such degree that the wastewater treatment
plant’s effluent cannot meet the requirements of the village’s groundwater
discharge or surface water discharge permits;
      (14)   Water or wastes which, by interaction with other waste or wastes
in the public sewer system, release obnoxious gases, which interfere with the
collection system or create a condition deleterious to structures and treatment
processes; and
      (15)   Materials(s) which exert(s) or cause(s):
         (a)   Unusual BOD, COD (chemical oxygen demand) or chlorine
requirements in such quantities as to constitute a significant load on the
wastewater treatment works;
         (b)   Unusual flow volumes of concentrated wastes constituting slugs
as defined herein;
         (c)   Unusual concentrations of inert suspended solids (such as
fuller’s earth, lime slurries and lime residues) or dissolved solids (such as
sodium sulfate); and
         (d)   Excessive discoloration (such as dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions).
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.079 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variance in its sole discretion may be issued upon application to the
village by a wastewater system user for industrial waste of unusual strength or
character, either before or after pretreatment.
   (B)   Provided, however, that there is no impairment of the functioning of
the sewage disposal works by reason of the admission of such wastes, and no
extra costs are incurred by the village without recompense by the person
requesting admission of said industrial waste into the sewage works.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
CONTROL OF INDUSTRIAL WASTES DIRECTED TO PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.090 INDUSTRIAL WASTE DISCHARGE CHARACTERIZATION.
   (A)   (1)   Within three months after passage of this chapter each person
who discharges industrial wastes to a public sewer shall prepare and file a
report with the village according to standards prescribed by the village.
      (2)   The report shall include pertinent information relating to the
quantity and characteristics of the wastes discharged to the wastewater system.
   (B)   Similarly, each person desiring to make a new connection to a public
sewer for the purpose of discharging industrial waste shall prepare and file
with the village a similar report that shall include actual or predicted
information relating to the quantity and characteristics of the waste to be
discharged.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.091 EXTENSION.
   When it can be demonstrated that circumstances exist which would create an
unreasonable burden on the person to comply with the time schedule imposed by §
51.090, a request for extension of time may be present for consideration of the
village.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.092 ACCEPTANCE OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE.
   If any waters or wastes are discharged or proposed to be discharged to the
public sewers, and said water or wastes contain substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated in §
51.078 and which, in the judgment of the village, may have deleterious effect
upon the sewage system, processes, equipment or receiving waters, or which
otherwise create a hazard to life or health, or constitute public nuisance, the
village may in its sole discretion:
   (A)   Reject the wastes;
   (B)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers;
   (C)   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge; and/or
   (D)   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and treating the
wastes not covered by existing taxes or sewer charges.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.093 CONTROL MANHOLES.
   (A)   Each person discharging industrial wastes into a public sewer shall
construct and maintain one or more control manholes or access points to
facilitate observation, measurement and sampling of his or her wastes,
including domestic sewage.
   (B)   Control manholes or access facilities shall be located and built in a
manner acceptable to the village. If measuring devices are to be permanently
installed, they shall be a type acceptable to the village.
   (C)   Control manholes, access facilities and related equipment shall be
installed by the wastewater system user discharging the waste, at his or her
expense, and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be in safe condition,
accessible and in proper operating condition at all times. Plans for
installation of the control manholes or access facilities and related equipment
shall be approved by the village prior to the beginning of construction.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.094 FLOW METERING.
   The volume of flow used for computing the industrial waste collection and
treatment charge shall be the metered water consumption of the wastewater
system user as shown in the records of meter readings maintained by the owner
except as noted in §
51.096.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.095 RATE RELIEF.
   In the event that a wastewater system user discharging industrial waste in
the public sewers produces evidence satisfactory to the village that more than
10% of the total annual volume of water used for all purposes does not reach
the public sewer, then the determination of the water consumption to be used in
computing the waste volume discharged into the public sewer may be made a
matter of agreement between the village and the wastewater system user.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.096 WASTEWATER SAMPLING.
   (A)   (1)   Devices for measuring the volume of waste discharged may be
required by the village if this volume cannot otherwise be determined. Metering
devices for determining the volume of waste shall be installed, owned and
maintained by the wastewater system user discharging the waste.
      (2)   Following approval and installation, such meters may not be removed
without the consent of the village.
   (B)   (1)   Samples shall be collected in such a manner as to be
representative of the composition of the wastes.
      (2)   The sampling may be accomplished either manually or by the use of
mechanical equipment acceptable to the village.
   (C)   (1)   Installation, operation and maintenance of the sampling
facilities shall be the responsibility of the wastewater system user
discharging the waste and shall be subject to the approval of the village.
Access to sampling locations shall be granted to the village or its duly
authorized representatives at all times.
      (2)   Every care shall be exercised in the collection of samples to
ensure their preservation in a state comparable to that at the time the sample
was taken.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.097 MONITORING CHARGES.
   (A)   The village may, at its option, install such structures and equipment,
and perform monitoring, sampling and laboratory analyses called for above.
   (B)   In such cases all structures and equipment shall be considered a part
of the wastewater treatment works and the costs of construction, operation and
maintenance of same shall be incorporated in the service charge of the
industrial user.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.098 PRETREATMENT.
   When, in the opinion of the village, and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part
403 and other applicable state and federal regulations, pretreatment is
required to modify or eliminate wastes that are harmful to the structures
processes or operation of the wastewater treatment facility, the wastewater
system user so discharging shall provide, at his or her expense, such
preliminary treatment or process facilities as the village may determine
necessary to render his or her waste acceptable for admission to the public
sewers.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.099 INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptor devices shall be provided by
the owner, at his or her expense, when, in the opinion of the village, they are
necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes as described in the chapter,
or any flammable wastes, sands or other harmful ingredients.
      (2)   Except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarter or dwelling units discharging normal domestic strength waste.
   (B)   All interceptors shall be located as to be readily and easily
accessible for cleaning and inspection.
   (C)   In the maintaining of these interceptors, the owner(s) shall be
responsible for the proper removal and disposal by appropriate means of the
captured material and shall maintain records of the dates and means of disposal
which are subject to review by the village.
   (D)   Any removal and handling of the collected materials not performed by
owner(s) personnel must be performed by currently licensed waste disposal
firms.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.100 MEASURING AND TESTING.
   (A)   (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
the waters and wastes to which reference is made in this chapter shall be
determined in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 and in accordance with the
latest edition of Standard Methods for Examination of Water and Wastewater,
published by the American Public Health Association.
      (2)   Sampling methods, location, times, durations and frequencies are to
be determined on an individual basis subject to approval by the village.
   (B)   (1)   Determination of the character and concentration of the
industrial wastes shall be made by the wastewater system user discharging them,
or his or her agent, as designated and required by the village.
      (2)   The village may also make its own analysis on the waters and these
determination shall be binding as a basis for treatment service charges.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.101 PLAN REVIEW.
   Plans, specifications and any other pertinent information relating to
proposed flow equalization, pretreatment or processing facilities shall be
submitted for review of the village prior to the start of their construction if
the effluent from such facilities is to be discharged into the public sewers.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
RIGHT OF ENTRY, SAFETY AND IDENTIFICATION
§ 51.115 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   (A)   Duly authorized agents of the village, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter all properties for the purposed
investigations to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   They shall have no village to inquire into any process beyond that
point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of discharge to the
sewers, waterways or facilities for wastewater treatment.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.116 SAFETY.
   While performing the necessary work on private premises, investigators shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the company.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.117 IDENTIFICATION, RIGHT TO ENTER EASEMENTS.
   Duly authorized agents of the village, bearing proper credentials with
identification, shall be permitted to enter all private properties through
which the village has duly negotiated easement for the purpose of repair and
maintenance of any portion of the sewage works lying within said easement, all
subject to the terms, if any, in the agreement.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
DAMAGE OR TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE FACILITIES
§ 51.130 WILLFUL, NEGLIGENT OR MALICIOUS DAMAGE.
   (A)   No person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break, damage,
destroy, uncover deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or equipment
which is a part of the sewage facility.
   (B)   Any persons violating this provision shall be subject to immediate
arrest under charges of disorderly conduct or malicious destruction of property
as the case may be.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
VIOLATIONS
§ 51.145 WRITTEN NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any such notice given shall be in writing and served in person or by
registered or certified mail.
   (B)   The notice shall be sent to the last address of the violator known to
the village, or its authorized designee.
   (C)   Where the address is unknown, service may be made upon the owner of
record of the property involved.
   (D)   If satisfactory action is not taken in the time allotted by the
notice, the penalties in §
51.999 shall be implemented.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.146 LIABILITY FOR LOSSES.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall become liable to
the village for any expenses, loss or damage occasioned by reason of such
violation which the village may suffer as a result thereof.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.147 APPEALS.
   The village shall hear appeals from sewer users on matters concerning
interpretation and execution of the provisions of this chapter at any monthly
meeting of the village.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found in violation of this chapter or any requirement of a
permit issued hereunder, may be served with a written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit for compliance.
   (B)   Any person who continues to violate the provisions of this chapter
beyond the time limit stated in the notice of violation, may be charged with
commission of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not
more than $100 for each residential user, and $500 for each commercial or
industrial user, for each day the violation continues.
   (C)   Each day or portion thereof that a violation continues shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 130, passed 5-19-1992)
CHAPTER 52: WASTEWATER
Section
   
52.01   Preamble
   
52.02   Definitions
   
52.03   General
   
52.04   Billing practice
   
52.05   Funds from sewer service charges
   
52.06   Unit cost categories
   
52.07   Debt service charges
   
52.08   Measurements of strength and volume
   
52.09   Operation and maintenance charges
   
52.10   Rates and charges
§ 52.01 PREAMBLE.
   The fees, rates and charges for using the village wastewater disposal system
facilities shall be upon the conditions and in the amounts set forth in this
chapter, except where this chapter is declared inapplicable for a particular
user by a written contract providing for alternative charges between such user
and the village.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADMINISTRATIVE COST. The cost to administer the wastewater disposal system,
including billing and collecting charges, audits of accounts and insurance.
   BOD (DENOTING BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter in five days at 20°C, expressed in
milligrams per liter, as determined in accordance with the latest edition of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   CAPITAL COST. All reasonable and necessary costs and expenses incurred by
the village in planning, designing, financing and constructing disposal system
facilities, including, but not limited to costs and expenses for obtaining
necessary permits, licenses, approvals and grants for design and construction
costs; fees for legal and consulting services; and acquisition.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Those commercial establishments, business establishments or
establishments seeking profit which contribute normal domestic sewage strength
waste to the treatment facility.
   DEBT SERVICE. The principal and/or interest necessary to pay bonded or other
indebtedness related to capital costs.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. The charge related to the principal and interest
necessary to pay bonded or other indebtedness related to capital costs for
facilities owned or operated by the village.
   DOMESTIC USER or RESIDENTIAL USER. The discharge coming from domiciles in
the service area which contribute that strength equal to or less than normal
domestic waste.
   FLOW. The quantity of sewage expressed in gallons or cubic feet per 24
hours.
   GENERAL MUNICIPAL FLOW. The total sewage flow discharged to the wastewater
disposal system facilities, minus the flows from industrial users, other
municipalities and contract users and therefore, includes sanitary wastes and
infiltration. GENERAL MUNICIPAL FLOW includes flow from domestic users,
commercial users, institutional users and government users.
   GENERAL MUNICIPAL USER.
      (1)   Any user discharging sewage to the general municipal flow other
than industrial users and other contract users.
      (2)   This category of user includes as subcategories: domestic users;
commercial users; institutional users; and governmental users, which are not
contract users.
   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Includes those establishments who function in the
administration and/or execution of governmental programs as well as the office
of executives, legislative bodies and agencies which provide general support
services for government.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A user who discharges to the municipal wastewater disposal
system liquid wastes resulting from the processes employed in industry,
manufacturing or from the development of any natural resource. Industrial
wastewater discharges are typically more concentrated than normal domestic
strength wastewaters.
   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Those establishments engaged in activities of a non-
economic nature, frequently being the performance of services for the general
public (health, educational, social), and not classified as a governmental or
commercial user in this chapter.
   LOAD. Quantities of sewage characteristics such as BOD, SS and other
constituents as expressed in milligrams per liter (mg/l) or pounds per 24 hours
(lbs./24 hours).
   NORMAL DOMESTIC STRENGTH WASTE. A liquid waste that is generated by a
typical residence, with an assumed concentration of 200 mg/l BOD, 240 mg/
l suspended solids and 30 mg/l ammonia.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS (O&M COSTS). The expense related to the
costs of the operation, maintenance and replacement of the wastewater disposal
system facilities.
   REPLACEMENT COSTS. Costs related to the expenditures for obtaining and
installing equipment, accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary to
maintain the capacity and performance during the useful life of the wastewater
disposal system facilities for which such facilities were designed and
constructed. The term OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE includes replacement.
   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or buildings
are used primarily as a domicile for one or more persons including dwelling
units such as detached, semi-detached, rural houses, mobile homes and multiple-
family dwellings.
   SANITARY WASTES. The liquid and water-carried wastes discharged from
sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE. The liquid-carried waste products from whatever source derived,
together with such groundwater infiltration and surface water as may be
present.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage, industrial waste and other
waste liquids.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The aggregate of all the charges including the user
charges, debt service charges and other sewer related charges that are billed
periodically to users of the wastewater disposal system facilities.
   SEWER SYSTEMS. Pipelines or conduits, pumping stations, force mains and all
other devices and appliances appurtenant thereto, used for collecting or
conducting sewage.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user who discharges sewage which
constitutes greater than 10% of the design flow or design pollutant loading of
the wastewater treatment plant.
   SS (DENOTING SUSPENDED SOLIDS). Solids that either float on the surface of,
or are in suspension in water, sewage or other liquids and which are removable
by laboratory filtering, in accordance with the latest edition of Standards for
the Examination of Water and Wastewater.
   USER. Any person, firm, corporation or other entity, whether municipal or
otherwise, discharging sewage into the village disposal system facilities.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of wastewater disposal system
facilities for the cost of operation and maintenance and replacement of such
facilities.
   USER CLASS. Refers to one of the following: residential user; commercial
user; industrial user; institutional user; and/or governmental user.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Calumet, Houghton County, Michigan.
   WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM. Any facility, appurtenant structures or
arrangement of devices used for the treatment of sewage, and includes the sewer
system and any private disposal systems improved by federal funds obtained
through the village.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.03 GENERAL.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this chapter to recover from the users of the
wastewater disposal system facilities, on an equitable and proportional basis,
the overall share of the wastewater disposal system facilities costs attributed
to such users, and to provide funds for the operation and maintenance, debt
service, administration, replacement and improvements of the wastewater
disposal system.
   (B)   The sewer service charges provided in this section are hereby levied
and assessed upon each parcel of land, building or premises having any
connection with, or having a discharge into, whether directly or indirectly,
the sanitary sewer system. No free services will be granted. Equal rates of
treatment for all users will be enforced based upon the user charge system.
   (C)   The Village Council shall at least annually determine and fix by
resolution, the unit costs for use of the wastewater disposal system facilities
on the basis of number of users, flow, BOD, SS, ammonia and any other
pollutant, taking into consideration the cost of treatment of sewage and may
increase or decrease such cost as often and in such amounts as may reasonably
be required to accomplish the purposes of this chapter based upon the user
charge system.
   (D)   The Village Council shall compute the amount due the village for sewer
user charges and render a statement thereof, at the intervals determined by
resolution of the Village Council to the owner or occupant of any premises
using the wastewater disposal system facilities or any component thereof. Such
charges shall be pursuant to the most recent resolution establishing charges
and rates in accordance with this chapter. All amounts due hereunder shall be
payable at the Village Office or other designated locations. Equal rates for
OM&R will be charged for all users of the system.
   (E)   The village shall each year provide an internal audit report that will
address specific areas of concern including: the need to generate sufficient
revenue through user charges to cover total O&M costs; debt service costs; the
necessity of maintaining a proportionate system of user charges pursuant to
current federal regulations; and the need to review the replacement account to
determine its proper level of funding.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.04 BILLING PRACTICE.
   (A)   The debt service charge, administration charge, operation and
maintenance charge and any required surcharge provided in this chapter shall be
included as separate items on the periodic billing statement. The bill will be
payable in accordance with the schedule established by the village.
   (B)   All portions of the sewer service charge shall be payable at the time
the bill for the same is issued.
   (C)   (1)   Charges levied in accordance with this chapter shall be a debt
due to the village and shall be a lien upon the property. If this debt is not
paid within 20 days after it shall be due and payable, it shall be deemed
delinquent and may be recovered by civil action in the name of the village
against the property owner, the person or both. On all delinquent bills, the
village shall include a charge at the rate of 3% per month from date of
billing. If full payment is not received prior to September 15, the delinquent
bill will be forwarded to the county for placement on the succeeding tax roll.
      (2)   In the event of failure to pay sewer service charges after they
become delinquent, the village shall have the right to remove or close sewer
connections and enter upon the property for accomplishing such purposes.
      (3)   The expenses of such removal or closing, as well as the expense of
restoring service, shall likewise be a debt to the village and lien upon the
property and may be recovered by civil action in the name of the village
against the property owner, the person or both.
      (4)   Sewer service shall not be restored until all charges, including
the expense of service removal and restoration, shall have been paid.
      (5)   Change of ownership or occupancy of premises found delinquent shall
not be cause for reducing or eliminating these penalties.
   (D)   The village shall annually notify each user in conjunction with a
regular bill of the breakdown of the rates and user charges related to the
wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.05 FUNDS FROM SEWER SERVICE CHARGES.
   The funds received from the collection of the charges authorized by the
chapter shall be deposited as collected in the Wastewater Disposal System
Operating Fund and shall be used for debt service, operation and maintenance,
replacement, administration and improvements to the wastewater disposal system
except that the portion of any such funds which is limited to a particular use
by applicable state and federal rules or regulations shall be used in
compliance with such restrictions. Separate accounts for each activity shall be
maintained.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.06 UNIT COST CATEGORIES.
   The cost to be recovered pursuant to this chapter and the costs to be fixed
by the village in §
52.03(C) shall be determined and allocated in each of the following categories:
   (A)   Category A, Debt Service for Wastewater Disposal System Facilities
Project. This shall be the amount of the annual interest and principal cost
necessary to retire the bond or bonds issued to pay for the local share of any
necessary capital improvement projects along with any other interest and
principal related to capital costs for facilities owned by the village;
   (B)   Category B, Operation and Maintenance; Wastewater Disposal System
Facilities. This shall be the annual cost of operating and maintaining the
wastewater disposal system facilities, including an amount for replacement
costs of equipment, which shall be segregated in a separate fund; and
   (C)   Category C, Administration of Wastewater Disposal System Facilities.
This shall be the annual cost of administrating the wastewater disposal system,
including billing and collecting charges, audits of accounts and insurance.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.07 DEBT SERVICE CHARGES.
   The debt service charges for capital improvement projects (§
52.06(A) Category A) shall be determined by the flow measured by the water
meter at each user’s premises. The unit cost for flow shall be calculated by
dividing the Category A (Debt Service) cost by the total metered flow sold to
users of the wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.08 MEASUREMENTS OF STRENGTH AND VOLUME.
   (A)   When required by the village, each wastewater system user who
discharges abnormally high strength or high volume wastewater shall install
suitable wastewater measuring, sampling and analyzing devices in compliance
with Chapter 51 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   The village shall not require the installation of measuring devices
where the village determines that a user has a wastewater with concentrations
of BOD and ammonia that are no greater than the constituents in normal domestic
strength waste and a satisfactory method and location exists for sampling and
determining the total daily sewage flow. In such cases, the charges to those
users shall be based on the flow rates as determined and on BOD, suspended
solids and ammonia load equal to the average load of the normal domestic
strength waste.
   (C)   Each user required by the village to install and maintain wastewater
monitoring facilities, shall submit to the village a monthly report of daily
flow, BOD, suspended solids, and ammonia or other constituent on a form
approved by the village. This report shall be used for billing purposes and
shall be submitted prior to the fifteenth day of the subsequent month.
   (D)   (1)   The village shall have the right to periodically or continuously
inspect the monitoring facilities, to measure, sample and analyze the samples
obtained by the user. The village may, at its direction, charge the user for
any monitoring service performed, such charges shall be at cost.
      (2)   In the event of any discrepancy between the flows or loads
determined by the village and the user, the values determined by the village
shall be used for the billing purposes.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.09 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE CHARGES.
   (A)   (1)   The charge for operation and maintenance shall be determined by
the flow measured by the water meter at each user’s premises and in cases of
use by other than general municipal users, by the pollutant concentrations of
the sewage.
      (2)   The unit cost for flow shall be calculated by dividing the Category
B (Operation and Maintenance) cost by the total metered flow sold to users of
the wastewater disposal system.
   (B)   Users discharging wastewater exceeding the BOD, suspended solids (SS)
and/or ammonia parameters of the general municipal flow shall pay an additional
charge pro rata. The unit cost for BOD, SS and ammonia shall be calculated by
apportioning the Category B (Operation and Maintenance) cost to flow, BOD, SS
and ammonia; and then dividing each cost so apportioned by the total billable
flow, BOD, SS and ammonia received at the wastewater treatment facility in that
year. The user charge shall be the sum of the products obtained by multiplying
the unit costs as determined above by the user’s actual flow, BOD, SS and
ammonia during the billing period.
   (C)   In addition to the charges provided for herein, the village must
impose a surcharge on any user pursuant to Chapter 51 of this code of
ordinances or based on some other pollutant loading factor which requires
special treatment at the wastewater treatment works.
   (D)   (1)   Facilities not having a water supply that is metered or if the
meter readings are not available, shall be charged based on the flow
anticipated from a typical single-family dwelling. The typical single-family
dwelling shall be assigned a flow value of 1 and shall pay for the wastewater
disposal system use on a fixed monthly charge basis.
      (2)   Using this basic charge, sewer service charges for the other than
residential dwellings shall be calculated by the village as follows:
         (a)   Each unit of the townhouse shall have a value of 1;
         (b)   Condominiums, duplex units and apartments shall have a value of
1.0 for each living unit;
         (c)   Mobile homes shall have a value of 1.0;
         (d)   Commercial and industrial building units shall be assigned a
minimum value of 1 living unit;
         (e)   Other buildings and structures not listed in the table below
shall be assigned a value of 1 for each multiple of the estimated annual
wastewater discharge anticipated from the typical single- family dwelling;
         (f)   All non-family dwellings may be required to install and maintain
water meters at no charge to the village. The village reserves the right to
require annual tests to ensure accurate flow.
      (3)   The following is a listing of standards used in assigning the flow
value for various commercial, public and institutional facilities.
Type of Facility Parameter Flow Value
Type of Facility                           Parameter                 Flow Value
Arenas                                     100 seats                 1
Automobile service center                  2 service bays            1
Barber shop                                Each                      1
Bible camp                                 5 campers (persons)       1
Boarding house                             3 beds                    1
Bowling alleys                             3 alleys                  1
Cabins, modern (rental units and part of a 3 units                   2
resort)
Campground w/central bath facilities       2 sites                   1
Car wash                                   Each                      30
Car wash (self service)                    1 stall                   1
Churches                                   250 seats                 1
Club house (shower heads)                  Each                      12
Cocktail lounge                            25 seats                  1
General office building                    2,400 sq. ft. floor space 1
Hospitals                                  1 bed                     1
Laundromats or laundry rooms               1 machine                 1
Motels and hotels (assume 2 persons per    2 rooms                   1
room)
Recreational vehicle campground (with      3 hookups                 2
individual sewer hookups)
Resorts (with housekeeping)                3 units                   2
Restaurant (24-hour service)               12 seats                  1
Restaurant (drive-in)                      9 parking spaces          1
Restaurant (w/cocktail lounge)             9 seats                   1
Retail stores                              3,000 sq. ft. floor space 1
Rooming house                              7 beds                    1
Schools (elementary)                       20 students               1
Schools (secondary)                        15 students               1
Service station (gas pumping only)         Each                      1
Service station w/service center and car   Each                      8
wash
Swimming pools                             27 swimmers               1
Theater                                    75 seats                  1
Theater (drive-in)                         55 parking spaces         1
Trailer park or campground w/central       2 sites                   1
bathhouse
Trailer park or campground w/flush toilets 3 sites                   1
and no showers
Warehouses                                 14 employees              1
 
   (E)   There shall be a minimum monthly sewer service charge that shall be
equal to the debt service charge based on the flow anticipated from a typical
single-family dwelling plus the administrative charge. The minimum charge shall
be levied when no wastewater is discharged by a user during one complete
billing period.
   (F)   Unmetered users may install their own meter and be charged in the same
manner as metered customers if the meter is installed and maintained pursuant
to all village rules and regulations.
   (G)   If a substantial portion of the water utilized by any user is not
discharged into the sewer system, the volume of such water shall be deducted in
computing the sewer use charge, provided a separate meter is installed to
measure such volume. The user desiring to install such separate meter shall
make application and payment for the meter to the village and engage, at his or
her own expense, a plumber to affect the necessary piping changes and install
the couplings so the meter can be set. The user may also make direct payment to
the distributor for the necessary meter provided it is approved by the village.
(Ord. 129, passed 5-19-1992)
§ 52.10 RATES AND CHARGES.
   The following rates and charges for sewer use shall be effective for the
wastewater facilities proposed by EPA Project No. C26-3433-01.
Administrative charge                   $0.85 per user per month
Debt service charge                     $0.95 per 1,000 gallons billable flow
Minimum monthly charge                  $6 per month per user
                                        The combined unit cost based upon flow,
Operation and maintenance costs         biological oxygen demand (BOD) and
                                        ammonia shall be $0.80 per 1,000
                                        gallons billable flow
Surcharge for pollutant loadings
greater than the general municipal flow  
shall be:
   Ammonia                           $___/lb.
   BOD                               $0.038/lb.
   Suspended solids                  $0.032/lb.
 
(Res. passed 5-19-1992)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
72.   JUNKED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Limiting and controlling the placement of snow, ice or other material
in the streets
Adoption of Codes
   
70.15   Adoption of Michigan Vehicle Code
   
70.16   Adoption of Uniform Traffic Code
 
   
70.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01 LIMITING AND CONTROLLING THE PLACEMENT OF SNOW, ICE OR OTHER MATERIAL
IN THE STREETS.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or occupant of premises in the village
shall take or remove, or cause to be taken or removed, any snow, ice or other
material from any property owned, controlled or occupied by him or her and pile
or dump the same within the lines of any street of the village, except as
herein provided.
   (B)   Any such person, firm, corporation or occupant of premises in the
village may take and remove snow and ice from a driveway 12 feet or less in
width, on such property and pile same in a public street, but only along,
parallel with and as a part of the bank of snow formed by the village in its
snow plowing operations. Such snow or ice shall be piled on the bank
immediately in front of and adjacent to the property so owned or occupied and
in no event shall the snow or ice so placed extend more than two feet six
inches further into the roadway than the existing bank.
   (C)   No person, firm, corporation or occupant of premises in the village
shall take or remove, or cause to be removed, any snow, ice or other material
from any public walk or from the premises owned or under the control of any
person, firm, corporation or occupant, or from the banks of snow formed by the
village in its plowing operations and pile or dump the same within the street
right-of-way in such manner as to reduce the width between the banks of snow
formed by the village in its plowing operations by more than two feet six
inches, without first arranging at his or her expense for the removal of such
excess snow or ice from the street right-of-way.
   (D)   Snow, ice or other material moved, piled or dumped in violation of
this section may be moved by the village and the expense of such removal
charged to the party found in violation of this section.
(Ord. 92, passed 1-19-1965) Penalty, see §
70.99
ADOPTION OF CODES
§ 70.15 ADOPTION OF MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   Code and amendments and revisions adopted. The Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923, as revised and
amended, and all future amendments and revisions to the Michigan Vehicle Code
when they are effective in this state are incorporated and adopted by
reference.
   (B)   Reference in Code. References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to “local
authorities” shall mean the Village of Calumet.
   (C)   Notice to be published. The Village Clerk shall publish this section
in the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice
stating the purpose of the Michigan Vehicle Code and the fact that a complete
copy of the code is available to the public at the office of the Village Clerk
for inspection.
(Ord. 151, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 70.16 ADOPTION OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   Code and amendments and revisions adopted. The Uniform Traffic Code
for Cities, Townships and Villages as promulgated by the director of the
Michigan Department of State Police pursuant to the Administrative Procedures
Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 through 24.328,
and made effective on October 30, 2002, and all future amendments and revisions
to the Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated and effective in this
state are incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Reference in Code. References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages to a “governmental unit” shall mean the Village of
Calumet.
   (C)   Notice to be published. The Village Clerk shall publish this section
in the manner required by law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice
stating the purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages and the fact that a complete copy of the code is available to the
public at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 150, passed 12-18-2018)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference; provided, however, that the village may not enforce any provision of
the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days.
   (B)   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 92, passed 1-19-1965; Ord. 150, passed 12-18-2018; Ord. 151, passed 12-
18-2018)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Winter Parking Ban
   
71.01   Removal of vehicle
   
71.02   Exception
   
71.03   Removing obstruction
   
71.04   Storage
WINTER PARKING BAN
§ 71.01 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   All members of the Police Department of the village, the
Superintendent of the Street Department of the village and/or his or her
designee or designees from among the employees of the Street Department, and
persons designated for this purpose from time to time by the Village Council by
resolution are hereby authorized to issue parking citations and to remove and
tow away, or have removed and towed away by a commercial towing service, any
motor vehicle or other vehicle illegally parked in any place where such parked
vehicle:
   (A)   Creates or constitutes a traffic hazard;
   (B)   Blocks the use of a fire hydrant or obstructs or may obstruct the
movement of any emergency vehicle; and/or
   (C)   Which remains on village streets during periods of time which are
designated from time to time by the Village Council as periods of time when all
vehicles shall be removed from the streets for snow removal purposes.
(Ord. 109, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 71.02 EXCEPTION.
   During periods of time designated by the Village Council that require all
vehicles be removed from the streets for snow removal, an owner of a property
outside of the Downtown Development Authority boundaries, may park, or
authorize to park, registered and insured vehicles upon the sidewalk
immediately adjacent to that property.
(Ord. 109, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 71.03 REMOVING OBSTRUCTION.
   When clearly marked as authorized parking only and identifying the towing
company to be used, the owner or his or her agent of a property may remove any
vehicle or obstruction from a sidewalk immediately adjacent to that property.
The owner of any obstruction shall be liable for any costs incurred removing
the obstruction.
(Ord. 109, passed 10-15-2019)
§ 71.04 STORAGE.
   Motor vehicles or vehicles so towed away for illegal parking shall be stored
in a safe place and shall be restored to the owner or operator of such vehicle
upon payment of a fee set by a fee schedule established or amended from time to
time by the Village Council, together with payment or reimbursement of the cost
of towing and payment of all sums owed to the village for traffic violations or
illegal parking by the owner of the impounded motor vehicle or vehicles.
(Ord. 109, passed 10-15-2019)
CHAPTER 72: JUNKED AND ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Purpose
   
72.02   Regulations
   
72.03   Nuisance
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to limit and restrict the outdoor storage,
parking, repair or unreasonable accumulation of unused, partially dismantled or
nonoperating vehicles, or new or unused parts therefrom, upon premises within
the village; to provide restrictions concerning the repair of vehicles; and
thereby to avoid injury and hazards to children and others attracted to such
vehicles and the devaluation of property values and the psychological ill
effects of the presence of such vehicles upon residents on, and owners of,
adjoining properties.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 72.02 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or store upon any premises
within the village, any vehicle, or new or used parts therefrom unless one or
more of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Such vehicle or parts are located within a fully enclosed
structure;
      (2)   Permission is first obtained therefor from the Village Council or
its designee; with such permission to be granted only in special hardship cases
beyond the control of the applicant, where special or peculiar circumstances
exist, where no adjoining property owner is adversely affected thereby, and
where the spirit and purpose of this chapter are still observed;
      (3)   The vehicle is licensed by the state, is an operable vehicle and
has all of its main components parts attached;
      (4)   The vehicle is located in a duly licensed junkyard or salvage yard
or in a new or used car dealer’s lot;
      (5)   The vehicle (which taken together with other such vehicles on the
owners’ property, shall not exceed four in number at any one time) is awaiting
repairs at a service station, garage, paint shop or body shop, providing they
are locked, licensed by the state, are not a public nuisance and are not upon
the premises for more than 14 days in any one year; and/or
      (6)   The vehicle, although temporarily inoperable because of minor
mechanical failure, has substantially all of its main component parts attached,
is licensed by the state, is not in any manner a dismantled vehicle and the
premises where the vehicle is located do not contain the vehicle for longer
than 14 days in any one year.
   (B)   No repairing, redesigning, modifying or dismantling work or operations
shall be allowed upon any vehicle or parts thereof upon any public right-of-way
or public property or on any property used primarily for residential purposes
except such as shall be accomplished within fully enclosed buildings and will
not constitute a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining property owners or
occupants. Any such work shall not, however, consist of any major repair,
redesigning, modifying or dismantling work, but only such occasional minor work
by the owner thereof as may infrequently be required to maintain the vehicle or
parts thereof in normal operating condition.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.03 NUISANCE.
   Any parking, storage, placement or operations in violation of the provisions
of this chapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance, may be enjoined
and may subject the owner or possessor thereof or the owner of the real
property where the vehicle is located to civil damages or the fines and
penalties provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-17-2007)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of
this chapter shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment in the county jail for not to
exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a
violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   In addition to the imposition of the foregoing fines and penalties,
any police officer of the village, or such other officer as the Village Council
may designate from time to time, may cause any vehicle or parts thereof, which
contravene the provisions of this chapter to be removed from the premises where
the vehicle is located, impounded and destroyed or sold for junk, in the
discretion of the officer, and the cost thereof assessed against the owner or
possessor of the vehicle or parts thereof from time to time, or of the premises
on which the vehicle or parts are located. If the vehicle is not destroyed but
sold, any sums realized on such sale may be retained by the village to
reimburse it for the costs incurred in such removal and sale to the extent of
such costs. Any balance of such sums remaining after such reimbursement shall
be paid to the owner of the vehicle or vehicle parts.
(Ord. 102, passed 7-17-2007)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   NOISE
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
94.   FAIR HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Animals and Real Property
   
90.01   Injury to property
   
90.02   Waste product accumulations
 
   
90.99   Penalty
ANIMALS AND REAL PROPERTY
§ 90.01 INJURY TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or possessing a dog or cat
to permit such dog or cat to go upon any public streets, walks, parks or other
public places within the village or on any private land or premises of another
and break, bruise, tear up, crush or damage any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub,
tree or garden in any manner whatsoever.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog or cat to
be on private property not owned or possessed by such person.
(Ord. 145, passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.02 WASTE PRODUCT ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or permit a dog or cat to
be on public property, not owned or possessed by such person, unless such
person has in his or her immediate possession an appropriate device for
scooping excrement and an appropriate depository for the transmission of
excrement to a receptacle located upon property owned or possessed by such
person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit excrement from dogs or
cats to accumulate in any pen, yard or other area owned or possessed by said
person.
(Ord. 145, passed 7-17-2007) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of §§
90.01 or
90.02 shall constitute a municipal civil infraction which, upon an admission or
finding of responsibility, shall result in a fine of not less than $25 or more
than $500.
   (B)   All subsequent violations of §§
90.01 or
90.02 within two years shall constitute a municipal civil infraction which,
upon an admission or finding of responsibility, shall result in a fine of not
less than $50 or more than $500.
(Ord. 145, passed 7-17-2007)
CHAPTER 91: NOISE
Section
   
91.01   Title
   
91.02   Definition
   
91.03   Prohibition
   
91.04   Violations
   
91.05   Exemptions
 
   
91.99   Penalty
§ 91.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be referred to as the “Village of Calumet Noise Ordinance”.
(Ord. 139, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 91.02 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LOUD NOISE.
      (1)   Any sound which, due to its volume, duration or character, annoys,
disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, health, peace and safety of
reasonable persons of ordinary sensibilities.
      (2)   LOUD NOISE shall be limited to noise heard on the public streets,
parking lots opened to the public, or other public places, any church or
hospital, or any occupied building which is not the source of the noise,
including the grounds surrounding the building.
      (3)   Noise shall be determined at a distance of at least 50 feet
measured in a straight line from the source of the noise.
(Ord. 139, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 91.03 PROHIBITION.
   No person shall cause, create or continue any loud noise within the village
limits.
(Ord. 139, passed 6-16-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   The following are determined to be violations of this chapter:
      (1)   Horns and signal devices. The sounding of any horn or signal device
on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other motor vehicle for any purpose other
than to avoid an accident or collision or other reason allowed by law;
      (2)   Electronic devices and musical instruments. The playing of
amplified music or sound so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose
of other persons;
      (3)   Shouting, singing and the like. Yelling, shouting, or singing on
the public streets between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. so as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of other persons;
      (4)   Vehicle noises generally. The operation of any truck, automobile,
motorcycle or other vehicle so as to cause loud noise;
      (5)   Steam whistles. The operation of any steam whistle attached to a
boiler of any type, except for the purpose of giving notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or other danger, or for other
purposes upon special permit from the Village Council;
      (6)   Engine exhausts. The discharge outside of any enclosed building of
the exhaust or any steam engine, internal combustion motor engine, vehicle of
motorboat engine, except through a muffler or other similar device;
      (7)   Construction noises. The erection, demolition, alteration or repair
of any building or premises in any residential area other than between the
hours of 8:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m.; and
      (8)   Devices to attract attention. The use of any drum, loudspeaker or
other instrument or device for the purpose of attracting attention to any
performance, show, sale or display of merchandise.
   (B)   The enumeration of noises or activities shall not be construed to be
an exhaustive list of all prohibited noises or activities. This enumeration is
merely an elaboration of the general prohibition contained in §
91.03.
(Ord. 139, passed 6-16-1998) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 EXEMPTIONS.
   None of the prohibitions of this chapter shall apply to any of the
following:
   (A)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine or emergency vehicle which
is engaged in necessary emergency activities;
   (B)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets, highways, sewer or water
construction by or on behalf of the village or county, between the hours of 9:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. when the public welfare, safety and convenience render it
necessary to perform work during those hours;
   (C)   Snow removal machinery or equipment operated by any municipality at
any time; and
   (D)   Sound created by or during a cultural, ethnic or community activity
open to the public and sponsored by the village.
(Ord. 139, passed 6-16-1998)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$500 or not more than 90 days in jail, or both.
(Ord. 139, passed 6-16-1998)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
   
92.01   Owner’s duty; good repair
   
92.02   Construction
   
92.03   Village Council; construction; repair
   
92.04   Disrepair defined
   
92.05   Failure or refusal to construct or repair
   
92.06   Construction or repair
   
92.07   Permit required
   
92.08   Work to be done by experienced contractors
   
92.09   Revocation
   
92.10   Village participation
 
   
92.99   Penalty
SIDEWALKS
§ 92.01 OWNER’S DUTY; GOOD REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any premises within the village to
maintain and keep in good repair any sidewalk abutting or adjacent to any
premises belonging to such owner.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02 CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be the duty of the owner of any premises within the village to
construct a sidewalk adjacent to or abutting on any premises belonging to such
owner whenever the Village Council shall determine that the construction of
such sidewalk is necessary for the public health, safety or welfare.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03 VILLAGE COUNCIL; CONSTRUCTION; REPAIR.
   Whenever the Village Council shall determine that it is necessary for the
public health, safety or welfare that a sidewalk be constructed adjacent to or
abutting any premises, or whenever the Village Council shall determine that any
existing sidewalk is in a state of disrepair, it shall adopt a resolution
requiring the construction or repair thereof and shall, in such resolution,
direct the owner of the premises adjacent to or abutting the proposed location
of the sidewalk to be constructed, or the existing sidewalk, to construct or
repair such sidewalk within a specified period of time which shall not be less
than 15 days from the date of such resolution. Such resolution may be served
upon the owner either personally or by ordinary mail, addressed to such owner
under the name and at the address as is shown upon the village’s latest tax
assessment roll.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985)
§ 92.04 DISREPAIR DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISREPAIR OF A SIDEWALK. Includes, but shall not be limited to, the
following conditions:
      (1)   Potholes of one inch or more in depth;
      (2)   Loosened, crumbling or breaking surfaces;
      (3)   Difference two inches or more in heights of adjoining sections;
      (4)   Insufficient slope to adequately drain water; and
      (5)   Other standards of disrepair established by the Building Inspector,
approved by the Village Council and available in the Village Clerk’s office for
public inspection.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985)
§ 92.05 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   (A)   If the owner of such premises shall fail or refuse to construct or
repair such sidewalk abutting or adjacent to the premises owned by such owner
within the period of time specified in the resolution referred to in §
92.03, then the Building Inspector shall proceed to have such sidewalk
constructed or repaired.
   (B)   The cost of such repair or construction shall be charged against and
shall be a lien upon the premises which said sidewalk abuts or adjoins.
   (C)   If such charges are not paid within 90 days after billing, such
charges shall be added to the next tax bill issued by the village and shall
thereafter bear the same interest and penalties as said tax bill.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985)
§ 92.06 CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR.
   The construction or repair of any sidewalks shall include, but not be
limited to, the following specifications:
   (A)   All sidewalks shall be constructed to grade and width established by
existing adjoining walks or in the absence of the foregoing by the Building
Inspector, and shall be paved with a single course of concrete with a
compressive strength of not less than 3,500 pounds per square inch within 28
days of construction;
   (B)   All sidewalks shall be at least four feet in width but wider sidewalks
may be required by the Building Inspector if the density and the development of
the area indicates the desirability of such wider sidewalks;
   (C)   (1)   Construction of the sidewalk shall be at least four inches in
depth, except across driveways where such thickness shall be increased to six
inches.
      (2)   Paving joints shall be true to line and grade at intervals
consistent with adjoining or abutting sidewalks. One-inch expansion joints
shall be placed through the sidewalk at least every 50 feet and between
sidewalks and other rigid structures;
   (D)   The surface of the sidewalk shall be roughened with a mechanics brush
to prevent smooth and slippery surfaces; and
   (E)   Such other specifications as may be established by the Building
Inspector from time to time, approved by the Village Council and available in
the Clerk’s office for public inspection.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985)
§ 92.07 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No sidewalk shall be constructed or repaired without a construction
permit therefor.
   (B)   Such construction permit shall be obtained from the Building Inspector
and shall contain the date issued, the name of the property owner of the
property where the sidewalk is to be constructed or repaired, a description of
the property and an estimate of the number of square feet of sidewalk to be
constructed or repaired.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08 WORK TO BE DONE BY EXPERIENCED CONTRACTORS.
   All sidewalk construction or repair shall be done by experienced and
qualified contractors. Such qualifications shall include adequate financial
stability, proper equipment and experience in similar construction work.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985)
§ 92.09 REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Building Inspector may revoke any permit issued hereunder for any
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   As used in this subchapter, the Village Council, the Building
Inspector and the Village Clerk, shall mean respectively the Village Council,
the Building Inspector or Engineer of the Village of Calumet, and the Village
Clerk.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985)
§ 92.10 VILLAGE PARTICIPATION.
   Notwithstanding any provision in this subchapter contained to the contrary,
the village may participate in the cost of the construction or repair of any
sidewalk constructed or repaired under this subchapter. In event that the
village does so determine to participate in such cost, it shall notify the
owner, in the resolution provided for in §
92.03 hereof, of the share that the village will pay for the construction or
repair directed in such resolution.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall fail to comply with any of the provisions of §§
92.01 through
92.10 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not to exceed $100 together with costs of prosecution, or
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment, at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 126, passed 5-21-1985)
CHAPTER 93: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Conflict
   
93.03   Terms defined
   
93.04   Permit required
   
93.05   Issuance of permit
   
93.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
93.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
93.08   Route maps
   
93.09   Repair of damage
   
93.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fees
   
93.11   Modification of existing fees
   
93.12   Savings clause
   
93.13   Use of Funds
   
93.14   Annual report
   
93.15   Cable television operators
   
93.16   Existing rights
   
93.17   Compliance
   
93.18   Reservation of police powers
   
93.19   Authorized village officials
   
93.20   Municipal civil infractions
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq. or the
“Act”) and other applicable law, and to ensure that the village qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.03 TERMS DEFINED.
   (A)   The terms used in this chapter shall have the following meanings.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.), as
amended from time to time.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following.
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.3103).
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
COMMISSION in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. part 20.3, and service provided by
any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
         (a)   Those terms as defined in § 102 of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102.
TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include a person or an affiliate of that
person when providing a federally licensed commercial mobile radio service as
defined in § 332(d) of part I of the Communications Act of 1934, chapter 652,
48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and further defined as commercial mobile radio
service in 47 C.F.R. part 20.3, or service provided by any wireless, two-way
communication device.
         (b)   For the purpose of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER
also includes all of the following:
            1.   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
            2.   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
            3.   A person providing broadband internet transport access
service.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Calumet.
      VILLAGE CLERK. The Village Clerk or his or her designee.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Calumet or its
designee. This definition does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the Village Council.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act
(Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(1)). A telecommunications
provider shall file one copy of the application with the Village Clerk and one
copy with the Village Attorney. Upon receipt, the Village Clerk shall make
seven copies of the application and distribute a copy to the Village President
and each member of the Village Council. Applications shall be complete and
include all information required by the Act, including without limitation a
route map showing the location of the provider’s existing and proposed
facilities in accordance with § 6(5) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5)).
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 through 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5)), the telecommunications provider shall
prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The Village Clerk may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the Village Clerk deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the Village Clerk. If the village and the applicant cannot agree
on the requirement of additional information requested by the village, the
village or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act
(Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(2)).
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act (Public Act
48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(1)), authorizations or permits previously
issued by the village under § 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act,
Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105 and authorizations or permits
issued by the village to telecommunications providers prior to the 1995
enactment of § 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall
satisfy the permit requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act (Public Act 48 of
2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(3)), within 180 days from November 1, 2002, the
effective date of the Act, a telecommunications provider with facilities
located in a public right-of-way in the village as of such date, that has not
previously obtained authorization or a permit under § 251 of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251,
shall submit to the village an application for a permit in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act (Public Act 48 of
2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(3)), a telecommunications provider submitting
an application under this division (G) is not required to pay the $500
application fee required under division (D) above. A provider under this
division (G) shall be given up to an additional 180 days to submit the permit
application if allowed by the Authority, as provided in § 5(4) of the Act
(Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(4)).
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Village Clerk. Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3)), the Village
Clerk shall approve or deny an application for a permit within 45 days from the
date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit under §
93.04(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the village. Pursuant to §
6(6) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 4843106(6)), the
Village Clerk shall notify the MPSC when the Village Clerk has granted or
denied a permit, including information regarding the date on which the
application was filed and the date on which permit was granted or denied. The
Village Clerk shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the Village
Clerk shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2) and 15
of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3106(1), 484.3106(2)
and 484.3115).
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(4)), the Village Clerk may impose conditions on the
issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be limited to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act (Public Act 48 of
2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3)), and without limitation on division (C)
above, the Village Clerk may require that a bond be posted by the
telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a bond is
required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the public
right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.06 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public rights-of-way in the village without first obtaining
a construction or engineering permit as required under the village code of
ordinances, as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way. No
fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.07 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3106(8)), obtaining a permit or paying the fees required under the Act or
under this chapter does not give a telecommunications provider a right to use
conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3106(7)), a telecommunications provider shall, within 90 days after the
substantial completion of construction of new telecommunications facilities in
the village, submit route maps showing the location of the telecommunications
facilities to both the MPSC and to the village. The route maps should be in
paper or electronic format unless and until the MPSC determines otherwise, in
accordance with § 6(8) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3106(8)).
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3115(5)), a telecommunications provider undertaking an excavation or
construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a public right-
of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the village, as
authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the street
surface and all installations under, over, below or within the public right-of-
way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its preexisting
condition.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.10 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEES.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the village set
forth in §
93.04(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the village’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3108).
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act (Public Act 48 of
2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(1)), the village hereby modifies, to the extent
necessary, any fees charged to telecommunications providers after November 1,
2002, the effective date of the Act, relating to access and usage of the public
rights-of-way, to an amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and charges
required under the Act, which shall be paid to the Authority. In compliance
with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4)), the village also hereby approves modification of the
fees of providers with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way
within the village’s boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees
required under § 8 of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3108). The village shall provide each telecommunications provider affected
by the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of §
13(4) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4)). To the
extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers in excess of the
amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise inconsistent with the
Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to the village’s policy
and intent, and upon application by a provider or discovery by the village,
shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in error.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.12 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3113(5)), if § 8 of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3108) is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees
under §
93.11 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.13 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3110(4)), all amounts received by the village from the Authority shall be
used by the village solely for rights-of-way related purposes. Depositing the
amounts received into the Major Street Fund and/or Local Street Fund,
maintained by the village under Public Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. §§
247.651 through 247.675, would help ensure compliance with this requirement of
the Act.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.14 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3110(5)), the Village Clerk shall file an annual report with the Authority
on the use and disposition of funds annually distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.15 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3113(6)), the village shall not hold a cable television operator in default
or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an obligation, if any, to pay
after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this Act, a franchise fee or
similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from charges the cable operator
received for cable modem services provided through broadband internet transport
access services. However, cable television operators shall otherwise be
obligated to pay a franchise fee for services provided, but not directly
related to cable modem services, pursuant to Ord. 120, which is not superseded
or amended by this chapter.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.16 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3104(2)), except as expressly provided herein with respect to fees, this
chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a telecommunications provider
or the village may have under a permit issued by the village or under a
contract between the village and a telecommunications provider related to the
use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.17 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The village hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting
this chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the
provisions hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that
purpose.
   (B)   The village shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246, as provided in
§
93.04(C);
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof in accordance with §
93.04(F);
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
93.04(G);
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date when a telecommunications provider files an application for a
permit for access to, and usage of, a public right-of-way within the village,
in accordance with §
93.05(A);
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the village has granted or denied a permit,
in accordance with §
93.05(A);
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
93.05(A);
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
93.05(B);
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
93.05(C);
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
93.05(D);
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
93.06;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the
village’s right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
93.11;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
93.14; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
93.15.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.18 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act (Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3115(2)), this chapter shall not limit the village’s right to review and
approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and ongoing use of a public
right-of-way or limit the village’s authority to ensure and protect the health,
safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.19 AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Village Clerk or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized village official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal
ordinance violations bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by
the village code.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
§ 93.20 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a violation of the village code.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies available to
the village in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter or a
permit.
(Ord. 142, passed 5-10-2004)
CHAPTER 94: FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
94.01   Preamble
   
94.02   Declaration of policy
   
94.03   Definitions
   
94.04   Prohibited acts
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PREAMBLE.
   (A)   The village desires to assure equal opportunity to all residents
regardless of race, color, religion, creed, national origin or ancestry, sex or
disability, to live in decent, sanitary and healthful living quarters.
   (B)   The 1963 Constitution of the state provides as follows in Article I
(Section 2) “.. .no person shall be denied the equal protection of the laws;
nor shall any person be denied the enjoyment of his or her civil or political
rights or be discriminated against in the exercise thereof because of religion,
race, color or national origin...” (Section 4) “.. .The civil and political
rights, privileges and capacities of no person shall be diminished or enlarged
on account of his or her religious belief...” (Section 9) “...Neither slavery,
nor involuntary servitude unless for the punishment of crime, shall ever be
tolerated in this state...”.
   (C)   The Congress of the United States has provided that “it is the policy
of the United States to provide, within constitutional limitations, for fair
housing throughout the United States” and has established by law the following
provisions: “... it shall be unlawful:
      (1)   To refuse to sell or rent after the making of a bona fide offer, or
to refuse to negotiate for the sale or rental of, or otherwise make available
or deny, a dwelling to any person because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin; or
      (2)   To discriminate against any person in the terms, conditions or
privileges of sale or rental of a dwelling, or in the provision of services or
facilities in connection therewith because of race, color, religion, sex or
national origin...”
(Ord. 148, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 94.02 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   (A)   In furthering the policy of the state as expressed in its Constitution
and other laws; in order that the safety and general welfare, peace and health
of all the inhabitants of the village may be ensured, it is hereby declared the
policy of the village, to assure equal opportunity to all residents, regardless
of race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or physical
disability to live in decent, sanitary, healthful, standard living quarters.
   (B)   It is the policy of the village that no owner, lessee, sub-lessee,
assignee, managing agent or other person, firm or corporation having the right
to sell, rent, lease (or otherwise control) any housing accommodation and/or
real property within the village, or any agent of these shall refuse to sell,
rent, lease or otherwise deny to or withhold from any person or group of
persons such housing accommodations and/or real property because of race,
color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such
person or persons or discriminate against any person or persons because of
race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability in
the conditions, terms, privileges of the sale, rental or lease of any housing
accommodation and/or real property or in the furnishing of facilities and/or
services in connection therewith.
   (C)   Relocation shall be carried out in a manner that will promote maximum
choice within the community’s total housing supply; lessen racial, ethnic and
economic concentrations; and facilitate desegregation and racially inclusive
patterns of occupancy and use of public and private facilities.
(Ord. 148, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 94.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECENT, SANITARY, HEALTHFUL STANDARD LIVING QUARTERS. Housing which is in
sound, clean and weather-tight condition in conformance with applicable local,
state and national codes.
   DISCRIMINATE or DISCRIMINATION. Any difference expressed in any way toward a
person or persons in the terms of the sale, exchange, lease, rental or
financing for housing accommodation and/or real property in regard to such
sale, exchange, rental, lease or finance because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of such person.
   FINANCIAL INSTITUTION. Any person, institution or business entity of any
kind which loans money to persons and receives as security for said loans a
secured interest of any kind in the real property of the borrower.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Includes any building, structure or portion thereof
which is used or occupied, maintained, arranged or designed to be used or
occupied as a home, residence or sleeping place of one or more human beings, or
any real estate so used, designed or intended for such use.
   OWNER. Any person/persons who holds legal or equitable title to, or own any
beneficial interest in any real property or who holds legal or equitable title
to shares of, or holds any beneficial interest in any real estate cooperative
which owns any real property and/or housing accommodations.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER. Any person, partnership, association, corporation and/or
agent thereof, who for a fee or other valuable consideration offers, sells,
purchases, exchanges or rents, or negotiates for the sale, purchase, exchange
or rental of a housing accommodation and/or real property of another, or
collects rental for the use of housing accommodation and/or real property of
another.
   REAL PROPERTY. Any real estate, vacant land, building, structure or housing
accommodations within the corporate limits of the Village of Calumet, Michigan.
(Ord. 148, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 94.04 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner of real estate, lessee, sub-lessee,
real estate broker or salesperson, financial institution or employee of the
financial institution, advertiser or agent of any or all of the foregoing, to
discriminate against any person or persons because of their race, color,
religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability with regard to
the sale, exchange or rental, or any dealing concerning any housing
accommodation and/or real property.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, it shall also be unlawful for any real
estate broker or employee thereof, owner or other person, or financial
institution dealing with housing or real property in the village:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the availability of or the
price, terms, conditions or privileges of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, lease or occupancy of any housing accommodation or real property in the
village or in furnishing of any facilities or services in connection therewith;
      (2)   To publish or circulate, or cause to be published or circulated,
any notice, statement or advertisement, or to announce a policy, or to use any
form of application, for the purchase, lease, rental or financing of real
property, or to make any record of inquiry in connection with the prospective
purchase, rental or lease of such real estate, which expresses directly or
indirectly any discrimination as to race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability of any person;
      (3)   To discriminate in connection with lending money, guaranteeing
loans, accepting mortgages or otherwise obtaining or making available funds for
the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair or maintenance
of any housing accommodation and/or real property;
      (4)   To solicit for sale, lease, or listing for the sale or lease, of
any housing accommodation and/or real property on the grounds of loss of value
because of the present or prospective entry into any neighborhood of any person
or persons of any particular race, color, religion, national origin or
ancestry, sex, creed or disability;
      (5)   To distribute, or cause to be distributed, written material or
statements designed to induce any owner or any housing accommodation and/or
real property to sell or lease his or her property because of any present or
prospective change in the race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry,
sex, creed or disability of persons in the neighborhood;
      (6)   To make any misrepresentations concerning the listing for sale or
the anticipated listing for sale or the sale of any housing accommodation and/
or real property for the purpose of inducing or attempting to induce the sale
or listing for sale of any housing accommodation and/or real property by
representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of any
particular race, color, religion, national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or
disability in the area will or may result in the lowering of property values in
the block, neighborhood or area in which the property is located;
      (7)   For an owner to solicit any real estate broker to sell, rent or
otherwise deal with such owner’s housing accommodations and/or real property
with any limitation on its sale based on race, color, religion, national origin
or ancestry, sex, creed or disability; and
      (8)   For an owner to refuse to sell, rent or otherwise deal with any
housing accommodation and/or real property because of race, color, religion,
national origin or ancestry, sex, creed or disability of the proposed buyer or
tenant.
(Ord. 148, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $1,500. Each
day a violation continues shall constitute a separate violation. This penalty
shall in no way abrogate or impair the right of the village to specifically
enforce, by any legal means, any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 148, passed 10-16-2018)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
[Reserved for Future Use]
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
[Reserved for Future Use]
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
      
152.   HISTORIC DISTRICTS
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Housing Commission
Blight
   
150.15   Purpose
   
150.16   Blighted property, causes of blight or blighting factors
   
150.17   Enforcement
   
150.18   Injunctive relief
   
150.19   Powers of the village with respect to real estate
 
   
150.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 HOUSING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 18 of 1933 (Extra Session), being M.C.L.A. §§
125.651 et seq., as amended, a commission is hereby created in and for the
village to be known as the “Calumet Housing Commission”.
   (B)   The President of the said village is hereby directed to appoint the
members of the said Housing Commission as soon as possible after this section
shall take affect.
(Ord. 93, passed 2-9-1965)
BLIGHT
§ 150.15 PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the letter and spirit of Public Act 344 of 1945, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.71 through 125.84, as amended, it is the purpose of this
subchapter to prevent, reduce or eliminate blight or potential blight and
address blighted property in the village by the prevention or elimination of
certain environmental causes of blight or blighting factors or correction of
conditions that create blight condition which exist or which may in the future
exist in the village.
(Ord. 146, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 150.16 BLIGHTED PROPERTY, CAUSES OF BLIGHT OR BLIGHTING FACTORS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BLIGHTED PROPERTY. Property that meets any of the following criteria:
         (a)   The property has been declared a public nuisance in accordance
with a local housing, building, plumbing, fire or other related code or
ordinance;
         (b)   The property is an attractive nuisance because of physical
condition or use;
         (c)   The property is a fire hazard or is otherwise dangerous to the
safety of persons or property;
         (d)   The property has had the utilities, plumbing, heating or
sewerage disconnected, destroyed, removed or rendered ineffective for a period
of one year or more so that the property is unfit for its intended use;
         (e)   The property is tax reverted property owned by a municipality,
by a county or by this state. The sale, lease, or transfer of tax reverted
property by a municipality, a county or this state shall not result in the loss
to the property of eligibility for any project authorized under this Act for
the rehabilitation of a blighted area, platting authorized under this Act, or
tax relief or assistance, including financial assistance, authorized under this
Act or any other act;
         (f)   The property is owned or is under the control of a land bank
fast track authority under the Land Bank Fast Track Act, Public Act 258 of
2003, being M.C.L.A. §§ 124.751 through 124.774. The sale, lease, or transfer
of the property by a land bank fast track authority shall not result in the
loss to the property of eligibility for any project authorized under this Act
for the rehabilitation of a blighted area, platting authorized under this Act,
or tax relief or assistance, including financial assistance, authorized under
this Act or any other Act;
         (g)   The property is improved real property that has remained vacant
for five consecutive years and that is not maintained in accordance with
applicable local housing or property maintenance codes or ordinances; and
         (h)   The property has code violations posing a severe and immediate
health or safety threat and has not been substantially rehabilitated within one
year after the receipt of notice to rehabilitate from the appropriate code
enforcement agency or final determination of any appeal, whichever is later.
   (B)   It is hereby determined that the following uses, structures and
activities are causes of blight or blighting factors which, if allowed to
exist, will tend to result in blighting and undesirable neighborhoods. On and
after the effective date of this subchapter, no person, firm or corporation of
any kind shall maintain or permit to be maintained any of these causes of
blight or blighting factors upon any property in the village owned, leased,
rented or occupied by such person, firm or corporation:
      (1)   The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish or refuse of
any kind without a landfill permit, except domestic refuse stored in such a
manner as not to create a nuisance for a period not to exceed 15 days. The term
JUNK shall include abandoned, discarded or unused objects; equipment such as
boats and recreation vehicles which are unregistered and/or missing parts or
disabled or deteriorated or in an obvious state of disrepair; and machinery
parts, furniture, appliances, cans, boxes, scrap metal, tires, batteries,
remnants of woods, metal or any other material or other cast-off material of
any kind, and garbage which are in public view, stored in the open, visible
from any public right-or-way or neighboring property at street level, whether
or not the same could be put to any reasonable use;
      (2)   The existence of any structure or part of any structure, remnant of
structure or part of any structures which for any reason is no longer habitable
if a dwelling, or useful for any other reasonable purpose;
      (3)   The existence of any vacant dwelling, garage or other outbuilding,
unless such buildings are kept securely locked, windows kept glazed or neatly
boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent entrance thereto by vandals or
other unauthorized persons;
      (4)   The existence of any partially completed structure, unless such
structure is in the course of construction in accordance with a valid and
subsisting building permit issued by the county, and unless such construction
is completed within a reasonable time;
      (5)   The storage or accumulation of building materials, unless there is
in force a valid building permit issued by a municipality with the power and
jurisdiction to do so, for construction with such materials; or where such
building materials are part of the stock in trade of a business located on the
property where the materials are stored, in which case the materials must be
stored in such a manner as not to create a nuisance;
      (6)   The storage of house trailers, mobile homes, campers or
recreational vehicles in disrepair or not in normal use for a period of one
year;
      (7)   Decayed, dead, diseased or damage trees constituting a hazard or
danger to persons or to public property;
      (8)   Wood on premises for heating which is not stacked and which
physically hinders or interferes with the lawful use of abutting premises or
blocks or interferes with the use of any public sidewalk, alleyway, street or
signage; and
      (9)   Grass, weeds or other vegetation, excluding flowers, fruit and
vegetables, which is allowed to reach and remains at a height of one foot for a
period of two weeks (14 days) or longer.
(Ord. 146, passed 10-16-2018) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.17 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be enforced by the Village Administrator or
other such persons who shall be so designated by the Village Council.
   (B)   The owner, if possible, and the occupant of any property upon which
any of the causes of blight or blighting factors set forth in §
150.16 is found to exist, shall be notified in writing to remove or eliminate
such causes of blight or blighting factors from such property within ten days
after service upon him or her. Such notice shall be served personally or by
certified mail, return receipt requested. Additional time may be granted by the
enforcement officer, where bona fide efforts to remove or eliminate such causes
of blight or blighting factors are in progress.
(Ord. 146, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 150.18 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   A violation of any provision of §
150.16 is determined to be detrimental to the health, safety and general
welfare of the residents, property owners and other persons within the village.
Any such violation of this subchapter shall constitute a basis for injunctive
relief against the violator or landowner, to restrain and prohibit the violator
or owner from continuing the violation, in addition to any other relief or
penalty provided by this subchapter or allowed by law. The village may bring an
action to enjoin such alleged violation activity.
(Ord. 146, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 150.19 POWERS OF THE VILLAGE WITH RESPECT TO REAL ESTATE.
   Subject to the provisions of Public Act 344 of 1945, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.71 through 125.84, the village may, in the course of acting to rehabilitate
blighted areas and to prevent, reduce or eliminate blight, blighting factors or
the causes of blight, do any of the following:
   (A)   Acquire real property by purchase, gift or exchange;
   (B)   Acquire blighted property by condemnation; and
   (C)   Lease, sell, renovate, improve or exchange blighted property or other
real property.
(Ord. 146, passed 10-16-2018)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter, for which no other
penalty is provided, shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   A violation of §§
150.15 through
150.19 is a municipal civil infraction, for which the fines shall be not less
than $50 for the first offense, and not less than $150 for the second offense,
and not less than $250 for a subsequent repeat offense, in the discretion of
the court, and such fines shall be in addition to all other costs, attorney
fees, damages, expenses and other remedies as provided by law. For purposes of
this division (B)(1), SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of the provisions of
§§
150.15 through
150.19 committed by the same person for the same property within 12 months of a
previous violation of the same provision of §§
150.15 through
150.19 for which said person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be
responsible.
      (2)   In addition to pursuing a municipal civil infraction proceeding
pursuant to this division (B), the village may also institute an appropriate
action in a court of competent jurisdiction seeking injunctive, declaratory or
other equitable relief to enforce or interpret §§
150.15 through
150.19 or any provision of §§
150.15 through
150.19.
      (3)   Each and every day during which a violation of §§
150.15 through
150.19 shall exist shall be deemed to be a separate offense.
      (4)   Any person, firm or entity that assists in, or enables, the
violation of §§
150.15 through
150.19 shall be responsible for aiding and abetting, and shall be considered to
have violated the provision of §§
150.15 through
150.19 which states the basic offense for which such aiding and abetting
occurred.
      (5)   The Village Administrator has the authority to issue civil
infraction violation notices.
(Ord. passed 4-19-2005;; Ord. 146, passed 10-16-2018)
CHAPTER 151: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
Section
Articles of Incorporation
   
151.01   Adoption
   
151.02   Name of authority
   
151.03   Geographic area
   
151.04   Purpose
   
151.05   Powers
   
151.06   Fiscal year; budget
   
151.07   Existence
   
151.08   Board of Trustees
   
151.09   Officers of the Board
   
151.10   Meetings
   
151.11   Ability to carry out its purposes and functions
   
151.12   Power to hire employees
   
151.13   Annual audit
   
151.14   Words or terms
   
151.15   Resident agent
Development Plan and Tax Increment Financing Plan
   
151.30   Definitions
   
151.31   Approval and adoption of development plan
   
151.32   Duration of the plan
   
151.33   Boundaries of development district
   
151.34   Preparation of base year assessment roll
   
151.35   Preparation of annual captured assessed value assessment roll
   
151.36   Establishment of development funds; approval of depository
   
151.37   Payment of tax increments to downtown development authority
   
151.38   Use of monies in the development fund
   
151.39   Annual report
   
151.40   Downtown development authority budget
   
151.41   Annual audit
ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION
§ 151.01 ADOPTION.
   These articles of incorporation are adopted by the village for the purpose
of creating a Downtown Development Authority pursuant to the provisions of
Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4201 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979; Res. passed 9-20-1979; Res. 110, passed 12-8-1983;
Ord. 122, passed 12-30-1983)
§ 151.02 NAME OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The name of this Authority is “Downtown Development Authority of the
Village of Calumet”. The principal office of the Authority will be located at
the Village Office, 340 Sixth Street, Calumet, Michigan 49913.
   (B)   The Authority is incorporated pursuant to the provisions of Public Act
57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4201 et seq., as amended, hereinafter
referred to as “the Act”.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979; Res. passed 9-20-1979; Ord. 122, passed 12-30-
1983)
§ 151.03 GEOGRAPHIC AREA.
   The downtown district which is subject to the jurisdiction of the Downtown
Development Authority shall encompass or lie within the following geographic
area:
   (A)   Block 10, Lots 9 and 10;
   (B)   Block 11, Lots 9 and 10;
   (C)   Block 18, Lots 9 and 10;
   (D)   Block 23, the east 80 feet of Lot 9 and all of Lot 10;
   (E)   Lots A, B, C and D, fronting Pine Street from the easterly village
limits to Fifth Street, also Lots 1 through 11, and the 86-foot by 58-foot
parcels of land adjacent to Lots 2 through 11 and east thereof, all being a
part of Block E;
   (F)   Lots A and 1 through 15 and the south one-half of Lot 16 of Block 19;
   (G)   All of Block 20;
   (H)   All of Block F;
   (I)   All of Block A;
   (J)   All of Block G;
   (K)   All of Block I;
   (L)   All of Block H;
   (M)   All of Block B;
   (N)   Lots 1 through 5 and 9 and 10, Block K; Lots 3 and 4, Block C; Lot 10,
Block 32;
   (O)   Lots 1 through 10, 11 and 12, and 16 through 20, in Block 21;
   (P)   Lots 9, 10, 11, 12, 13 and the south 36 feet of Lot 14, Block 22;
   (Q)   The east 78 feet of Lot 10, Block 31;
   (R)   The south one-half of Lot 20, Block 19 on Sixth Street;
   (S)   Three parcels of property bounded by Scott Street, Fourth Street, Red
Jacket Road and Fifth Street, said parcels being 146 feet in the east-west
dimension and 60 feet, 90 feet and 112.14 feet respectively along Fourth
Street; and
   (T)   All that property abutting the east side of Fourth Street from Elm
Street to Red Jacket Road, said property along Fourth Street being bounded by
the easterly village limits typically, and being described as follows:
commencing at the NW corner of Block F, thence 240 feet east to the point of
beginning, thence east 1,004.51 feet, thence S 00°-08’
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979; Res. 110, passed 12-8-1983; Ord. 122, passed 12-
30-1983)
§ 151.04 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this Authority is to halt property value deterioration and
increase property tax valuation where possible in the downtown district, to
eliminate the causes of that deterioration, to promote economic growth, and to
accomplish such other goals as are authorized by the Act.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.05 POWERS.
   (A)   The Authority shall be a public body corporate which may sue or be
sued in any court of this state. It shall possess all of the powers granted by
statute and by this chapter, and those incident thereto, except that the
Authority may not do the following acts without the authorization by resolution
of the Village Council:
      (1)   Levy an ad valorem tax as provided by § 12(1) of the Act;
      (2)   Borrow money and issue negotiable revenue bonds of the Authority
pursuant to § 13 of the Act; and
      (3)   Implement a tax increment financing plan pursuant to §§ 14 and 15
of the Act.
   (B)   The enumeration of any powers herein shall not be construed as a
limitation upon the general powers of the Authority unless the context shall
clearly indicate otherwise. The Authority shall have a corporate seal.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.06 FISCAL YEAR; BUDGET.
   The fiscal year of the Authority shall be identical to, and coincide with,
the fiscal year of the village. The Authority shall prepare a budget for each
of its fiscal years which shall be subject to the approval of the Village
Council. The revenues of the Authority shall consist of tax increments due
under a Development Plan and a Tax Increment Financing Plan, as amended from
time to time, created pursuant to the provisions of Act 197 of the Public Acts
of Michigan for 1975, as amended, together with voluntary contributions or
donations, gifts, grants and devices, non-tax revenues raised or earned by the
Authority, appropriations to the Authority made from time to time by the
Village Council, borrowings, the proceeds of revenue bonds or general
obligation bonds and other revenues raised pursuant to the Act with the
approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. 110, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 151.07 EXISTENCE.
   The Authority shall continue in existence perpetually or until dissolved by
act of the Village Council or by law; provided, however, that the Authority
shall not be dissolved if such dissolution could operate as an impairment of
any of its contracts.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.08 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   The governing body of the Authority shall be a Board of Trustees,
hereinafter referred to as the Board, which shall consist of the President of
the village and eight members appointed by the President of the village,
subject to approval by the Village Council. At least five of the members of the
Board shall be persons having an interest in property located in the downtown
district, as defined in the Act. At least one of the members shall be a
resident of the downtown district if the downtown district has 100 or more
persons residing within it. Of the members first appointed, two shall be
appointed for one year, two for two years, two for three years and two for four
years. A member shall hold office until the member’s successor is appointed.
Thereafter, a member shall serve for a term of four years. An appointment to
fill a vacancy shall be made by the Village President for the unexpired term
only. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses by resolution of the Board. Before
assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking and subscribing
to the constitutional oath of office. Pursuant to notice and an opportunity to
be heard, a member of the Board may be removed for cause by the Village
Council. Removal of a member is subject to review by the Circuit Court for the
county. In case of a temporary absence or disability of any member, the Village
President may appoint some person temporarily to act in his or her stead,
subject to the approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.09 OFFICERS OF THE BOARD.
   (A)   Officers of the Board shall be a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson,
Secretary and Treasurer. The Officers of the Board shall be selected by the
Board. The term of the office of the officers shall be for a period of one
year. In case of the temporary absence or disability of any officer, the Board
may appoint some person temporarily to act in his or her stead.
   (B)   The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the Board of Trustees and
may sign and execute all authorized bonds, contracts, checks and other
obligations and execute interest coupons with his or her facsimile signature in
the name of the Authority when so authorized by the Board of Trustees. He or
she shall do and perform such other duties as may be fixed by the bylaws and
from time to time assigned to him or her by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   The Vice Chairperson shall preside and accomplish the duties of the
Chairperson in the absence of the Chairperson and shall perform such other
duties as may be fixed by the bylaws and from time to time assigned to him or
her by the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the Board of
Trustees in books provided for that purpose. He or she shall attend to the
giving, serving and receiving of all notices or process of or against the
corporation. He or she may sign with the Chairperson in the name of the
Authority all bonds, contracts and other obligations authorized by the Board of
Trustees, and when so ordered, he or she shall affix the seal of the Authority
thereto. He or she shall have charge of all books and records which shall at
all reasonable times be open to inspection and examination by the Board of
Trustees or any member thereof, and by the Village Council, and, in general,
perform all the duties incident to his or her office and such other duties as
may be fixed by the bylaws and from time to time assigned to him or her by the
Board of Trustees.
   (E)   The Treasurer shall have custody of all the funds and securities of
the Authority which may come into his or her hands or possession. When
necessary or proper, he or she shall endorse in behalf of the Authority for
collection, checks, notes and other obligations and shall deposit them to the
credit of the Authority in a designated bank or depository.
   (F)   He or she shall sign all receipts and vouchers for payment made to the
Authority. He or she shall jointly with such other officer as may be designated
by the Board of Trustees sign all checks, promissory notes and other
obligations of the Authority when so ordered by the Board of Trustees. He or
she shall render a statement of his or her cash accounts when required by the
Board of Trustees. He or she shall regularly, in the books of the Authority to
be kept by him or her for that purpose, keep full and accurate accounts of all
monies received and paid by him or her on account of the Authority and shall,
at all reasonable time, exhibit his or her books and accounts to the Board of
Trustees or any member thereof when so required. He or she shall perform all
acts incidental to the position of Treasurer fixed by the bylaws and as
assigned to him or her from time to time by the Board of Trustees. He or she
shall be bonded for the faithful discharge of his or her duties as Treasurer,
the bond to be of such character, form and in such amount as the Board of
Trustees may require. The bond of the Treasurer shall be paid by the Authority.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979; Ord. 110, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 151.10 MEETINGS.
   Meetings of the Board shall be held at least monthly at such time and place
as shall be prescribed by resolution of the Board. Special meetings of the
Board may be called by the Chairperson or any three members thereof, by serving
written notice of the time, place and purpose thereof, upon each member of the
Board, personally, or by leaving it at his or her place of residence at least
24 hours prior to the time of such meeting, or by depositing the same in a
United States Post Office or mailbox within the village at least 72 hours prior
to the time of such meeting, enclosed in a sealed envelope properly addressed
to him or her at his or her home or office address, with postage fully pre-
paid. Special meetings of the Board at which all members are present shall be
deemed to be valid even though no written notice thereof may be given as above
specified. Any member of the Board may waive notice of any meeting either
before or after the holding thereof. At least the majority of the members of
the Board shall be required for a quorum. The Board shall act by motion or
resolution. For the passage of any resolution providing for the issuance of
bonds or the levy of a tax or for the execution of any contract, there shall be
required a majority vote of the members of the Board. For all other matters, a
vote of the majority of the members of the Board present at any meeting at
which a quorum is present shall be sufficient for passage. The Board shall have
the right to adopt rules or bylaws governing its procedure which are not in
conflict with terms of any statute or of this chapter, subject to the approval
by resolution of the Village Council. The Board shall keep a journal or minutes
of its proceedings which shall be signed by the Secretary. All votes shall be
“ayes” and “nays”, except that where the vote is unanimous, it shall only be
necessary to so state.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.11 ABILITY TO CARRY OUT ITS PURPOSES AND FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   The Authority shall possess the power, subject to limitations of
law and this subchapter, necessary to carry out its purposes and functions. It
may acquire private property by purchase, lease, gift or devise, either within
or without the downtown district, and may hold, manage, control, sell, exchange
or lease such property.
      (2)   Provided, however, that the purchase, sale or lease of real
property by the Authority shall be subject to the approval of the Village
Council; provided, further, however, that the power of the Authority to
purchase or lease property shall be subject to the limitations imposed by its
budget.
   (B)   The Authority, at the time of organization, has no assets, real or
personal.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.12 POWER TO HIRE EMPLOYEES.
   The Board shall have the power to hire a director and other employees to
carry out its functions and to fix the compensation therefor, subject to the
approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.13 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The Board shall cause an annual audit to be made of its financial
transactions by a certified public accountant and shall furnish at least five
copies thereof to the Village Council.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.14 WORDS OR TERMS.
   If words or terms are used in this subchapter which are defined in the Act,
then these words or terms shall have the same meaning in this subchapter that
they do in the Act.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
§ 151.15 RESIDENT AGENT.
   The resident agent of the Authority is the Village Clerk. The location and
post office address of the registered office of the Authority is Village
Office, 340 Sixth Street, Calumet, Michigan 49913.
(Ord. 110, passed 6-21-1979)
DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN
§ 151.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 57 of 2018, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.4201 et seq., as amended.
   BASE YEAR ASSESSMENT ROLL. The base year assessment roll prepared by the
Village Assessor in accordance with §
151.34.
   CAPTURED ASSESSED VALUE. The amount in any one year by which the current
assessed value as finally equalized for all taxable property in the Development
District exceeds the initial assessed value.
   DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT. The area legally described in Exhibit A, attached to
Ord. 131, which is hereby made a part of this subchapter as if set out in full
herein.
   DEVELOPMENT FUND. The Downtown Development Authority Development Fund
established pursuant to §
151.36.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The “Tax Increment Financing and Development Plan for the
Village of Calumet”, dated April, 1992, transmitted to the Village Council by
the Village of Calumet Downtown Development Authority for public hearing,
copies of which are on file in the office of the Village Clerk.
   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (DDA) or AUTHORITY. The Village of Calumet
Downtown Development Authority.
   INITIAL ASSESSED VALUE. The most recently assessed value as finally
equalized of all the taxable property within the boundaries of the development
area at the time of the effective date of this subchapter.
   TAXING JURISDICTION. Each unit of government levying an ad valorem property
tax on property in the Development District.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.31 APPROVAL AND ADOPTION OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   Based on the following determinations, the Development Plan is hereby
approved and adopted:
   (A)   The Development Plan and all expenditures therefore constitutes a
public purpose;
   (B)   The Development Plan meets the requirement of Public Act 57 of 2018,
being M.C.L.A. § 125.4217(2), as amended;
   (C)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible, and the
Downtown Development Authority has the ability to arrange the necessary
financing;
   (D)   The proposed development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of the Act;
   (E)   The land included within the Development Area to be acquired is
reasonably necessary to carry out the purpose of the Development Plan and the
Act in an efficient and economically satisfactory manner;
   (F)   The Development Plan is in reasonable accord with the master plan of
the village;
   (G)   Public services, such as fire and police protection, and utilities,
are adequate to service the project area; and
   (H)   Any changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections and
utilities proposed are reasonably necessary for the development and for the
village.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.32 DURATION OF THE PLAN.
   The duration of the Plan shall be 30 years from the date of the adoption or
until such time that all planned improvements are completed, whichever occurs
first.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.33 BOUNDARIES OF DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
   The boundaries of the Development District as set forth in the Development
Plan are hereby adopted and confirmed.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.34 PREPARATION OF BASE YEAR ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   Within 60 days of the effective date of this subchapter, the Village
Assessor shall prepare the initial base year assessment roll. The initial base
year assessment roll shall list each taxing jurisdiction in which the
development district is located, the initial assessed value of the Development
District on the effected date of this subchapter and the amount of tax revenue
derived by each taxing jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the property in
the Development District.
   (B)   The Assessor shall transmit copies of the initial base year assessment
roll to the Village Treasurer, County Treasurer, Downtown Development Authority
and each taxing jurisdiction, together with a notice that the assessment roll
has been prepared in accordance with this subchapter and the Tax Increment
Financing Plan contained in the Development Plan approved by this subchapter.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.35 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL CAPTURED ASSESSED VALUE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   Each year within 30 days following the final equalization of property
in the Development District, the Assessor shall prepare an updated captured
assessed value assessment roll.
   (B)   The updated captured assessment value assessment roll shall show the
information required in the initial base year assessment roll and, in addition,
the captured assessed value for that year.
   (C)   Copies of the annual captured assessment value assessment roll shall
be transmitted by the Assessor to the same persons as the initial base year
assessment roll, together with a notice that it has been prepared in accordance
with this subchapter and the Development Plan.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.36 ESTABLISHMENT OF DEVELOPMENT FUNDS; APPROVAL OF DEPOSITORY.
   (A)   The Treasurer of the Downtown Development Authority shall establish a
separate fund which shall be kept in a depository bank account or accounts in a
bank to be designed Downtown Development Authority Development Area Fund.
   (B)   All monies received by the Downtown Development Authority pursuant to
the Development Plan shall be deposited in the Development Fund.
   (C)   All monies in that fund and earnings thereon shall be used on in
accordance with the Development Plan and this subchapter.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.37 PAYMENT OF TAX INCREMENTS TO DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Downtown Development Authority will request payment from the village,
county, township and other taxing authority treasurers for that proportion of
the taxes, except for penalties and collection fees, that constitutes the
revenue generated from the captured assessed value. Payment shall be made to
the Treasurer of the Downtown Development Authority for deposit in the
Development Fund or the village, county, township and other taxing authority
treasurers shall, as ad valorem taxes are collected on the property in the
Development District, pay that proportion of the taxes, except for penalties
and collection fees, that constitutes the revenue generated from the captured
assessed value to the Treasurer of the Downtown Development Authority for
deposit in the Development Fund. The payments shall be made on the date or
dates on which the village, county, township and other taxing authority
treasurers are required to remit taxes to each of the taxing jurisdictions.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.38 USE OF MONIES IN THE DEVELOPMENT FUND.
   The money credited to the Development Fund and on hand therein from time to
time shall annually be used in the following manner and following order of
priority:
   (A)   To pay principal, interest and fees for any outstanding bank notes
undertaken by the Authority pursuant to the Development Plan;
   (B)   To reimburse the village for funds advanced to pay the tax increment
revenue portion project cost in accordance with the Development Plan;
   (C)   To pay the cost of completing the public improvements as set forth in
the Development Plan, including design, engineering, administration and related
expenses;
   (D)   To pay the cost of replacement/repair of Development Plan improvements
as determined necessary by the Authority during the life of the Development
Plan;
   (E)   To pay administrative and operating costs of the Downtown Development
Authority to the extent provided in the annual budget of the Authority; and
   (F)   Any tax increment receipts in excess of those needed under divisions
(A) through (E) above shall revert proportionally to the taxing jurisdictions.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.39 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Downtown Development Authority shall submit to the Village Council, each
year, a copy of the Annual Report on Status of Tax Increment Financing Plan
filed by the Downtown Development Authority with the Michigan Department of
Treasury pursuant to the requirements of the relevant provisions of 2018 Public
Act 57, M.C.L.A. § 125.4911. The Downtown Development Authority shall submit
this copy of the report to the Village Council within 30 days of filing the
report with the Department of Treasury.
(Ord. 131, passed 11-16-2021)
§ 151.40 DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY BUDGET.
   The Downtown Development Authority shall annually prepare and submit to the
Village Council for its approval a budget for the Development Plan activities
to be undertaken by the Authority in the ensuing fiscal year. The budget shall
be prepared in the manner and contain the information required of municipal
departments.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
§ 151.41 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   An annual financial audit of the Downtown Development Authority shall be
conducted according to statutory requirements. Said audit may be carried out as
part of the overall general annual audit of municipal operations, and the
Authority shall include in its budget an allocation to pay its reasonable pro
rata share for the cost to the municipality for any handling and auditing of
Downtown Development Authority funds.
(Ord. 131, passed 5-26-1992)
CHAPTER 152: HISTORIC DISTRICTS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose and declaration of public policy
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Historic District Commission
   
152.04   Officers of the Commission and its procedures
   
152.05   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
152.06   Designation of historic districts
   
152.07   Effect of designation
   
152.08   Certificate of appropriateness
   
152.09   Commission standards and guidelines; saving threatened resources
   
152.10   Review of applications within proposed district emergency moratorium
   
152.11   Maintenance of designated resources
   
152.12   Appeals
   
152.13   Designated historic district
 
   
152.99   Penalty
§ 152.01 PURPOSE AND DECLARATION OF PUBLIC POLICY.
   (A)   Historic preservation is declared to be a public purpose. The intent
and purpose of this chapter are to:
      (1)   Safeguard the heritage of the village by preserving historic
districts within the village that reflect elements of its cultural, social,
economic, political or architectural history;
      (2)   Stabilize and improve property values within any historic district;
      (3)   Foster civic beauty and pride;
      (4)   Strengthen the local economy;
      (5)   Recommend the establishment, creation and promotion of the historic
districts for the education, pleasure and welfare of the residents of the
village and the state;
      (6)   Encourage property owners and residents to participate in
preservation activities; and
      (7)   Assist in the development of Keweenaw National Historical Park.
   (B)   The Village Council finds that losses of historic resources,
deterioration of historic resources, inappropriate alterations and
inappropriate new construction have resulted in concern about the protection of
the heritage of the village and that resources having historic, architectural
or cultural value have been neglected, altered or destroyed notwithstanding the
feasibility of preserving and using such resources and without adequate
consideration of the irreplaceable loss to the residents of the village.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDITION. Any construction which increases the square footage of a structure
or which creates a new structure on the site.
   ALTERATION.
      (1)   Work that changes the detail of a resource but does not change its
basic size or shape. An ALTERATION shall include any construction, replacement
or remodeling on a structure which changes the exterior structural parts, the
location of exterior openings or the exterior appearance of the structure, but
which does not increase its square footage.
      (2)   An ALTERATION shall include a proposed sign.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The written approval by the Historic
District Commission of a permit application for work that is appropriate and
that does not adversely affect a resource.
   COMMISSION. The Historic District Commission created by the Village Council
pursuant to §
152.03.
   COMMITTEE. The Historic District Study Committee established pursuant to
Public Act 169 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 through 399.215, as amended,
for the purpose of recommending the designation of a historic district, the
modification of the boundaries of an existing district or the elimination of an
existing district.
   DEMOLITION. The destruction, all or in part of a resource and includes, but
is not limited to, demolition by neglect.
   DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT. Neglect in maintaining, repairing or securing a
resource that results in deterioration of an exterior feature of the resource
or the loss of structural integrity of the resource.
   DENIAL. The written rejection of a permit application for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. A system designed to detect and annunciate the presence
of fire or byproducts of fire. FIRE ALARM SYSTEM includes smoke alarms.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area, or group of areas, not necessarily having
contiguous boundaries, that meets the criteria for designation contained in
this chapter and that has been designated by the village. A district shall
contain one resource or a group of resources that are related by history,
architecture-archeology, engineering or culture.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION. The identification, evaluation, establishment and
protection of resources significant in history, architecture, archeology,
engineering or culture.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE. A publicly or privately owned building, structure, site,
object, feature or open space that is significant in the history, architecture-
archeology, engineering or culture of this state or of this village or of the
United States.
   HISTORIC SIGNIFICANCE. The importance of a property to the history,
architecture, archeology, engineering or culture of a community, state or the
nation. It is achieved through association with events, activities or patterns;
association with important persons; distinctive physical characteristics of
design, construction or form; or potential to yield important information.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED. The written permission to issue a permit for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource, pursuant to a finding that
the conditions described in §
152.09(F) exist.
   OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land, a naturally landscaped area or a formal or
human-made landscaped area that provides a connective link or a buffer between
other resources.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Keeping a resource unimpaired and in good condition
through ongoing minor intervention, undertaken from time to time, in its
exterior condition. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not change the external
appearance of the resource except through the elimination of the usual and
expected effects of weathering. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not constitute work
for purposes of this chapter.
   PROPOSED HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area, or group of areas not necessarily
having contiguous boundaries, that has delineated boundaries and that is under
review by a committee or a standing committee for the purpose of making a
recommendation as to whether it should be established as a historic district or
added to an established historic district.
   REHABILITATION. The process of returning a resource to a state of utility
which makes possible a contemporary use while preserving those portions of the
resource which are significant to its historical, architectural and cultural
value.
   REPAIR. To restore a decayed or damaged resource to a good or sound
condition by any process. A REPAIR that changes the external appearance of a
resource constitutes work for purposes of this chapter.
   RESOURCE. One or more publicly or privately owned historic or non-historic
buildings, structures, sites, objects, features or open spaces located within a
historic district.
   SHPO. The Michigan State Historic Preservation Office.
   SMOKE ALARM. A single-station or multiple-station alarm responsive to smoke
and not connected to a system. As used in this definition, a SINGLE-STATION
ALARM means an assembly incorporating a detector, the control equipment and the
alarm sounding device into a single unit, operated from a power supply either
in the unit or obtained at the point of installation. MULTIPLE-STATION ALARM
means two or more single-station alarms that are capable of interconnection
such that actuation of one alarm causes all integrated separate audible alarms
to operate.
   WORK. Construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation or
demolition.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.03 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 169 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 through
399.215, as amended, a commission, to be known as the Calumet Village Historic
District Commission, is hereby established.
   (B)   The Historic District Commission shall consist of five persons who
reside in the village and a majority of whom clearly demonstrate interest in or
knowledge of historic preservation.
   (C)   The Commission shall include, if available, an architect registered in
this state or a graduate of an accredited school of architecture who has two
years of architectural experience.
   (D)   One member of the Commission shall be appointed from a list of
citizens submitted by the Downtown Development Authority. One member shall be
appointed from a list of citizens submitted by the Keweenaw National Historical
Park Advisory Commission. One member of the Commission shall be appointed from
a list of citizens submitted by the Village Planning Commission.
   (E)   Members shall be appointed by the President of the Village Council,
with the approval of the Village Council. Appointments shall be made for three-
year terms. Initial appointments shall be made within six months after the
enactment of this chapter and shall provide for two three-year terms, two two-
year terms and one one-year term. Members shall be eligible for reappointment.
   (F)   All terms shall end on January 1, except that a member shall continue
in office until a successor is appointed and takes office. If a vacancy on the
Commission occurs, within 60 calendar days the Council President shall make an
interim appointment with the approval of the Village Council, to complete the
unexpired term.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.04 OFFICERS OF THE COMMISSION AND ITS PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Historic District Commission shall each year elect from its
membership a Chairperson and a Vice Chairperson. The Chairperson shall preside
at meetings of the Commission and shall have the right to vote. The Chairperson
shall lead the Commission in carrying out its duties and shall be the
spokesperson for the Commission in presenting its policies to the public. In
the absence or disability of the Chairperson, the Vice Chairperson shall
preside at Commission meetings and perform the other duties of the Chairperson.
The village government shall provide staff assistance to carry out the purposes
of this chapter.
   (B)   The Historic District Commission shall hold monthly public meetings at
a regularly scheduled time, and special Commission meetings shall be called
anytime they become necessary. Public notice of the time, date and place of
each meeting shall be given as required by the State Open Meetings Act (Public
Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275). The notice shall
include a meeting agenda and listing of each permit application to be reviewed
or considered by the Commission.
   (C)   (1)   All meetings of the Commission shall be open to the public and
shall conform to the State Open Meetings Act (Public Act 267 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275). Any person shall be entitled to appear and
be heard on any matter before the Commission prior to its reaching a decision.
      (2)   All decisions by the Commission shall be made at a public meeting,
and applicants shall be given notice of the Commission’s meetings and its
decision on their application.
   (D)   (1)   The Commission shall adopt rules of procedure providing for its
organization and the conduct of its business. A quorum shall consist of a
majority of the Commission, who may take action under the provisions of this
chapter.
      (2)   A majority of the total membership of the Commission shall be
required for the approval or denial of applications and issuance of a
certificate of appropriateness, denial or a notice to proceed.
   (E)   The Commission shall prepare and keep on file, available for public
inspection, minutes of its meetings containing all decisions of the Commission
and the reasons for these decisions. The procedures, guidelines and criteria
and similar material used by the Commission shall be available to the public
for review and comment under the State Freedom of Information Act (Public Act
442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246). The Commission shall
submit an annual report of its activities to the Village Council. The report
shall also summarize historic preservation activities of the village.
   (F)   In accordance with the provisions of state laws, no member of the
Commission shall vote on any matter that may affect the property, income or
business interests of that member. Any member who abstains from voting because
of a conflict of interest shall not be considered as part of the total
membership for that vote.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.05 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Historic District Commission shall:
      (1)   Administer the provisions of this chapter and preserve the historic
district(s) established under the procedures of Public Act 169 of 1970, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 through 399.215, as amended;
      (2)   Maintain a system for the survey and inventory of historic and
architectural resources in coordination with the survey work of the state;
      (3)   Review applications requesting certificates of appropriateness for
exterior work involving all property within a historic district and issue
certificates of appropriateness, notices to proceed or denials;
      (4)   Adopt design review standards and guidelines to carry out its
duties;
      (5)   Contract, with Village Council approval, with persons, firms,
corporations or organizations for expert assistance in carrying out its duties
under this chapter and state and federal laws;
      (6)   Work with and advise the state and federal governments and other
departments of village government;
      (7)   Act as the agent of the village to administer grants from the state
or federal governments for historic preservation purposes and from public or
private contributions for similar purposes and participate in state and federal
programs that benefit historic preservation;
      (8)   Collect and distribute information on historic preservation and
provide technical assistance to property owners and other persons and groups,
including business and neighborhood organizations, who are interested in
historic preservation;
      (9)   Establish goals for its preservation program and recommend
additional areas to be studied for designation and preservation as historic
districts; and
      (10)   Perform such other duties as are required elsewhere in this
chapter or delegated to it under the certified local government program or
provided for in state and federal laws.
   (B)   The Historic District Commission shall pass only on exterior features
of a resource and shall not review and act upon interior arrangements unless
specifically authorized to do so by the Village Council.
   (C)   The Historic District Commission may:
      (1)   Prepare a plan for the preservation of historic properties in the
village and plans for the rehabilitation of individual historic resources;
      (2)   Delegate to a qualified person on the village staff the approval of
certificates of appropriateness for minor alterations and repairs that have
been included among the Commission’s written guidelines, provided that each
quarter the Commission reviews the certificates issued by the staff to
determine whether or not the delegated responsibilities should be continued;
      (3)   Make recommendations to the Village Council regarding the
acquisition of historic properties;
      (4)   Maintain publicly-owned historic properties using its own funds, if
not specifically earmarked for other purposes, or those public funds committed
for this use by the Village Council or recommend to the Village Council the
selling of resources acquired under this chapter with protective easements
included in the property transfer documents;
      (5)   Assist public and private groups in the registration and marking of
historic properties and in the application for grants for the rehabilitation of
those properties; and
      (6)   Undertake or assist educational and research programs including the
collection of historical records and photographs, the preparation of
publications and the conducting of special events relating to the village’s
history.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.06 DESIGNATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Under Public Act 169 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 through
399.215, as amended, the Village Council shall appoint a Historic District
Study Committee to start the process of designating a historic district. The
Committee shall make recommendations concerning the area to be included in the
proposed historic district. The Committee shall contain a majority of persons
who have a clearly demonstrated interest in or knowledge of historic
preservation. It shall contain representation from one or more duly organized
local historic preservation organizations. The Committee shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Conduct a photographic inventory of resources within each proposed
historic district following procedures established or approved by the Center;
      (2)   Conduct basic research on each proposed historic district and the
historic resources located within that district;
      (3)   (a)   Determine the total number of historic and non-historic
resources within a proposed historic district and the percentage of historic
resources of that total. In evaluating the significance of historic resources,
the Committee shall be guided by the selection criteria for evaluation issued
by the United States Secretary of the Interior for inclusion of resources in
the National Register of Historic Places, as follow.
         (b)   The quality of significance in American history, architecture,
archeology, engineering and culture is present in districts, sites, buildings,
structures and objects that possess integrity of location, design, setting,
materials, workmanship, feeling and association, and:
            1.   Are associated with events that have made a significant
contribution to the broad patterns of our history;
            2.   Are associated with the lives of persons significant in our
past;
            3.   Embody the distinctive characteristics of a type, period or
method of construction or that represent the work of a master, or that possess
high artistic values, or that represent a significant and distinguishable
entity whose components may lack individual distinction; or
            4.   Have yielded, or may be likely to yield, information important
in prehistory or history.
         (c)   The Committee shall also be guided by criteria established or
approved by the State Historic Preservation Office, if any.
      (4)   Prepare a preliminary Historic District Study Committee report that
addresses at a minimum all of the following:
         (a)   The charge of the Committee;
         (b)   The composition of the Committee membership;
         (c)   The historic district or districts studied;
         (d)   The boundaries for each proposed district in writing and on
maps;
         (e)   The history of each proposed historic district; and
         (f)   The significance of each district as a whole, as well as a
sufficient number of its individual resources to fully represent the variety of
resources found within the district, relative to the evaluation criteria.
      (5)   Transmit copies of the preliminary report for review and
recommendations to the Village Planning Commission, to the Center, to the State
Historical Commission and to the State Historic Preservation Review Board; and
      (6)   Make copies of the preliminary report available to the public
pursuant to division (E) below.
   (B)   Not less than 60 calendar days after the transmittal, the Committee
shall hold a public hearing on its report and recommendations after giving due
notice in the manner required by Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.261 through 15.275, as amended. Additional written notice shall be given by
first-class mail not less than 14 calendar days before the hearing to the
owners of properties to be included in the historic district. Written notice
shall be considered sufficient when it is mailed to the person listed on the
tax rolls of the village.
   (C)   After the public hearing, the Committee and the Village Council shall
have not more than one year to take the following actions.
      (1)   The Committee shall prepare and submit to the Village Council a
final report with its recommendations and the recommendations, if any, of the
Village Planning Commission. If the recommendation is to establish a historic
district or districts, the final report shall include a draft of a proposed
ordinance or ordinances.
      (2)   After receiving a final report that recommends the establishment of
a historic district or districts, the Village Council, at its discretion, may
introduce and pass or modify and pass or reject an ordinance or ordinances. If
the Council passes an ordinance or ordinances establishing one or more historic
districts, the Council shall file with the Register of Deeds a copy of that
ordinance or those ordinances, including a legal description of the property or
properties within the historic district or districts, so that the designation
of each property within the district or districts will be recorded in the land
records of the county. Notice shall also be given to the State Departments of
Transportation and Environmental Quality.
   (D)   The Council shall not pass an ordinance establishing a contiguous
historic district less than 60 days after a majority of the property owners
within the proposed historic district, as listed on the tax rolls of the
village, have approved the establishment of the historic district pursuant to a
written petition.
   (E)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of or retained by
the Committee in the performance of an official function shall be made
available to the public in compliance with state law.
   (F)   (1)   Additional historic districts may be designated, and the
designation of an existing historic district may be amended or rescinded
through the same procedures used for the original designation. Previously
written Committee reports shall be considered.
      (2)   To eliminate a historic district a Committee shall show one or more
of the following:
         (a)   The historic district has lost those physical characteristics
that enabled establishment of the district;
         (b)   The historic district was not significant in the way previously
defined; and/or
         (c)   The historic district was established pursuant to defective
procedures.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.07 EFFECT OF DESIGNATION.
   (A)   A certificate of appropriateness or notice to proceed from the
Commission shall be required before undertaking construction, addition,
alteration, repair, moving, excavation or demolition affecting the exterior
appearance of a resource in a historic district.
   (B)   No work shall be started unless the Commission has issued a
certificate of appropriateness or a notice to proceed.
   (C)   The Commission shall not issue a certificate of appropriateness unless
the applicant certifies in the application that the property where work will be
undertaken has, or will have before the proposed project completion date, a
fire alarm system or a smoke alarm complying with the requirements of the
Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code Act, Public Act 230 of
1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531.
   (D)   The Commission shall review and act upon only exterior features of a
resource and shall not review and act upon interior arrangements unless
specifically authorized to do so by the Village Council.
   (E)   In the event work is being performed without the required certificate
of appropriateness, the Commission shall ask that a stop work order be issued.
In the event work is being performed which is not in accordance with its
certificate of appropriateness, the Commission shall also ask that a stop work
order be issued. In addition to other penalties and remedies, the village shall
issue a stop work order, and all work shall cease on the designated property.
No additional work shall be undertaken as long as such stop work order shall
continue in effect. The village may apply for an injunction to enforce its stop
work order.
   (F)   When work has been done upon a resource without a certificate, and the
Commission finds that the work does not qualify for a certificate of
appropriateness, the Commission may require an owner to restore the resource to
the condition the resource was in before the inappropriate work, or to modify
the work so that it qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness. If the
owner does not comply with the restoration or modification requirement within a
reasonable time, the Commission may seek an order from the Circuit Court to
require the owner to restore the resource to its former condition or to modify
the work so that it qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness. If the
owner does not comply or cannot comply with the order of the court, the
Commission or its agents may enter the property and conduct work necessary to
restore the resource to its former condition or modify the work so that it
qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness in accordance with the court’s
order. The costs of the work shall be charged to the owner, and may be levied
by the village as a special assessment against the property. When acting
pursuant to an order of the Circuit Court, a Commission or its agents may enter
a property for purposes of this section.
   (G)   The regulations under a historic district designation shall be in
addition to the provision of existing land use regulations, and the regulations
of a historic district shall prevail over conflicting regulations to the extent
of any conflict. Any land use permitted by right shall be permitted.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.08 CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.
   (A)   When a person wishes to undertake any exterior work within a historic
district, that person shall apply to the village for approval of the work. For
purposes of this chapter, persons required to apply shall include individuals,
partnerships, firms, corporations, organizations, institutions or agencies of
government. The application together with the plans pertaining to the work
shall immediately be referred to the Historic District Commission. The
application must be complete in order for the review by the Commission to
begin.
   (B)   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on each application for a
certificate of appropriateness at its next regular meeting when a complete
application has been filed at least seven calendar days before the meeting. The
Commission shall make a decision on each application within 60 days after the
receipt of a completed application. Upon mutual written consent between the
Commission and the applicant, the decision on the application may be extended.
If the Commission fails to act in 60 days after receipt of a completed
application, it constitutes approval of the project.
   (C)   Applicants shall be notified and public notice shall be given in
accordance with the Open Meetings Act (Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 15.261 through 15.275) of all hearings and meetings where applications for
certificate of appropriateness will be considered. Applicants shall be informed
in writing of the Commission’s decision.
   (D)   The Commission shall approve or disapprove each application for a
certificate of appropriateness. The Commission may suggest modifications to an
applicant at its meeting and may then approve a certificate of appropriateness
providing for revisions in the plans submitted.
   (E)   The Commission shall file certificates of appropriateness, notices to
proceed and denials of applications with the village. If a permit application
is denied, the decision shall be binding on the Building Inspector or other
authority. A denial shall be accompanied with a written explanation by the
Commission of the reasons for denial and, if appropriate, a notice that an
application may be resubmitted for Commission review when suggested changes
have been made. The denial shall also include notification of the applicant’s
rights of appeal to the State Historic Preservation Review Board and to the
Circuit Court. The failure of the Commission to act within 60 calendar days
after the date a complete application is filed with the Commission, unless an
extension has been agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Commission,
shall be considered to constitute approval.
   (F)   An applicant aggrieved by a decision of the Commission concerning a
permit application may file an appeal with the State Historic Preservation
Review Board. The appeal shall be filed within 60 days after the decision is
furnished to the applicant. The appellant may submit all or part of the
appellant’s evidence and arguments in written form. A permit applicant
aggrieved by the decision of the State Historic Preservation Review Board may
appeal the decision to the Circuit Court.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.09 COMMISSION STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES; SAVING THREATENED RESOURCES.
   (A)   In reviewing plans, the Commission shall follow the United States
Secretary of the Interior’s Standards for Rehabilitation and Guidelines for
Rehabilitating Historic Buildings, as set forth in 36 C.F.R. part 67. Design
review standards and guidelines that address special design characteristics of
historic districts administered by the Commission may be followed if they are
equivalent in guidance to the Secretary of the Interior’s Standards and
Guidelines and are established or approved by the State Historic Preservation
Office.
   (B)   The Commission shall also consider all of the following:
      (1)   The historical or architectural value and significance of the
resource and its relationship to the historic value of the surrounding area;
      (2)   The relationship of any architectural features of the resource to
the rest of the resource and to the surrounding area;
      (3)   The general compatibility of design, arrangement, texture and
materials proposed to be used;
      (4)   Other factors, including aesthetic value, that the Commission
considers pertinent; and
      (5)   Whether the applicant has certified in the application that the
property where work will be undertaken has, or will have before the proposed
project completion date, a fire alarm system or a smoke alarm complying with
the requirements of the Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code
Act, Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531.
   (C)   If an application is for work that adversely affects the exterior
appearance of a resource that the Commission considers so valuable to the
village, state or nation that its alteration or loss adversely affects the
public purpose of the village, state or nation, the Commission shall attempt to
establish with the owner of the resource an economically feasible plan for
preservation of the resource.
   (D)   Upon a finding by the Commission that a historic resource within a
historic district or proposed historic district subject to its review and
approval is threatened with demolition by neglect, the Commission may do either
of the following:
      (1)   Require the owner of the resource to repair all conditions
contributing to demolition by neglect; or
      (2)   If the owner does not make repairs within a reasonable time, the
Commission or its agents may enter the property and make such repairs as are
necessary to prevent demolition by neglect. The costs of the work shall be
charged to the owner, and may be levied by the village as a special assessment
against the property. The Commission or its agents may enter the property for
purposes of this section upon obtaining an order from the Circuit Court.
   (E)   If all efforts by the Historic District Commission to preserve a
resource fail, or if it is determined by the Village Council that public
ownership is most suitable, the Council, if considered to be in the public
interest, may acquire the resource using public funds, public or private gifts,
grants or proceeds from the issuance of revenue bonds. The acquisition shall be
based upon the recommendation of the Commission. The Commission is responsible
for maintaining publicly owned resources using its own funds, if not
specifically designated for other purposes, or public funds committed for that
use by the Council. Upon recommendation of the Commission, the village may sell
resources acquired under this provision with protective easements included in
the property transfer document, if appropriate.
   (F)   An application for work adversely affecting the exterior appearance of
a resource, shall be approved by the Commission through the issuance of a
notice to proceed, if any of the following conditions exist and if the
Commission makes a finding that it is necessary to improve or correct these
conditions:
      (1)   The resource constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or
its occupants;
      (2)   The resource is a deterrent to a major improvement program that
will be of substantial benefit to the community and the applicant proposing the
work has obtained all necessary approvals, financing and environmental
clearances;
      (3)   Retaining the resource will cause undue financial hardship to the
owner when a governmental action, an act of God or other events beyond the
owner’s control created the hardship, and all feasible alternatives to
eliminate the financial hardship, which may include offering the resource for
sale at its fair market value or moving the resource to a vacant site within
the historic district, have been attempted and exhausted by the owner; and
      (4)   Retaining the resource would not be in the interest of the majority
of the community.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.10 REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS WITHIN PROPOSED DISTRICT EMERGENCY MORATORIUM.
   (A)   Upon receipt of substantial evidence showing the presence of historic,
architectural, archaeological, engineering or cultural significance of a
proposed historic district, the Village Council may, at its discretion, adopt a
resolution requiring that all applications for permits within the proposed
historic district be referred to the Commission as prescribed in §§
152.07, 152.08 and 152.09. The Commission shall review permit applications with
the same powers that would apply if the proposed historic district was an
established historic district. The review may continue in the proposed historic
district for not more than one year, or until such time as the Village Council
approves or rejects the establishment of the historic district by ordinance,
whichever occurs first.
   (B)   If the Village Council determines that pending work will cause
irreparable harm to resources located within an established historic district
or a proposed historic district, the Council may by resolution declare an
emergency moratorium of all such work for a period not to exceed six months.
The Council may extend the emergency moratorium for an additional period not to
exceed six months upon finding that the threat of irreparable harm to resources
is still present. Any pending application concerning a resource subject to an
emergency moratorium may be summarily denied.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.11 MAINTENANCE OF DESIGNATED RESOURCES.
   Ordinary maintenance or repair may be undertaken without a certificate of
appropriateness provided this work on a resource in a historic district does
not change its exterior appearance.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.12 APPEALS.
   Any citizen or duly organized historic preservation organization in the
village, as well as a property owner in a historic district who is aggrieved by
a decision of the Historic District Commission, may appeal the decision to the
Circuit Court except that an applicant objecting to a decision on an
application for a certificate of appropriateness may not appeal to the court
without first exhausting the right to appeal to the State Historic Preservation
Review Board.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.13 DESIGNATED HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   The following described area is hereby designated a historic district and
shall be subject to the terms, conditions and requirements of this chapter.
   Boundary Description.
Contiguous portion of the district as follows: beginning at the center point of
the intersection of Scott Street and the alley between Sixth and Seventh
Streets, proceed northward along the centerline of the alley to the parcel at
612-614 Portland Street (parcel # 31-041-110-009-00). Proceed westward along
the southern lot line of the parcel at 612-614 Portland Street to the
centerline of Seventh Street, then northward along the centerline of Seventh
Street to the center point of the intersection of Seventh Street and Portland
Street. Proceed eastward along the centerline of Portland Street to the center
point of the intersection of Portland Street with the alley between Sixth and
Seventh Streets. Proceed northward along the centerline of the alley to the
parcel at 618 Oak Street (parcel # 31-041-102-009-00). Proceed westward along
the southern lot line of the parcel at 618 Oak Street to the centerline of
Seventh Street, then northward along the centerline of Seventh Street, across
Oak Street, to the parcel at 613 Oak Street (parcel # 31-041-131-011-50).
Proceed eastward along the northern lot line of the parcel at 613 Oak Street to
the centerline of the alley between Sixth and Seventh Streets.
Proceed northward along the centerline of the alley between Sixth and Seventh
Streets to the center point of the intersection of that alley with Elm Street.
Proceed westward along the centerline of Elm Street to the center point of the
intersection of Elm Street and Seventh Street. Proceed northward along the
centerline of Seventh Street to the parcel at 414 Seventh Street (parcel # 31-
041-132-021-00). Proceed eastward along the northern lot line of the parcel at
414 Seventh Street to the centerline of the alley between Sixth and Seventh
Streets. Proceed southward along the centerline of the alley to the parcel at
401 Sixth Street (parcel # 31-041-132-019-00). Proceed eastward along the
northern lot line of the parcel at 401 Sixth Street to the centerline of Sixth
Street.
Proceed northward along the centerline of Sixth Street to the parcel at 416
Sixth Street (parcel # 31-041-129-013-00). Proceed eastward along the northern
lot line of the parcel at 416 Sixth Street to the centerline of the alley
between Fifth and Sixth Streets. Proceed northward along the centerline of the
alley to the parcel at 436 Sixth Street (parcel # 31-041-129-020-00). Proceed
westward along the southern lot line of the parcel at 436 Sixth Street to the
centerline of Sixth Street. Proceed northward along the centerline of Sixth
Street, then eastward following the northern lot line of the parcel at 436
Sixth Street to the centerline of the alley between Fifth Street and Sixth
Street. Proceed northward along the centerline of the alley to the center point
of the intersection of the alley and Pine Street.
Proceed eastward along the centerline of Pine Street to the center point of the
intersection of Pine Street and Fifth Street. Proceed northward along the
centerline of Fifth Street to the parcel at 451 Pine Street (parcel # 31-041-
121-010-30). Proceed eastward along the northern lot line of the parcel at 451
Pine Street to its northeast corner, then southward along the eastern lot line
of that parcel to the centerline of Pine Street. Proceed eastward along the
centerline of Pine Street to the parcel at 444-448 Pine Street (parcel # 31-
041-105-004-00). Proceed southward along the eastern lot line of the parcel at
444-448 Pine Street to its southeast corner, then westward along the southern
lot line of that parcel to the northeast corner of parcel # 31-041-420-118-00.
Proceed southward along the eastern lot line of that parcel to parcel # 31-041-
420-119-00. Proceed southward along the eastern lot line of that parcel to
where it meets the village boundary.
Continue southward along the village boundary to the northeast corner of parcel
#31-041-420-127-00, then eastward along the village boundary line to the point
where it intersects with the centerline of Fourth Street. Proceed southward
along the centerline of Fourth Street to the village boundary at Red Jacket
Road. Proceed northwest along the village boundary/Red Jacket Road to the
intersection with Fifth Street. Proceed northward along the village boundary/
Fifth Street to the intersection with Scott Street. Proceed westward along the
village boundary/Scott Street to the beginning point at the intersection
between Scott Street and the alley between Sixth Street and Seventh Streets.
Non-contiguous portions of the district as follow:
706 Oak Street (parcel # 31-041-103-001-20);
808 Oak Street (parcel # 31-041-104-010-00);
412 Pine Street (parcel # 31-041-105-001-40);
417 Pine Street (parcel # 31-041-120-010-00); and
423 Pine Street (parcel # 31-041-120-010-20).
The boundaries of the Civic and Commercial District described above are shown
on a map entitled “Village of Calumet. Michigan: Civic and Commercial District”
which is kept on file in the Village Office.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization,
institution or agency of government that violates the provisions of this
chapter or that fails to comply with a certificate of appropriateness or any of
the regulatory measures of the Historic District Commission adopted pursuant to
this chapter is responsible for a civil violation and may be fined a sum not to
exceed $100. Each day such violation continues shall be deemed a separate
offense provided the fines do not exceed $5,000.
   (B)   A person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization,
institution or agency of government that violates the provisions of this
chapter or that fails to comply with a certificate of appropriateness or any of
the regulatory measures of the Historic District Commission adopted pursuant to
this chapter may be ordered by the court to pay the costs to restore or
replicate a resource unlawfully constructed, added to, altered, repaired,
moved, excavated or demolished.
(Ord. 140, passed 1-15-2002; Ord. 140, passed 6-27-2013)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
Title and Purpose
   
153.001   Title
   
153.002   Area of jurisdiction
   
153.003   Purpose
   
153.004   Relationship to the Master Plan
   
153.005   Authority
General Provisions
   
153.020   Applicability
   
153.021   Vested right
   
153.022   Conflicting regulations
   
153.023   Barrier-free modifications
   
153.024   Restoration of unsafe buildings
   
153.025   Relocation of buildings
   
153.026   Demolition of buildings
   
153.027   Temporary buildings for construction
   
153.028   Construction standards, completion and occupancy
   
153.029   Sidewalks
   
153.030   Voting places
   
153.031   Lots adjoining alleys
   
153.032   Yard projections
   
153.033   Height exceptions
   
153.034   Accessory buildings, structures and uses
   
153.035   Personal solar installations
   
153.036   Donation bins
   
153.037   Public uses; critical, essential and supporting
   
153.038   Modular, manufactured homes
   
153.039   Fences
   
153.040   Refuse receptacles
   
153.041   Recreational vehicles, structures
   
153.042   Performance standards
   
153.043   Required water supply, sanitation facilities
   
153.044   Power generators
   
153.045   Outdoor wood boiler
   
153.046   Definitions
   
153.047   Amendments
Zoning Map, Districts
   
153.060   Zoning districts, map
   
153.061   Zoning district regulations
   
153.062   VR: Village Residential District
   
153.063   FR: Flexible Residential District
   
153.064   DC: Downtown Commercial District
   
153.065   CC: Corridor Commercial District
   
153.066   LIW: Light Industrial and Warehousing District
   
153.067   PSP: Public, Semi-Public District
Overlay Districts
   
153.080   Intent; purpose
   
153.081   Civic, Commercial Historic Overlay District (CCHOD)
Site Development Standards
   
153.095   Intent; purpose
   
153.096   Landscaping
   
153.097   Off-street parking
   
153.098   Exterior lighting
Signs
   
153.110   Intent; purpose
   
153.111   General requirements
   
153.112   Sign measurements
   
153.113   Illumination
   
153.114   Prohibited signs
   
153.115   Nonconforming signs
   
153.116   Removal of unsafe, unlawful or abandoned signs
   
153.117   Permit application; approval process
   
153.118   Freestanding signs
   
153.119   Wall signs
   
153.120   Awning signs
   
153.121   Canopy, marquee signs
   
153.122   Projecting signs
   
153.123   Window signs
   
153.124   Electronic message signs
   
153.125   Small temporary signs
   
153.126   Large temporary signs
   
153.127   Flag signs
Storm water Management
   
153.140   Intent; purpose
   
153.141   Applicability
   
153.142   Storm water management facilities
Supplemental Use Standards
   
153.155   Intent; purpose
   
153.156   Bungalow, cottage courts
   
153.157   Accessory dwelling units
   
153.158   Bed and breakfast inn establishments
   
153.159   Home occupations
   
153.160   Automobile repair
   
153.161   Drive in, drive through services
   
153.162   Neighborhood commercial establishments
   
153.163   Sexually oriented businesses
   
153.164   Off-site public or private parking facilities
   
153.165   Contractor storage yards
   
153.166   Extractive industries
   
153.167   Outdoor storage, sales and displays
   
153.168   Solar energy farms
   
153.169   Telecommunication towers
Small Cell Wireless Facilities
   
153.180   Intent; purpose
   
153.181   General provisions
   
153.182   Exempt small cell wireless facilities
   
153.183   Non-exempt small cell wireless facilities; site plan review process
   
153.184   Wireless communication equipment
   
153.185   Design
   
153.186   Maintenance
   
153.187   Permit application process
   
153.188   Alternative siting, decommissioning
   
153.189   Basis for denial of a permit
   
153.190   Insurance and bonding
   
153.191   Labeling
   
153.192   Appeals
Site Plan Review
   
153.205   Intent; purpose
   
153.206   Site plan required
   
153.207   Standards for site plan approval
   
153.208   Site plan application
   
153.209   Record of actions
   
153.210   Expiration, revocation
   
153.211   Amendments, modifications
   
153.212   Fees, performance guarantees
Special Land Uses
   
153.225   Intent; purpose
   
153.226   General standards
   
153.227   Special land use application
   
153.228   Special land use determinations
   
153.229   Record of actions
   
153.230   Expiration, revocation
   
153.231   Amendments, modifications
   
153.232   Fees, performance guarantees
Land Development Options
   
153.245   Intent; purpose
   
153.246   Planned Unit Development
   
153.247   Site condominium development
Nonconformities
   
153.260   Intent, purpose
   
153.261   General standards
   
153.262   Uses
   
153.263   Sites
   
153.264   Structures
   
153.265   Lots
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
153.280   Authority
   
153.281   Membership
   
153.282   Organization
   
153.283   Applications
   
153.284   Appeals of administrative decisions
   
153.285   Interpretation of zoning district boundaries
   
153.286   Interpretation of zoning ordinance provisions
   
153.287   Variances
   
153.288   Exceptions
   
153.289   Hearings and decisions
   
153.290   Fees
   
153.291   Limitations of authority
Administration, Enforcement and Violations
   
153.305   Zoning Administrator
   
153.306   Fees
   
153.307   Performance guarantees
   
153.308   Taxes, other monies owed
   
153.309   Public hearings
   
153.310   Zoning permits
   
153.311   Nuisances
   
153.312   Enforcement Official
   
153.313   Conditional rezoning
 
   
153.999   Penalty
TITLE AND PURPOSE
§ 153.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Village of Calumet Zoning Ordinance”,
and will be referred to herein as this “chapter”.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.002 AREA OF JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all development, public and
private, throughout the incorporated areas of the Village of Calumet, Houghton
County, Michigan, to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the village. The village desires to provide
for the orderly development of the village, which is essential to the wellbeing
of the community and which will place no undue burden upon developers,
industry, commerce or residents. The village further desires:
   (A)   To encourage the use of lands in the village in accordance with their
character and suitability for particular purposes;
   (B)   To lessen congestion on the public streets and highways;
   (C)   To minimize potential negative impacts land uses may have on abutting
properties and the village as a whole, while mitigating potential nuisances;
   (D)   To facilitate the adequate provision of streets and highways, sewage
disposal and water supply systems; and
   (E)   To ensure compatibility between land uses and to preserve property
values by establishing standards for physical development.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.004 RELATIONSHIP TO THE MASTER PLAN.
   This chapter is a tool used by the community to effectuate the
recommendations of the Village Master Plan and other planning documents,
including the Village Civic and Commercial Historic District Design Guidelines,
which serve as a guide to the long-term physical development of the village.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.005 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is ordained and enacted into law pursuant to the provisions and
in accordance with the State Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as
amended.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.020 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically stated, the provisions of this chapter
shall apply to all lands within the village and within all zoning districts.As
an aid to users, this chapter cross-references sections that are or might be
applicable to other sections.
   (B)   An incorrect or lack of cross-reference does not relieve a person from
complying with all applicable requirements of this chapter. The chapter must be
read and applied “as a whole”.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.021 VESTED RIGHT.
   Nothing in this chapter should be interpreted or construed to give rise to
permanent vested rights in the continuance of any particular use, district,
zoning classification or any permissible activities therein, and they are
hereby declared to be subject to subsequent amendment, change or modification
as may be necessary to the preservation or protection of public health, safety
and welfare.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.022 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In the interpretation, application and enforcement of this chapter,
whenever any of the provisions or limitations imposed or required by this
chapter are more stringent than any other law or ordinance, then the provisions
of this chapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other law or
ordinance impose more stringent requirements than is imposed or required by
this chapter, then the provisions of such other law or ordinance shall govern.
   (B)   The graphics, tables and text used throughout this chapter are
regulatory. In case of a conflict, text shall control over tables or graphics;
tables shall control over graphics. Photographs and illustrations marked
“example” or “for illustrative purposes only” are not regulatory and are
provided for illustrative support only.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.023 BARRIER-FREE MODIFICATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the unlimited modification of a
building only as may be necessary to comply with barrier-free requirements and
the Americans with Disabilities Act.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.024 RESTORATION OF UNSAFE BUILDINGS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a
safe condition any part of any building or structure declared unsafe by the
Zoning Administrator, Building Official or Public Health Inspector.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.025 RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   The relocation of a building to a different location in the village shall be
the same as erection of a new building, and all applicable provisions,
regulations and required permitting shall be followed and obtained.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.026 DEMOLITION OF BUILDINGS.
   No structure shall be demolished until a zoning permit for demolition has
been issued by the Zoning Administrator. The demolition shall be completed
within such reasonable time period as shall be prescribed by the village and
under conditions that may be specified by the village as necessary to protect
the public health, safety and welfare. The demolition of structures within the
village shall comply with the following.
   (A)   Any demolition project in the Civic and Commercial Historic Overlay
District shall receive a certificate of appropriateness from the Historic
District Commission prior to the issuance of a zoning permit for demolition.
   (B)   The demolition of a structure shall include the demolition and removal
of all foundation, cement flooring, footings and walls, unless the applicant
has immediate plans to incorporate those features into the proposed structure’s
design.
   (C)   The demolition of structures shall not damage any public property. If
any damage is done to public property, the applicant is responsible for making
all of the repairs required to remediate the damage in a timely manner.
   (D)   (1)   The demolition of a principal structure that will leave an
accessory structure on the property shall not be allowed unless the accessory
structure is also demolished, or if the applicant has immediate plans to
construct a new principal structure.
      (2)   Should the principal structure be damaged by weather or fire, the
property owner shall have one year to obtain a zoning permit to rebuild the
principal structure before the accessory structure is required to be
demolished.
   (E)   (1)   Following demolition of the structure and the removal of all
required materials, the site shall be backfilled with clean fill and the site
graded to meet existing grades at the property lines and prevent drainage of
surface water onto abutting properties.
      (2)   All non-paved areas on the site shall be top dressed with a minimum
two inches of topsoil and seeded with an appropriate grass seed.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.027 TEMPORARY BUILDINGS FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Temporary buildings or structures may be utilized during construction for
the storage of construction materials and for construction offices during a
construction period of an approved project. Temporary buildings shall be
removed prior to issuance of a certificate of occupancy. No temporary building
or structure shall be used as a dwelling unit.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.028 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS, COMPLETION AND OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All structures requiring a building permit shall be designed and
constructed to meet any requirements of the State Construction Code, as
amended, and with all applicable regulations adopted thereunder.
   (B)   (1)   Any construction in any district must have all exterior work
completed and inspected within 365 days from date a building permit is issued.
      (2)   One extension of up to 180 days may be granted by the Zoning
Administrator if requested by the applicant within five days of the deadline.
   (C)   All uses, including nonconforming uses, shall obtain a certificate of
occupancy from the County Building Department when a certificate is required by
the State Construction Code.
   (D)   All of the requirements and conditions contained in any development
approvals applicable to the property, including zoning, site plan and other
village approval, that have not been met at the time of the issuance of the
development approval, shall be required to have been met before the issuance of
any zoning permit.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.029 SIDEWALKS.
   Sidewalks throughout the village shall be constructed and maintained
consistent with the requirements of §§
92.01 through
92.10.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.030 VOTING PLACES.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to interfere
with the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with a
municipal or other public election.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.031 LOTS ADJOINING ALLEYS.
   (A)   Lots adjoining alleys that have been vacated by the village shall
include one-half the width of such alley abutting the lot for the purpose of
determining lot area.
   (B)   All other alleys that have not been vacated shall be prohibited from
being including in the calculation of lot area for any adjacent lot.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.032 YARD PROJECTIONS.
   Architectural features may encroach into required yards as follows:
   (A)   Cornices, eaves, sills, fireplaces, flues, ornamental features and
other similar features may extend or project into a required yard a distance of
not more than 24 inches;
   (B)   Uncovered and unenclosed ground story decks, patios, or terrace less
than 30 inches above grade may project into a required yard a maximum of 50% of
the required front, rear, or side yard;
   (C)   Covered or enclosed porches that extend from the ground floor level of
a residential structure may project into a required front yard setback a
maximum of six feet; and
   (D)   No permitted projection shall be allowed to encroach into a public
right-of-way except for approved awnings and signs.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.033 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   Architectural, mechanical and structural features may exceed the height
limitations as follows, provided they are in compliance with the County
Memorial Airport Zoning.
   (A)   (1)   Parapet walls may extend above the maximum height specified in
the respective district by up to five feet.
      (2)   Roof-mounted mechanical equipment may extend above the maximum
height specified in the respective district if completely screened by said
parapet wall.
   (B)   Freestanding telecommunications towers may exceed the maximum height
specified in the respective district.
   (C)   Architectural features associated with religious institutions shall be
exempt from district height limits.
   (D)   Chimneys attached to residential dwellings may extend above the
maximum height specified in the respective district only to the extent required
to meet fire and state construction codes.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.034 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory to permitted residential use in residential districts. No
accessory building, structure or use may be placed on a lot without an
associated permitted principal use.
   (B)   When attached to a principal building or structure. Unless
specifically provided for, accessory buildings or structures structurally
attached to a principal building or structure shall be subject to all the
regulations of this chapter applicable to principal buildings, structures and
uses.
   (C)   When detached from a principal building or structure. All detached
accessory buildings and structures shall be located a minimum of five feet from
any other building or structure, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter.
   (D)   Prohibited accessory buildings, structures and uses. Transient
(shipping) containers are not permitted as an accessory structure or building.
No mobile home, tank, junk object, salvage materials, trailer, vehicle or
similar item shall be utilized as an accessory building or storage structure;
provided, however, the above requirements shall not be applicable to:
      (1)   Temporary offices, tool sheds or similar temporary storage
structures used as part of a permitted construction project and as regulated in
this chapter.
      (2)   Underground storage tanks accessory to a permitted use. Said tanks,
including the operation of same, shall meet all state and federal permitting
and monitoring requirements.
      (3)   Storage/shipping containers, such as PODS (portable on demand
storage units), shall be allowed as a temporary use within the village for a
period not to exceed 14 days. Such containers shall only be for the use of the
person utilizing the storage/shipping container for moving of goods and
materials. At no time shall any container be placed as a permanent structure
within any zoning district. Only one container may be placed at any
residentially-zoned property or use at a time.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.035 PERSONAL SOLAR INSTALLATIONS.
   Personal solar installations shall be permitted as an accessory use and
structure where the primary purpose is to provide energy for on-site
consumption. The location and placement of personal solar installations in the
Civic and Commercial Historic Overlay District shall only be permitted after
receipt of a certificate of appropriateness from the Historic District
Commission. Personal solar installations shall be subject to the following
standards.
   (A)   Roof-mounted solar installations.
      (1)   Height. The height of the roof-mounted solar installation shall not
exceed the maximum allowed height for the structure it is mounted on in any
zoning district.
      (2)   Setback. Roof-mounted solar installations shall be considered part
of the building and meet all applicable building setbacks.
      (3)   Placement. Roof-mounted solar installations may be permitted on
principal or accessory buildings, but shall be prohibited from the side of a
roof on a principal structure facing the public right-of-way. The color of the
solar collector is not required to be consistent with other roofing materials.
      (4)   Coverage. Roof-mounted solar installations shall be allowed to
cover the entire roof upon which they are mounted.
      (5)   Visibility and glare.
         (a)   Roof-mounted solar installations shall be mounted or oriented so
that concentrated solar glare will not be directed toward or onto nearby
properties or rights-of-way at any time of the day.
         (b)   Support structures shall be of a single, non-reflective matte
finish that is consistent throughout the project.
      (6)   Energy sales. Excess energy generated by roof-mounted solar
installations may be sold to utility company and returned to the grid.
   (B)   Ground-mounted solar installations.
      (1)   Height. The maximum height of a ground-mounted solar installation
shall be 16 feet above grade at maximum tilt.
      (2)   Setbacks. Ground-mounted solar installations shall comply with all
district required setbacks.
      (3)   Placement.
         (a)   Ground-mounted solar installations shall only be allowed in the
rear or side yard on a property with an established permitted principal use.
         (b)   Placement in street-facing side yards of corner lots shall be
prohibited.
      (4)   Coverage. The area of the ground-mounted solar installation energy
collection system shall count towards the maximum area allowed for accessory
buildings on property with a principal use.
      (5)   Visibility and glare.
         (a)   Ground-mounted solar installations shall be mounted or oriented
so that concentrated solar glare will not be directed toward or onto nearby
properties or rights-of-way at any time of the day.
         (b)   Systems designed to track the maximum sun angle throughout the
day shall be programed to prevent positioning at any point that would result in
glare directed toward nearby properties or rights-of-way. Support structures
shall be of a single, non-reflective matte finish that is consistent throughout
the project.
      (6)   Energy sales. Excess energy generated by ground-mounted solar
installations may be sold to utility company and returned to the grid.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.036 DONATION BINS.
   Bins designed to solicit donations shall be allowed in any nonresidential
zoning district, except they shall be prohibited within the Civic and
Commercial Historic Overlay District, as an accessory structure with Village
Council approval.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.037 PUBLIC USES; CRITICAL, ESSENTIAL AND SUPPORTING.
   (A)   Critical, essential and supporting public uses shall be allowed in any
zoning district by right. All applicable laws or other ordinances of the
village shall apply.
   (B)   All structures associated with a public use shall be subject to
applicable setbacks for the district in which they are located.
   (C)   Site plan approval and a zoning permit shall be required.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.038 MODULAR, MANUFACTURED HOMES.
   (A)   Modular homes, as defined in this chapter, shall be allowed in any
residential district subject to all applicable standards.
   (B)   Modular homes may also be known as factory-built homes.
   (C)   Manufactured homes, as defined by this chapter, shall be prohibited
within the village.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.039 FENCES.
   All fences shall:
   (A)   Be no taller than six feet in the side or rear yards in residential
districts;
   (B)   Be no taller than four feet in the front yard in residential
districts;
   (C)   Only be permitted in the side and rear yards of nonresidential
districts at a maximum height of six feet except as specifically required at a
greater height in this chapter;
   (D)   Height shall be measured from the average finished grade between two
fence posts and the top of the fence between said posts;
   (E)   Be wholly on the property they are intended to serve;
   (F)   Be no closer than three feet to an abutting alley;
   (G)   Have the finished side of the fence facing outward away from the
property; and
   (H)   Be made of safe, durable materials. Fences shall not be made of or
include barbed wire, razor wire, electrified materials or any other dangerous
material. Such material may be allowed in the industrial districts upon
approval by the Planning Commission. The use of pallets, slabwood, chicken wire
or other material not intended for fencing shall be prohibited.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.040 REFUSE RECEPTACLES.
   All trash and refuse stored outdoors shall be placed in a designated
container and shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   Dumpsters shall only be used for residential structures serving more
than four dwelling units on a single lot and for nonresidential uses. Exception
shall be made for temporary dumpsters used for construction projects that have
been approved through a zoning permit or building permit, but shall be removed
within seven days after the work has been completed.
   (B)   Dumpsters shall be placed on a concrete pad and shall have a concrete
approach made of deep strength or reinforced concrete large enough to
accommodate a truck used for emptying the dumpster(s).
   (C)   (1)   All dumpsters shall be screened on all sides with a masonry wall
or of materials that match the front facade of the principal structure and
shall include an opaque gate.
      (2)   The screening shall be a minimum of six feet high, but tall enough
to completely screen the refuse container.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall have final determination in approving
the screening material.
   (D)   No refuse receptacle shall be stored in any front yard, yard setback
or required landscape areas.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.041 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES, STRUCTURES.
   The storage of recreational vehicles, except those on a parcel or lot that
has been established as an approved storage facility, shall be subject to the
following:
   (A)   Limited to one per parcel or lot stored outdoors;
   (B)   Not be parked in any front yard except in designated parking
locations, and not parked in any accessory structure yard setback area;
   (C)   Not be parked overnight on any street, alley, highway or public space
except as authorized by the village;
   (D)   Recreational vehicles shall be registered and display a currently-
valid state license plate;
   (E)   Recreational vehicles shall not be connected to water or wastewater
facilities while located and/or occupied on any parcel or lot;
   (F)   Recreational vehicles shall not be used for storing materials of any
kind other than the furnishings and personal items common to a recreational;
   (G)   Wheels and tires are not to be removed at any time while located and/
or occupied except for the purposes of repair;
   (H)   Recreational vehicles shall not be elevated, blocked or stabilized in
any manner other than with the jacks designed for that purpose; and
   (I)   Not be used as a temporary dwelling for a period longer than seven
days in a 30 day period, and not more than 30 days in a calendar year.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.042 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   All activities, in any zoning district, shall be conducted so as not to
create or permit trespass or spillage of dust, glare, sounds, noise,
vibrations, fumes, odors or light onto neighboring properties, adjacent streets
or public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.043 REQUIRED WATER SUPPLY, SANITATION FACILITIES.
   Buildings erected, altered or moved upon any premises and used in whole or
in part as either year-round or seasonal dwellings or for recreational,
business, commercial or industrial purposes, including religious institutions,
schools and other buildings in which persons customarily congregate, shall have
adequate water and sanitary facilities as determined by the operator of the
water and sewer system.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.044 POWER GENERATORS.
   Back-up power generators may be permitted as an accessory structure and
shall be subject to the following standards:
   (A)   Serve as a back-up power generation system only to be operated under
emergency situations when power supply is disrupted and for routine maintenance
and system checks;
   (B)   Prohibited from any front, side and rear yard setback area.
   (C)   Not be visible from the public right-of-way without adequate screening
that exceeds the height of the generator by at least one foot.
   (D)   Subject to all applicable village ordinances, including but not
limited to those governing noise.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.045 OUTDOOR WOOD BOILER.
   (A)   The outdoor wood furnace shall have a permanently attached stack with
a minimum stack height of 15 feet above the ground that also extends at least
two feet above the highest peak of any residence not served by the outdoor wood
furnace located less than 200 feet from the outdoor wood furnace.
   (B)   Fuel burned in the outdoor wood furnace shall be only clean wood, wood
pellets made from clean wood or other listed fuels specifically permitted by
the manufacturer’s instructions such as fuel oil, natural gas or propane
backup.
   (C)   The following items are strictly prohibited in outdoor wood furnaces:
      (1)   Any material not listed in division (B) above;
      (2)   Wood that has been painted, varnished, or coated with similar
material and/or has been pressure treated with preservatives and contains
resins or glues as in plywood or other composite wood products;
      (3)   Rubbish or garbage, including but not limited to food wastes, food
packaging or food wraps;
      (4)   Any plastic materials including but not limited to nylon, PVC, ABS,
polystyrene or urethane foam, and synthetic fabrics, plastic films and plastic
containers;
      (5)   Rubber, including tires or other synthetic rubber-like products;
      (6)   Newspaper, cardboard or any paper with ink or dye products; and
      (7)   Any other items not specifically allowed by the manufacturer or
this division (C).
   (D)   Outdoor wood furnaces installed must comply with the following
provisions:
      (1)   Must be an Environmental Protection Agency Phase 2 qualified
system;
      (2)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be constructed, established,
installed, operated and maintained in conformance with the manufacturer’s
instructions and the requirements of this chapter. In the event of a conflict,
the requirements of this chapter shall apply unless the manufacturer’s
instructions are stricter, in which case the manufacturer’s instructions shall
apply;
      (3)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located at least 50 feet from the
nearest property line; and
      (4)   The outdoor wood furnace shall be located on the property in
compliance with the manufacturer’s recommendations and/or testing and listing
requirements for clearance to combustible materials.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.046 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, certain terms or words used herein
shall be interpreted as follows:
      (1)   The particular shall control the general;
      (2)   All words used in the present tense shall include the future;
      (3)   All words in the singular number include the plural number and all
words in the plural number include the singular number, unless the context
clearly indicates the contrary;
      (4)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary and the
word MAY is permissive;
      (5)   The masculine gender includes the feminine and gender neutral;
      (6)   All measurements shall be to the nearest integer, unless otherwise
specified herein;
      (7)   The words USED or OCCUPIED includes the words INTENDED, DESIGNED,
ARRANGED TO BE USED OR OCCUPIED and MAINTAINED.
      (8)   The word BUILDING includes the word STRUCTURE. The word STRUCTURE
includes the word BUILDING. A BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof.
The word DWELLING includes RESIDENCE. The word BUILD includes the words ERECT
and CONSTRUCT.
      (9)   The word PERSON includes CORPORATION, COPARTNERSHIP, PARTNERSHIP,
ASSOCIATION, INCORPORATED ASSOCIATION, INDIVIDUAL or any similar entity.
      (10)   Words defined in this chapter shall have their meaning construed
as defined in this chapter. Words or terms not defined in this section shall
have the same meaning customarily assigned to them;
      (11)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a
regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events
connected by the conjunction AND, OR or EITHER/OR the conjunction shall be
interpreted as follows.
         (a)   AND indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply.
         (b)   OR indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singly or in any combination.
         (c)   EITHER/OR indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
      (12)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, where an
illustration accompanies any item within this chapter, the written text shall
have precedence over said illustrations; and
      (13)   The intent, when spelled out in a section, dictates the meaning of
any regulation.
   (B)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ABANDONED SIGN. A sign which no longer advertises or identifies a
business, lessor, owner or activity conducted upon or product available on the
premises where such sign is displayed.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING or STRUCTURE. A building or structure that is clearly
incidental to, customarily found in connection with, subordinate to and is
located on the same zoning lot as the principal building and/or structure to
which it is exclusively related.
      ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT. See DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use that is clearly incidental to, customarily found in
connection with, subordinate to, and is located on the same zoning lot as the
principal use to which it is exclusively related.
      ADULT DAY CARE FACILITY. A facility, other than a private residence,
receiving at least three but not more than 12 adults to be provided with care
for periods of less than 24 hours a day.
      ADULT DAY CARE HOME. A private residence receiving fewer than six adults
or more adults to be provided with care for periods of less than 24 hours a
day.
      ADULT FOSTER CARE CONGREGATE FACILITY. An adult foster care facility with
the approved capacity to receive more than 20 adults to be provided with foster
care.
      ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY. A home or facility that provides foster care
to adults. Subject to the limitations of the Adult Foster Care Facility
Licensing Act, Michigan Public Act 218 of 1979, as amended.
      ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME.
         (a)   A private residence with the approved capacity to receive at
least three but not more than six adults to be provided with foster care.
         (b)   The ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME licensee must be a member of
the household and an occupant of the residence.
      ADULT FOSTER CARE LARGE GROUP HOME. An adult foster care facility with
the approved capacity to receive at least 13 but not more than 20 adults to be
provided with foster care.
      ADULT FOSTER CARE SMALL GROUP HOME. An adult foster care facility with
the approved capacity to receive at least three but not more than 12 adults to
be provided with foster care.
      ALLEY. Any dedicated public vehicular or pedestrian way affording a
secondary means of access between or behind buildings that affords a secondary
means of access to abutting property, and not intended for general traffic
circulation.
      ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification in construction to a
structure or type of occupancy, or in the structural members of a building,
such as walls or partitions, columns, beams or girders, the completed act of
which may be referred to herein as “altered” or “reconstructed”.
      AMUSEMENT PARK. A commercially operated park with a predominance of
outdoor games and activities for entertainment, including motorized rides,
water slides, miniature golf, batting cages and the like.
      APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a two-family dwelling, duplex,
apartment complex, apartment house or commercial building, in which each suite
is arranged, intended and designed to be occupied as a residence of a single
family or individual, and which has only one complete kitchen and at least one
complete bathroom.
      APARTMENT BUILDING.
         (a)   An apartment building that has a combination of separate
dwelling units arranged horizontally next to each other and/or stacked
vertically upon each other.
         (b)   APARTMENT BUILDINGS are intended to provide five or more
dwelling units per lot with each being occupied by a separate family unit.
         (c)   APARTMENT BUILDINGS may be developed as a site condominium where
each unit is under separate ownership.
      APARTMENT, STUDIO. An efficiency unit is a type of multiple-family or
apartment dwelling unit consisting of one principal room, plus bathroom and
kitchen facilities, hallways, closets and/or a dining alcove located directly
off the principal room.
      ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES. The components of construction, either permanent
or temporary, that are an integrated part of a structure or attached to a
structure and constitute a portion of the exterior design, including, but not
limited to: arches, transoms, windows, moldings, columns, capitals, dentils,
lintels, parapets, pilasters, sills, cornices, cupolas, awnings and canopies.
      ASSEMBLY FACILITY. A meeting place at which the public or membership
groups are assembled regularly or occasionally, indoors or outdoors, as a
principal or accessory use, including but not limited to schools, religious
institutions, theaters, auditoriums, funeral homes, stadiums, lecture halls,
lodge rooms, conference rooms, convention centers, dining halls and similar
places of assembly.
      ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A structure providing housing and limited
services such as nursing, recreation and meals to individuals who are partially
able to provide services to themselves.
      ATTIC. The area located between the ceiling of the highest habitable
floor and the roof of the structure.
      AUTOMOBILE. Any self-propelled vehicle designed primarily for
transportation of a person or goods along public streets or alleys, or other
public ways.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIRS – MAJOR.
         (a)   General repair, rebuilding or reconditioning of engines, motor
vehicles or trailers; collision service, including body frame or fender
straightening or repair; overall painting or paint shop; vehicle steam cleaning
and oil change.
         (b)   AUTOMOTIVE MAJOR REPAIR also includes an establishment that
provides for the removal and temporary storage (less than seven days) of
vehicles, but does not include the disposal, permanent disassembly or salvage
or the accessory storage of motor and/or recreational vehicles.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIRS – MINOR.
         (a)   The replacement of any part or repair of any part that does not
require removal of the engine head or pan, engine transmission or differential;
or incidental body and fender work, minor painting and upholstering service.
         (b)   Above stated is applied to passenger automobiles and trucks not
in excess of 7,000 pounds gross weight.
      AUTOMOBILE SALES AND RENTALS.
         (a)   Storage and display for sale of more than two motor vehicles or
any type of trailer provided the trailer is unoccupied, and where repair or
body work is incidental to the operation of the new or used vehicle sales.
         (b)   MOTOR VEHICLES SALES includes MOTOR VEHICLE RETAIL or WHOLESALE
SALES.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
         (a)   Any place where motor vehicle fuel is sold and dispensed as
either a principal or incidental activity or where car washing services are
sold.
         (b)   Where the sale and dispensing of vehicle fuel is the principal
activity, accessory activities may include the retail sale of lubricants,
tires, batteries, motor vehicle accessories and supplies, including minor
installation services or repairs customarily incidental thereto, and sale of
convenience goods, food and beverages.
      BARS.
         (a)   A commercial enterprise whose primary activity is the sale of
alcoholic beverages to be consumed on the premises.
         (b)   BARS include taverns, night clubs, private clubs, bottle clubs
and similar facilities serving alcoholic liquor.
         (c)   BARS may also include the incidental sale of prepared food and
live performances.
      BASEMENT.
         (a)   The portion of a building below the first or ground-floor level
and having less than four feet of clearance from its ceiling to the average
finished grade of the building perimeter. A BASEMENT shall not be considered a
story for the purposes of determining building height. A BASEMENT shall not be
counted as a story.
         (b)   This definition shall include a CELLAR that may be below grade
with an entrance separate from the principal building.
      BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A private residence that offers sleeping
accommodations to lodgers in the innkeeper’s (owner or operator) principal
residence while renting rooms to lodgers, and serves breakfasts at no extra
cost to its lodgers. For the purpose of this definition, a LODGER means a
transient person who rents a room in a BED-AND-BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT.
      BEDROOM. A room designed or used in whole or part for sleeping purposes
and has a closet and window.
      BERM. An earthen mound designed to provide visual interest on a site,
screen undesirable views, reduce noise or fulfill other such purposes.
      BOARD OF ZONING APPEALS. See ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
      BOARDING ROOMS. A private home that is occupied by a resident family
which for compensation and by prearrangement for definite periods of time
offers lodging or lodging and meals are provided to persons not related to the
family.
      BUILDING. A structure enclosed within exterior walls, built, erected and
framed of a combination of materials, whether portable or fixed, having a roof,
to form a structure for the shelter of persons, animals or property.
      BUILDING ENVELOPE. The area of a lot that is defined by the minimum
setback requirements within which building construction is permitted by the
terms of this chapter.
      BUILDING HEIGHT, FEET. The vertical distance measured from the finished
grade to:
         (a)   The highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs, excluding
parapet walls;
         (b)   The deck line of mansard roofs;
         (c)   The average height between eaves and ridge for the highest
gable, hip studio and gambrel roofs;
         (d)   Seventy five percent of the height of an A-frame; and
         (e)   The average ground level grade at the building wall when a
building is located on sloping terrain.
      BUILDING HEIGHT, STORIES. The vertical distance measured as the number of
individual floors in a building that can be occupied. STORIES does not include
basements or attics, as defined in this chapter, permitted rooftop patios or
architectural features such as cupulas, steeple and the like.
      BUILDING LINE. A line parallel to the front lot line at the minimum
required front setback line.
      BUILDING OFFICIAL. The County Building Department official(s) designated
by the County Board of Commissioners to administer and enforce the building
codes of the county.
      BUILD-TO LINE. An alignment established a certain distance from the curb
line to a line along which the building shall be built. Front porches and
handicap ramps shall be exempt from the BUILD-TO LINE requirements, and must
occur behind the property line.
      BUNGALOW COURT. Three or more detached one-family or two-family
structures with separate ground floor entrances arranged around a common court
that opens onto a street.
      BUSINESS SERVICES. An establishment providing services to business
establishments on a fee or contract basis, including but not limited to
advertising services, business equipment and furniture sales or rental, or
protective services. This term includes but is not limited to an employment
agency, photocopy center, commercial photography studio or mailing service.
This term does not include maintenance, repair and office uses such as
accounting, advertising, architectural design, village planning, environmental
analysis, insurance, interior design, investment, landscape design, law,
management consulting, title research and real estate.
      CATERING SERVICES. An establishment in which the principal use is the
preparation of food and meals on the premises, and where such food and meals
are delivered to another location for consumption.
      CELLAR. See BASEMENT.
      CEMETERY. Land used for the burial of the dead, including a columbarium,
crematorium and/or mausoleum.
      CENTRAL CLEANING FACILITY. A facility where textile materials, including
but not limited to clothing and rugs, are dropped off directly by the customer
or gathered at satellite locations for cleaning and future delivery or pick up.
      CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY. A discontinuance of an existing use or tenant and
the substitution of a use of a different kind or class, or, the expansion of a
use.
      CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility, other than a private residence, receiving
one or more children under 13 years of age for care for periods of less than 24
hours a day, where the parents or guardians are not immediately available to
the child. CHILD CARE CENTER includes a facility that provides care for not
less than two consecutive weeks, regardless of the number of hours of care per
day. The facility is generally described as a CHILD CARE CENTER, day care
center, day nursery, nursery school, parent cooperative preschool, play group,
before- or after-school program or dropin center. CHILD CARE CENTER does not
include those uses excluded under CHILD CARE CENTER in the Child Care
Organization Act (1973 Public Act 116, M.C.L.A. § 722.111(1)(h).
      CHURCH. See RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.
      CLUB. A group of persons organized for the purposes of participating in
and/or for the promulgation of sports, arts, sciences, literature, politics or
the like, but not operated for-profit or to espouse beliefs or further activity
that is not in conformance with the Constitution of the United States or any
laws or ordinances. The facilities owned or used by such organization may be
referred to as a CLUB in this chapter.
      COLOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate or replace
wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or utility
pole. COLOCATE does not include makeready work or the installation of a new
utility pole or new wireless support structure.
      COMMERCIAL USE. The use of property for retail sales or similar
businesses where goods or services are provided directly to the consumer. As
used in these regulations, COMMERCIAL USE shall not include industrial,
manufacturing or wholesale businesses.
      COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS. A zoning district primarily established for
commercial land uses. COMMERCIAL ZONING DISTRICTS shall include those zoned CC:
Corridor Commercial.
      COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT PLAN. See MASTER PLAN.
         CONDOMINIUM. A system of separate ownership of individual units in
multi-unit projects according to Public Act 59 of 1978, as amended. In addition
to the interest acquired in a particular unit, each unit owner is also a tenant
in common in the underlying fee interest and in the spaces and building parts
used in common by all the unit owners. For the purposes of this chapter,
CONDOMINIUM terms shall be defined as follows:
         (a)   COMMON ELEMENTS. Portions of the condominium project other than
the condominium units.
         (b)   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Michigan Public Act 59 of 1978, as amended.
         (c)   CONDOMINIUM LOT. The portion of the land area of a site
condominium project designed and intended to function similar to a platted
subdivision lot for purposes of determining minimum yard setback requirements
and other requirements set forth in the dimensional standards for each district
of this chapter.
         (d)   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN. Drawings and information that show
the size, location, area, and boundaries of each condominium unit, building
locations, the nature, location and approximate size of common elements, and
other information required by § 66 of the Condominium Act, as amended.
         (e)   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of the condominium project
designed and intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the
master deed for the condominium project.
         (f)   CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any
portion of the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn pursuant to
provisions in the condominium documents and in accordance with this chapter and
the Condominium Act.
         (g)   CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project containing
condominium units some or all of which were occupied before the establishment
of the condominium project.
         (h)   CONVERTIBLE AREA. A unit or a portion of the common elements of
the condominium project referred to in the condominium documents within which
additional condominium units or general or limited common elements may be
created pursuant to provisions in the condominium documents and in accordance
with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
         (i)   EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project to which
additional land may be added pursuant to express provision in the condominium
documents and in accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
         (j)   GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS. Common elements other than the limited
common elements, intended for the common use of all co-owners.
         (k)   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS. Portions of the common elements
reserved in the master deed for the exclusive use of less than all co-owners.
            (l)   MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the
condominium project to which are attached as exhibits and incorporated by
reference the bylaws for the project and the condominium subdivision plan.
            (m)   SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. A condominium project designed to
function in a similar manner, or as an alternative to a platted subdivision. A
residential SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECT shall be considered as equivalent to a
platted subdivision for purposes of regulation in this chapter.
      CONTRACTOR ESTABLISHMENTS. Establishments primarily engaged in retailing
new building material and garden equipment and supplies from a fixed point-of-
sale location. May include display equipment designed to handle lumber and
related products, and garden equipment and supplies kept either indoors or
outdoors under covered areas. The staff is usually knowledgeable in the use of
the specific products being retailed in the construction, repair and
maintenance of the home and associated grounds.
      CONTRACTOR STORAGE YARD. A site on which is stored equipment, tools,
vehicles, building materials and other appurtenances used in or associated with
building or construction trades. A CONTRACTOR’S YARD may include outdoor or
indoor storage, or a combination of both.
      CONVALESCENT HOME. See NURSING HOME.
      COTTAGE COURT. See BUNGALOW COURT.
      COURT. An open, uncovered, unoccupied space, other than a yard, partially
or wholly surrounded on at least two sides by building walls. A COURT having at
least one side open to a street, alley, yard or other permanent open space is
an OUTER COURT. Any other COURT is an INNER COURT.
      CULTURAL INSTITUTION. A public or NON-PROFIT institution that engages in
the cultural, intellectual, scientific, environmental, educational or artistic
enrichment of the community. Examples include, but are not limited to museums,
libraries, historical societies, art galleries, botanical societies, land
conservation organizations, performing art centers, scientific societies and
wildlife conservation societies. CULTURAL INSTITUTIONS do not include any
school or institution primarily engaged in religious or sectarian activities.
      CURB CUT. The entrance to or exit from a property provided for vehicular
traffic to or from a public or private thoroughfare.
      DATA PROCESSING FACILITY. An establishment primarily involved in the
compiling, storage and maintenance of documents, records and other types of
information in digital form utilizing a mainframe computer. This term does not
include general business offices, computer-related sales establishments and
business or personal services.
      DECK. A platform that is typically attached to a house, and used for
outdoor leisure activities.
      DENSITY. The number of dwelling units allowed per acre of land.
         (a)   GROSS DENSITY. The number of units per acre of total land being
developed.
         (b)   NET DENSITY. The number of units per acre of land devoted to
residential use.
      DETENTION BASIN. A human-made or natural water collector facility
designed to collect surface water in order to impede its flow and to release
the water gradually at a rate not greater than that prior to the development of
the property onto natural or human-made outlets. Also referred to as a
RETENTION BASIN.
      DEVELOPMENT. The construction of a new building, reconstruction of an
existing building or improvement of a structure on a parcel or lot, the
relocation of an existing building to another lot or the improvement of open
land for a new use.
      DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or
service character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking
spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle
rather than within a building or structure.
      DRIVE-THROUGH. A business establishment whose method of operation
involves the delivery of a product or service directly to a customer inside a
motor vehicle, typically through a window or other appurtenance to a building.
      DRIVEWAY. A passageway of definite width designed primarily for use by
motor vehicles over private property, leading from a street or other public way
to a garage or parking area. A horseshoe shape drive or a “T” shaped drive
located within a front yard is included within this definition.
      DUPLEX. A building designed as a single structure, containing two
separate dwelling units, each of which is designed to be occupied as a separate
permanent residence for one family.
      DWELLING. Any building, or part thereof containing sleeping, kitchen and
bathroom facilities designed for and occupied by an individual or one family.
In no case shall a travel trailer, motor home, automobile, tent or other
portable building not defined as a recreational vehicle be considered a
DWELLING. In the case of mixed occupancy where a building is occupied in part
as a dwelling unit, the part so occupied shall be deemed a DWELLING unit for
the purposes of this chapter.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building designed for and occupied by two or
more families living independently in separate dwelling units.
      DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY OR SINGLE-FAMILY. An independent, detached
residential dwelling designed for and used or held ready for use by one family
only.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms, along with bathroom and kitchen
facilities, designed as a self-contained unit for occupancy by an individual or
one family for living, bathing, cooking and sleeping purposes.
      DWELLING UNIT, ACCESSORY. A dwelling unit that is accessory to and
typically contained within a conventional single-family dwelling, and is
occupied either by an individual or family as their permanent residence.
      EASEMENT. A right-of-way granted, but not dedicated, for limited use of
private land for a public or quasi-public purpose and within which the owner of
the property shall not erect any permanent structures.
      EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS. Use of land or a building or buildings as or
for an institution not for-profit but for the establishment and maintenance of
a public or private college, secondary or elementary school or other
educational institution for the academic instruction and cultivation of the
mind and/or the inculcation of a clearer sense of moral and spiritual values.
This does not include an institution or organization directed primarily to the
physical training or development of physical or manipulative skills, or for-
profit schools.
      EFFICIENCY UNIT. See APARTMENT, STUDIO.
      ENGINEER, VILLAGE.
         (a)   The person or firm authorized by the village to advise the
Village Manager, Village Council and Planning Commission on drainage, grading,
paving, storm water management and control, utilities and other related site
engineering and civil engineering issues.
         (b)   The VILLAGE ENGINEER may be a consultant or an employee of the
village.
      ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL. The person or persons with the responsibility for
enforcing and administering requirements of applicable sections of these zoning
regulations. The ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL’S responsibilities may be delegated to
the Zoning Administrator or other appropriate party so designated by the
Village Council. Such titles do not refer to a specific individual, but
generally to the office, department or village official(s) most commonly
associated with the administration of the regulation being referenced.
      ERECTED. Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon or any
physical operations on the premises that are required for construction,
excavation, fill, drainage and the like, shall be considered a part of
ERECTION.
      EQUIPMENT RENTAL ESTABLISHMENTS. An establishment providing the rental of
tools, lawn and garden equipment, construction equipment, party supplies and
similar goods and equipment, including storage and incidental maintenance.
      EXCAVATION. The removal or movement of soil, sand, stone, gravel or fill
dirt on or from any parcel except common household gardening, farming and
general ground care.
      EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRY. The extraction of minerals, including solids, such
as coal and ores; liquids such as crude petroleum; and gases, such as natural
gases. The term also includes quarrying; well operation; milling, such as
crushing, screening, washing and flotation; and other preparation customarily
done at the extraction site or as a part of the extractive activity.
      FACADE. The portion of any exterior elevation on the building extending
from the grade to top of the parapet, wall or eaves and the entire width of the
building elevation.
      FACTORY-BUILT HOME. See MODULAR HOME.
      FAMILY.
         (a)   One or more persons related by blood, marriage or legal adoption
plus up to a total of three additional persons not so related who are either
domestic servants or gratuitous guests, occupying a single dwelling unit and
living as a single non-profit housekeeping unit; or
         (b)   A collective number of individuals living together in one
dwelling unit, under a relationship that is continuing, non-transient and
domestic character, who cook and live as a single, non-profit housekeeping
unit.
         (c)   This definition shall not include any society, club, fraternity,
sorority, association, lodge, coterie, organization or group of students or
other individuals whose domestic relationship is of a transitory or seasonal
nature or for an anticipated limited duration of a school term or terms, or
other similar determinable period.
      FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME. A state licensed facility in a dwelling unit in
which one but less than seven minor children are received for care and
supervision for periods of less than 24 hours a day, unattended by legal
guardian, except children related to an adult member of the family by blood,
marriage or adoption. FAMILY CHILD CARE HOME also includes a home that gives
care to an unrelated child for more than four weeks during a calendar year.
      FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, wire, metal or any
other material or combination of materials, used to prevent or control
entrance, confine within, mark a boundary or constitute an obstruction to human
passage regardless of the component material.
      FILL. The deposit or dumping of any matter onto or into the ground,
except for common household gardening, farming and general ground care.
      FINANCIAL SERVICES. Any trust company, savings bank, industrial bank,
savings and loan association, building and loan association, commercial bank,
credit union, federal association, investment company, or other business
association, which is chartered under federal or state law, solicits, receives
or accepts money or its equivalent on deposit and loans money as a regular
business.
      FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The total area of a building measured by taking the
outside dimensions of the building at each floor level intended for occupancy
or storage and summing the total square footage.
      FLOOR AREA, GROUND. The lot area covered by a building or buildings
measured from the exterior faces of exterior walls but excluding decks and
terraces and detached accessory buildings.
      FLOOR AREA, USABLE.
         (a)   The gross horizontal floor areas of all the floors of a building
or structure and of all accessory buildings that have the potential to become
usable for human habitation measured from the interior face of the exterior
walls.
         (b)   Such FLOOR AREA that is used or intended to be used principally
for dedicated storage, mechanical equipment rooms, unfinished attics, enclosed
porches, light and ventilation shafts, public corridors, public stairwells,
utility rooms or restrooms shall be excluded from the computation of USEABLE
FLOOR AREA.
      FOR-PROFIT EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS. Educational institutions that are
privately controlled entities that are operated as a business with the
expectation to generate a positive monetary return.
      FOSTER CARE. The provision of supervision, personal care and protection
in addition to room and board, for 24 hours a day, five or more days a week,
and for two or more consecutive weeks for compensation provided at a single
address. Providing room under a landlord and tenant arrangement does not, by
itself, exclude a person from the licensure requirement under the Adult Foster
Care Facility Licensing Act, Michigan Public Act 218 of 1979, as amended.
      FOSTER CHILD. A child unrelated to a family by blood or adoption with
which he or she lives for the purposes of care and/or education.
      FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A private home in which more than four but
fewer than seven minor children, who are not related to an adult member of the
household by blood or marriage, or who are not placed in a household under the
State Adoption Code, Chapter X, of the probate code of 1939 (1939 Public Act
288, M.C.L.A. §§ 710.21 to 710.70) are provided care for 24 hours a day, for
four or more days a week, for two or more consecutive weeks, unattended by a
parent, legal guardian or legal custodian.
      FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A private home in which one but not more than four
minor children, who are not related to an adult member of the household by
blood or marriage, or who are not placed in a household under the State
Adoption Code, Chapter X, of the probate code of 1939 (1939 Public Act 288,
M.C.L.A. §§ 710.21 to 710.70) are provided care for 24 hours a day, for four or
more days a week, for two or more consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent,
legal guardian or legal custodian.
      FRATERNAL ORGANIZATION. See CLUB.
      FREIGHT TERMINAL. A heavy distribution transfer facility for pick-up and
distribution utilizing railroad or trucking modes of transit.
      FRONTAGE. The portion of any property that abuts a private or public
street or a waterway. A corner lot and a through lot have FRONTAGE on both
abutting private or public streets or a waterway and a street.
      FUNERAL HOME. An establishment where the dead are prepared for burial or
cremation and where wakes or funerals may be held. May also be referred to as a
MORTUARY.
      GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building designed or used for the storage
or parking of motor driven vehicles, boats and similar vehicles owned and used
by the occupants of the building to which it is accessory. PRIVATE GARAGES do
not have public repair facilities.
      GASOLINE SERVICE STATION. See AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
      GRADE. The ground elevation established for regulating the number of
stories and the height of a buildings or structures. The building GRADE shall
be the level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the
finished grade is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the GRADE shall
be determined by averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the
dwelling.
      GREENHOUSES. A space, building or structure, or combination thereof, for
the storage of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for retail sale on the
premises including products used for gardening or landscaping. The definition
of NURSERY within the meaning of this chapter does not include any space,
building or structure used for the sale of fruits, vegetables or Christmas
trees, either seasonally or year-round.
      GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR INSTALLATIONS. A private system installed as an
accessory structure on the ground of a parcel that converts sunlight into
electricity or thermal energy, whether by photovoltaics, concentrating solar
thermal devices or any other various experimental solar technologies. The
primary purpose is for consumption of generated energy on-site.
      GROUP CHILD CARE HOME. A private home in which more than six but not more
than 12 minor children are given care and supervision for periods of less than
24 hours a day unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. GROUP
DAY CARE HOME includes a home that gives care to an unrelated minor child for
more than four weeks during a calendar year.
      HEALTH CARE SERVICES. A clinic, business or institution that offers any
type of healthcare to the public which requires as a condition precedent to the
rendering of such care the obtaining of a license or other legal authorization.
By way of example, without limiting the generality of this definition,
HEALTHCARE SERVICES include services rendered by chiropractors, dentists,
osteopaths, physicians, dieticians, surgeons, podiatrists, physical therapists,
counselors and psychiatrists. HEALTHCARE SERVICES does not include a HOSPITAL.
      HEIGHT OF BUILDING. See BUILDING HEIGHT.
      HOME OCCUPATION. A use incidental and secondary to a property’s primary
residential use. A HOME OCCUPATION use shall not change the residential
character of the property or the neighborhood and shall meet all applicable
legal requirements.
      HOSPITAL. An institution that is licensed by the state to provide in-
patient and outpatient medical and surgical services for the sick and injured,
and that may include such related facilities as laboratories, medical testing
services, training facilities, central service facilities and staff offices,
staff dormitories or other staff living accommodations, cafeterias and gift
shops.
      HOTEL. A building occupied as a more or less temporary lodging place for
individuals with or without meals in rooms consisting of a minimum of one
bedroom and a bath, that are occupied for hire, and typically providing
services such as maid service, telephone and secretarial or desk service, the
use of furniture, a dining room and general kitchen.
      IMPERVIOUS COVERAGE. The part or percentage of the lot that is occupied
by all buildings and/or structures, and impervious surfaces. The percentage is
determined by dividing the sum of the ground floor area of all buildings and
structures on a lot and impervious surfaces by the net lot area.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material which prevents, impedes or slows
infiltration or absorption of storm water directly into the ground at the rate
of absorption of vegetation-bearing soils, including building, asphalt,
concrete, gravel and other surfaces.
      INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS. A zoning district primarily established for
industrial land uses. INDUSTRIAL ZONING DISTRICTS shall include those zoned
LIW: Light Industrial and Warehousing District.
      INGRESS AND EGRESS. Generally is used in reference to a driveway that
allows vehicles to enter or leave a parcel of property, or to a sidewalk that
allows pedestrians to enter or leave a parcel of property, a building or
another location.
      JUNK. Any motor vehicles, machinery, appliances, products or merchandise
with parts missing, or other scrap materials that are damaged, deteriorated or
are in a condition that prevents their use for the purpose for which the
product was manufactured.
      KENNEL. Any premises, except where accessory to an agricultural use,
where three or more domestic animals, such as dogs and cats, are boarded,
trained, bred or sold.
      LIBRARY. A public, non-profit facility in which literary, musical,
artistic or reference materials such as but not limited to books, manuscripts,
computers, recordings or films are kept for use by or loaning to patrons of the
facility, but are not normally offered for sale, and may include community
gathering space.
      LIVE/WORK UNITS, A single unit (for example studio, loft or one-bedroom)
consisting of both a residential and commercial/office component that is
occupied by the same resident as his or her primary residence and primary
occupation.
      LOADING SPACE. A space that is safely and conveniently located on the
same lot as the building being served, or group of buildings, for the temporary
parking of delivery vehicles while loading and unloading merchandise or
materials.
      LODGE. See CLUB.
      LOT or ZONING LOT. For the purposes of enforcing this chapter, a LOT is
defined as a piece of land under single ownership or control that is sufficient
in size to meet the minimum requirements for use, coverage, area, setbacks,
access and open space as required herein. Single ownership may include
ownership by an individual, a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated
association, joint tenancy or any similar entity. A LOT shall have frontage on
a dedicated road or, if permitted by the regulations set forth herein, on an
approved private road. A LOT may consist of any of the following:
         (a)   Single lot of record;
         (b)   Portion of a lot of record;
.         (c)   Combination of lots of record, or portion(s) thereof;
         (d)   Condominium lot; and
         (e)   Parcel or tract of land described by metes and bounds.
      LOT AREA, GROSS. The net lot area plus one-half of the area of any public
right-of-way area or private road easement immediately adjacent to or abutting
the lot.
      LOT AREA, NET.
         (a)   The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot,
exclusive of any abutting public street right-of-way or private road easements,
or the area of any lake or river.
         (b)   The NET LOT AREA shall be used in determining compliance with
minimum lot area standards.
      LOT, CONTIGUOUS. Lots adjoining or abutting each other. Lots separated by
a right-of-way, road easement, ally or natural or human-made barrier shall not
be considered CONTIGUOUS.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot abutting on and at the intersection of two or more
streets. For the purposes of this definition, the “street” lot line shall be
the line separating the lot from the street or road right-of-way.
      LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot with only one lot line
fronting a street.
      LOT, THROUGH or LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE.
         (a)   Any interior lot having frontage on two more or less parallel
streets and street(s) as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row
of double frontage lots, one street shall be designated as the front lot line
for all lots in the plat and in the request for a zoning compliance permit.
         (b)   If there are existing buildings in the same block fronting on
one or more of the streets, the required minimum front yard setback shall be
observed on the street or waterway where buildings presently front.
      LOT COVERAGE. The part or percentage of the lot that is occupied by all
buildings and/or structures. The percentage is determined by dividing the
ground floor area of all buildings and structures on a lot by the net lot area.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front street line and rear
lot line, measured along the median between the side lot lines.
      LOT LINE, FRONT.
         (a)   In the case of an interior lot, is that line separating said lot
from the public or private right-of-way. In the case of a corner lot, or double
frontage lot, is that line separating said lot from the road that is designated
as the front on the plat, or that is designated as the front of the site plan
review application or request for a zoning permit, subject to approval by the
Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   On a flag lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the interior lot line
parallel to and nearest the street from which access is obtained.
      LOT LINE, REAR. The lot line opposite and most distant from the front lot
line. In the case of irregular, triangular, wedge-shaped or a lot pointed at
the rear, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line parallel to the front
lot line, not less than ten feet long, lying farthest from the front lot line
and wholly within the lot. In cases in which the REAR LOT LINE definition
cannot be easily applied, the Zoning Administrator shall designate the REAR LOT
LINE.
      LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear lot
line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a SIDE STREET LOT LINE.
A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots in an INTERIOR SIDE
LOT LINE. In cases in which the SIDE LOT LINE definition cannot be easily
applied, the Zoning Administrator shall designate the SIDE LOT LINE(S).
      LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
plat, document or other formal map on file with the County Register of Deeds or
in common use by the village or county officials, and which actually exists as
so shown, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, and accuracy of
which is attested to by a land surveyor (registered and licensed in the state)
and likewise so recorded with the County Register of Deeds. A LOT OF RECORD may
also be identified to a sidwell or tax parcel identification number.
      LOT WIDTH. The straight-line distance between the side lot lines,
measured at the two points where the front yard setback line intersects the
side lot lines.
      LOUNGE. See BAR.
      LOW IMPACT DEVELOPMENT (LID) STORM WATER MANAGEMENT. Includes a variety
of practices that mimic or preserve natural drainage processes to manage storm
water. LID practices typically retain rain water and encourage it to soak into
the ground rather than allowing it to run off into ditches and storm drains
where it would otherwise contribute to flooding and pollution problems.
Examples include, but are not limited to rain gardens, rooftop gardens,
vegetated swales, cisterns, permeable pavers, porous pavement and filtered
storm water structures.
      MAIN ACCESS DRIVE. Any private street designed to provide access from a
public street or road to a mobile home park, apartment or condominium complex,
or other private property development.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. See STREET.
      MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built home constructed off-site after to
June 15, 1976 and transportable in one or more sections. A MANUFACTURED HOME is
designed and constructed to the Federal Manufactured Construction and Safety
Standards and is so labeled with a Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD) Certification Label and Data Plate. MANUFACTURED HOMES include a
permanent chassis constructed of metal beams that are structurally part of the
dwelling, cannot be removed, and are supported by blocks and/or piers on
footers.
      MANUFACTURING, FOOD.
         (a)   Establishments that transform agricultural products into
products for intermediate or final consumption, distinguished by the raw
materials (generally of animal or vegetable origin) processed into food
products.
         (b)   The food products manufactured in these establishments are
typically sold to wholesalers or retailers for distribution to consumers.
      MANUFACTURING, HEAVY. The manufacturing, assembly, fabrication, packaging
or compounding of extracted or raw materials. These activities or processes
would necessitate the use or storage of large volumes of highly flammable,
toxic matter or explosive materials needed for the manufacturing process. These
activities may involve outdoor operations as part of their manufacturing
process, and have the potential to produce noise, dust, glare, odors or
vibrations beyond the property line.
      MANUFACTURING, LIGHT. The act of processing, assembling, fabricating,
treating and packaging of raw or unfinished materials into a more complete or
finished product, and incidental storage sales and distribution of such
products, which may be perceived to have a relatively limited to moderate
potential for adverse effect on surrounding properties and the environment,
including noise, vibration, pollution, odor and aesthetics.
      MASTER PLAN. Any plan adopted or amended under the State Planning
Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended. This includes, but is not
limited to, a plan prepared by a planning commission authorized by the Act and
used to satisfy the requirement of § 203(1) of the State Zoning Enabling Act,
2006 Public Act 110, M.C.L.A. § 125.3203, regardless of whether it is entitled
a master plan, basic plan, county plan, development plan, guide plan, land use
plan, municipal plan, village plan, plan or any other term.
      MEZZANINE. An intermediate floor or levels between the floor and the
ceiling of any story with an aggregate floor area of not more than one-third of
the floor area of such story in which the level or levels are located.
      MICROBREWERY. A licensed brewery that manufactures in total less than
60,000 barrels of beer per year and that may sell the beer manufactured to
consumers at the licensed brewery premises for consumption on or off the
licensed brewery premises and to retailers as provided in § 203 of the State
Liquor Control Code. In determining the 60,000-barrel threshold, all brands and
labels of a brewer, whether manufactured in the state or outside the state,
must be combined and all facilities for the manufacturing of beer that are
owned or controlled by the same person must be treated as a single facility.
      MICRO WIRELESS FACILITY. A small cell wireless facility that is not more
than 24 inches in length, 15 inches in width and 12 inches in height and that
does not have an exterior antenna more than 11 inches in length.
      MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICTS. A zoning district primarily established for
residential and commercial uses. MIXED USE ZONING DISTRICTS shall include those
zoned DC: Downtown Commercial.
      MOBILE HOME. See MANUFACTURED HOME.
      MOBILE HOME PARK. See MANUFACTURED HOME DEVELOPMENT.
      MODULAR HOME. A factory-built home constructed off-site after 1971 and
transportable in one or more sections. A MODULAR HOME is designed constructed
to the state’s building code standards for stick-built homes and is so labeled
with a factory built unit certification tag. MODULAR HOMES may be towed on-site
with or without a chassis that is not structurally a part of the dwelling, and
which may or may not remain after installation on a permanent perimeter
foundation constructed of block or poured concrete. Individual components, or
modules, of a MODULAR HOME may be placed end-to-end, side-by-side, or stacked.
For the purpose of this chapter, MODULAR HOMES shall be allowed in any
residential zoning district, subject to all other applicable standards. Also
known as a FACTORY BUILT HOME.
      MOSQUE. See RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.
      MOTEL. See HOTEL.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. See AUTOMOBILE.
      MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Calumet, Houghton County, Michigan.
      MUSEUM. A building having public significance by reason of its
architecture or former use or occupancy, or a building serving as a repository
for a collection of natural, scientific or literary curiosities or objects of
interest or works of art, and arranged, intended and designed to be used by
members of the public for viewing, with or without an admission charge, and
which may include as an accessory use the sale of goods to the public as gifts
or for their own use.
      NATURAL FEATURES. Natural features shall include soils, wetlands,
floodplain, water bodies and channels, topography, trees and other types of
vegetative cover, and geologic formations.
      NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS. Low intensity neighborhood
commercial uses intended to provide for the convenient day-to-day retail and
supportive needs of the immediate surrounding residential area.
      NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot that fails to meet the requirements for area,
height, yards, buffer or other bulk standards and regulations, generally
applicable in the district because of a change in the applicable zoning
district regulations, annexation, condemnation of a portion of the lot, or
other governmental action.
      NONCONFORMING SITE. A lot, parcel or development site that was lawfully
established but that does not comply with the standards of §§
153.060 through
153.067, or other applicable site standards of this chapter.
      NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A structure that was lawfully erected but that
no longer complies with all the regulations applicable to the zoning district
in which the structure is located.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A use that was lawfully established but that no longer
complies with the use regulations applicable to the zoning district in which
the property is located.
      NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT. A zoning district primarily established
for land uses other than dwellings. NONRESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS shall
include those zoned DC, CC, LIW and PSP.
      NUISANCE.
         (a)   Any offensive, annoying or disturbing practice or object that
prevents the free use of one’s property, or that renders its ordinary use or
physical occupation uncomfortable.
         (b)   NUISANCE commonly involves continuous or recurrent acts that
give offense to the senses, violate the laws of decency, obstruct reasonable
and comfortable use of property or endangers life and health.
      NURSERY. See GREENHOUSE.
      NURSING HOME. A home for the care of the aged, infirm or those suffering
from bodily disorders, wherein two or more persons are housed or lodged and
furnished with nursing care. Such facilities are licensed in accordance with
Public Act 139 of 1956, as amended.
      OBSCURING WALL. A structure of definite height and location to serve as
an opaque screen in carrying out the requirements of this chapter.
      OCCUPIED. Used in any manner. Includes the meaning of intent, design or
arranged for occupancy.
      OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITY.
         (a)   A public or private off-street parking facility designed or
intended to provide peripheral collection and storage of vehicles including
accessory structures such as passenger shelters.
         (b)   OFF-SITE PARKING FACILITIES may be surface lots or parking
structures.
      OPEN SPACE.
         (a)   The part of a parcel, including courts and/or yards, that is
open and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, and is accessible to
all residents upon the zoning lot.
         (b)   Does not include land dedicated for street rights-of-way, off-
street parking, an established use or storm water management.
      OUTDOOR STORAGE. The keeping of any goods, junk, material, merchandise or
vehicles in the same place for more than 24 hours in an unenclosed and
uncovered area.
      OUTSIDE SALES AND DISPLAY. The outdoor standing or placement of
immediately usable goods that are available for sale, lease or rental and that
are displayed in such manner as to be readily accessible for inspection and
removal by the potential customer.
      PARCEL. A continuous area, tract or acreage of land that has not been
divided or subdivided according to the provisions of the Land Division Control
Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended) or the Condominium Act (Public Act 59
of 1978, as amended) and has frontage on a public street.
      PARKING LOT, OFF-STREET. An area within a lot or parcel that provides
vehicular parking spaces along with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering,
so as to provide safe and convenient access for entrance and exit and for
parking of more than three vehicles.
      PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width. Said area shall be
exclusive of drives, aisles or entrances giving access thereto, and shall be
fully accessible for the storage or parking of permitted vehicles.
      PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. A financial guarantee to ensure that specific
improvements, facilities, construction or activities required or authorized by
this chapter will be completed in compliance with the chapter, regulations and/
or approved plans and specifications of the development.
      PERMITTED USE. A use that may be lawfully established in a particular
district or districts, provided it conforms with all requirements, regulations
and standards of such district and this chapter.
      PERSON. An individual, trustee, executor, fiduciary, corporation, firm,
partnership, association, organization or other legal entity acting as a unit.
      PERSONAL SERVICES. Enterprises serving individual necessities, such as
barber shops, beauty salons and spas, clothing rental, coin-operated
laundromats, marriage bureaus, massage services by masseurs/masseuses, personal
laundry and dry cleaning establishments, pressing, dyeing, tailoring, shoe
repair, photographic studios, tattoo parlors and travel agencies.
      PERVIOUS SURFACE. A surface that permits full or partial absorption of
storm water.
      PET. A domesticated dog, cat, bird, gerbil, hamster, guinea pig, turtle,
fish, rabbit or other similar animal that is commonly available and customarily
kept for pleasure or companionship.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD). A specific parcel of land or several
contiguous parcels of land, for which a comprehensive physical plan meeting the
requirements of this chapter, establishing functional use areas, density
patterns, a fixed network of streets (where necessary), provisions for public
utilities, drainage and other essential services has been approved by the
Village Council which has been, is being or will be developed under the
approved plan.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Village of Calumet,
Houghton County, Michigan as designated in the State Planning Enabling Act,
Public Act 33 of 2008.
      PLOT PLAN. A plan that is prepared according to requirements stated in
this chapter, containing information required for such a plan. A PLOT PLAN is
less detailed than a formal site plan. A PLOT PLAN is generally used for
discussion or conceptual purposes in advance of a formal site plan submission.
A PLOT PLAN does not substitute for a formal site plan.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot upon which it is situated.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use of land and buildings and the main purpose
for which land and buildings exist.
      PRIVACY SCREEN. An artificially constructed barrier of wood, wire, metal
or any other material or combination of materials, commonly used in fence
construction. A PRIVACY SCREEN is intended to screen a selected use or area in
a private residential yard.
      PRIVATE STREET or ROAD. See STREET.
      PROFESSIONAL SERVICES. A business that offers any type of professional
service to clients which requires as a condition precedent to the rendering of
such service the obtaining of a license, higher education degree or other legal
authorization. By way of example, and without limiting the generality of this
definition, PROFESSIONAL SERVICES include those rendered by certified public
accountants, public accountants, engineers, architects, planners, landscape
architects, interior designers, attorneys at law, life insurance agents,
advertising, environmental analysts, insurance agents, management consultants,
title agents and realtors. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES shall not include healthcare
or financial services, or veterinarian clinics.
      PROPERTY LINE. The line separating a piece of property from the street
right-of-way and the lines separating a parcel of property from the parcels
next to it. See also LOT LINE.
      PROTECTED ROOT ZONE. The area surrounding the trunk of a tree established
with a radius of one and one-half feet for every one inch caliper of trunk
where to grading, cutting, storing or materials, or moving of machinery may
occur.
      PUBLIC/SEMI-PUBLIC ZONING DISTRICTS. A zoning district primarily
established for public, institutional or limited commercial land uses. PUBLIC/
SEMI-PUBLIC ZONING DISTRICTS shall include those zoned PSP: Public/Semi-Public.
      PUBLIC SAFETY OFFICIAL. The persons who perform police, firefighting and
other public safety functions for the village.
      PUBLIC USE. Basic services usually furnished by local government, but
which also may be provided by private enterprise to support the development of
the community. PUBLIC USES may be categorized as one of the following:
         (a)   Critical: such as, but not limited to fire station, ambulance
services, police station, and the like, and associated facilities.
         (b)    Essential: the erection, construction, alteration or
maintenance by public utilities or municipal or governmental agencies of
underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam, communications, supply or
disposal systems including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, traffic
signals, hydrants and other similar equipment and accessories in connection
therewith, which are necessary for the furnishing of adequate service by such
public utilities or municipal or other governmental agencies for the public
health, safety or general welfare.
         (c)   Supporting: public uses such as, but not limited to, village
hall, library, park, athletic fields, public recreational facility, open space,
civic center, community center, official government offices, authority office,
post office, special events authorized by the village and the like, and
associated facilities.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. A person, firm or corporation, municipal department,
board or commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal,
state or municipal regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity, sewage
service or treatment, communication services, cable television services,
telegraph, transportation or water.
      QUADPLEX. A building designed as a single structure, containing four
separate dwelling units, each of which is designed to be occupied as a separate
permanent residence for one family.
      RECREATIONAL FACILITY. An entity which receives a fee, whether by
membership or daily passes, in return for the provision of some active
recreational activity including but not limited to: gymnastic facilities,
indoor soccer, bike and skate parks, racquet clubs, tennis and pickle ball
courts, physical fitness facilities, swimming pools, athletic fields, yoga,
spinning, martial arts, and other similar activities related to personal or
team athletics, exercise, fitness and including their ancillary support
services.
      RECREATIONAL LAND. Any public- or privately-owned lot or land that is
utilized for recreation activities such as, but not limited to, sports fields,
camping, swimming, picnicking, hiking and nature trails.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Any structure or vehicle designed and/or used for
living or sleeping and/or recreational purposes and equipped with wheels or
tracks to facilitate movement from place to place, and automobiles when used
for living or sleeping purposes and/or recreational purposes including pick-up
coaches (campers), travel trailers, motorized homes, motorized watercraft, all
terrain vehicles, special terrain vehicles, snowmobiles and utility trailers.
      RECYCLING COLLECTION STATION. An accessory use, structure or enclosed
area that serves as a neighborhood drop-off point for temporary storage of
recyclable materials. A RECYCLING COLLECTION POINT may also include a facility
for the temporary collection of used clothing and household goods.
      RECYCLING FACILITY. A facility that accepts recyclable materials and may
perform some processing activities. The principal function is to separate and
store materials that are ready for shipment to end-use markets, such as paper
mills, aluminum smelters or plastic remanufacturing plants. The presence of
power-driven processing equipment distinguishes a processing facility from a
collection facility. The facility receives and processes only residential and
commercial recyclables.
      RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION. A place of worship or religious assembly with
related facilities such as the following in any combination: rectory or
convent, private school, meeting hall, offices for administration of the
institution, licensed child or adult daycare, playground or cemetery.
      RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITIES.
         (a)   An establishment which conducts research, development or
controlled production of high-technology electronic, industrial or scientific
products or commodities for sale or laboratories conducting educational or
medical research or testing.
         (b)   This term includes but is not limited to a biotechnology firm or
a manufacturer of nontoxic computer components.
      RESIDENTIAL USE. A use intended to provide one or more dwellings and may
include allowed accessory uses and structures.
      RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICT.
         (a)   A zoning district primarily established for dwellings as a land
use.
         (b)   RESIDENTIAL ZONING DISTRICTS shall include those zoned VR and FR
zoning districts.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment in which the principal use is the
preparation and sale of food and beverage. The food and beverage may be
consumed on-site, carried out or offered for delivery. RESTAURANTS may include
the sale of prepared food and beverages to other establishments for resale or
consumption.
      RETAIL SALES ESTABLISHMENT. A commercial enterprise that provides goods
and/or services directly to the consumer, where such goods are available for
immediate purchase and removal from the premises by the purchaser.
         (a)   DEPARTMENT. Establishments that have separate departments for
general lines of new merchandise, such as apparel, jewelry, home furnishing and
toys, with no one merchandise line predominating, or retail establishments
exceeding 8,000 square feet. DEPARTMENT STORES may sell perishable groceries,
such as fresh fruits, vegetables and dairy products, but such sales are
insignificant. DEPARTMENT STORES may have separate checkout areas in each
department, central customer checkout areas, or both.
         (b)   FOOD AND BEVERAGE. Establishments that retail food and beverage
merchandise from fixed point-of-sale locations and have special equipment (for
example, freezers, refrigerated display cases and refrigerators) for displaying
food and beverage goods. They have staff trained in the processing and
preparing of food products to guarantee the proper storage and sanitary
conditions required by regulatory authority. Includes grocery stores, specialty
food stores and beer, wine and liquor stores.
         (c)   GENERAL. Establishments primarily engaged in retailing new or
used goods in general merchandise stores (except department stores, contractor
establishments and wholesale activities). These establishment retail a general
line of new or used merchandise, such as apparel, automotive parts, dry goods,
hardware, housewares or home furnishings, and other lines in limited amounts,
with none of the lines predominating.
         (d)   PRODUCTS PRODUCED ON-SITE. Establishments that retail products
other than food and beverage produced on-site. The products produced on-site
may not be sold on-site exclusively, but may also be distributed to other
locations for retail.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. The strip of land over which an easement exists to allow
facilities such as streets, roads, highways and power lines to be built.
      ROAD. See STREET.
      ROOF-MOUNTED SOLAR INSTALLATIONS.
         (a)   A private system installed as an accessory structure on the roof
of a building that converts sunlight into electricity or thermal energy,
whether by photovoltaics, concentrating solar thermal devices, or any other
various experimental solar technologies.
         (b)   The primary purpose is for consumption of generated energy on-
site.
      ROWHOUSE. A series of dwelling units, attached in a row, separated from
each other by an unpierced wall extending from basement to roof.
      SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A building or group of buildings divided into
separate compartments used to meet the temporary storage needs of small
businesses, apartment dwellers and other residential uses, and may include
climate controlled facilities.
      SEMI-TRAILER. A trailer that may be enclosed or not enclosed having
wheels generally only at the rear, and supported in the front by a truck
tractor, towing vehicle or dolly, excluding utility trailers.
      SENIOR LIVING FACILITY. Licensed personal care facilities, other than
hotels, adult foster care homes, hospitals, nursing homes or county medical
care facilities, that provide supervised personal care to 21 or more
individuals who are age 60 or older. Homes that are operated in conjunction
with and as a distinct part of a licensed nursing home may serve 20 or fewer
adults.
      SETBACK.
         (a)   The horizontal distance between a front, side or rear lot line
and the nearest supporting member of a structure on the lot.
         (b)   The minimum required setback is the minimum distance between a
front, side or rear lot line or setback measurement line and the nearest
supporting member of a structure in order to conform to the required yard
setback provisions of this chapter (see definition of YARD).
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business or commercial enterprise engaging
in any of the following, or other similar uses.
         (a)   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin operated or slug-operated electronically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image-
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by depicting or describing of specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
         (b)   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
            1.   A commercial establishment that, as one of its principal
business purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration one
or more of the following:
               a.   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter or
photographs, films, motion picture, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides or other visual representations or media which depict or describe
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas; or
               b.   Instruments, devices or paraphernalia that are designed for
use in connection with specified sexual activities.
            2.   a.   A commercial establishment may have other principal
business purposes that do not involve the offering for sale or rental of
material depicting or describing specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas and still be categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO
STORE.
               b.   The sale of such material shall be deemed to constitute a
principal business purpose of an establishment if it occupies 25% or more of
the floor area or visible inventory within the establishment.
         (c)   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, bar, restaurant or similar
commercial establishment that regularly features any of the following:
            1.   Persons who appear in a state of nudity;
            2.   Live performances that are characterized by the exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities;
            3.   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions or visual media that are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas; or
            4.   Persons who engage in lewd, lascivious or erotic dancing or
performances that are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an
audience or customers.
         (d)   ADULT MOTEL. A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment
that:
            1.   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of
consideration and provides patrons with closed-circuit television
transmissions, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides or other
photographic reproductions or visual media that are characterized by the
depiction or description of specified sexual activities or specified anatomical
areas and has a sign visible from the public right-of-way that advertises the
availability of any of the above;
            2.   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is
less than 12 hours; or
            3.   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to sub-rent the
room for a period of time that is less than 12 hours.
         (e)   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A commercial establishment which
for any form of consideration regularly and primarily shows films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, slides or other photographic reproductions or visual
media that are characterized by depiction or description of specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
         (f)   ADULT THEATER. A theater, concert hall, auditorium or similar
commercial establishment that regularly features a person or persons who appear
in a state of nudity or live performances that are characterized by exposure of
specified anatomical areas or by specified sexual activities.
         (g)   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who displays
specified anatomical areas is provided to be observed, sketched, drawn,
painted, sculptured, photographed or similarly depicted by other persons who
pay money or any form of consideration, but does not include an educational
institution funded, chartered or recognized by the state.
         (h)   NUDITY OR A STATE OF NUDITY. Knowingly or intentionally
displaying in a public place, or for payment or promise of payment by any
person including but not limited to payment of an admission fee, any
individual’s genitals or anus with less than a fully opaque covering, or a
female individual’s breast with less than a fully opaque covering of the nipple
and areola. PUBLIC NUDITY does not include any of the following:
            1.   A woman’s breastfeeding of a baby whether or not the nipple or
areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding;
            2.   Material as defined in § 2 of Act No. 343 of the Public Acts
of 1984, being M.C.L.A. § 752.362; and
            3.   Sexually explicit visual material as defined in § 3 of Public
Act 33 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. § 722.673.
               a.   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. Includes any of the following.
                  i.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttocks or female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola; or
                  ii.   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state even
if completely or opaquely covered.
               b.   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Includes any of the following:
                  i.   Human genitals in a state of sexual arousal;
                  ii.   Acts of or simulated acts of human masturbation, sexual
intercourse, sodomy, bestiality, fellatio or cunnilingus;
                  iii.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks or female breast; or
                  iv.   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with
any of the activities set forth in divisions (h)3.b.i. through (h)3.b.iii.
above.
      SIGN. Any device, structure, fixture, painting, emblem or visual that
uses words, graphics, colors, illumination, symbols, numbers or letters for the
purpose of communicating a message. SIGN includes the sign faces as well as any
sign supporting structure. See §§
153.118 through
153.127 for definitions of individual sign types.
      SIGN, ABANDONED. A sign which has not identified or advertised a current
business, service, owner, product or activity for a period of at least 180 days
in the case of billboard signs, or at least 360 days in the case of all other
signs.
      SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY.
         (a)   A wireless facility that meets both of the following
requirements: Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements would fit within an imaginary
enclosure of not more than six cubic feet.
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 25 cubic feet in volume.
         (c)   The following types of associated ancillary equipment are not
included in the calculation of equipment volume: electric meters, concealment
elements, telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding equipment, power
transfer switches, cut-off switches and vertical cable runs for the connection
of power and other services.
      SMALL DISTILLERY. A licensed manufacturer of spirits annually
manufacturing in the state not more than 60,000 gallons of spirits of all
brands combined.
      SMALL WINERY. A licensed wine maker manufacturing or bottling not more
than 50,000 gallons of wine in one calendar year. A SMALL WINE MAKER is not
required to bottle wine it manufactures.
      SOLAR ENERGY FARMS. A utility-scale commercial facility that converts
sunlight into electrical or thermal energy, whether by photovoltaics,
concentrating solar thermal devices or any other various experimental solar
technologies. The primary purpose is the wholesale or retail sale of generated
energy off-site.
      SPECIAL EVENT. An occurrence or noteworthy happening of seasonal, civic
or religious importance that is organized and sponsored by a non-profit
community group, congregation, organization, club or society, and that offers a
distinctive service to the community, such as public entertainment, community
education, civic celebration or cultural or community enrichment. SPECIAL
EVENTS typically run for a defined short period (less than two weeks) and are
unlike the customary or usual activities generally associated with the property
where the special event is to be located.
      SPECIAL LAND USE.
         (a)   Uses, either public or private, that possess unique
characteristics and therefore cannot be properly classified as a use permitted
by right in a particular zoning district or districts. SPECIAL LAND USES
include regulated land uses.
         (b)   After due consideration of the impact of each such proposed use
upon the neighboring land and of the public need for the particular use at the
proposed location, such SPECIAL LAND USES may be permitted following review and
approval, subject to the terms of this chapter.
      STACKED FLAT. A series of dwelling units stacked vertically. Dwelling
units may occupy more than one floor of the building, and more than one
dwelling unit may occupy each floor.
      STORY. The part of a building included between the surface of one floor
and the surface of the next floor or the roof next above it. A STORY shall not
include a basement, unhabitable attic or mezzanine as defined herein.
      STREET.
         (a)   Any public or private thoroughfare or right-of-way, other than a
public or private alley, dedicated to or designed for travel and access to any
land, lot or parcel, whether designated as a road, avenue, highway, boulevard,
drive lane, place, court, or any similar designation.
         (b)   Various types of STREETS are defined as follows.
            1.   ARTERIAL STREET. A street that carries a high volume of
traffic and serves as an avenue for circulation of traffic into, out of or
around the village. An ARTERIAL ROAD may also be a MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.
            2.   COLLECTOR STREET. A street whose principal function is to
carry traffic between local streets and arterial streets but may also provide
direct access to abutting properties.
            3.   CUL-DE-SAC. A street that terminates in a vehicular
turnaround.
            4.   LOCAL STREET. A street whose principal function is to provide
access to abutting properties.
            5.   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. See ARTERIAL STREET.
            6.   PRIVATE STREET. Any street that is to be privately maintained
and has not been accepted for maintenance by the village, the federal
government, or any other governmental unit, but that meets the requirements of
this chapter or has been approved as a private road by the village under any
prior ordinance.
            7.   PUBLIC STREET. Any street or portion of a road that has been
dedicated to and accepted for maintenance by the village, the federal
government or any other governmental unit.
      STREET LOT LINE. A dividing line between the street and a lot, also known
as the right-of-way line or front property line.
      STRUCTURAL ADDITION. Any alteration that changes the location of an
exterior wall of a building or modifies the area of a building.
      STRUCTURE.
         (a)   Anything constructed or erected, whether temporary or permanent,
the use of which requires location on the ground or attachment to something
having location on the ground and extending at least nine inches above the
ground surface.
         (b)   STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to, principal and
accessory buildings, towers, decks, fences, privacy screens, walls, tents,
greenhouses, sheds, antennae, swimming pools and signs.
      SUBDIVISION PLAT. The division of a tract of land for the purpose of sale
or building development, in accordance with the Land Division Act, Public Act
288 of 1967, as amended, and the municipal land division regulations.
      SUPPORT LABORATORY. A facility for scientific laboratory analysis of
natural resources, medical resources and manufactured materials. The scientific
analysis is generally performed for an outside customer to support the work of
that customer. This category includes environmental laboratories for the
analysis of air, water and soil; medical or veterinary laboratories for the
analysis of blood, tissue or other human medical or animal products. Forensic
laboratories for analysis of evidence in support of law enforcement agencies
would also be included in this category.
      SYNAGOGUE. See RELIGIOUS INSTITUTION.
      SWIMMING POOL. Any permanent, non-portable structure or container,
located either partially or totally below grade, designed to hold water to a
depth of greater than 24 inches, intended for swimming or bathing. A SWIMMING
POOL shall be considered an accessory structure for purposes of computing lot
coverage.
      TASTING ROOM. Any of the following:
         (a)   A location on the manufacturing premises of a brewer or
MICROBREWER where the brewer or MICROBREWER may provide samples of or sell at
retail for consumption on or off the premises, or both, beer it manufactures.
         (b)   A location on or off the manufacturing premises of a wine maker
or small winemaker where the wine maker or small wine maker may provide samples
of or sell at retail for consumption on or off the premises, or both, shiners,
wine it manufactured or, for a small wine maker only, wine it bottled.
         (c)   A location on or off the manufacturing premises of a distiller
or small distiller where the distiller or small distiller may provide samples
of or sell at retail for consumption on or off the premises, or both, spirits
it manufactured.
         (d)   A location on the manufacturing premises of a mixed spirit drink
manufacturer where the mixed spirit drink manufacturer may provide samples of
or sell at retail for consumption on or off the premises, or both, mixed spirit
drinks it manufactured.
         (e)   A location on or off the manufacturing premises of a brandy
manufacturer where the brandy manufacturer may provide samples of or sell at
retail for consumption on or off the premises, or both, brandy it manufactured.
      TAVERN. See BARS.
      TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS. Any structure designed and constructed
primarily for the purpose of supporting one or more personal wireless service
facility antennas, including but not limited to monopoles, guyed towers and
lattice towers.
      TEMPORARY USE or BUILDING. A use or zoning permitted to exist for a
limited period under conditions and procedures provided for in this chapter.
      THEATER. An outdoor area or building or part of a building devoted to
showing motion pictures, or for dramatic, dance, musical or other live
performances.
      THOROUGHFARE. See STREET.
      TOWNHOUSE. See ROWHOUSE.
      TRANSIT STATION. A building, structure or area designed and used for
persons changing transportation modes or routes.
      TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT STORAGE. A lot intended to store fleet vehicles,
either inside or outside, when not in use.
      TRIPLEX. A building designed as a single structure, containing three
separate dwelling units, each of which is designed to be occupied as a separate
permanent residence for one family.
      USE. The principal purpose for which land or a building is arranged,
designed or intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
      USABLE FLOOR AREA. See FLOOR AREA, USABLE.
      UTILITY POLE.
         (a)   A pole or similar structure that is or may be used in whole or
in part for cable or wireline communications service, electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function, or a pole or similar
structure that meets the height requirements and is designed to support small
cell wireless facilities.
         (b)   UTILITY POLE does not include a sign pole less than 15 feet in
height aboveground.
      UTILITY TRAILER. A small trailer that is not self-propelled that is
designed to be pulled by an automobile, van or pick-up truck.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of the chapter granted
by the Zoning Board of Appeals when strict enforcement of the chapter would
cause practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship owing to circumstances
unique to the individual property on which the VARIANCE is granted.
      VARIANCE, DIMENSIONAL. A variance where the strict application of the
chapter related to height, area, yard requirements and the like may be modified
in a particular instance.
      VARIANCE, USE. A variance granted to allow a use not permitted by the
chapter in a particular zoning district.
      VEHICLE. See AUTOMOBILE.
      VETERINARY CLINIC. A place where animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment and are cared for during the time of such treatment. Use as
a kennel shall be limited to short-time boarding and shall be only incidental
to such hospital use.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Calumet, Houghton
County, Michigan.
      VILLAGE PLANNER. The person or firm designated by the Village Council and
Planning Commission to advise the Village Council Planning Commission, and
village staff on planning, zoning, land use, housing and other related planning
and development issues. The VILLAGE PLANNER may be a consultant or an employee
of the village.
      WALL. An upright structure, typically constructed of wood, masonry or
stone materials, that encloses, divides or protects an area.
      WAREHOUSING AND DISTRIBUTION. A use engaged in storage, wholesale and
distribution of manufactured products, supplies and equipment, excluding bulk
storage of materials that are inflammable or explosive or that present hazards
or conditions commonly recognized as offensive. May include frequent, heavy
truck traffic, open storage of materials or nuisances such as dust, noise and
odors, and wholesale activities, but does not include on-site manufacturing.
      WETLAND. A wetland as defined by Part 303: Wetland Protection Act of the
state’s Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451 of
1994, as amended.
      WHOLESALE ACTIVITIES. Activities primarily engaged in selling and/or
distributing merchandise to retailers; to industrial, commercial, institutional
or professional business users, or to other wholesalers; or acting as agents or
brokers and buying merchandise for, or selling merchandise to, such individuals
or companies. This is not considered a general commercial use.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT. The set of equipment and network
components used in the provision of wireless communication services, including,
but not limited to, antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, equipment
shelters, cabinets, emergency generators, power supply cables and coaxial and
fiber optic cables, but excluding wireless communications support structures.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure designed to support
or capable of supporting small cell wireless facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT
STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITY. All facilities, structural,
attached, accessory or otherwise, related to the use of the radio frequency
spectrum for the purposes of transmitting or receiving radio signals and may
include, but is not limited to: radio and television towers; telephone devices
and exchanges; microwave relay towers; telephone transmission equipment
buildings; and commercial mobile radio service facilities. Not included within
this definition are citizen band radio facilities; short wave facilities; ham
and amateur radio facilities; television reception antennae; satellite dishes;
and governmental facilities that are subject to state and federal law or
regulations that preempt municipal regulatory authority.
      WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION SUPPORT STRUCTURE, TOWER. Any wireless
telecommunication facility erected or modified to support attached wireless
telecommunication facilities, or other antennae or facilities, including
supporting lines, cables, wires, braces and masts intended primarily for the
purpose of mounting an attached wireless telecommunication facility or similar
apparatus above grade. This includes, but is not limited to, any ground- or
roof-mounted pole, monopole, lattice tower, light pole, utility pole, wood
pole, guyed wire tower, spire or other similar structure or combination
thereof, or other structures that appear to be something other than a mere
support structure.
      YARD. The open space on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground (grade) upward except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, and as defined herein. The minimum required setback is the
minimum depth of a front, rear or side yard necessary to conform to the
required yard setback provisions of this chapter.
         (a)   CORNER LOT SIDE YARD. An open space between the principal
building and the secondary street frontage extended from the front yard line to
the rear property line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-865.png]
 
         (b)   FRONT YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot,
the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot
line and the nearest point of the main building. Unless otherwise specified,
each yard with street frontage shall be considered a yard.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-867.png]
 
         (c)    REAR YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot
the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the nearest point of the main building. In the case of a corner lot, the
REAR YARD may be opposite either street frontage, but each lot shall only have
one REAR YARD.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-869.png]
 
         (d)   SIDE YARD. An open space between a principal building and the
side lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of
which is the horizontal distance from the nearest point on the side lot line to
the nearest point of the principal building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-871.png]
 
      ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The village official(s) authorized to administer
the chapter on a day-to-day basis, including but not limited to processing
applications, granting ministerial approvals, maintaining the records of
Planning Commission actions, sending notices of public hearings and similar
work.
      ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The body appointed pursuant to the provisions of
the State Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, to serve as
the Zoning Board of Appeals for the village.
      ZONING DISTRICT. A portion of the incorporated area of the village within
which, on a uniform basis, certain uses of land and buildings are permitted and
within which certain yards, open spaces, lot areas and other requirements are
established under the provisions of this chapter.
      ZONING PERMIT. A standard form issued by the Zoning Administrator, upon
application and declaration by the owner or his or her duly authorized agent,
granting approval for the construction or use for which an application was
made.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.047 AMENDMENTS.
   The Village Council may, after recommendation from the Planning Commission,
amend, supplement or change the provisions of this chapter or the Official
Zoning Map. Such actions shall be consistent with the State Zoning Enabling
Act, Public Act 110 of 2008, as amended, and the following.
   (A)   Initiation of amendment.
      (1)   Amendments to the provisions of this chapter may be initiated by
the Village Council, Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator or by
application from one or more residents or property owners of the village.
      (2)   An amendment to the Official Zoning Map (rezoning) may be initiated
by the Village Council, Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator or by the
titleholder for the property subject to the proposed amendment. No fee shall be
charged for amendments initiated by the Village Council, Planning Commission or
Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Application.
      (1)   An amendment to this chapter, except those initiated by the Village
Council, Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator, shall be initiated by
submission of a complete and accurate application to the village, along with
the required fee established by Village Council.
      (2)   In the case of an amendment to the Official Zoning Map, the
following information shall accompany the application and fee.
         (a)   A legal description and street address of the subject property,
together with a survey and location map identifying the subject property in
relation to surrounding properties.
         (b)   The name and address of the owner of the subject property, and a
statement of the applicant’s interest in the subject property, if not the owner
in fee simple title.
         (c)   The existing and proposed zoning district designation of the
subject property and surrounding properties.
         (d)   A written description of how the requested amendment meets the
criteria stated in this section.
   (C)   Amendment review procedure. Proposed amendments to this chapter or the
Official Zoning Map shall be reviewed in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Completeness review.
         (a)   Upon receipt of an application to amend this chapter, the Zoning
Administrator shall review the application to confirm all required material has
been submitted.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator shall notify the applicant of any
outstanding items.
      (2)   Technical review.
         (a)   Prior to Planning Commission consideration, the proposed
amendment and application materials shall be distributed to appropriate village
officials for review and comment.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may also submit the application
materials to designated village consultants for review.
      (3)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
for all proposed amendments in accordance with the procedures in §
153.309.
      (4)   Planning Commission consideration and recommendation.
         (a)   Subsequent to the hearing, the Planning Commission shall review
the proposed amendment, together with any reports and recommendations from
staff, consultants, other reviewing agencies and any public comments.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall identify and evaluate all relevant
factors and shall report its findings and recommendation to the Village
Council.
         (c)   In considering an amendment to the Official Zoning Map
(rezoning) or chapter text, the Planning Commission shall consider the
following factors in making its findings and recommendations, although not all
standards must be met in order to recommend approval of an amendment.
            1.   a.   Consistency with the Master Plan’s goals, policies and
future land use map, including planned timing or sequence of development.
               b.   If conditions have changed since the Master Plan was
adopted, the consistency with recent development trends in the area shall be
considered.
            2.   Compatibility of all the potential uses allowed in the
proposed zoning district(s) with the site’s physical, geological, hydrological
and other environmental features.
            3.   Compatibility of all the potential uses allowed in the
proposed district(s) with surrounding uses and zoning in terms of suitability,
intensity, traffic impacts, aesthetics, infrastructure and potential influence
on property values.
            4.   Capacity of available utilities and public services to
accommodate the uses permitted in the district(s) without compromising the
health, safety and welfare of village residents or burdening the village or the
county with unplanned capital improvement costs or other unplanned public
expenses.
            5.   Capability of the road system to safely and efficiently
accommodate the expected traffic generated by uses permitted in the zoning
district(s).
            6.   The apparent demand for the types of uses permitted in the
district(s) in relation to the amount of land currently zoned and available in
the village and surrounding communities to accommodate the demand.
            7.   The boundaries of the proposed district(s) in relationship to
the surrounding area and the scale of future development on the site.
            8.   The requested rezoning will not create an isolated or
incompatible zone in the neighborhood.
            9.   Other factors deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission
and/or Village Council.
      (5)   Village Council action.
         (a)   The Village Clerk shall forward a copy of the proposed
amendment, findings and recommendation from the Planning Commission to the
Village Council for consideration and final action.
         (b)   1.   The Village Council may adopt or reject the proposed
amendment, or may refer the amendment back to the Planning Commission for
revision or further consideration.
            2.   The Village Council may modify the proposed amendment as long
as the modifications are de minimis.
            3.   If the Village Council requests any substantial revisions to
the proposed amendment, the amendment and requested revisions shall be referred
back to the Planning Commission for further consideration.
         (c)   1.   The Village Council may, at its discretion, hold additional
public hearings on the proposed amendment.
            2.   Furthermore, the Village Council shall hold a public hearing
if requested by an interested property owner. Any public hearing held by the
Village Council shall follow the procedures in §
153.309.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
ZONING MAP, DISTRICTS
§ 153.060 ZONING DISTRICTS, MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of the zoning districts established by the chapter are
shown on a map or series of maps designated the “Official Zoning Map”.
   (B)   The Official Zoning Map including all notations, references, data and
other information shown therein, and is adopted and made a part of this chapter
as fully as if it were contained within the pages of this chapter.
      (1)   Location. The Official Zoning Map is filed in the office of the
Village Clerk.
      (2)   Updates. The Village Council may adopt amendments to the district
boundaries designated on the Official Zoning Map upon review and recommendation
by the Village Planning Commission.
      (3)   Zoning districts established. For the purpose of this chapter, the
village is hereby divided into the following districts:
         (a)   VR: Village Residential District;
         (b)   FR: Flexible Residential District;
         (c)   DC: Downtown Commercial District;
         (d)   CC: Corridor Commercial District;
         (e)   LIW: Light Industrial and Warehousing District; and
         (f)   PSP: Public/Semi-Public District.
      (4)   Zoning district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists with respect
to the boundaries of the various districts, the following rules shall apply:
         (a)   1.   The district boundaries are public rights-of-way including
either streets, places or alleys unless otherwise shown.
            2.   Where the districts designated on the Official Zoning Map are
approximately bounded by street, road, place or alley lines, the same shall be
construed to be the boundary of the district.
         (b)   1.   Where the district boundaries are not otherwise indicated
and where the property has been or may hereafter be divided into blocks and
lots, the district boundaries shall be construed to be the lot lines.
            2.   Where districts designated on the Official Zoning Map are
approximately bounded by lot lines, the same shall be construed to be the
boundary of the districts, unless otherwise indicated on the Official Zoning
Map.
         (c)   Whenever any street, road, alley, place or other public way is
officially vacated by the Village or County Road Commission, the district
adjoining each side thereof shall be automatically extended to the center of
such vacation and all areas included in the vacation shall thereafter be
subject to all appropriate regulations of the extended districts.
         (d)   1.   Where physical or natural features existing on the ground
are at variance with those shown on the Official Zoning Map.
            2.   In other circumstances not covered by divisions (B)(4)(a)
through (B)(4)(c) above, the Zoning Administrator shall provide an opinion of
the boundaries.
         (e)   Any dispute in the opinion of the zoning district boundaries
from the Zoning Administrator shall be heard by the Zoning Board of Appeals for
a final determination.
      (5)   Village Official Zoning Map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-873.png]
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.061 ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Overview.
      (1)   The following divisions regulate the uses, dimensional standards,
principal building form, landscaping, screening and off-street parking design
for each zoning district.
      (2)   Additional standards related to these items exist throughout the
chapter and are in effect as applicable.
   (B)   Principal building types. The following building types have been
established to regulate building form within each zoning district:
PRINCIPAL BUILDING TYPES
Description Example (for illustrative purposes only)
PRINCIPAL BUILDING TYPES
Description                                                                       Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A.   Apartment Building: An apartment building has a combination of separate
dwelling units arranged horizontally next to each other and/or stacked vertically [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
upon each other. Apartment buildings are intended to provide five or more         d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
dwelling units per lot with each being occupied by a separate family unit.        IMAGES/0-0-0-875.png]
Apartment buildings may be developed as a site condominium where each unit is
under separate ownership.
B.   Commercial Building: A commercial building is intended for commercial,    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
office or industrial use. Commercial buildings may be occupied by more than one   d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
tenant.                                                                           IMAGES/0-0-0-877.png]
C.   Detached House: A detached house is intended to serve a single-family unit
on a single lot, but may include attached or detached accessory dwelling units.   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Multiple detached houses may be permitted on a single lot under certain           d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
development options. Existing detached houses in commercial and mixed use         IMAGES/0-0-0-879.png]
districts may be used for commercial uses.
D.   Mixed Use Building: A mixed use building is intended to accommodate retail[https://export.amlegal.com/media/
and service uses on the first floor with additional uses on the upper floors.     d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
Residential use is limited to the upper floors or the rear of the first floor to  IMAGES/0-0-0-881.png]
preserve commercial space along the street level.
E.   Multiplex Building: A multiplex building is a small scale, low-intensity
multiple-family residential structure. These structures include duplexes,         [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
triplexes and quadplexes that may have the units arranged vertically to one       d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
another, horizontally or a combination of both. Multiplexes are intended to be    IMAGES/0-0-0-883.png]
designed to blend harmoniously with the surrounding structures in the residential
district while discreetly adding density and housing options to the community.
F.   Public/Semi-Public Building: A public/semi-public building is intended to
accommodate public and civic uses and non-profit uses serving the public such as  [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
residential services and religious and educational institutions in residential    d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
and nonresidential districts. Uses other than civic and non-profit uses may be    IMAGES/0-0-0-885.png]
allowed in public/semi-public buildings in nonresidential districts.
G.   Rowhouse: A rowhouse is a series of dwelling units, attached in a row,
separated from each other by an unpierced wall extending from basement to roof.   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Rowhouses are intended to provide two or more dwelling units per lot with each    d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
being occupied by a separate family unit. Rowhouses may be developed as a site    IMAGES/0-0-0-887.png]
condominium where each unit is on a separate lot under separate ownership.
H.   Stacked Flat: A stacked flat is a series of dwelling units stacked
vertically. Dwelling units may occupy more than one floor of the building, but    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
only one dwelling unit may occupy any single floor. Stacked flats are intended to d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
provide two or more dwelling units per lot with each being occupied by a separate IMAGES/0-0-0-889.png]
family unit. Stacked flats may be developed as a site condominium where each unit
is under separate ownership.
 
   (C)   Determinations of use. If a proposed use is not clearly listed or
identified in the regulated uses table in division (B) above, the Zoning
Administrator shall make a determination as to whether or not the proposed use
is similar enough to fit within the definition of an existing listed use and
should be accommodated. The determination of the Zoning Administrator regarding
unclassified uses may be appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals for a final
determination. If a proposed use is found not be similar enough to an existing
listed use to be accommodated, a request to add the proposed use through an
amendment may be requested subject to the procedures and standards in §
153.047.
   (D)   Interpreting district regulations.
      (1)   The standards provided in the following sections are to be
interpreted as the minimal requirements, unless explicitly stated as a maximum.
      (2)   Regulated uses listed as “By Right” approval type shall require
site plan review, where applicable. Regulated uses listed as “SLUP” approval
type shall require a special land use permit.
      (3)   Regulated uses that have additional supplemental use standards are
indicated with the section number where the supplemental use standards can be
found.
      (4)   Additional standards applicable to the items regulated for each
zoning district, including but not limited to landscaping, fencing, off-street
parking and loading zones exist within this chapter. Nothing in this section
shall exempt a land use or development from satisfying any additional,
applicable standards or design requirements contained within this chapter.
      (5)   In addition to the standards in this division (D) and those under
this section, all properties within the Civic and Commercial Historic Overlay
District shall be subject to the requirements of the Overlay District as
presented in §§
153.080 and
153.081. Where there is a conflict between the standards of this section and
those of the Overlay District, those of the Overlay District shall supersede
the regulations of this section.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.062 VR: VILLAGE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-891.png]
 
   (B)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The Village Residential (VR) District is intended to provide a
stable, low- to medium-density environment for residential development.
      (2)   Although predominately in the form of single-family detached
dwelling units, duplexes, triplexes, quadplexes and accessory dwelling units
may be considered appropriate where developed in the scale and character of the
neighborhood and adequate services or site area are available to accommodate
water and sanitary sewage needs.
      (3)   Accessory uses customary to residential uses are included in the
intent of this District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-893.png]
 
   (C)   Regulated uses.
VR: REGULATED USES APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS MAXIMUM PARKING
VR: REGULATED USES                APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL MAXIMUM PARKING
                                                STANDARDS
Commercial Uses
Assembly Facilities – Accessory By Right      ---          0.25/1 occupancy
Use
Industrial Uses
Extractive Industries             SLUP          §           1/employee
                                                153.166
Public/Semi-Public Uses
Cemeteries                        By Right      ---          0.25/1 occupancy
Public Use – Critical           By Right      §           ---
                                                153.037
Public Use – Essential          By Right      §           ---
                                                153.037
Public Use – Supporting         By Right      §           ---
                                                153.037
Religious Institutions            By Right      ---          0.25/1 occupancy
Residential Uses
1 Family Detached Dwellings       By Right      ---          ---
2 Family Attached Dwellings       By Right      ---          ---
3 Family Attached Dwellings       By Right      ---          ---
4 Family Attached Dwellings       By Right      ---          ---
Accessory Dwelling Units          By Right      §           2/accessory
                                                153.159      dwelling unit
Adult Day Care Homes              By Right      ---          0.25/guest
Adult Foster Care Family Homes    By Right      ---          0.5/bed
Adult Foster Care Small Group     By Right      ---          0.5/bed
Homes
Assisted Living Facilities        By Right      ---          0.25/dwelling unit
                                                             + 1 per employee
Bed and Breakfast Establishments  By Right      §           1/guest bedroom
                                                153.158
Bungalow/Cottage Courts           By Right      §           2.25/dwelling unit
                                                153.156
Family Child Care Homes           By Right      ---          1/3 children
Foster Family Homes               By Right      ---          ---
Foster Family Group Homes         By Right      ---          ---
Group Child Care Homes            By Right      ---          1/3 children
Home Occupations                  By Right      §           ---
                                                153.159
Transportation and Utility Uses
Off-Site Public or Private        SLUP          §           ---
Parking Facilities                              153.164
                                                §§
Small Cell Wireless Facilities    By Right      153.180–   ---
                                                153.192
 
   (D)   Dimensional standards and building form.
VR: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
VR: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
Accessory Structures
Corner Lot Side Setback                10 feet
Front Setback                          ---
Maximum Ground Floor Area (cumulative) Principal structure
Maximum Ground Floor Elevation         6 inches
Maximum Height                         2 stories, 25 feet
Maximum Number                         2 per lot
Permitted Locations                    Rear and side yard only
Rear Setback                           5 feet
Side Setback                           4 feet
Lot Occupation
Detached House                         Multiplex
Maximum Density                        4 dwelling units/lot
Maximum Impervious Coverage            65%
Minimum Lot Area                       3,000 square feet + 1,500 square feet
                                       for each dwelling unit above 2
Maximum Lot Coverage                   50%
Minimum Lot Width                      30 feet
Principal Building Form
•   Rowhouse                      •   Public/Semi-Public Building
•   Stacked Flat
Principal Structure
Corner Lot Side Setback                10 feet
Front Setback                          20 feet
Maximum 1st Floor Elevation            4 feet above grade
Minimum Floor Area/Unit                ---
Minimum Ground Floor Area              500 square feet
Maximum Height                         2 1/2 stories/35 feet
Rear Setback                           20 feet
Side Setback                           4 feet
 
   (E)   Landscaping and fencing.
VR: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item Residential Uses All Other Uses
VR: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item                      Residential Uses         All Other Uses
Front Yard Fences         ---                      ---
                                                   1 tree per lot + 1 tree per
                                                   4,000 square feet for the
Lot Landscaping           Minimum 1 tree per lot   first 24,000 square feet + 1
                                                   tree per 6,000 square feet
                                                   for additional lot area over
                                                   24,000 square feet
Rear and Side Yard Fences Maximum height of 6 feet Maximum height of 6 feet
Right-of-Way Landscaping  —                      1 tree and 6 shrubs per 30
                                                   lineal feet or ROW
                                                   Side and rear property lines
                                                   adjacent to residential
                                                   zoning district or use:
Screening and Buffering   ---                      greenbelt (min. 10 feet
                                                   wide), vegetated screen
                                                   (min. 6 feet high) or
                                                   combination of both
Notes to Table:
Additional landscaping standards located in §§
153.095 through
153.098; additional fencing standards located in §
153.039.
 
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading.
R: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
 Item Residential Uses All Other Uses
R: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
                   Item            Residential Uses     All Other Uses
                   Location        Front, Side, or Rear Side or Rear Yard Only
                                   Yard
                   Bicycle Parking ---                  2 spaces per use + 1
                                                        per 10 parking spaces
                   Corner Lot Side 5 feet               5 feet from side facade
                   Setback
                   Front Setback   5 feet               5 feet from front
                                                        facade
                   Rear Setback    5 feet               10 feet
                                                        Screened from all
                                                        residential zoning
Off-Street Parking                                      districts or uses and
Lots               Screening       ---                  rights-of-way with an
                                                       obscuring wall or
                                                        vegetated screen at a
                                                        minimum height of 4
                                                        feet
                   Side Setback    3 feet               5 feet
                                                        1 tree island at the
                                                        end of each single
                   Tree Islands    —                  parking row, plus 1
                                                        tree island per 10
                                                        parking spaces
 
VR: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
              Item           Residential Uses          All Other Uses
              Location       Front, Side, or Rear Yard Side or Rear Yard Only
              Location       ---                       Side or rear yard only
                                                       1 per 20,000 square feet
              Loading Spaces ---                       of gross floor area if
Loading Zones                                          use regularly receives
                                                      deliveries or pick ups
                                                       Screened from all
              Screening      ---                       residential zoning
                                                       districts or uses and
                                                       rights-of-way
Notes to Table:
Additional parking standards located in §
153.097
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.063 FR: FLEXIBLE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-895.png]
 
   (B)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The Flexible Residential (FR) District is intended to provide a
location for diverse housing options that include compact single-family homes,
multiplexes, rowhouses, stacked flats and apartment buildings.
      (2)   The District will serve as an appropriate transition between more
intense commercial and industrial uses, and the lower density Village
Residential District, while still being integrated through cohesive circulation
patterns in the form of residential streets and sidewalks.
      (3)   Limited neighborhood-scale commercial uses intended to serve the
daily needs of the surrounding residents while blending with the character of
the District may be allowed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-897.png]
 
   (C)   Regulated uses.
FR: REGULATED USES APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS MAXIMUM PARKING
FR: REGULATED USES                APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL    MAXIMUM PARKING
                                                STANDARDS
Commercial Uses
Assembly Facilities – Accessory By Right      ---             0.25/
Use                                                             1 occupancy
Neighborhood Commercial           SLUP          §              2/1,000 square
Establishments                                  153.162         feet
Industrial Uses
Extractive Industries             SLUP          §              1/employee
                                                153.166
Public/Semi-Public Uses
Public Use – Critical           By Right      §              ---
                                                153.037
Public Use – Essential          By Right      §              ---
                                                153.037
Public Use – Supporting         By Right      §              ---
                                                153.037
Religious Institutions            By Right      ---             0.25/
                                                                1 occupancy
Residential Uses
1 Family Detached Dwellings       By Right      ---             ---
2 Family Attached Dwellings       By Right      ---             ---
3 Family Attached Dwellings       By Right      ---             ---
4 Family Attached Dwellings       By Right      ---             ---
5+ Family Attached Dwellings      By Right      ---             1.5/dwelling
                                                                unit
Accessory Dwelling Units          By Right      §              2/accessory
                                                153.159         dwelling unit
Adult Day Care Homes              By Right      ---             0.25/guest
Adult Foster Care Family Homes    By Right      ---             0.5/bed
Adult Foster Care Large Group     By Right      ---             0.5/bed
Homes
Adult Foster Care Small Group     By Right      ---             0.5/bed
Homes
                                                                0.25/dwelling
Assisted Living Facilities        By Right      ---             unit + 1 per
                                                                employee
Bed and Breakfast Establishments  By Right      §              1/guest bedroom
                                                153.158
Bungalow/Cottage Courts           By Right      §              2.25/dwelling
                                                153.156         unit
Dwelling Units Above 1st Floor    By Right      ---             1.5/dwelling
Commercial Uses                                                 unit
Family Child Care Homes           By Right      ---             1/3 children
Foster Family Group Homes         By Right      ---             ---
Foster Family Homes               By Right      ---             ---
Group Child Care Homes            By Right      ---             1/3 children
Home Occupations                  By Right      §              ---
                                                153.159
Nursing and Convalescent Homes    By Right      ---             0.5/bed
Senior Living Facilities          By Right      ---             0.5/bed
Transportation and Utility Uses
Off-Site Public or Private        SLUP          §              ---
Parking Facilities                              153.164
                                                §§
Small Cell Wireless Facilities    By Right      153.180 through ---
                                                153.192
 
   (D)   Dimensional standards and building form.
FR: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
FR: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
Accessory Structures
Corner Lot Side Setback                10 feet
Front Setback                          ---
Maximum Ground Floor Area (cumulative) Principal structure
Maximum Ground Floor Elevation         6 inches
Maximum Height                         2 stories, 25 feet
Maximum Number                         1 per dwelling unit
Permitted Locations                    Rear and side yard only
Rear Setback                           5 feet
Side Setback                           3 feet
Lot Occupation
Maximum Density                        29 dwelling units/acre
Maximum Impervious Coverage            75%
Maximum Lot Coverage                   60%
Minimum Lot Area                       3,000 square feet + 1,500 square feet
                                       for each dwelling unit above 2
Minimum Lot Width                      30 feet
Principal Building Form
•   Detached House                •   Multiplex
•   Rowhouse                      •   Apartment Building
•   Stacked Flat                  •   Public/Semi-Public Building
Principal Structure
Corner Lot Side Setback                5 feet
Front Setback                          10 feet
Maximum 1st Floor Elevation            4 feet above grade
Maximum Height                         3 1/2 stories/45 feet
Minimum Floor Area/Unit                400 square feet
Minimum Ground Floor Area              500 square feet
Rear Setback                           15 feet
Side Setback                           3 feet
 
   (E)   Landscaping and fencing.
FR: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item Residential Uses  All Other Uses
     (1 - 4 dwellings)
FR: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item                      Residential Uses         All Other Uses
                          (1 - 4 dwellings)
Front Yard Fences         ---                      ---
                                                   1 tree per lot + 1 tree per
                                                   4,000 square feet for the
Lot Landscaping           Minimum 1 tree per lot   first 24,000 square feet + 1
                                                   tree per 6,000 square feet
                                                   for additional lot area over
                                                   24,000 square feet.
Rear and Side Yard Fences Maximum height of 6 feet Maximum height of 6 feet
Right-of-Way Landscaping  ---                      1 tree and 6 shrubs per 30
                                                   lineal feet or ROW
                                                   Side and rear property lines
                                                   adjacent to residential
                                                   zoning district or use:
Screening and Buffering   ---                      greenbelt (min. 10 feet
                                                   wide), vegetated screen
                                                   (min. 6 feet high), or
                                                   combination of both
Notes to Table:
Additional Landscaping standards located in §§
153.096; additional fencing standards located in §
153.039
 
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading.
FR: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
Off-Street Parking Lots Item Residential Uses All Other Uses
 
FR: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
                   Item            Residential Uses     All Other Uses
                   Location        Front, Side, or Rear Side or Rear Yard Only
                                   Yard
                   Bicycle Parking ---                  2 spaces per use + 1
                                                        per 10 parking spaces
                   Corner Lot Side 5 feet               10 feet
                   Setback
                   Front Setback   5 feet               ---
                   Rear Setback    5 feet               10 feet
                                                        Screened from all
Off-Street Parking                                      residential zoning
Lots                                                    districts or uses and
                  Screening       ---                  rights-of-way with an
                                                        obscuring wall or
                                                        vegetated screen at a
                                                        minimum height of 4
                                                        feet
                   Side Setback    3 feet               5 feet
                                                        1 tree island at the
                                                        end of each single
                   Tree Islands    —                  parking row, plus 1
                                                        tree island per 10
                                                        parking spaces
                   Location        ---                  Side or rear yard only
                                                        1 per 20,000 square
                                                        feet of gross floor
                   Loading Spaces  ---                  area if use regularly
Loading Zones                                           receives deliveries or
                                                       pick ups
                                                        Screened from all
                   Screening       ---                  residential zoning
                                                        districts or uses and
                                                        rights-of-ways
Notes to Table:
Additional parking standards located in §
153.097
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.064 DC: DOWNTOWN COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-899.png]
 
   (B)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The purpose of the Downtown Commercial (DC) District is to serve as
the central anchor of the village, accommodating a compact mixture of land uses
in an integrated fashion which reflects historical development patterns.
      (2)   A variety of commercial uses will allow the convenient transaction
of goods and services, but also serve as a desirable gathering place for social
interaction and encourage residential use through a variety of housing options.
      (3)   This District is intended to be a highly walkable environment
through design elements that enhance pedestrian safety and comfort, and is
supported by on-street and shared parking lots. The historic architecture
downtown is to be preserved to the greatest extent possible through adaptive
reuse of existing buildings, recognizing that some structures are beyond repair
and are more appropriate for demolition as to not stymie future investment and
development.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-901.png]
 
   (C)   Regulated uses.
DC: REGULATED USES APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS MAXIMUM PARKING
DC: REGULATED USES                              APPROVAL SUPPLEMENTAL MAXIMUM
                                                TYPE     STANDARDS    PARKING
Commercial Uses
                                                                      0.25/
Assembly Facilities – Accessory Use           By Right ---          1
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      0.25/
Assembly Facilities – Principal Use           By Right ---          1
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      1/
Bars, Taverns and Lounges                       By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      1/200
Business Services                               By Right ---          square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      1/
Child Care Centers                              By Right ---          employee
                                                                      + 1/10
                                                                      children
                                                                      1/150
Financial Services                              By Right ---          square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      1/student
For-Profit Educational Facilities               By Right ---          + 1/
                                                                      employee
Health Care Services                            By Right ---          4/exam
                                                                      room
Hotels and Motels                               By Right ---          1/guest
                                                                      room
                                                                      1/
Microbreweries                                  By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      1/150
Personal Services                               By Right ---          square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      4/1,000
Professional Services                           By Right ---          square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      1/
Outdoor Dining                                  By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                         §           1/1,000
Outdoor Sales and Displays                      By Right 153.167      square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      1/
Outdoor Service As Accessory Use                By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      1/
Recreational Facilities                         By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      1/
Restaurants                                     By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      3/1,000
Retail Establishments – Food and Beverage     By Right ---          square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      3/1,000
Retail Establishments - General                 By Right ---          square
                                                                      feet
Retail Establishments – Products Produced On-                       3/1,000
Site                                            By Right ---          square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      1/
Small Distilleries                              By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      1/
Small Wineries                                  By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      1/
Tasting Rooms                                   By Right ---          3
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      0.25/
Theaters                                        By Right ---          1
                                                                      occupancy
Veterinary Clinics                              By Right ---          2.5/
                                                                      employee
Industrial Uses
Extractive Industries                           SLUP     §           1/
                                                         153.166      employee
Public/Semi-Public Uses
Home Occupations                                By Right §           ---
                                                         153.159
                                                                      0.25/
Cultural Institutions                           By Right ---          1
                                                                      occupancy
                                                                      1/1,000
                                                                      square
                                                                      feet + 1/
Educational Institutions                        By Right ---          classroom
                                                                      +
                                                                      assembly
                                                                      facility
Public Use – Critical                         By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
Public Use – Essential                        By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
Public Use – Supporting                       By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
                                                                      0.25/
Religious Institutions                          By Right ---          1
                                                                      occupancy
Residential Uses
                                                                      1.5/
Dwelling Units Above 1st Floor Commercial Uses  By Right ---          dwelling
                                                                      unit
Dwelling Units on 1st Floor with Commercial                           1.5/
Uses                                            By Right ---          dwelling
                                                                      unit
Dwelling Units on 1st Floor with Commercial                           1.5/
Uses - Corner Lots                              SLUP     ---          dwelling
                                                                      unit
Home Occupations                                By Right §           ---
                                                         153.159
Live/Work Units                                 By Right ---          3/unit
Transportation and Utility Uses
Off-Site Public or Private Parking Facilities   SLUP     §           ---
                                                         153.164
                                                         §§
Small Cell Wireless Facilities                  By Right 153.180-     ---
                                                         153.192
                                                                      5/1,000
Transit Stations                                SLUP     ---          square
                                                                      feet
 
   (D)   Dimensional standards and building form.
DC: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
DC: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
Accessory Structures
Corner Lot Side Setback                       0 feet
Front Setback                                 ---
Maximum Ground Floor Area (cumulative)        0.25% of principal structure
Maximum Ground Floor Elevation                6 inches
Maximum Height                                2 stories, 25 feet
Maximum Number                                1 per lot
Permitted Locations                           Rear yard only
Rear Setback                                  0 feet
Side Setback                                  0 feet
Lot Occupation
Maximum Density                               ---
Maximum Impervious Coverage                   100%
Maximum Lot Coverage                          100%
Minimum Lot Area                              3,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width                             30 feet
Principal Building Form
•   Mixed Use Building                   •   Public/Semi-Public Building
Principal Structure
Corner Lot Side Build-To Line                 0 feet
Front Build-To Line                           0 feet, or even with existing
                                              buildings
Maximum 1st Floor Elevation                   6 inches above grade
Maximum Height                                4 stories/55 feet
Minimum 1st Floor Ceiling Height              15 feet
Minimum Floor Area/Unit                       300 square feet/unit
Minimum Front Facade As Percent of Lot Width  100%
Minimum Ground Floor Area                     ---
Minimum Side Street Façade as Percent of Lot 80%
Depth
Minimum Upper Floor Ceiling Height            10 feet
                                              Adjacent to DC and CC Zoning
Rear Setback                                  Districts: 0 feet; adjacent to
                                              VR, FR, and PSP Zoning Districts:
                                              5 feet
                                              Adjacent to DC and CC Zoning
Side Setback                                  Districts: 0 feet; adjacent to
                                              VR, FR, and PSP Zoning Districts:
                                              5 feet
                                              Commercial; Must maintain minimum
Uses Allowed on 1st Floor                     front 30% for commercial use,
                                              residential in the rear of floor
                                              not to exceed 70%
Uses Allowed on Upper Floors                  Commercial and residential
 
   (E)   Landscaping and fencing.
DC: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item All Uses
DC: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item                      All Uses
Front Yard Fences         ---
Lot Landscaping           ---
Rear and Side Yard Fences Maximum height of 6 feet
Right-of-Way Landscaping  ---
                          Side and rear property lines adjacent to VR, FR and
Screening and Buffering   PSP Zoning Districts: vegetated screen, obscuring
                          wall/fence or combination thereof at a minimum height
                          of 6 feet
Notes to Table:
Additional Landscaping standards located in §§
153.096; additional fencing standards located in §
153.039
 
   (F)   Off-street parking standards.
DC: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
DC: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
                        Item                    All Uses
                                                2 spaces per use + 1 per 10
                        Bicycle Parking         parking spaces + 1 per 3
                                                dwelling units
                        Corner Lot Side Setback No less than side facade
                        Front Setback           ---
                        Location                Rear Yard Only
                                                Adjacent to VR, FR and PSP
                        Rear Setback            Zoning Districts: 5 feet;
                                                adjacent to CC, DC and LIW
Off-Street Parking Lots                         Zoning Districts: 0 feet
                                               Screened from all residential
                                                Zoning Districts or uses and
                        Screening               rights-of-way with an obscuring
                                                wall or vegetated screen at a
                                                minimum height of 4 feet
                                                Adjacent to VR, FR and PSP
                        Side Setback            Zoning Districts: 5 feet;
                                                adjacent to CC, DC ad LIW
                                                Zoning Districts: 0 feet
                        Tree Islands            1 tree island per 10 parking
                                                spaces
                        Location                Rear Yard Only
                                                1 per 20,000 square feet of
Loading Zones           Loading Spaces          gross floor area if use
                                               regularly receives deliveries
                                                or pickups.
                        Screening               Screened from all VR, FR and
                                                PSP Zoning Districts
Notes to Table:
Additional parking standards located in §
153.097
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.065 CC: CORRIDOR COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-903.png]
 
   (B)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The intent of the Corridor Commercial (CC) District is to provide
for intensive commercial development offering a broad range of goods and
services, marketed to the general village population, residents in surrounding
communities and region.
      (2)   The development pattern is more auto-centric than other districts
that allow commercial uses and therefore requires additional attention towards
its impact on adjacent uses, especially residential.
      (3)   Accordingly, developments should be compatible in design with
adjacent development, buffered or located away from residential areas, focused
on-site layout, building design and circulation patterns and accessed off a
major thoroughfare or through a cross access easement from a development served
by a major thoroughfare.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-905.png]
 
   (C)   Regulated uses.
CC: REGULATED USES APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS MAXIMUM PARKING
CC: REGULATED USES                              APPROVAL SUPPLEMENTAL MAXIMUM
                                                TYPE     STANDARDS    PARKING
Commercial Uses
                                                                      0.25/guest +
Adult Day Care Facilities                       By Right ---          1 per
                                                                      employee
                                                                      1/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Amusement Parks                                 By Right ---          outdoor
                                                                      recreation
                                                                      area
Assembly Facilities – Accessory Use           By Right ---          0.25/
                                                                      1 occupancy
Assembly Facilities – Principal Use           By Right ---          0.25/
                                                                      1 occupancy
Automobile Repair - Minor                       SLUP     §           3/stall
                                                         153.160(A)
                                                                      1/5,000
                                                                      square feet
                                                         §           outdoor
Automobile Sales and Rental                     SLUP     153.160(C)   display area
                                                                      + 1/150
                                                                      square feet
                                                                      indoor area
Automobile Service Stations                     SLUP     §           2/pump + 1/
                                                         153.160(D)   stall
Bars, Taverns and Lounges                       By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Business Services                               By Right ---          1/200 square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      1/employee +
                                                                      1/business
Catering Services                               By Right ---          vehicle + 5/
                                                                      1,000 square
                                                                      feet
Child Care Centers                              By Right ---          1/employee +
                                                                      1/10 children
Drive In or Drive Through Services              SLUP     §           2/window
                                                         153.161
                                                                      1/200 square
Equipment Rental Establishments                 By Right ---          feet indoor
                                                                      area
Financial Services                              By Right ---          1/150 square
                                                                      feet
For-Profit Educational Facilities               By Right ---          1/student +
                                                                      1/employee
Health Care Services                            By Right ---          4/exam room
Hospitals                                       SLUP     ---          3/patient bed
Hotels and Motels                               By Right ---          1/guest room
                                                                      1/employee +
Kennels                                         SLUP     ---          1/250 square
                                                                      feet indoor
                                                                      space
Microbreweries                                  By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Personal Services                               By Right ---          1/150 square
                                                                      feet
Professional Services                           By Right ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Outdoor Dining                                  By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Outdoor Storage                                 By Right §           1/1,000
                                                         153.167(A)   square feet
Outdoor Sales and Displays                      By Right §           1/1,000
                                                         153.167(B)   square feet
Recreational Facilities                         By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Retail Establishments - General                 By Right ---          3/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Retail Establishments – Department            SLUP     ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Retail Establishments – Food and Beverage     By Right ---          3/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Retail Establishments – Products Produced On- By Right ---          3/1,000
Site                                                                  square feet
Restaurants                                     By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Small Distilleries                              By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Small Wineries                                  By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Tasting Rooms                                   By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Theaters                                        By Right ---          0.25/
                                                                      1 occupancy
Veterinary Clinics                              By Right ---          2.5/employee
Industrial Uses
Contractor Establishments                       By Right ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Data Processing Facilities                      By Right ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Extractive Industries                           SLUP     §           1/employee
                                                         153.166
                                                                      1/employee +
Greenhouses and Nurseries                       SLUP     ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
                                                                      of sales area
Manufacturing – Food                          SLUP     ---          1.5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Manufacturing – Light                         SLUP     ---          1.5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Recycling Collection Stations                   By Right ---          ---
Research and Development Facilities             By Right ---          5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Support Laboratories                            By Right ---          5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Public/Semi-Public Uses
Club, Lodge or Fraternal Organization           By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Cultural Institutions                           By Right ---          0.25/
                                                                      1 occupancy
Public Use – Critical                         By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
Public Use – Essential                        By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
Public Use – Supporting                       By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
Religious Institutions                          By Right ---          0.25/
                                                                      1 occupancy
Residential Uses
5+ Family Attached Dwellings                    By Right ---          1.5/dwelling
                                                                      unit
Adult Foster Care Congregate Facilities         By Right ---          1.5/employee
Adult Foster Care Large Group Homes             By Right ---          0.5/bed
                                                                      0.25/dwelling
Assisted Living Facilities                      By Right ---          unit + 1 per
                                                                      employee
Dwelling Units Above 1st Floor Commercial Uses  By Right ---          1.5/dwelling
                                                                      unit
Home Occupations                                By Right §           ---
                                                         153.159
Live/Work Units                                 By Right ---          3/unit
Nursing and Convalescent Homes                  By Right ---          0.5/bed
Senior Living Facilities                        By Right ---          0.5/bed
Transportation and Utility Uses
Off-Site Public or Private Parking Facilities   By Right §           ---
                                                         153.164
                                                         §§
Small Cell Wireless Facilities                  By Right 153.180      ---
                                                         through
                                                         153.192
Solar Energy Farms                              SLUP     §           4/
                                                         153.168      establishment
Telecommunication Towers                        SLUP     §           4/
                                                         153.169      establishment
Transit Stations                                SLUP     ---          5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
 
   (D)   Dimensional standards and building form.
CC: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
CC: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
Accessory Structures
Corner Lot Side Setback                10 feet
Front Setback                          ---
Maximum Ground Floor Area (cumulative) Principal structure
Maximum Ground Floor Elevation         6 inches
Maximum Height                         2 stories, 25 feet
Maximum Number                         2 per lot
Permitted Locations                    Rear and side yard only
Rear Setback                           5 feet
Side Setback                           4 feet
Lot Occupation
Maximum Density                        40 dwelling units/acre
Maximum Impervious Coverage            85%
Maximum Lot Coverage                   70%
Minimum Lot Area                       5,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width                      50 feet
Principal Building Form
•   Rowhouse                      •   Mixed Use Building
•   Stacked Flat                  •   Commercial Building
•   Apartment Building            •   Public/Semi-Public Building
Principal Structure
Corner Lot Side Build-To Line          0 feet
Front Build-To Line                    0 feet, or even with existing buildings
Maximum 1st Floor Elevation            6 inches above grade
Maximum Height                         4 stories/55 feet
Minimum 1st Floor Ceiling Height       12 feet
Minimum Ground Floor Area              ---
Minimum Floor Area/Unit                300 square feet/unit
Minimum Upper Floor Ceiling Height     9 feet
                                       Adjacent to DC, CC and LIW Zoning
Rear Setback                           Districts: 0 feet; adjacent to VR, FR
                                       and PSP Zoning Districts: 5 feet
                                       Adjacent to DC, CC and LIW Zoning
Side Setback                           Districts: 0 feet; adjacent to VR, FR
                                       and PSP Zoning Districts: 5 feet
                                       Commercial; Residential in the rear 50%
Uses Allowed on 1st Floor              of floor must maintain minimum front 50%
                                       for commercial use
Uses Allowed on Upper Floors           Commercial and residential
 
   (E)   Landscaping and fencing.
CC: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item All Uses
CC: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item                      All Uses
Front Yard Fences         ---
                          1 tree per lot + 1 tree per 4,000 square feet for the
Lot Landscaping           first 24,000 square feet + 1 tree per 6,000 square
                          feet for additional lot area over 24,000 square feet
Rear and Side Yard Fences Maximum height of 6 feet
Right-of-Way Landscaping  1 tree and 6 shrubs per 30 lineal feet or RO
                          Side and rear property lines adjacent to VR, FR and
Screening and Buffering   PSP Zoning Districts: vegetated screen, obscuring
                          wall/fence, or combination thereof at a minimum
                          height of 6 fee
Notes to Table:
Additional Landscaping standards located in §§
153.096; additional fencing standards located in §
153.039.
 
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading.
CC: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
CC: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
                        Item                    All Uses
                        Location                Side or Rear Yard Only
                                                2 spaces per use + 1 per 10
                        Bicycle Parking         parking spaces + 1 per 3
                                                dwelling units
                        Corner Lot Side Setback 5 feet from side facade
                        Front Setback           5 feet from front facade
                        Rear Setback            5 feet
                                                Screened from all residential
Off-Street Parking Lots                         zoning districts or uses and
                       Screening               rights-of-way with an obscuring
                                                wall or vegetated screen at a
                                                minimum height of 4 feet
                                                Adjacent to VR, FR and PSP
                        Side Setback            Zoning Districts: 5 feet;
                                                adjacent to CC, DC and LIW
                                                Zoning Districts: 0 feet
                                                1 tree island at the end of
                        Tree Islands            each single parking row, plus 1
                                                tree island per 10 parking
                                                spaces
                        Location                Side or Rear Yard Only
                                                1 per 20,000 square feet of
Loading Zones           Loading Spaces          gross floor area if use
                                               regularly receives deliveries
                                               or pickups
                                                Screened from all residential
                        Screening               zoning districts or uses and
                                                rights-of-way
Notes to Table:
Additional parking standards located in §
153.097
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.066 LIW: LIGHT INDUSTRIAL AND WAREHOUSING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-907.png]
 
   (B)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The Light Industrial and Warehousing (LIW) District is designed to
primarily accommodate wholesale activities, warehousing, technology, research
and industrial operations whose external physical effects are restricted to the
area of the District and in no manner affect in a detrimental way any of the
surrounding districts.
      (2)   (a)   The Light Industrial and Warehousing District is so
structured as to permit, along with any specified uses, the manufacturing,
compounding, processing, packaging, assembly and/or treatment of finished or
semi-finished products from previously prepared material.
         (b)   It is the intent of this District to accommodate the
manufacturing and processing of products from raw materials.
      (3)   It is understood office uses and limited commercial uses may be
acceptable in this District.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-909.png]
 
   (C)   Regulated uses.
LIW: REGULATED USES APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS MAXIMUM PARKING
LIW: REGULATED USES                             APPROVAL SUPPLEMENTAL MAXIMUM
                                                TYPE     STANDARDS    PARKING
Commercial Uses
                                                                      1/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Amusement Parks                                 SLUP     ---          outdoor
                                                                      recreation
                                                                      area
Automobile Repair – Major                     SLUP     §           3/stall
                                                         153.160(B)
Automobile Repair - Minor                       SLUP     §           3/stall
                                                         153.160(A)
Automobile Service Stations                     SLUP     §           2/pump + 1/
                                                         153.160(D)   stall
                                                                      1/employee +
                                                                      1/business
Catering Services                               By Right ---          vehicle + 5/
                                                                      1,000 square
                                                                      feet
                                                                      1/200 square
Equipment Rental Establishments                 By Right ---          feet indoor
                                                                      area
For-Profit Educational Facilities               By Right ---          1/student +
                                                                      1/employee
                                                                      1/employee +
Kennels                                         SLUP     ---          1/250 square
                                                                      feet indoor
                                                                      space
Microbreweries                                  By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Outdoor Storage                                 By Right §           1/1,000
                                                         153.167(A)   square feet
Outdoor Sales and Displays                      By Right §           1/1,000
                                                         153.167(B)   square feet
Recreational Facilities                         By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Retail Establishments – Products Produced On- By Right ---          3/1,000
Site                                                                  square feet
Sexually Oriented Businesses                    SLUP     §           3/1,000
                                                         153.163      square feet
Small Distilleries                              By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Small Wineries                                  By Right ---          1/3 occupancy
Veterinary Clinics                              By Right ---          2.5/employee
Industrial Uses
Central Cleaning Facilities                     By Right ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Contractor Establishments                       By Right ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Contractor Storage Yards                        SLUP     §           0.5/1,000
                                                         153.165      square feet
Data Processing Facilities                      By Right ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Extractive Industries                           SLUP     §           1/employee
                                                         153.166
Freight Terminals                               By Right ---          1/employee
                                                                      1/employee +
Greenhouses and Nurseries                       By Right ---          4/1,000
                                                                      square feet
                                                                      of sales area
Manufacturing – Food                          By Right ---          1.5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Manufacturing – Light                         By Right ---          1.5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Manufacturing – Heavy                         SLUP     ---          1.5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Recycling Collection Stations                   By Right ---          ---
Recycling Facilities                            SLUP     ---          1.25/employee
Research and Development Facilities             By Right ---          5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Self-Storage Facilities                         By Right ---          1/10 units +
                                                                      1 employee
Support Laboratories                            By Right ---          5/1,000
                                                                      square feet
Warehousing and Distribution                    By Right ---          1.25/employee
Wholesale Activities                            By Right ---          1.25/employee
Public/Semi-Public Uses
Public Use – Critical                         By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
Public Use – Essential                        By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
Public Use – Supporting                       By Right §           ---
                                                         153.037
Residential Uses
Live/Work Units                                 By Right ---          3/unit
Transportation and Utility Uses
                                                         §§
Small Cell Wireless Facilities                  By Right 153.180      ---
                                                         through
                                                         153.192
Solar Energy Farms                              SLUP     §           4/
                                                         153.168      establishment
Telecommunication Towers                        SLUP     §           4/
                                                         153.169      establishment
Transportation Equipment Storage                By Right ---          ---
 
   (D)   Dimensional standards and building form.
LIW: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS & BUILDING FORM
LIW: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS & BUILDING FORM
Accessory Structures
Corner Lot Side Setback                15 feet
Front Setback                          ---
Maximum Ground Floor Area (cumulative) ---
Maximum Ground Floor Elevation         6 inches
Maximum Height                         2 stories, 25 feet
Maximum Number                         ---
Permitted Locations                    Rear and side yard only
                                       Adjacent to DC, CC and LIW Zoning
Rear Setback                           Districts: 5 feet; adjacent to VR, FR
                                       and PSP Zoning Districts: 30 feet
                                       Adjacent to DC, CC and LIW Zoning
Side Setback                           Districts: 5 feet; adjacent to VR, FR
                                       and PSP Zoning Districts: 30 feet
Lot Occupation
Maximum Density                        ---
Maximum Impervious Coverage            85%
Maximum Lot Coverage                   70%
Minimum Lot Area                       5,000 square feet
Minimum Lot Width                      50 feet
Principal Building Form
•   Commercial Building
Principal Structure
Corner Lot Side Setback                15 feet
Front Setback                          15 feet
Maximum 1st Floor Elevation            1 foot above grade
Maximum Height                         4 stories/50 feet
Minimum Ground Floor Area              ---
Minimum Floor Area/Unit                ---
                                       Adjacent to DC, CC and LIW Zoning
Rear Setback                           Districts: 5 feet; adjacent to VR, FR
                                       and PSP Zoning Districts: 30 feet
                                       Adjacent to DC, CC and LIW Zoning
Side Setback                           Districts: 5 feet; adjacent to VR, FR
                                       and PSP Zoning Districts: 30 feet
 
   (E)   Landscaping and fencing.
LIW: LANDSCAPING & FENCING STANDARDS
Item All Uses
LIW: LANDSCAPING & FENCING STANDARDS
Item                      All Uses
Front Yard Fences         ---
                          1 tree per lot + 1 tree per 4,000 square feet for the
Lot Landscaping           first 24,000 square feet + 1 tree per 6,000 square
                          feet for additional lot area over 24,000 square feet.
Rear and Side Yard Fences Maximum height of 6 feet
Right-of-Way Landscaping  1 tree and 6 shrubs per 30 lineal feet or ROW
                          Side and rear property lines adjacent to residential
Screening and Buffering   zoning district or use: greenbelt (min. 10 feet
                          wide), vegetated screen (min. 6 feet high or
                          combination of both
Notes to Table:
Additional landscaping standards located in §§
153.096; additional fencing standards located in §
153.039.
 
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading.
LIW: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
LIW: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
                        Item                    All Uses
                        Location                Side or Rear Yard Only
                        Bicycle Parking         1 per 10 parking spaces
                        Corner Lot Side Setback 15 feet
                        Front Setback           ---
                        Rear Setback            10 feet
                                                Screened from all residential
Off-Street Parking Lots Screening               zoning districts or uses and
                                              rights-of-way with an obscuring
                                               wall or vegetated screen at a
                                                minimum height of 4 feet
                        Side Setback            15 feet
                                                1 tree island at the end of
                        Tree Islands            each single parking row, plus 1
                                                tree island per 10 parking
                                                spaces
                        Location                Side or Rear Yard Only
                                                1 per 20,000 square feet of
Loading Zones           Loading Spaces          gross floor area if use
                                               regularly receives deliveries
                                               or pickups
                                                Screened from all residential
                        Screening               zoning districts or uses and
                                                rights-of-way
Notes to Table:
Additional parking standards located in §
153.097
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.067 PSP: PUBLIC, SEMI-PUBLIC DISTRICT.
   (A)   Map.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-911.png]
 
   (B)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The intent of the Public/Semi-Public (PSP) District is to
accommodate public and non-profit areas available to the residents and
businesses of the village.
      (2)   These areas are designated to provide the community needed
recreation areas, governmental facilities, institutional uses, aesthetics and
environmental protection for active and passive use.
      (3)   The protection and enhancement of these areas will be part of
shaping the community’s identity through public spaces, memorable architecture
and defining designs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-913.png]
 
   (C)   Regulated uses.
PSP: REGULATED USES APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL STANDARDS MAXIMUM PARKING
PSP: REGULATED USES               APPROVAL TYPE SUPPLEMENTAL MAXIMUM PARKING
                                                STANDARDS
Commercial Uses
Assembly Facilities – Accessory By Right      ---          0.25/1 occupancy
Use
Assembly Facilities – Principal SLUP          ---          0.25/1 occupancy
Use
Child Care Centers                By Right      ---          1/employee + 1/10
                                                             children
Health Care Services              By Right      ---          4/exam room
Recreational Facilities           By Right      ---          1/3 occupancy
Industrial Uses
Recycling Collection Stations     By Right      ---          ---
Public/Semi-Public Uses
Cultural Institutions             By Right      ---          0.25/1 occupancy
                                                             1/1,000 square
Educational Institutions          By Right      ---          feet + 1/classroom
                                                             + assembly
                                                             facility
Public Use – Critical           By Right      §           ---
                                                153.037
Public Use – Essential          By Right      §           ---
                                                153.037
Public Use – Supporting         By Right      §           ---
                                                153.037
Religious Institutions            By Right      ---          0.25/1 occupancy
Transportation and Utility Uses
Off-Site Public or Private        SLUP          §           ---
Parking Facilities                              153.164
Solar Energy Farms                SLUP          §           4/establishment
                                                153.168
Transit Stations                  SLUP          ---          5/1,000 square
                                                             feet
 
   (D)   Dimensional standards and building form.
PSP: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
PSP: DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS AND BUILDING FORM
Accessory Structures
Corner Lot Side Setback                10 feet
Front Setback                          ---
Maximum Ground Floor Area (cumulative) ---
Maximum Ground Floor Elevation         6 inches
Maximum Height                         2 stories, 25 feet
Maximum Number                         ---
Permitted Locations                    Rear and side yard only
Rear Setback                           5 feet
Side Setback                           4 feet
Lot Occupation
Maximum Density                        ---
Maximum Impervious Coverage            65%
Maximum Lot Coverage                   50%
Minimum Lot Area                       ---
Minimum Lot Width                      ---
Principal Building Form
•   Public/Semi-Public Building
Principal Structure
Corner Lot Side Setback                10 feet
Front Setback                          25 feet
Maximum 1st Floor Elevation            4 feet above grade
Maximum Height                         2 1/2 stories/35 feet
Minimum Floor Area/Unit                ---
Minimum Ground Floor Area              ---
Rear Setback                           20 feet
Side Setback                           4 feet
 
   (E)   Landscaping and fencing.
PSP: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item All Uses
PSP: LANDSCAPING AND FENCING STANDARDS
Item                      All Uses
Front Yard Fences         ---
                          1 tree per lot + 1 tree per 4,000 square feet for the
Lot Landscaping           first 24,000 square feet + 1 tree per 6,000 square
                          feet for additional lot area over 24,000 square feet.
Rear and Side Yard Fences Maximum height of 6 feet
Right-of-Way Landscaping  1 tree and 6 shrubs per 30 lineal feet or ROW
Screening and Buffering   Greenbelt at a minimum width of 10 feet when adjacent
                          to residential zoning districts or uses
Notes to Table:
Additional landscaping standards located in §§
153.096; additional fencing standards located in §
153.039
 
   (F)   Off-street parking and loading.
PSP: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
PSP: OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING STANDARDS
                        Item                    All Uses
                        Location                Front, Side or Rear Yard Only
                        Bicycle Parking         1 per 10 parking spaces
                        Corner Lot Side Setback 25 feet from side facade
                        Front Setback           25 feet from front facade
                        Rear Setback            10 feet
                                                Screened from all residential
Off-Street Parking Lots Screening               zoning districts or uses and
                                              rights-of-way with an obscuring
                                               wall or vegetated screen at a
                                                minimum height of 4 feet
                        Side Setback            10 feet
                                                1 tree island at the end of
                        Tree Islands            each single parking row, plus 1
                                                tree island per 10 parking
                                                spaces
                        Location                Side or Rear Yard Only
                                                1 per 20,000 square feet of
Loading Zones           Loading Spaces          gross floor area if use
                                               regularly receives deliveries
                                               or pickups
                                                Must be screen from all
                        Screening               residential zoning districts or
                                                uses and rights-of-way
Notes to Table:
Additional parking standards located in §
153.097
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 153.080 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The State Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended,
allows for the creation of special land development regulations to address
problems and needs in specific areas through overlay districts.
   (B)   The overlay districts established under this subchapter have been
created in order to implement the goals and objectives of the Village Master
Plan or other planning documents, and to further protect the health, safety and
welfare of the community.
   (C)   (1)   In addition to the standards of the base zoning districts
applicable to a particular site, the standards of the established special
district shall also apply.
      (2)   To the extent there is a conflict between the standards with the
applicable base zoning district, the standards of the overlay district shall
apply.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.081 CIVIC, COMMERCIAL HISTORIC OVERLAY DISTRICT (CCHOD).
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The Civic and Commercial Historic Overlay District
(CCHOD) is established to further implement the design guidelines established
by the Historic District Commission intended to safeguard the historic and
architectural heritage of the village’s downtown area while maintaining and
enhancing the character-defining features that contribute to the CCHOD’s
significance.
   (B)   Applicability. The standards of the CCHOD shall apply to all
properties within district boundaries and shall include:
      (1)   All exterior work to existing buildings;
      (2)   Interior work that will affect the exterior of existing buildings;
      (3)   All new construction;
      (4)   Accessory structures;
      (5)   Demolition of any existing structure;
      (6)   Signage;
      (7)   Fencing; and
      (8)   Exterior lighting.
   (C)   General standards.
      (1)   The Village Civic and Commercial Historic District Design
Guidelines shall establish the design standards for all applicable projects
within the CCHOD.
      (2)   In the event of conflict between CCHOD standards and any other
standard in the chapter, the standards of the CCHOD shall govern.
      (3)   All projects listed in division (B) above shall first acquire a
certificate of appropriateness issued by the Historic District Commission
before a zoning permit or building permit may be issued.
      (4)   If a project requires site plan review by this chapter, a
certificate of appropriateness issued by the Historic District Commission shall
be obtained prior to site plan review.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 153.095 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the regulations contained in this subchapter is to:
   (A)   Protect the public health, safety and general welfare;
   (B)   To promote harmonious and orderly development; and
   (C)   To foster civic beauty by improving the appearance, character and
economic value of civic, commercial and industrial development.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.096 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of the provisions in this
section are to:
      (1)   Improve the visual image of the village and properties abutting
public rights-of-way, thereby reducing conditions which lead to community
blight;
      (2)   Requiring buffering between conflicting land uses and zoning
districts;
      (3)   Promote public health, safety and general welfare;
      (4)   Protect and preserve the appearance, character and value of the
surrounding development; and
      (5)   Promote the use of native plant materials while discouraging the
use of invasive plant materials.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   Landscape plan required.
         (a)   All new uses requiring a site plan review;
         (b)   Additions to existing nonresidential structures that increase
the floor area by more than 25%; and
         (c)   Expansions or contractions of nonconforming sites that do not
meet the landscape requirements of this section.
      (2)   Exceptions.
         (a)   The reconstruction of an existing structure of which 50% or less
of the floor area was destroyed or ruined by flooding, fire, wind, storm or act
of nature, and where the reconstruction will not result in an increase in the
size of the structure, parking facilities or paved areas.
         (b)   Interior remodeling or facade improvements that do not result in
an increase in size of the structure, parking facilities or paved areas.
         (c)   Any use, building or structure for which only a change of use is
requested, and which requires no exterior structural modifications that
increase its volume or scale.
      (3)   Application. All applicable projects shall submit a landscape plan
as part of the site plan
review process that contains the following:
         (a)   Plan scale equal to that of the site plan and a north arrow;
         (b)   Existing and proposed topography;
         (c)   Location and general type of all existing vegetation and
wetlands;
         (d)   Location and size of all proposed plant materials;
         (e)   Zoning district classification of adjacent properties;
         (f)   Planting list for all proposed landscape materials indicating
botanical and common names, sizes, root condition and quantities; and
         (g)   Vegetation inventory of all trees with a caliper of 12 inches or
greater, measured at four and one-half feet above grade, and all invasive
species, including their location and species type.
   (C)   Standards and criteria.
      (1)   Planting materials.
         (a)   Plant material shall be healthy and free of insects, diseases
and physical damage;
         (b)   Unless otherwise specified, the minimum size for plant materials
installed shall be as follows:
PLANTING SIZE STANDARDS
Plant Material Minimum Size
PLANTING SIZE STANDARDS
Plant Material                      Minimum Size
Coniferous (evergreen) Trees        6 feet height
Deciduous (canopy) Trees            2.5 inches caliper
Deciduous Shrubs                    2 feet height
Ornamental Trees:   Single Trunk 2 inches caliper
Multiple Trunks                     6 feet height
Spreading Coniferous Shrubs         18 inches spread
Upright Coniferous Shrubs           2 feet height
 
         (c)   Caliper of trunk shall be the diameter at breast height (dbh)
equal to four and one-half feet above grade; and
         (d)   Native species are encouraged. Invasive species identified in
the Keweenaw Invasive Species Management Area Strategic Plan shall be
prohibited.
      (2)   Fractional requirements. Where any calculation of required plant
materials in this chapter results in a fractional requirement, such requirement
shall be rounded up to the next highest whole number.
      (3)   Ground cover. All areas not covered by buildings, parking areas,
driveways, walkways, pedestrian plazas or other pedestrian-oriented impervious
surfaces or water features shall be replanted with ground cover at a minimum.
Ground cover may include:
         (a)   Maintained lawn area;
         (b)   Non-invasive wildflowers, vines, grasses, rushes sedges or
ferns; and
         (c)   Wood chips, mulch or rock, provided this type of material does
not exceed 20% of the total of any individual landscaped area.
      (4)   Plant substitutions. The Zoning Administrator may approve minor
revisions to the landscape plans due to seasonal planting problems and/or lack
of plant availability. Minor revisions may be approved only when there is no
reduction in the quality of plant material, no significant change in size or
location of plant material, the new plant material is compatible with the area
and the new plant material is of the same general category (for example,
deciduous or evergreen trees) as the material being replaced.
      (5)   Invasive species management. An applicant shall develop a removal
and/or management strategy for invasive species identified on the vegetation
inventory. Invasive species shall include those listed as Class 1 through 4
invasive species in the Northwest Michigan Invasive Species Network’s
Recommended Planting Guidelines for Municipalities shall be prohibited.
      (6)   Site design. Landscape areas must be protected from vehicular
traffic through the use of concrete curbs, vehicle stops or other permanent
barriers. Protecting significant trees requires locating buildings, roads, and
sidewalks in areas of the site which will minimize tree destruction, as well as
establishing protected root zones (for example, tree root buffer zones) to
protect vegetation during road widening, sidewalk construction and cut-and-fill
activities.
      (7)   Utilities. Where overhead and underground utilities are present,
consideration shall be given to the location and mature height of species.
Adjustments to the location of required planting areas may be approved by the
Planning Commission to avoid conflict with such utilities, provided the intent
of the planting or screening requirements are maintained.
      (8)   Maintenance. All required landscaped areas shall be maintained in a
healthy condition and kept orderly in appearance. The Planning Commission may
waive the irrigation requirements if no additional planting is required, or if
a reliable source of water is not reasonably available, so as long as the
suitable alternative is presented that will ensure the health of the
landscaping.
      (9)   Time period. Required landscaping shall be installed prior to the
issuance of a certificate of occupancy. If a development is completed during
the off-season when plants cannot be installed, the developer shall submit a
performance guarantee equal to the materials and labor for the required
landscaping to ensure installation at the beginning of the next planting
season.
      (10)   Replacement. When trees or shrubs planted in accordance with the
requirements of this section die or are removed for any reason, they must be
replaced during the next suitable planting season in a manner, quantity and
size approved by the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   Landscape buffers and screening. Effective screening shall be provided
as required between incompatible land uses. The Planning Commission shall make
the final determination on the required screening method based on-site
conditions and the specific land use, which may include the following
separately, or in combination.
      (1)   Vegetated screens. Vegetated screens shall consist of evergreen
trees at a height required of the screen and spaced at an interval that
achieves an effective screen at the time of planting. Deciduous trees may be
incorporated for plant diversity provided the effectiveness of the screen is
achieved.
      (2)   Berms. Berms shall be constructed with slopes no greater than one
foot of vertical rise for every three feet of horizontal run with at least a
two feet flat surface on top and sodded to provide adequate protection against
erosion. Berms shall be landscaped with one deciduous or evergreen tree, and
six shrubs for every 40 lineal feet. Clustering of trees and shrubs is allowed
upon approval of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Obscuring walls or fences. Obscuring walls or fences shall be a
constructed of durable materials and placed inside and along the property
lines. The Planning Commission has the authority to require specific materials
based on the site conditions and the nature of the use. Walls and fences shall
include one vine or shrub for every ten lineal feet, planted on the exterior
face of the structure.
      (4)   Green belts. Green belts shall occupy a prescribed buffer zone and
consist of vegetated ground cover, along with one deciduous or evergreen tree
and six shrubs for every 40 lineal feet. Clustering of trees and shrubs is
allowed upon approval of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Right-of-way landscaping. Where required by a district or use, right-
of-way (ROW) landscaping shall be provided along the street frontage that meets
the following standards:
      (1)   A landscape buffer shall be established along the right-of-way
frontage at a minimum width of five feet and shall be the location off all
required right-of-way plantings.
      (2)   Required trees shall be evenly spaced, but required shrubs may be
clustered.
   (F)   Lot landscaping. Additional trees may be required beyond those for
screening, buffering and rights-of-way in order to preserve an effective tree
canopy in the village that reduces the urban heat island effect, mitigates
sound and pollution and absorbs storm water. Lot landscaping requirements shall
be applicable to all unpaved or undeveloped portions of a lot. See zoning
district regulations in §
153.061 for specific requirements based on district and use.
   (G)   Existing vegetation.
      (1)   Preservation. Existing deciduous trees, evergreens, flowering trees
and shrubs shall be protected and incorporated into the site plan wherever
feasible.
      (2)   Credit. Existing vegetation may be credited as detailed below for
the purpose of calculating landscaping compliance provided that the plants are
in healthy growing condition, are at least the minimum size, and are the
appropriate species.
EXISTING LANDSCAPING CREDIT RATIO
Vegetation Type Maturation Landscaping Credit
EXISTING LANDSCAPING CREDIT RATIO
Vegetation Type              Maturation                     Landscaping Credit
Deciduous Tree               3 inches or less caliper       1:1
Deciduous Tree               4 – 6 inches caliper         1:2
Deciduous Tree               7 – 9 inches caliper         1:3
Deciduous Tree               10 – 12 inches caliper       1:4
Deciduous Tree               Greater than 12 inches caliper 1:5
Evergreen or Ornamental Tree 6 feet or less height          1:1
Evergreen or Ornamental Tree 7 – 12 feet height           1:2
Evergreen or Ornamental Tree 13 – 16 feet height          1:3
Evergreen or Ornamental Tree Greater than 16 feet height    1:4
Shrub                        Any size                       1:1
 
      (3)   Protection of vegetation.
         (a)   1.   Preserved trees shall be protected with high visibility
barriers around the protected root zone.
            2.   The protected root zone shall be a radius one and one-half
feet from the trunk for every one inch of the tree caliper.
         (b)   Barriers shall not be supported by the trees.
         (c)   No grading, demolition, trenching, operation or storage of
equipment, or other activity shall occur in the protected root zone.
         (d)   Where the Zoning Administrator determines that irreparable
damage has occurred to a tree credited for preservation, the tree shall be
removed and replaced in size and quantity as required in this section and
having been given credit for.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.097 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   General requirements. The following standards shall apply to all off-
street parking areas except those for one- and two-family residential uses:
      (1)   Use. Off-street parking, loading or stacking areas shall only be
used for their intended purpose. All other uses are prohibited unless approved
and/or permitted by the village.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   1.   All off-street parking areas shall be on the same lot as
the use it serves or within 500 feet, measured from the closest point of the
building to the nearest point of the off-street parking area.
            2.   Exception is granted to municipal or private parking lots for
public use with or without a fee.
         (b)   No off-street parking areas shall be located in the front yard
on any lot unless expressly allowed in this chapter.
      (3)   Screening and landscaping. All off-street parking areas shall be
screened as required by the zoning district standards in §§
153.062 through
153.067.
      (4)   Tree islands. Tree islands shall be installed when required by the
district standards in §§
153.062 through
153.067 and shall meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Single-loaded aisles shall have one tree island containing one
canopy tree at both ends of each row. The minimum dimensions for each island
shall be nine feet by 18 feet.
         (b)   Double-loaded aisles shall have one tree island containing two
canopy trees at both ends of each row. The minimum dimensions for each island
shall be 12 feet by 36 feet.
         (c)   Additional tree islands that are required shall be evenly spaced
throughout the off-street parking area. The tree islands shall contain one
canopy tree each and shall have the minimum dimensions of nine feet by 18 feet.
         (d)   Tree islands shall be surrounded by a concrete curb at a height
of six inches. In addition to the required canopy tree(s), the interior of the
islands shall be vegetated with turf and may be used for storm water
management, however, snow storage is prohibited.
      (5)   Defined area. Off-street parking areas and loading zones shall
include painted lines, vehicle stops or other delineating features to clearly
define parking and loading spaces.
      (6)   Dimensions. Off-street parking areas shall be designed to the
following minimum standards:
 
PARKING SPACE DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS
Parking Angle        Stall Width Stall Depth Min.-Max. Aisle Width
45 degrees           8.5 feet    19 feet     12 – 16 feet
60 degree            8.5 feet    20 feet     16 – 20 feet
90 degrees           8.5 feet    18 feet     22 – 26 feet
90 degrees – compac8 feet      17 feet     20 – 24 feet
Parallel             8 feet      22 feet     12 – 16 feet
 
      (7)   Surfacing. Parking surfaces shall be durable and dustless materials
such as asphalt, concrete, brick, stone or pavers. Pervious materials are
recommended.
      (8)   Drainage. All off-street parking areas shall utilize low impact
development (LID) water quality technologies to collect and treat storm water
on-site as required for site plan review.
      (9)   Curbs and vehicle stops. All off-street parking areas shall include
curbs or vehicle stops to prevent vehicles from overhanging into or over public
rights-of-way, sidewalks, adjacent areas or landscape areas.
      (10)   Barrier-free parking. Off-street parking areas shall provide
barrier-free spaces in compliance with the State Building Code and the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA), as applicable.
      (11)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting for new or redeveloped off-
street parking, stacking and loading areas shall comply with the exterior
lighting standards of this section.
      (12)   Maintenance. All parking areas shall be maintained in good
condition and kept free of debris and garbage.
      (13)   Completion. All off-street parking, stacking and loading areas
indicated on a site plan shall be fully completed before the issuance of
certificate of occupancy. In the case of phased developments, only the off-
street parking, stacking and loading areas associated with a given phase of
development shall be required to be completed.
      (14)   Access through yards. Access drives may be placed in the required
front or side yards so as to provide access to rear yards or accessory or
attached structures. (These drives shall not be considered as structural
violations in front or side yards.) Any walk, terrace or like surface area not
in excess of nine inches above the grade upon which placed shall not be
considered to be a structure and shall be permitted in any required yard.
      (15)   Snow storage. Whenever a development includes a private or public
parking lot, snow storage shall be provided on-site at a ratio of ten square
feet per 100 square feet of parking area. Snow storage shall not occupy parking
spaces or interfere with clear visibility of traffic.
   (B)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   Maximum parking.
         (a)   To minimize excessive areas of pavement which detracts from the
aesthetics of the village and contributes to high rates of storm water runoff,
this chapter establishes a maximum number of parking spaces for each use.
         (b)   There are no minimum parking requirements. The Planning
Commission may grant an increase of up to 25% of the maximum number of parking
spaces if:
            1.   The applicant can demonstrate to the Planning Commission’s
satisfaction the additional parking is necessary based on documented evidence
of actual use or anticipated demand;
            2.   The increase in parking will have no undue burden on
neighboring property owners and/or natural features; and/or
            3.   In granting a request to exceed the maximum number of parking
spaces, the additional spaces shall be constructed of pervious pavement, pavers
or similar pervious material acceptable to the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Calculating maximum parking spaces.
         (a)   The following rules shall be applied when calculating the
maximum number parking spaces:
            1.   Measurements based on square feet shall be calculated by
usable floor area as defined in this chapter;
            2.   The number of employees shall be based on the maximum number
needed for the largest shift; and
            3.   Requirements based on the number of seats shall use a
measurement of 24 inches of bench or pew space or 25 square feet of floor as
one seat.
         (b)   OCCUPANCY shall mean legal occupancy as determined by the Fire
Department or other authorized agency.
      (3)   Use not specified.
         (a)   For uses not specified, the Zoning Administrator shall make an
interpretation as to the maximum number for a proposed use based on similar
uses prescribed in §§
153.062 through
153.067.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrators determination may be appealed to the
Zoning Board of Appeals for a final determination.
      (4)   Shared parking.
         (a)   Joint use of an off-street parking area may be permitted for two
or more uses located on the same, adjacent or nearby lots, provided that the
number of parking spaces does not exceed the sum of the maximum number of
spaces allowed for each use sharing the off-street parking area.
         (b)   The owners of all lots used for or making use of shared parking
areas shall record a commitment that is binding on future owners of the
property(s) and shall be recorded with the County Register of Deeds and filed
with the village.
      (5)   Bicycle parking. Bicycle parking shall be established for
developments based on the standards for each zoning district in §§
153.062 through
153.067.
   (C)   Access.
      (1)   All off-street parking, loading and stacking areas shall be
arranged for convenient access and safety of pedestrians, bicyclists and motor
vehicles.
      (2)   Adequate ingress and egress shall be provided by clearly defined
driveways. Backing into public street rights-of-way shall be prohibited.
      (3)   (a)   Access to off-street parking areas shall be limited to one
curb cut or driveway per lot. If a property has access to two or more streets,
access shall be provided from the street with lower traffic volume.
         (b)   The Planning Commission may waive this requirement if a
practical difficulty has been presented that prevents the requirement from
being satisfied.
         (c)   Furthermore, driveways and/or curb cuts in the DC Zoning
District shall be prohibited unless approved by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Where a parking area abuts an improved alley, access shall be
obtained from the alley. The Planning Commission may waive this requirement if
a practical difficulty has been presented that prevents the requirement from
being satisfied.
      (5)   Access to off-street parking areas for nonresidential uses shall
not be permitted across lots that are residential in use or in a residential
zoning district.
      (6)   The standards of cross access management are as follows.
         (a)   All off-street parking areas not accessed by an alley shall be
designed to allow internal vehicle circulation between adjacent lots by
providing a location for cross access on the site plan.
         (b)   A cross access agreement shall be recorded with the County
Register of Deeds prior to the issuance of a building certificate of occupancy.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may waive this requirement if deemed
impractical during site plan review due to topography, natural features or
vehicular safety factors if appropriate bicycle and pedestrian connections are
provided between adjacent developments and uses.
   (D)   Loading zones.
      (1)   Adequate loading zones. In all zoning districts, every building or
portion thereof that is occupied by a use requiring the receipt and
distribution of materials or merchandise by vehicles shall provide and maintain
adequate off-street loading zones.
      (2)   Location.
         (a)   On-site loading zones shall only be in permitted yards based on
the district standards in §§
153.062 through
153.067.
         (b)   Loading zones shall not interfere with the normal movement of
pedestrians and vehicles in the public street rights-of-way, internal drives
and off-street parking areas.
         (c)   Loading zones shall be designed for the largest vehicle intended
to serve the use, with adequate turning radii, maneuverability and loading
space.
         (d)   Developments with rear alley access may use the alley as a
loading zone.
      (3)   Administrative waiver. The Zoning Administrator may approve a
modification to the loading zone location or space requirements where it has
been determined that another measure or location would be more appropriate due
to site constraints or the number or type of deliveries experienced by a
particular use.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.098 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The provisions of this section are intended to
control the use of outdoor, artificial illuminating devices emitting rays into
the night sky by:
      (1)   Encouraging good lighting practices such that lighting systems are
designed to save energy and money;
      (2)   Minimizing glare;
      (3)   Protecting the use and enjoyment of surrounding property;
      (4)   Increasing night time safety, utility, security and productivity;
and
      (5)   Minimize dark sky light pollution.
   (B)   Exemptions. The following uses and activities shall be exempt from the
standards of this section,
provided they do not create glare perceptible to persons operating motor
vehicles in the public right-of-way.
      (1)   New technology. The Zoning Administrator may grant exceptions to
the material, light source or method of installation standards in this section
in consideration of any new state-of-the-art technology, so long as the
exception still meets all other applicable standards of this section.
      (2)   Residential lighting. Low intensity residential decorative
lighting, such as porch lights or low-level facade and landscape lighting,
provided any such lights are directed toward the residential building or land.
      (3)   Holiday decorations. Provided the decorative exterior lighting
shall not include searchlights, floodlights or stroboscopic lights.
      (4)   Flag lighting. Luminaires used for the illumination of the flag of
the United States of America.
      (5)   Temporary lighting. Associated with an approved temporary event
permitted by this chapter.
      (6)   Statutory authority. Circumstances where federal or state laws,
rules or regulations take precedence over the provisions of this section, or
where fire, police, emergency or repair personnel need light for temporary or
emergency situations, or lighting that is only activated at the time of power
outages.
   (C)   Shielding and filtration.
      (1)   All nonexempt exterior lighting shall by hooded and/or louvered to
prevent light from spilling over onto neighboring properties and rights-of-way.
      (2)   All lighting fixtures shall have 100% cut-off shielding that
prevents light from being emitted above a horizontal plane from the lowest
direct light emitting part of the luminaire.
      (3)   Light sources shall be located as to minimize the hazards of glare,
and all poles or standards used to support outdoor light fixtures shall be
coated with a material that minimizes glare from the light source.
   (D)   Illumination. Illumination levels within a site shall ensure that a
site is adequately, but not excessively lit, in order to provide visibility,
safety, and security without unnecessarily contributing to light pollution and
negatively impacting neighboring properties.
      (1)   Intensity.
         (a)   The maximum intensity of light within any site shall not exceed
the following standards, measured in footcandles (fc) at grade:
 
EXTERIOR LIGHTING ILLUMINATION STANDARDS
Lighting Location                   Maximum Intensity (fc)
At any lot boundary or right-of-way 0.5
At any point within the site        10.0
Average for the overall site        5.0
 
         (b)   Exceptions are as follows.
            1.   Outdoor vehicle dealerships may permit a maximum lighting
intensity of 20 footcandles for paved display areas. Fuel station canopy lights
may permit a maximum lighting intensity of 20 footcandle under the canopy,
provided that all light fixtures shall be recessed into the structure.
            2.   All other site lighting shall be in compliance with this
chapter including average maximum intensity for the overall site.
      (2)   Color temperature. All exterior lighting shall emit light measuring
4,000 K or warmer (between 0 K and 4,000 K) on the Kelvin scale.
   (E)   Acceptable and unacceptable lighting fixtures.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-915.png]
 
   (F)   Exterior lighting site standards.
      (1)   Hours of operation. All exterior lighting shall be equipped with
automatic timing devices and shall be shut off if no customers or staff are
present between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and sunrise, except for lighting
necessary for security purposes or for uses that continue after 10:00 p.m. or
before sunrise.
      (2)   Pole height. The maximum pole height for exterior lighting shall
not exceed 22 feet, or the maximum height of the principal building, whichever
is less.
      (3)   Wall pack. Wall pack lighting shall be limited to above points of
ingress and egress on side and rear facades for security purposes.
      (4)   Prohibitions. The following light sources and fixtures shall be
prohibited:
         (a)   Unshielded luminous tube (neon), fluorescent or LED lighting
used as accent lighting on facades;
         (b)   Metal halide;
         (c)   Mercury vapor;
         (d)   High pressure sodium;
         (e)   Halogen;
         (f)   Animated, flashing or moving lights;
         (g)   Laser sources of light;
         (h)   Search lights; and
         (i)   Tubular lighting.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
SIGNS
§ 153.110 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The intent of this subchapter is to regulate the location, size,
construction and manner of display of signs and outdoor advertising in order to
minimize their harmful effects on the public health, safety, welfare and
traffic safety. While this section recognizes that signs and outdoor
advertising are necessary to promote commerce and public information, it also
recognizes that the failure to regulate them may lead to poor identification of
individual businesses, deterioration and blight of the business and residential
areas of the village, conflicts between different types of land use, and
reduction in traffic safety to pedestrians and motorists.
   (B)   To achieve its intended purpose, this subchapter has the following
objectives.
      (1)   To prevent the placement of signs in a manner that will conceal or
obscure signs or adjacent businesses.
      (2)   To keep the number of signs and sign messages at the level
reasonably necessary to identify a business and its products.
      (3)   To keep signs within a reasonable scale with respect to the
buildings they identify.
      (4)   To reduce visual distractions and obstructions to motorists
traveling along, entering or leaving streets.
      (5)   To promote a quality manner of display which enhances the character
of the village.
      (6)   To prevent the proliferation of temporary signs which might promote
visual blight.
      (7)   To promote economic development by allowing a fair opportunity for
each property owner to attractively display their message in a clean and clear
way.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.111 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permit required. Prior to the erection or structural alteration of
sign, a zoning permit shall be secured from the Zoning Administrator.
Exceptions to the permit requirements of this section shall include:
      (1)   Address signs bearing only the property numbers, post box numbers,
name of occupants or other identification of the premises, limited to one per
building entrance and two square feet of area;
      (2)   Historical signs designated by the state or federal government,
limited to ten square feet per parcel, unless otherwise approved by the
Historic District Commission; and
      (3)   Government signs erected on behalf or pursuant to the authorization
of a government body, including street signs, legal notices, informational
signs and regulatory signs.
   (B)   Historic district. No sign shall be permitted or approved in the Civic
and Commercial Historic Overlay District without first acquiring a certificate
of appropriateness from the Historic District Commission. Should the Historic
District Commission have more strict regulations, those shall control. This
requirement shall not apply to a copy change of existing signs.
   (C)   Design and condition. All signs and sign structures shall be properly
maintained and kept in a good state of repair.
   (D)   Right-of-way. No sign shall be placed in the right-of-way except
permitted awning, canopy and marquee signs with approval by the agency managing
the right-of-way. Small temporary signs in the DC, CC and PSP zoning districts
may be placed on the sidewalk during business hours in accordance with the
provisions of this section, and provided the small temporary sign still allows
four feet of unobstructed sidewalk clearance.
   (E)   Clear vision area. No sign above three feet shall be placed in any
required clear vision area.
   (F)   Traffic interference. No sign shall be erected or maintained which
simulates or imitates in size, color, letter in or design of any traffic sign
or signal or other word, phrase, symbol or character in such manner as to
interfere with, mislead, confuse or create a visual impediment or safety hazard
to pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
   (G)   Public right-of-way. The standards in this section shall not be
applicable to any sign not visible from a public right-of-way.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.112 SIGN MEASUREMENTS.
   (A)   Surface area.
      (1)   (a)   Signs shall not exceed the maximum allowable area permitted
in this section for sign type and district or use.
         (b)   When not limited to one sign of a specific type, the maximum
area shall be determined by the cumulative total of all the signs of a specific
type.
      (2)   (a)   The area of a sign shall mean the area of all lettering,
wording and accompanying designs, logos and symbols.
         (b)   The area of a sign shall not include any supporting framework,
bracing or trim which is incidental to the display, provided it does not
contain any lettering, wording or symbols.
      (3)   Where the sign consists of individual letters, designs or symbols
attached to a structure, building, awning, wall or window, the area shall be
that of the smallest rectangle which encompasses all of the letters, designs
and symbols.
      (4)   Signs that consist of, or have attached to them, one or more three-
dimensional (3D) or irregularly-shaped objects shall have a sign area of the
sum of two adjacent vertical sign faces of the smallest cube encompassing the
sign or object.
      (5)   Only one face of a double-sided sign will be used to determine the
area of the sign.
      (6)   For V-shaped signs, either horizontally or vertically oriented,
with interior angles greater than 90 degrees, the sign area is the sum of both
sign faces, otherwise the area is the same as for double-sided signs.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   Sign height shall be measured as the distance from the highest
portion of the sign to the mean finished grade at the base of the sign.
      (2)   (a)   Clearance for projecting, awning and canopy/marquee signs
shall be measured as the smallest vertical distance between finished grade and
the lowest point of the sign.
         (b)   This includes any framework or other structural elements.
      (3)   The permitted maximum height for all signs is determined by the
sign type and the zoning district or use in which the sign is located.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.113 ILLUMINATION.
   Internal and external illumination of signs shall be permitted for all
signs, except where limited or prohibited in this subchapter, subject to the
following.
   (A)   All illumination shall be concentrated on the area of the sign or
landscape feature and directed or shielded so as to not interfere with the
vision of persons on the adjacent streets or adjacent property.
   (B)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than electrical means or
devices, and wiring shall be installed in accordance with the National
Electrical Code.
   (C)   All illumination shall emit light measuring 3,000 K or warmer (between
0 K and 3,000 K) on the Kelvin scale and shall not exceed 800 lumens.
   (D)   Internally illuminated signs shall have a dark background and light
lettering.
   (E)   No sign shall include reflective materials.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.114 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be prohibited in the village:
   (A)   No sign or banner shall be placed across any public right-of-way
except by permission of the village;
   (B)   Signs incorporating any manner of flashing, strobe or moving lights,
with the exception of approved electronic message signs;
   (C)   ANIMATED SIGNS means a sign employing actual motion or the illusion of
motion. Animated signs, which are differentiated from changeable signs as
defined and regulated by this code, include the following types:
      (1)   ENVIRONMENTALLY ACTIVATED. Animated signs or devices motivated by
wind, thermal changes or other natural environmental input. Includes spinners,
pinwheels, pennant strings, feather flags and/or other devices or displays that
respond to naturally occurring external motivation.
      (2)   FLASHING.
         (a)   Animated signs or animated portions of signs whose illumination
is characterized by a repetitive cycle in which the period of illumination is
either the same as or less than the period of non-illumination.
         (b)   For the purposes of this subchapter, FLASHING will not be
defined as occurring if the cyclical period between on-off phases of
illumination exceeds one hour. This prohibition shall not apply to permitted
electronic message signs.
      (3)   MECHANICALLY ACTIVATED. Animated signs characterized by repetitive
motion and/or rotation activated by a mechanical system powered by electric
motors or other mechanically-induced means excluding traditional barber poles.
   (D)   Signs on park-type benches, trees or utility poles;
   (E)   Abandoned signs;
   (F)   Inflatable signs;
   (G)   Roof signs;
   (H)   Pole- or pylon-mounted signs, except associated with the installation
of an approved billboard sign;
   (I)   Portable and vehicle signs parked primarily for the purpose of
attracting attention to the message contained within;
   (J)   Any sign unlawfully installed, erected or maintained;
   (K)   Signs that completely block the view of other signs;
   (L)   Any additional signage for a business that has an existing
nonconforming sign; and
   (M)   Signs displayed on umbrellas or table coverings used in association
with outdoor dining areas.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.115 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   A legal nonconforming sign may be continued and shall be maintained in good
condition, including replacement faces, but it shall not be:
   (A)   Expanded, altered or changed from a manual changeable letter sign to
electronic changeable copy sign so as to increase the degree of nonconformity
of the sign;
   (B)   Re-established after its discontinuance for 180 days;
   (C)   Continued in use after cessation or change of the business or activity
to which the sign pertains; and/or
   (D)   Re-established after damage or destruction if the estimated cost of
reconstruction exceeds 50% of the appraised replacement cost, as determined by
the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.116 REMOVAL OF UNSAFE, UNLAWFUL OR ABANDONED SIGNS.
   (A)   Unsafe or unlawful signs.
      (1)   Upon written notice by Zoning Administrator, the owner, person or
firm maintaining a sign shall remove the sign when it becomes unsafe, is in
danger of falling or it becomes so deteriorated that it no longer serves a
useful purpose of communication, or it is determined by Zoning Administrator to
be a nuisance, or it is deemed unsafe by Zoning Administrator, or it is
unlawfully erected in violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   The village may remove or cause to be removed the sign at the
expense of the owner and/or lessee in the event or the owner of the person or
firm maintaining the sign has not complied with the terms of the notice within
30 days of the date of the notice. In the event of immediate danger, the
village may remove the sign immediately upon the issuance of notice to the
owner, person or firm maintaining the sign.
   (B)   Abandoned signs.
      (1)   (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of any property
upon which an abandoned sign is located to remove such sign within 180 days of
the sign becoming abandoned as defined in this chapter.
         (b)   Removal of an abandoned sign shall include the removal of the
entire sign including the sign face, supporting structure and structural trim.
      (2)   (a)   Where the owner of the property on which an abandoned sign is
located fails to remove such sign in 180 days the village may remove such sign.
         (b)   Any expense directly incurred in the removal of such sign shall
be charged to the owner of the property. Where the owner fails to pay, the
village may file a lien upon the property for the purpose of recovering all
reasonable costs associated with the removal of the sign.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.117 PERMIT APPLICATION; APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Application and approval. Application forms for a zoning permit to
erect, alter or move a sign shall contain or have attached to it the following
information at a minimum:
      (1)   Name, mailing address, email address and telephone number of the
applicant;
      (2)   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which the
sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
      (3)   If proposed to be attached to a building, its proposed location on
the building;
      (4)   A plot plan with dimensions of the sign, location on the lot,
illumination source and method of construction and attachment to the building
or placement in the ground;
      (5)   Name of person, firm or corporation erecting the sign;
      (6)   Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or lot to
which or upon which the sign is to be erected;
      (7)   Other information as the Zoning Administrator shall require
establishing compliance with this section;
      (8)   For temporary signs, the specific dates that the sign is to be
displayed; and
      (9)   If in the Historic District, a certificate of appropriateness.
   (B)   Examination of plans, specifications.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of the Zoning Administrator, upon the filing
of an application for a zoning permit for a sign, to examine the plans and
specifications and other data and the premises upon which it is proposed to
erect the sign.
      (2)   If the proposed sign meets all chapter requirements, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue the sign permit within 15 days of receipt of a fully
completed application.
   (C)   Administrative decisions. Administrative decisions made by the Zoning
Administrator, which relate to signs, may be appealed to the Zoning Board of
Appeals in accordance with the procedures of §§
153.280 through
153.291.
   (D)   Revocation and extensions of sign permits.
      (1)   Any sign or other advertising structure regulated by this
subchapter, which is unsafe or insecure, or is a menace to the public, or has
been constructed or erected, or is otherwise not in compliance with this
subchapter shall be a violation of this subchapter.
      (2)   (a)   If the work associated with a sign authorized under a zoning
permit is not completed within one year after the date of issuance, the permit
shall become null and void.
         (b)   However, the Zoning Administrator may grant a three-month
extension without payment of an additional fee if the extension is requested
prior to the original zoning permit becoming null and void.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.118 FREESTANDING SIGNS.
FREESTANDING SIGN STANDARDS
Definition Example (for illustrative purposes only)
FREESTANDING SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                                  Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A sign supported by structures or supports that are placed on, or anchored
in, the ground, and that is independent and detached from any building or
other structure.
Regulations
A.   Freestanding ground signs shall be supported and permanently placed byttps://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/IMAGES/0-0-
embedding, anchoring or connecting the sign in such a manner as to            917.png]
incorporate it into the landscape or architectural design scheme.
B.   No freestanding sign may occupy an area designated for parking,
loading, walkways, driveways, fire lane, easement, right-of-way or other
areas required to remain unobstructed.
C.   Prohibited in any side yard setback.
                                                                            Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                                 Height Quantity Limitations                                                   Permit
                                                                            (ft.)  (for                                                                   Required
                                                                                   type)
         Illuminated: 32                                                                    •   Min. 5 feet setback from ROW
CC       Unillumuniated: Bonus 8                                            6      1/parcel •   Min. 15 feet setback from property zoned residential Yes
                                                                                            •   Bonus area applies only when entire sign is unilluminated
DC       ---                                                                ---    ---      •   Freestanding signs prohibited                        ---
         Residential (1-4 dwellings): 4                                     4      1/parcel •   Illumination prohibited                              Yes
                                                                                            •   Min. 5 feet setback from ROW
FR       All Other Uses:                                                                    •   External illumination only
         Illuminated: 20                                                    6      1/parcel •   Bonus area applies only when entire sign is unilluminYesd
         Unilluminated: Bonus 10                                                            •   Min. 5 feet setback from ROW
LIW      Illuminated: 32                                                    6      1/parcel •   Min. 5 feet setback from ROW                         Yes
         Unilluminated: Bonus 8                                                             •   Min. 15 feet setback from property zoned residential
PSP      Illuminated: 32                                                    6      1/parcel •   Min. 10 feet setback from ROW                        Yes
         Unilluminated: Bonus 8                                                             •   Bonus area applies only when entire sign is unilluminated
         Residential Use: 4                                                 4      1/parcel •   Illumination prohibited                              Yes
                                                                                            •   Min. 10 feet setback from ROW
VR       Nonresidential Use:                                                                •   External illumination only
         Illuminated: 20                                                    6      1/parcel •   Bonus area applies only when entire sign is unilluminYesd
         Unilluminated Signs: Bonus 10                                                      •   Min. 10 feet setback from ROW
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.119 WALL SIGNS.
WALL SIGN STANDARDS
WALL SIGN STANDARDS
Definition              Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A building-mounted sign
which is either
attached to, displayed
on, or painted on an
exterior wall in a
manner parallel with
the wall surface. A
sign installed on a
false or mansard roof
is also considered a    [https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/IMAGES/0-0-0-919.png]
wall sign. Also known
as a fascia sign,
parallel wall sign or
band sign.
Regulations
No portion of a wall
sign shall extend out
more than 12 inches
from the building wall
on which it is affixed.
         Max. Area      Max.   Max.
District (total sq. ft. Height Quantity Limitations                                                                 Permit
         for type)      (ft.)  (for                                                                                 Required
                               type)
         20% of facade,                 •   External illumination permitted
CC       not to exceed  12     ---      •   Internal illumination permitted if not facing a residential zoning Yes
         100 square                     district or use
         feet
         20% of facade,
DC       not to exceed  12     ---      •   External illumination only                                         Yes
         100 square
         feet
         Residential
         (1-            8      ---      •   Illumination prohibited                                            Yes
         4 dwellings):
         4
FR       All Other
         Uses: 20% of
         facade, not to 12     ---      •   Illumination prohibited                                            Yes
         exceed 50
         square feet
         20% of facade,                 •   External illumination permitted
LIW      not to exceed  12     ---      •   Internal illumination permitted if not facing a residential zoning Yes
         100 square                     district or use
         feet
         20% of facade,
PSP      not to exceed  12     ---      •   External illumination only                                         Yes
         100 square
         feet
         Residential    8      ---      •   Illumination prohibited                                            Yes
         Use: 4
         Nonresidential
VR       Use:
         20% of facade, 12     ---      •   Illumination prohibited                                            Yes
         not to exceed
         50 square feet
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.120 AWNING SIGNS.
AWNING SIGN STANDARDS
Definition Example (for illustrative purposes only)
AWNING SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                                   Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A cloth, plastic or other nonstructural covering that projects from a wall
for the purpose of shielding a doorway or window. An awning is either
permanently attached to a building or can be raised or retracted to a
position against the building when not in use.
Regulations
A.   An awning without lettering or other advertising shall not be regulated
as an awning sign.                                                             ttps://export.amlegal.com/media/
B.   Must be centered within or over architectural elements such as windows c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
or doors.                                                                      AGES/0-0-0-921.png]
C.   Limited to 1st floor and shall be a minimum of 8 feet above the
finished grade.
D.   Shall not encroach more than 5 feet into the right-of-way.
E.   Any awning sign encroaching into a street right-of-way shall require
right-of-way agency approval.
F.   Illumination prohibited.
                                                                             Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                                  Height Quantity Limitations           Permit
                                                                             (ft.)  (for                           Required
                                                                                    type)
CC       50% of awning area                                                  ---    ---         ---             Yes
DC       50% of awning area                                                  ---    ---         ---             Yes
FR       ---                                                                 ---    ---      •   Awning signs Yes
                                                                                             prohibited
LIW      50% of awning area                                                  ---    ---         ---             Yes
PSP      50% of awning area                                                  ---    ---         ---             Yes
VR       ---                                                                 ---    ---      •   Awning signs Yes
                                                                                             prohibited
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.121 CANOPY, MARQUEE SIGNS.
CANOPY/MARQUEE SIGN STANDARDS
Definition Example (for illustrative purposes only)
CANOPY/MARQUEE SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                                 Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A sign on a structure other than an awning made of fabric, metal or other
material that may be supported by columns or posts affixed to the ground
and may also be connected to a building, or supported by and projecting
from a building, and providing protection from the elements.
Regulations
A.   Signage shall only be allowed on the valance area of a canopy or   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
marquee.                                                                   d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/IMAGES/0-0-0-
B.   Must be centered within or over architectural elements such as     923.png]
windows or doors.
C.   Limited to 1st floor and shall be a minimum of 8 feet above the
finished grade.
D.   Shall not encroach more than 5 feet into the right-of-way.
E.   Any canopy/marquee sign encroaching into a road right-of-way shall
require agency approval.
                                                                           Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                                Height Quantity Limitations                   Permit
                                                                           (ft.)  (for                                   Required
                                                                                  type)
CC       90% of valance area                                               ---    ---         ---                     ---
DC       90% of valance area                                               ---    ---         ---                     ---
FR       ---                                                               ---    ---      •   Canopy/marquee signs Yes
                                                                                           prohibited
LIW      ---                                                               ---    ---      •   Canopy/marquee signs ---
                                                                                           prohibited
PSP      90% of valance area                                               ---    ---         ---                     Yes
VR       ---                                                               ---    ---      •   Canopy/marquee signs Yes
                                                                                           prohibited
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.122 PROJECTING SIGNS.
PROJECTING SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                                   Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A building-mounted, double-sided sign with the two faces generally
perpendicular to the building wall, not to include signs located on a
canopy, awning or marquee.
Regulations
A.   No portion of a projecting sign shall project more than 5 1/2 feet fromttps://export.amlegal.com/media/
the face of the building.                                                      c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/IMAGES/0-0-0-925.png]
B.   Projecting signs shall not be taller than the building.
C.   Projecting signs under an arcade, canopy or covered porch outside of
the right-of-way shall not count towards the maximum square footage allowed.
D.   Any projecting sign encroaching into a street right-of-way shall
require right-of-way agency approval.
                                                                             Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                                  Height Quantity Limitations                                      Permit
                                                                             (ft.)  (for                                                      Required
                                                                                    type)
                                                                                    1/
                                                                                    business
CC       12                                                                  13.5   for each •   Maximum square footage is for each sign Yes
                                                                                    street-  allowed
                                                                                    facing
                                                                                    facade
                                                                                    1/
                                                                                    business
DC       12                                                                  12     for each •   Maximum square footage is for each sign Yes
                                                                                    street-  allowed
                                                                                    facing
                                                                                    facade
FR       ---                                                                 ---    ---      •   Projecting signs prohibited             ---
LIW      ---                                                                 ---    ---      •   Projecting signs prohibited             ---
PSP      ---                                                                 ---    ---      •   Projecting signs prohibited             ---
VR       ---                                                                 ---    ---      •   Projecting signs prohibited             ---
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.123 WINDOW SIGNS.
WINDOW SIGN STANDARDS
Definition Example (for illustrative purposes only)
WINDOW SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                                   Example (for illustrative purposes only)
Any sign that is applied, painted or affixed to a window, or placed inside a
window facing the outside of the building, and easily seen from the outside.
Customary displays of merchandise or objects and material without lettering
behind a store window are not considered signs.                              [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
Regulations                                                                  d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
A.   Illumination shall be prohibited except for neon signs in            IMAGES/0-0-0-927.png]
nonresidential zoning districts.
B.   Translucent or semi-transparent window signs shall be counted toward
the total area limits.
C.   Shall be limited to 1st floor windows.
                                                                             Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                                  Height Quantity Limitations Permit
                                                                             (ft.)  (for                 Required
                                                                                    type)
CC       40% of each window                                                  ---    ---         ---   No
DC       40% of each window                                                  ---    ---         ---   No
FR       40% of each window                                                  ---    ---         ---   No
LIW      40% of each window                                                  ---    ---         ---   No
PSP      40% of each window                                                  ---    ---         ---   No
VR       40% of each window                                                  ---    ---         ---   No
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.124 ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGNS.
ELECTRONIC MESSAGE SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                                       Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A sign capable of displaying words, symbols, figures or images that can be
electronically or mechanically changed by remote or automatic means, including
animated graphics and video.
Regulations
A.   Electronic message signs shall be limited to freestanding or wall signs as
specified in this section.
B.   Electronic message sign area shall count towards total allowable area for
freestanding or wall signs.
C.   Electronic message signs occupying both sides of a double-sided
freestanding sign shall count as one electronic message sign.                         s://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/IMAGES/
D.   Message display:                                                              -929.png]
   1.   Animated, pulsing, streaming, flashing and scrolling messages shall be
prohibited.
   2.   Messages shall transition instantly with no transition graphics at a
minimum interval of 30 seconds.
   3.   All messages shall have a dark background with light message content,
with each message having the same light intensity.
   4.   Shall contain a default design that freezes the message if a malfunction
should occur.
   5.   Prohibited from being incorporated into a nonconforming sign.
                                                                                 Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                                      Height Quantity Limitations                                               Permit
                                                                                 (ft.)  (for                                                               Required
                                                                                        type)
CC       16 — not to exceed 50% of allowable freestanding sign area            6      1/parcel •   Limited to freestanding signs                    Yes
DC       ---                                                                     ---    ---      •   Electronic message signs prohibited              ---
FR       10 — not to exceed 30% of allowable freestanding sign area            6      1/parcel •   Limited to freestanding signs for nonresidential Yess
LIW      16 — not to exceed 50% of allowable freestanding sign area            6      1/parcel •   Limited to freestanding signs                    Yes
PSP      16 — not to exceed 50% of allowable freestanding sign area            6      1/parcel •   Limited to freestanding signs                    Yes
VR       10 — not to exceed 30% of allowable freestanding sign area            6      1/parcel •   Limited to freestanding signs for nonresidential Yess
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.125 SMALL TEMPORARY SIGNS.
SMALL TEMPORARY SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                                    Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A type of non-permanent sign that is located on private property that can be
displayed for a limited duration of time and is not intended to be a
permanent display.
Regulations                                                                     ttps://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/IMAGES/0-0-0-
A.   Small temporary signs may be permitted in the right-of-way in the DC and1.png]
CC Zoning Districts subject to all applicable standards of this chapter, but
shall be removed at the close of business each day.
B.   A small temporary sign shall not reduce the unobstructed width of any
sidewalk or pedestrian path by less than 4 feet.
                                                                              Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                                   Height Quantity Limitations                                                          Permit
                                                                              (ft.)  (for                                                                          Required
                                                                                     type)
                                                                                              •   Illumination prohibited
CC       8                                                                    4      ---      •   Signs displayed in the ROW shall be removed at the close of No
                                                                                              business
                                                                                              •   Illumination prohibited
DC       8                                                                    4      ---      •   Signs displayed in the ROW shall be removed at the close of No
                                                                                              business
FR       8                                                                    4      ---      •   Illumination prohibited                                     No
LIW      12                                                                   6      ---      •   Illumination prohibited                                     No
PSP      12                                                                   6      ---      •   Illumination prohibited                                     No
VR       8                                                                    4      ---      •   Illumination prohibited                                     No
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.126 LARGE TEMPORARY SIGNS.
LARGE TEMPORARY SIGN STANDARDS
Definition Example (for illustrative purposes only)
LARGE TEMPORARY SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                                    Example (for illustrative purposes only)
A type of non-permanent sign, permitted to be larger than a small temporary
sign, that is located on private property that can be displayed for a limited
duration of time and is not intended to be a permanent display.
Regulations                                                                     ttps://export.amlegal.com/media/
A.   Shall be located no closer to the side property line than the principal c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
building, unless displayed on the principal building.                           AGES/0-0-0-933.png]
B.   Large temporary signs may be displayed up to a maximum of 30 consecutive
days, and no more than 60 days total in a calendar year.
C.   Large temporary signs shall be prohibited from being displayed in any
right-of-way.
                                                                              Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                                   Height Quantity Limitations           Permit
                                                                              (ft.)  (for                           Required
                                                                                     type)
CC       24                                                                   6      ---      •   Illumination Yes
                                                                                              prohibited
DC       16                                                                   6      ---      •   Illumination Yes
                                                                                              prohibited
FR       16                                                                   4      ---      •   Illumination Yes
                                                                                              prohibited
LIW      24                                                                   6      ---      •   Illumination Yes
                                                                                              prohibited
PSP      24                                                                   6      ---      •   Illumination Yes
                                                                                              prohibited
VR       16                                                                   4      ---      •   Illumination Yes
                                                                                              prohibited
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.127 FLAG SIGNS.
FLAG SIGN STANDARDS
Definition                                                      Example (for illustrative purposes only)
Any sign printed or painted on cloth, plastic, canvas or other
like material with distinctive colors, patterns or symbols
attached to a pole or staff and anchored along only one edge or [https://export.amlegal.com/media/
supported or anchored at only two corners.                      d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
Regulations                                                     IMAGES/0-0-0-935.png]
A.   Each flag shall be limited in size to 3 feet by 5 feet.
B.   Poles shall be limited in height to 30 feet.
                                                                Max.   Max.
District Max. Area (total sq. ft. for type)                     Height Quantity Limitations Permit
                                                                (ft.)  (for                 Required
                                                                       type)
CC       45                                                     30     3/parcel    ---   No
DC       45                                                     30     3/parcel    ---   No
FR       45                                                     30     3/parcel    ---   No
LIW      45                                                     30     3/parcel    ---   No
PSP      45                                                     30     3/parcel    ---   No
VR       45                                                     30     3/parcel    ---   No
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
§ 153.140 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide adequate measures for the
retention, detention and distribution of storm water in a manner that minimizes
the possibility of adverse impacts on both water quantity and water quality
during development, as well as adverse impacts on neighboring properties.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.141 APPLICABILITY.
   No development requiring a site plan review in this chapter shall take place
except in conformity with an approved storm water management plan.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.142 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   Level of service standard. Storm water detention shall mitigate peak
flow rates to predevelopment or existing development conditions.
   (B)   Grading. No premises shall be filled or graded so as to discharge
surface runoff onto abutting premises or in such a manner that will cause
inconvenience or damage to adjacent properties. When property is developed
adjacent to existing properties previously developed, existing grades have
priority.
   (C)   Storm sewer system.
      (1)   No development shall be allowed to discharge storm water runoff
into the municipal storm sewer system unless approved by the North Houghton
County Sewer Authority.
      (2)   Where storm water runoff will be direct to the municipal storm
sewer system, the use of pre-treatment structures such as oil-water separators
shall be required.
   (D)   Low impact development storm water management.
      (1)   All projects not approved to discharge storm water runoff into the
municipal storm sewer system shall incorporate low impact development (LID)
water quality technologies to manage storm water onsite.
      (2)   LID water quality technologies shall include, but are not limited
to, rain gardens, green roofs, vegetated swales, cisterns, permeable pavers,
porous pavement and filtered storm water structures, and will be required on-
site as a component of the overall storm water plan.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall have the authority to approve the
type of LID that will be used as part of the site plan review process.
   (E)   Maintenance. On-site detention facilities shall be privately owned and
shall be maintained in their designed state. A maintenance schedule may be
required by the village prior to approval of a site plan.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
SUPPLEMENTAL USE STANDARDS
§ 153.155 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   Those uses permitted by right and uses allowed by special land use permit
enumerated in any zoning district, if included below, shall be subject to the
following conditions and requirements. The uses listed in this subchapter are
only allowed where listed in §§
153.060 through
153.067.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.156 BUNGALOW, COTTAGE COURTS.
   Bungalow or cottage courts shall be designed to meet the following
development standards.
BUNGALOW/COTTAGE COURT STANDARDS
BUNGALOW/COTTAGE COURT STANDARDS
Area Requirements
Maximum Density                     18 dwelling units per acre
Minimum Lot Size                    2,000 square feet per dwelling unit
Open Space/Court Requirements
                                    Required setbacks, storm water management
Limitations                         facilities, driveways and parking stalls
                                    shall not be included in the minimum open
                                    space/court calculations
Minimum Area                        400 square feet per dwelling unit
Orientation                         Each court shall open directly to a
                                    street
Parking and Accessory Structure Requirements
                                    Maximum 1 accessory building per dwelling
Accessory Buildings                 unit not to exceed the ground floor area
                                    of the principal dwelling(s) accessory to
                                    Carports for covered parking may be
Carports                            allowed not to exceed 2 per dwelling unit
                                    and shall not be considered an accessory
                                    building
                                    Off-street parking prohibited between
Parking                             dwelling units within central designated
                                    court, and between development and right-
                                    of-way
Principal Building Requirements
                                    Each unit shall have an entrance facing
Entrances                           the court with direct sidewalk
                                    connectivity from the unit to the street
Maximum First Floor Elevation Above 18 inches
Grade
Maximum Number of Buildings         ---
Maximum Square Feet                 1,000 gross square feet
Minimum Number of Buildings         3
Minimum Square Feet                 400 gross square feet
Setbacks
Between Units                       5 feet
Front                               10 feet
Rear                                15 feet
Side                                10 feet
Examples (for illustrative purposes only)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-937.png]
 
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.157 ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS.
   (A)   Accessory dwelling units (ADUs) are intended to provide flexible
housing options in the village by allowing homeowners to establish a second
dwelling unit on their property.
   (B)   ADUs are subject to the following standards.
      (1)   ADUs shall be limited to permitted districts and properties with
single-family dwelling units as the principal use. ADUs shall be subordinate to
the single-family dwelling unit.
      (2)   The owner of the property shall live on-site, either in the
principal dwelling unit or the accessory dwelling unit.
      (3)   ADUs shall have their own separate entrance, kitchen, sleeping area
and full bathroom facilities.
      (4)   ADUs may be attached to the single-family dwelling unit and may
occupy a basement, first floor or second floor of the principal dwelling or may
occupy a separate, detached accessory building.
      (5)   All ADUs shall meet applicable building and fire codes.
      (6)   Building materials and designs used on detached ADUs or additions
to the principal dwelling for an attached ADU shall be of similar style as that
of the principal dwelling.
      (7)   The minimum size living area shall be 300 square feet.
      (8)   The maximize size shall not exceed 800 square feet, or the size of
the principal dwelling unit, whichever is less.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.158 BED AND BREAKFAST INN ESTABLISHMENTS.
   A bed and breakfast establishment shall meet the following standards:
   (A)   The exterior of the structure shall not be altered from its single-
family character and appearance.
   (B)   There shall be no separate or additional kitchen facility or
facilities for guests.
   (C)   The number of rental rooms permitted shall depend on the ability to
accommodate parking at one space per room in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.159 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   Home occupations shall not require a zoning permit and may be carried on in
a dwelling or accessory building to that dwelling under the following
conditions:
   (A)   Customary home occupations such as instruction in a craft or fine art,
cottage industries, specialty catering, professional offices, dress-making,
bookkeeping, accounting, real estate and insurance sales and similar gainful
employment shall only be permitted.
   (B)   Home occupations shall only be permitted when carried on by the
occupant of the dwelling.
   (C)   A home occupation shall not be allowed if the essential character of a
lot or building within a zoning district (in terms of use, traffic generation,
noise, odor, vibration, electrical interference or appearance, including
signage) is changed by the home occupation.
   (D)   A home occupation shall not be allowed that commonly has regularly-
scheduled appointments that occur at such a frequency as to be disruptive to
neighboring properties.
   (E)   The area utilized for the home occupation shall not exceed 25% of the
floor area of one story of the dwelling whether or not the dwelling or an
accessory building is so utilized.
   (F)   All activities involved in the home occupation (other than parking)
shall take place within the dwelling or accessory building.
   (G)   Professional offices shall be occupied by not more than one
professional practitioner with no more than one full-time equivalent employee
unless all additional persons employed are members of the family occupying the
principal structure.
   (H)   No retail or other sales shall be permitted on the premises unless
they are clearly incidental and directly related to the conduct of the home
occupation.
   (I)   The principal use of the parcel shall be a dwelling and the operator
of a home occupation shall make the dwelling unit within which the home
occupation is conducted his or her legal and primary place of residence, where
all activities such as sleeping, eating, entertaining and other functions and
activities normally associated with home life are conducted.
   (J)   All building, housing, fire and other local or state codes and
ordinances shall be adhered to for home occupations.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.160 AUTOMOBILE REPAIR.
   (A)   Minor repair.
      (1)   All repairs shall be conducted within an enclosed building.
      (2)   Outside noise shall not exceed 60 dBA at the property line.
      (3)   Established parking spaces shall not be used for repairs. All
vehicles remaining on the property overnight shall be stored inside the
building or in the rear yard.
      (4)   The selling of vehicles and trailers shall be prohibited on-site.
      (5)   (a)   All hazardous materials resulting from the repair operation
shall be properly stored and removed from the premises in a timely manner.
         (b)   Storage, use and removal of toxic substances, solid waste
pollution and flammable liquids, particularly gasoline, paints, solvents and
thinners, shall conform to all applicable federal, state and local regulations.
   (B)   Major repair.
      (1)   All repairs shall be conducted within an enclosed building or
within a screened area in the rear or side yards.
      (2)   (a)   An opaque fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six
feet shall surround all areas designated for the temporary outdoor storage of
equipment and materials or repairs.
         (b)   The finished side of any fence or wall shall face adjacent
properties.
      (3)   Outside noise shall not exceed 60 dBA at the property line.
      (4)   Established parking spaces shall not be used for vehicle repairs.
All vehicles remaining on the property overnight shall be stored inside the
building or in the rear yard.
      (5)   The selling of vehicles and trailers shall be prohibited on-site.
      (6)   (a)   All hazardous materials resulting from the repair operation
shall be properly stored and removed from the premises in a timely manner.
         (b)   Storage, use and removal of toxic substances, solid waste
pollution and flammable liquids, particularly gasoline, paints, solvents and
thinners, shall conform to all applicable federal, state and local regulations.
   (C)   Sales and rental. Outdoor sales space for the exclusive sale, lease or
rental of new or used automobiles, recreational vehicles, boats, trailers or
similar items shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   The lot or area shall be provided with a permanent, durable and
dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained to dispose of all surface
water accumulated within the area.
      (2)   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60
feet from the intersection of any two streets.
      (3)   No major automobile repair, as defined in this chapter, shall be
done on the lot unless as an approved use meeting the applicable standards of
this chapter.
      (4)   All exterior site lighting shall be subject to the applicable
requirements of §
153.098.
      (5)   Elevated display stands of vehicles are prohibited.
      (6)   The minimum lot frontage requirement of a parcel for outdoor sales
space for the exclusive sale, lease or rental of new or used automobiles,
recreational vehicles, boats, trailers or similar items shall be 100 feet.
      (7)   A minimum eight-foot wide landscape area shall be provided between
the sidewalk or property line, whichever is greater, and the parking or display
area of the vehicles.
      (8)   (a)   All parking and display spaces shall have a raised curb or
parking block located to prevent cars from parking on the lawn panel, grass and
the like.
         (b)   Parking blocks shall be 72 inches long, eight inches wide and
five inches tall.
      (9)   No vehicles shall be parked or displayed in any yard setback.
      (10)   No more than two such uses shall be permitted within 400 feet of
each other, measured between property lines.
   (D)   Service stations.
      (1)   Enclosed building. All accessory uses and services shall be
conducted within a completely enclosed building with the exception of vacuuming
stations which may be permitted outside but shall be a minimum of 25 feet from
and property line of a residential district or use.
      (2)   Minimum site size. Ten thousand square feet.
      (3)   Site location.
         (a)   The proposed site shall have at least one property line on a
major thoroughfare.
         (b)   The automotive services site, or sites, shall be located where
it can be away from patterns of pedestrian circulation and have direct
unencumbered access to traffic arteries.
      (4)   Curbing and paving.
         (a)   A raised curb of at least six inches in height shall be erected
along all of the street property lines, except at driveway approaches.
         (b)   The area used for servicing vehicles within the automotive
services property lines shall be paved with a permanent surface of concrete or
asphalt.
      (5)   Hazardous materials.
         (a)   All hazardous materials resulting from the repair operation
shall be properly stored and removed from the premises in a timely manner.
         (b)   Storage, use and removal of toxic substances, solid waste
pollution and flammable liquids, particularly gasoline, paints, solvents and
thinners, shall conform to all applicable federal, state and local regulations.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.161 DRIVE IN, DRIVE THROUGH SERVICES.
   (A)   Ingress and egress points shall be located no closer than 60 feet from
the intersection of any two streets (measured from the nearest right-of-way
line).
   (B)   (1)   Driveways shall be limited to one per parcel.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may waive this limitation if the property
has frontage on two streets, so long as a traffic impact study warrants a
second driveway on the second street frontage and can demonstrate that no
negative impact on the traffic network will be created by the addition of a
second driveway.
   (C)   Devices for the transmission of voices shall be so directed or muffled
as to prevent sound from being audible beyond the boundaries of the site.
   (D)   A drive-through window shall provide queuing spaces for each drive-
through window.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.162 NEIGHBORHOOD COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Neighborhood commercial establishments shall be permitted in allowable
residential zoning districts subject to the following standards.
   (A)   Neighborhood commercial establishments shall only be located on a
corner lots.
   (B)   Commercial uses shall be limited to the first floor of the building
and shall not exceed a total of 3,000 square feet of space dedicated to and
associated with the commercial use.
   (C)   Residential uses shall be permitted on upper floors.
   (D)   Hours of operation for commercial uses shall be limited to between 7:
00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (E)   Permitted uses shall be limited to the following, as defined in this
chapter:
      (1)   Child care centers;
      (2)   Personal services;
      (3)   Professional services;
      (4)   Retail sales establishments (general);
      (5)   Retail sales establishments (food and beverage); and
      (6)   Restaurants.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.163 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   (1)   The purpose and intent of the section pertaining to the
regulation of sexually oriented businesses is to regulate the location and
operation of, but not to exclude, sexually oriented businesses within the
village, and to minimize their negative secondary effects.
      (2)   It is recognized that sexually oriented businesses, because of
their very nature, have serious objectionable operational characteristics which
cause negative secondary effects upon nearby residential, educational,
religious, and other similar public and private uses.
   (B)   The regulation of sexually oriented businesses is necessary to ensure
that their negative secondary effects will not contribute to the blighting and
downgrading of surrounding areas and will not negatively impact the health,
safety and general welfare of village residents.
   (C)   (1)   The provisions of this section are not intended to offend the
guarantees of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution or to deny
adults access to sexually oriented businesses and their products, or to deny
sexually oriented businesses access to their intended market.
      (2)   Neither is it the intent of this section to legitimatize activities
which are prohibited by village ordinances, or state or federal law
   (D)   If any portion of this section relating to the regulation of sexually
oriented businesses or referenced in those sections is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the village intends said
portion to be disregarded, reduced and/or revised so as to be recognized to the
fullest extent possible by law.
   (E)   The village further states that it would have passed and adopted what
remains of any portion of this section relating to regulation of sexually
oriented businesses following the removal, reduction or revision of any portion
so found to be invalid or unconstitutional.
      (1)   No sexually oriented business shall be greater than 5,000 square
feet.
      (2)   No sexually oriented business shall be established on a parcel
within 500 feet of any residence, public or private school, religious
institution, public park, state licensed child care facility, or residential
zoning district.
      (3)   No sexually oriented business shall be permitted in a location in
which any principal or accessory structure, including signs, is within 1,000
feet of any principal or accessory structure of another sexually oriented
business.
      (4)   For the purpose of this section, measurements shall be made in a
straight line in all directions without regard to intervening structures or
objects, from the closest part of any structure, including signs and roof
overhangs, used in conjunction with the sexually oriented business to the
closest point on a property boundary or right-of-way associated with any of the
land use(s) or zoning district identified in division (E)(2) above.
      (5)   The proposed use shall conform to all specific density and setback
regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
      (6)   The proposed use must meet all applicable written and duly
promulgated standards of the village and other governments or governmental
agencies having jurisdiction, and that to the extent required, the approval of
these governments and/or governmental agencies has been obtained or is
reasonably assured.
      (7)   The outdoor storage of garbage and refuse shall be contained,
screened from view and located so as not to be visible from neighboring
properties or adjacent roadways.
      (8)   Any sign or signs proposed for the sexually oriented business must
comply with the provisions of this section, and shall not otherwise include
photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations of any type,
or include animated or flashing illumination.
      (9)   Entrances to the proposed sexually oriented business must be posted
on both the exterior and interior walls in a location clearly visible to those
entering and exiting the business, and using lettering no less than two inches
in height that:
         (a)   “Persons under the age of 18 are not permitted to enter the
premises”; and
         (b)   “No alcoholic beverages of any type are permitted within the
premises unless specifically allowed pursuant to a license duly issued by the
Michigan Liquor Control Commission”.
      (10)   No product or service for sale or gift, or any picture or other
representation of any product or service or gift, shall be displayed so as to
be visible from the nearest adjoining sidewalk, street or a neighboring
property.
      (11)   Hours of operation shall be limited to 12:00 p.m. (noon) to 12:00
a.m. (midnight).
      (12)   Any booth, room or cubicle available in any sexually oriented
business, excepting an adult motel, used by patrons for the viewing of any
entertainment characterized by the showing of specified anatomical areas or
specified sexual activities:
         (a)   Shall be handicap accessible to the extent required by the
Americans With Disabilities Act;
         (b)   Shall be unobstructed by any door, lock or other entrance and
exit control device;
         (c)   Has at least one side totally open to a public, lighted aisle so
that there is an unobstructed view at all times from the adjoining aisle of any
occupant;
         (d)   Is illuminated such that a person of normal visual acuity
looking into the booth, room or cubicle from its entrance adjoining the public
lighted aisle can clearly determine the number of people within; and
         (e)   Has no holes or openings in any interior or exterior walls not
relating to utility, ventilation or temperature control services or otherwise
required by any governmental building code or authority.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.164 OFF-SITE PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PARKING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Ingress and egress. All points of ingress and egress shall be
positioned as to not create a nuisance from noise, vehicle lights or other
disturbances to adjacent residentially-zoned properties or uses.
   (B)   Surface parking lots. All public or private surface parking lots shall
be completely screened on all sides with a landscape hedge, masonry wall,
opaque fence or combination thereof that shall have a minimum height of three
feet six inches.
   (C)   Parking structures.
      (1)   Parking structures in which all parking is completely enclosed
within a structure shall be exempt from the screening requirements of surface
parking lots.
      (2)   All other applicable landscaping requirements in §
153.096 shall be incorporated. The architecture of the parking structure shall
be consistent and/or compatible with the development of the surrounding
neighborhood.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.165 CONTRACTOR STORAGE YARDS.
   (A)   No equipment or materials shall be stored in the required front, side
or rear setbacks.
   (B)   If a building exists on a parcel, the outdoor storage of equipment and
materials shall only occur in the side or rear yards.
   (C)   An opaque fence or masonry wall with a minimum height of six feet
shall surround all areas designated for the outdoor storage of equipment and
materials. The finished side of any fence or wall shall face adjacent
properties.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.166 EXTRACTIVE INDUSTRIES.
   (A)   All uses shall be established and maintained in accordance with all
applicable state statutes.
   (B)   The Village Council may require the applicant to file a performance
bond of sufficient amount to assure completion of the work following
excavation, as required by this section.
   (C)   No fixed machinery shall be erected or maintained within 100 feet of
any property or street line.
   (D)   The use shall be enclosed by a fence or suitable plantings six feet or
more in height for the entire periphery of the property.
   (E)   No slope shall exceed an angle with the horizontal of 45 degrees.
   (F)   At all stages of operations, pits or quarries shall be completely and
continually drained of water when not in use or supervised by a watchman. All
slopes and banks shall be graded and treated to prevent erosion or any other
potential deterioration.
   (G)   No building shall be erected on the premises except as temporary
shelter for machinery or field
office.
   (H)   The Village Council shall establish routes for truck movement to and
from the site in order to minimize the wear on public streets and to prevent
hazards and damage to properties in the village. That portion of access roads
within the area of operation shall be provided with a dustless surface.
   (I)   All installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly condition so
as to prevent injury to property, any individual or the village in general.
   (J)   Proper measures, as determined by the Village Council, shall be taken
to minimize the nuisance of noise and flying dust or rock. Such measures may
include limitations upon the practice of stockpiling excavating materials on
the site.
   (K)   When excavation and removal operations are completed, the excavated
area shall be graded so that no gradients in disturbed earth shall be steeper
than a slope of three to one in horizontal-vertical gradient. A layer of gravel
topsoil shall be spread over the excavated areas to minimum depth of four
inches in accordance with an approved contour plan furnished by the applicant.
The area shall be seeded with a perennial rye grass, or other similar soil-
holding material, and maintained by the applicant until the area is stabilized.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.167 OUTDOOR STORAGE, SALES AND DISPLAYS.
   (A)   Outdoor storage. Storage of commercial materials or goods outdoors
shall be prohibited except where allowed in §§
153.062 through
153.067. All allowed outdoor storage must take place in a rear or side yard,
screened from view, and be an accessory use incidental to the principal use of
the parcel.
   (B)   Outdoor sales and displays. The outdoor display of goods for retail
sale shall be allowed as an accessory use to an approved or permitted principal
use where goods are commonly sold subject to the following standards.
      (1)   All outdoor displays shall be located within five feet of the
principal structure.
      (2)   Outdoor display areas located elsewhere on the property shall only
be allowed if part of an approved site plan and must be screened from
residential uses or districts.
      (3)   Outdoor displays shall not inhibit safe pedestrian circulation and
shall not reduce the unobstructed width of any sidewalk below three feet.
      (4)   Outdoor displays shall not be located within any public rights-of-
way unless authorized by the applicable road agency.
      (5)   Outdoor displays shall not inhibit vehicle circulation onto or
within the site and shall not be located within any off-street parking area.
Clear lines of site for pedestrians and vehicles shall not be obstructed by
outdoor displays.
      (6)   Outdoor displays shall not be used as a means of creating
additional signage on-site.
      (7)   All outdoor display areas shall be kept clean and orderly and shall
not generate trash onto neighboring properties.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.168 SOLAR ENERGY FARMS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   To allow and promote the use of solar energy within the village as
a clean alternative energy source and to provide associated placement, land
development, installation and construction regulations for solar energy farm
facilities subject to reasonable conditions that will protect the residents’
public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   These regulations establish the minimum requirements for solar
energy farm facilities, while promoting a renewable energy source in a safe,
effective and efficient manner.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size. There is no minimum lot size. Each solar energy
farm is permitted as a use authorized by special land use permit which review
will consider its appropriateness with the context of the surrounding area.
      (2)   Height restrictions. All photovoltaic solar panels and support
structures located in a solar energy farm shall be restricted to a maximum
height of 16 feet when orientated at maximum tilt.
      (3)   Setbacks. All photovoltaic solar panels and support structures
associated with such facilities (excluding perimeter fencing) shall be set back
a minimum of 50 feet from all property lines. If the right-of-way exists as an
easement, the 50-foot setback shall be measured from the edge of the easement.
Solar panels shall be kept at least 200 feet from an existing residential
dwelling, measured to the nearest point on the residential structure. Any
additional setback requirements in this chapter that exceed this requirement
shall be adhered to, including but not limited to setbacks from streams, lakes
and wetlands.
      (4)   Maximum lot coverage.
         (a)   Maximum lot coverage restrictions shall not apply to the
photovoltaic solar panels.
         (b)   Any other regulated structures on the parcel are subject to the
maximum lot coverage restrictions of the underlying zoning district.
      (5)   Safety/access. A security fence (height and material to be proposed
and reviewed/ approved through the special land use permit approval process)
shall be placed around the perimeter of the solar energy farm and electrical
equipment. Knox boxes and keys shall be provided at locked entrances for
security personnel access.
      (6)   Noise. No solar energy farm shall exceed 60 dBA as measured at the
property line.
      (7)   Glare.
         (a)   Solar energy farm facilities shall be located or placed so that
concentrated solar glare shall not be directed toward or onto nearby properties
or rights-of-way at any time of the day.
         (b)   Support structures shall be of a single, non-reflective matte
finish that is consistent throughout the project.
      (8)   Landscaping. The special land use permit application for a solar
energy farm shall include a proposed landscape plan prepared by a licensed
landscape architect. This plan will be reviewed through the special land use
permit approval process to assure the proposed facility is appropriately
landscaped in relation to adjacent land uses and road rights-of-way. A
landscape plan shall meet following standards:
         (a)   Plans. A plan view that meets the landscape plan requirements in
§
153.096 of the entire project and a rendered view illustrating the view from
public rights-of-way.
         (b)   Buffer. A 25-foot wide landscape buffer shall consist of two
rows of staggered evergreen trees that at planting shall be a minimum of four
feet in height. If a solar energy farm is adjacent to a residential dwelling or
district, then the minimum height shall be eight feet at the time of planting.
The evergreen trees shall be spaced no more than 15 feet apart on center,
measured from the central trunk of one tree to the central trunk of the next
tree. The buffer shall also consist of native grasses, wildflowers or plants
which will provide wildlife and pollinator habitat, soil erosion protection
and/or aid in strengthening the soil structure. The buffer shall be required
under the following conditions:
            1.   Along the property line adjacent to all residential zoning
districts;
            2.   If solar panels are located within 50 feet of a public road
right-of-way; and
            3.   Along the property line for the portion of the project within
a 50-foot radius of a residential dwelling in a nonresidential zoning district.
         (c)   Credit for existing conditions. Existing topographical features
and existing wooded areas may be accepted in lieu of or in combination with the
above by approval of the Planning Commission.
         (d)   Planting timeline. The required trees shall be planted between
April 1 and September 15. If construction of the solar energy farm begins after
August 15, the required plantings shall be installed by May 1 the following
calendar year.
         (e)   Financial guarantee. A bond, letter of credit or cash surety
shall be provided in the amount equal to one and one-half times the cost of the
required plantings that the village shall hold until the next planting season.
         (f)   Maintenance. The required plantings shall be continuously
maintained in a healthy condition. Dead evergreen foliage shall be replaced.
      (9)   Local, state and federal permits. Solar energy farms shall be
required to obtain all necessary permits and licensing from the village, the
county, the state and the U.S. Government as applicable prior to construction
and shall maintain any necessary approvals as required by the respective
jurisdictions or agencies.
      (10)   Electrical interconnections. All electrical interconnections or
distribution lines shall comply with all applicable codes and standard
commercial large-scale utility requirements. Use of aboveground transmission
lines shall be prohibited within the site.
   (C)   Application requirements. In addition to the site plan review criteria
in §§
153.205 through
153.212 and special land use permit criteria in §§
153.225 through
153.232, the applicant shall address the following topics in the application
for a solar energy farm facility.
      (1)   Project description and rationale. Identify the type, size, rated
power output, performance, safety and noise characteristics of the system
including the transmission line/grid connection for the project. Identify the
project construction time frame, project life, development phases (and
potential future expansions) and likely markets for the generated energy.
      (2)   Analysis of on-site traffic. Estimated construction jobs and
estimated permanent jobs associated with the development.
      (3)   Visual impacts. Graphically demonstrate the visual impact of the
project using photos or renditions of the project with consideration given to
setbacks and proposed landscaping.
      (4)   Environmental analysis. Identify impacts on surface and groundwater
quality and any impacts to established natural or constructed drainage features
in the area.
      (5)   Waste. Identify any solid or hazardous waste generated by the
project.
      (6)   Lighting.
         (a)   Provide photometric plans showing all lighting within the
facility. No light may adversely affect adjacent parcels.
         (b)   All lighting must be shielded from adjoining parcels. Light
poles are restricted to a maximum height of 18 feet.
      (7)   Transportation plan.
         (a)   Provide a proposed access plan during construction and
operational phases. Show proposed project service road ingress and egress
locations onto adjacent roadways and the layout of facility service road
system.
         (b)   1.   Due to infrequent access following construction, it is not
required to pave or curb solar energy farm access drives.
            2.   It shall be required to pave and curb any driveways and
parking lots used for occupied offices that are located on-site.
      (8)   Public safety. Identify emergency and normal shutdown procedures.
Identify potential hazards to adjacent properties, public rights-of-way and to
the general public that may be created.
      (9)   Sound limitations. Identify noise levels at the property lines of
the project when completed and operational.
      (10)   Telecommunications interference. Identify any electromagnetic
fields and communications interference that may be generated.
      (11)   Life of the project and final reclamation.
         (a)   Describe the decommissioning and final reclamation plan after
the anticipated useful life or abandonment/termination of the project.
         (b)   This includes supplying evidence of an agreement with the
underlying property owner that ensures proper removal of all equipment and
restoration of the site within six months of decommissioning or abandonment of
the project.
         (c)   To ensure proper removal of the project upon abandonment/
termination, a bond, letter of credit or cash surety shall be:
            1.   In an amount approved by the Village Council to be no less
than the estimated cost of removal and may include a provision for inflationary
cost adjustments;
            2.   Based on an estimate prepared by the engineer for the
applicant, subject to approval of the Village Council, provided to the village
prior to the issuance of a zoning permit; and
            3.   The village, in addition to any other remedy under this
chapter, may pursue legal action to abate the violation by seeking to remove
the project and recover any and all costs, including attorney fees.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.169 TELECOMMUNICATION TOWERS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent of this section is to ensure commercial
and governmental communication towers are constructed and placed in a manner
which will protect public health, safety and welfare, and where impact on the
surrounding community will be minimized.
   (B)   Applicable standards. Communication towers are permitted, through the
special land use permit process, if all of the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The communication tower is located in the CC, LIW or PSP District,
or on property owned by village government.
      (2)   The communication tower complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations, and all applicable building codes.
      (3)   (a)   Communication towers are not to exceed the minimum height
needed for the intended purpose.
         (b)   This height must be determined via propagation prediction
software or actual field strength measurements.
         (c)   These reports are to be provided to the village for review
during the application process. However, under no circumstance may a tower be
higher at its highest point than 75 feet. TOTAL HEIGHT is defined as measured
from the preconstruction grade elevation to the highest point on the tower
including any attached antennas.
      (4)   Communication towers must be sited a distance equal to at least
100% of the total height of the tower, from any adjoining lot line.
      (5)   Supports, guys and accessory buildings must adhere to minimum
zoning district setback requirements.
      (6)   The design of buildings, cabinets and all other structures related
to communication towers shall incorporate materials, colors, textures and
screening and landscaping, that causes them to blend into the natural setting
and/or surrounding buildings, and shall be screened from the view of adjacent
properties and streets.
      (7)   Existing mature trees and natural land grades on the site are to be
preserved to the maximum extent possible.
      (8)   The tower shall not use blinking or flashing lights or strobes,
unless mandated by the FAA. If lighting is required, the lighting must cause
the least disturbance to all surrounding properties and views.
      (9)   Any tower that is not in operation for a continuous period of 12
months is considered abandoned, and the owner must remove the same within 90
days of receipt of notice from the village.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES
§ 153.180 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Increase investment in wireless networks that will benefit the
citizens of the state by providing better access to emergency services,
advanced technology and information.
   (B)   Increase investment in wireless networks that will enhance the
competitiveness of the region in the global economy.
   (C)   Encourage the deployment of advanced wireless services by streamlining
the process for the permitting, construction, modification, maintenance and
operation of wireless facilities in the public rights-of-way.
   (D)   Allow wireless services providers and wireless infrastructure
providers access to the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.181 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The colocation of a small cell wireless facility and associated support
structure within a public right-of-way (“ROW”) is not subject to zoning reviews
or approvals under this subchapter to the extent they are exempt from such
reviews under the Small Wireless Communications Facilities Deployment Act (Pub.
Act 365 of 2018), as amended (“Act 365”).
   (A)   Colocation of a small cell wireless facility or installation of an
associated support structure shall require that the wireless provider apply for
and obtain a permit from the village consistent with this chapter and Act 365.
   (B)   No wireless providers shall attach, alter or modify a village-owned
pole or wireless support structure without entering into a license agreement
with the village.
   (C)   Small cell wireless facilities and associated support structures non-
exempt from zoning reviews are only permitted in accordance with the provisions
of this subchapter and Act 365, and upon application for and receipt from the
village of a permit consistent with the this subchapter and Act 365.
   (D)   The approval of a small cell wireless facility authorizes the
colocation of a small cell wireless facility but does not authorize the
installation, placement, modification or operation of a wireline in the ROW.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.182 EXEMPT SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES.
   Small cell wireless facility siting is a permitted use in the ROW in all
zoning districts and not subject to zoning regulation if it complies with the
following requirements.
   (A)   The small cell wireless facility will be colocated on an existing
utility pole, wireless communications support structure or wireless
communication equipment.
   (B)   The proposed colocation shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Not exceed 40 feet or increase the overall height of the wireless
communication support structure by more than five feet above a utility pole or
wireless support structure on which the small cell wireless facility is
colocated.
      (2)   A wireless provider shall comply with design and/or concealment
requirements in a commercial zoning district so that the equipment and small
cell wireless facility is compatible with the character of its surroundings.
      (3)   The size is not to exceed the definition of small cell wireless
facility as an enclosure of six cubic feet and associated equipment
cumulatively is no more than 25 cubic feet in volume, per Act 365.
      (4)   Enclosure must contain all parts of the equipment and parts of the
small cell wireless facility must be a neutral and uniform color, and made of a
material that does not conflict with the aesthetics of its surroundings
      (5)   A colocation in a public ROW shall not inhibit other utility
installations.
      (6)   Small cell wireless facilities shall not be permitted on any
building that is on the National Register of Historic Places pursuant of 47
C.F.R § 1.1307(a)(4).
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.183 NON-EXEMPT SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES; SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   Small cell wireless facilities that do not qualify as an exempt small cell
wireless facility a defined in this subchapter shall be subject to site plan
review as prescribed in this chapter and Act 365.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.184 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   Wireless communication equipment (but not a wireless
communication support structure) is permitted use and allowed in all zoning
districts.
      (2)   Wireless communication equipment does not have to be related to the
principal use of the site.
   (B)   Wireless communications equipment is not subject to zoning review and
approval if all the following requirements are met pursuant of Act 365.
      (1)   The wireless communications equipment will be colocated on an
existing wireless communications support structure or in an existing equipment
compound.
      (2)   The existing wireless communications support structure or existing
equipment compound is in compliance with this subchapter or was approved by the
appropriate zoning body or official for the village.
      (3)   The proposed colocation shall be subject to the site plan review
process as prescribed in §§
153.205 through
153.212 and this section if it meets one of the following standards:
         (a)   Increase the overall height of the wireless communications
support structure by more than 20 feet or 10% of its original height, whichever
is greater.
         (b)   Increase the width of the wireless communications support
structure by more than the minimum necessary to permit colocation.
         (c)   Increase the area of the existing equipment compound to greater
than 2,500 square feet.
      (4)   The proposed colocation complies with the terms and conditions of
any previous final approval of the wireless communications support structure or
equipment compound by the appropriate zoning body or official of the village.
      (5)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, wireless communications equipment
otherwise exempt must still comply with all other applicable codes, standards
and ordinances, including a requirement that the County Building Department
determines that the colocation will not adversely impact the structure to which
it is attached.
      (6)   Any equipment placed in a residential district shall not be erected
at a height that requires lighting.
      (G)   Wireless communications equipment that is not attached to an
existing structure or becomes unattached due to abandonment, removal or
relocation of an existing structure (thus requiring the installation of a new
wireless communications support structure) is subject to site plan review
consistent with this subchapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.185 DESIGN.
   Small cell wireless facilities requiring the installation of a new pole or
wireless support structure shall comply with the following design and
concealment standard.
   (A)   New poles and/or wireless support structures in the Civic and
Commercial Historic Overlay District shall first acquire a certificate of
appropriateness from the Historic District Commission before seeking village
approval.
   (B)   If possible, poles and wireless support structures shall be designed
to accommodate small cell wireless facilities for multiple wireless services
providers.
   (C)   (1)   Poles shall be located a minimum of 15 feet from any tree,
measured to the tree-trunk center.
      (2)   Additionally, 80% of the protected root zone shall remain
undisturbed. This minimum separation shall not apply for a new pole that
replaces an existing pole, where the new pole is installed in the same place
as, or immediate vicinity of, the existing pole.
   (D)   Poles shall be designed pursuant to village standards or the
applicable utility’s standard, and function as street light poles, utility
poles or traffic signal poles in consultation with the village or the
applicable utility and shall be incorporated into the applicable utility or
signaling system.
   (E)   Poles shall comply with the following height regulations.
      (1)   In residential districts, poles shall not exceed 33 feet in height
from ground level.
      (2)   In the DC District, poles shall not exceed 10% of an adjacent
building’s height, or exceed 40 feet in height from ground level, whichever is
less.
      (3)   In all other districts, poles shall not exceed 40 feet in height
from ground level.
   (F)   (1)   Poles shall be designed and installed with materials and
appearance consistent with existing poles in the adjacent public way, unless
materials and appearance are prescribed by other ordinance, law or village
requirements.
      (2)   Poles shall be aesthetically pleasing, consistent with the local
character of the area and shall not detract from the streetscape.
   (G)   (1)   Antenna shall be installed within the pole and not visible.
      (2)   If any antenna cannot be installed within the pole and made not
visible, then it shall extend vertically from the pole or be flush-mounted to
the side of the pole and shall be designed to be an architecturally compatible
extension of the pole.
      (3)   The diameter of the antenna shall be consistent with the diameter
of the pole, not including other appurtenances or extensions from the pole, or
the base to which the pole is mounted.
      (4)   The antenna shall not extend more than five feet above the top of
the pole.
   (H)   To the extent practicable, all accessory cables and equipment shall be
installed within the pole or placed underground as required by this section.
   (I)   (1)   New utility poles and ground mounted equipment shall be
installed at least 300 feet from any existing or proposed utility pole or
ground mounted equipment.
      (2)   Any wireless provider desiring to install poles less than 300 feet
apart shall demonstrate to the village’s satisfaction that the wireless
provider could not serve a location without the desired placement.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.186 MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All wireless providers shall repair all damage to the ROW caused by
the activities of the wireless provider while occupying, constructing,
installing, mounting, maintaining, modifying, operating or replacing small cell
wireless facilities, utility poles or wireless support structures in the ROW
and to return the ROW to its original condition.
   (B)   If the wireless provider fails to make the repairs required by the
village within 60 days after written notice, the village may make those repairs
and charge the wireless provider the reasonable, documented cost of the
repairs.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.187 PERMIT APPLICATION PROCESS.
   The applicant shall seek a ROW access permit from the village to colocate a
small cell wireless facility or install, modify, or replace a utility pole on
which a small cell wireless facility will be colocated as required by all ROW
users. To obtain this permit, an applicant is subject to all of the following:
   (A)   An application for a permit with each of the following items:
      (1)   Name of the company and contact information;
      (2)   The applicant’s name and contact information;
      (3)   A map of georeferenced location(s) of where the company is
proposing the installation(s) of a supporting structure and/or small cell
wireless facility;
      (4)   Parcel identification number and property ownership for parcels
located within 75 feet of the proposed facility;
      (5)   Distance from the proposed facilities and the nearest property
line, roadways, rights-of-way and utilities within the rights-of-way;
      (6)   Zoning district and adjacent zoning district(s);
      (7)   Dimensions of all proposed installations and height on the utility
pole or support structure where a small cell wireless facility will be mounted;
      (8)   Documentation of compliance with design and location requirements;
      (9)   An inventory of any existing and approved small cell wireless
facilities, poles and wireless support structures that are within the
jurisdiction of the village;
      (10)   For all new poles, replacement poles, and wireless support
structures, a certification by the wireless provider and a structural analysis
sealed by a licensed engineer attesting that the towers and structures will
accommodate colocation of additional antennas, including the extent of such
colocation space;
      (11)   For all new poles, replacement poles and wireless structures,
demonstration of compliance with ANSI/TIA 222-G-2 standards;
      (12)   For all new poles, replacement poles and wireless support
structures, a statement from a licensed engineer why no current existing towers
or structures are adequate to provide the services planned with the wireless
facility;
      (13)   Copy of all other permits related to the deployment, including any
applicable METRO Act applications and permits;
      (14)   Documentation showing adequate insurance, including the village
named as an additional insured;
      (15)   A performance bond meeting the requirements of this subchapter;
      (16)   Attestation that the small cell wireless facility will be
operational for use by a wireless service provider within one year after the
permit issuance date;
      (17)   Site/structure remediation plan for restoring the public ROW after
removal of wireless facilities or equipment;
      (18)   Provide the estimated radius of service the small cell wireless
facility will provide;
      (19)   Material used to enclose small cell wireless facility and
associated equipment;
      (20)   Photo of installations;
      (21)   Work plans for the amount of time and type of disturbance that
will be caused to the public ROW;
      (22)   Certification of compliance with Federal Communications Commission
(FCC) radio frequency emission regulations;
      (23)   Detailed description of the activities the applicant needs to
accomplish:
         (a)   Constructing a utility pole or support structure; and/or
         (b)   Installing a small cell wireless facility on an existing pole.
      (24)   Any additional information requested by the village.
   (B)   Within 30 days after receiving an application under this section, the
village shall notify the applicant in writing whether the application is
complete. If the application is incomplete, the notice shall clearly and
specifically delineate all missing documents or information. The notice tolls
the running of the 30-day period.
   (C)   The running of the time period tolled under division (A) above resumes
when the applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to the village’s
notice of incompleteness. If a supplemental submission is inadequate, the
village shall notify the applicant not later than ten days after receiving the
supplemental submission that the supplemental submission did not provide the
information identified in the original notice delineating missing documents or
information. The time period may be tolled in the case of a second or
subsequent notices under the procedures identified in division (A) above. A
second or subsequent notices of incompleteness may not specify missing
documents or information that was not delineated in the original notice of
incompleteness.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall approve or deny the application and
notify the applicant in writing within 90 days after an application for a
modification of a wireless support structure or installation of a small cell
wireless facility is received or 150 days after an application for a new
wireless support structure is received. The time period for approval may be
extended by mutual agreement between the applicant and the village. If the
village fails to comply with this division (D), the application is considered
to be approved subject to the condition that the applicant provides the
Planning Commission not less than 15 days’ advance written notice that the
applicant will be proceeding with the work pursuant to this automatic approval.
   (E)   Colocation of small cell wireless facilities shall commence within one
year of permit issuance and shall be activated for use no later than one year
from the permit issuance date. Failure to commence colocation within one year
of permit issuance shall void said permit. A small cell wireless facility not
activated within one year of permit issuance shall be considered abandoned and
shall be removed from the public right-of-way at the wireless provider’s sole
expense. The village and the applicant may agree to extend this period of delay
if caused by lack of commercial power or communications transport facilities to
the site.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.188 ALTERNATIVE SITING, DECOMMISSIONING.
   (A)   Upon receiving an application to place a new utility pole, the village
may propose an alternate location within the ROW or on property or structures
owned or controlled by the village within 75 feet of the proposed location to
either place the new utility pole or colocate on an existing structure. The
applicant shall use the alternate location if, as determined by the applicant,
the applicant has the right to do so on reasonable terms and conditions and the
alternate location does not impose unreasonable technical limits or significant
additional costs.
   (B)   Before discontinuing its use of a small cell wireless facility,
utility pole or wireless support structure, a wireless provider shall notify
the village in writing. The notice shall specify when and how the wireless
provider intends to remove the small cell wireless facility, utility pole or
wireless support structure.
   (C)   If the wireless provider does not complete the removal within 45 days
after the discontinuance of use, the village may complete the removal and
assess the costs of removal against the wireless provider’s performance bond.
If the village incurs costs that exceed the performance bond, then the wireless
provider shall reimburse the village within 30 days.
   (D)   A permit under this section for a small cell wireless facility expires
upon removal of the small cell wireless facility.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.189 BASIS FOR DENIAL OF A PERMIT.
   The village shall deny a completed application for a proposed colocation of
a small cell wireless facility or installation, modification or replacement of
a utility pole that meets the height requirements if the proposed activity
would do any of the following:
   (A)   Materially interfere with the safe operation of traffic control
equipment;
   (B)   Materially interfere with sight lines or clear vision areas for
transportation or pedestrians, any small cell wireless facility should be
mounted at least ten feet high;
   (C)   Materially interfere with compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Ordinance of 1990, Public Law 101- 36, or similar federal, state
or local standards regarding pedestrian access or movement;
   (D)   Materially interfere with maintenance or full unobstructed use of
public utility infrastructure under the jurisdiction of an authority;
   (E)   Materially interfere with maintenance or full unobstructed use of the
drainage infrastructure as it was originally designed;
   (F)   Not be located a reasonable distance from the drainage infrastructure
to ensure maintenance under the Drain Code of 1956, Public Act 40 of 1956,
M.C.L.A. § 280.1 to 280.630, and access to the drainage infrastructure;
   (G)   Fail to comply with reasonable, nondiscriminatory, written spacing
requirements of general applicability adopted by ordinance or otherwise that
apply to the location of ground-mounted equipment and new utility poles that do
not prevent a wireless provider from serving any location;
   (H)   Fail to comply with all other applicable codes, standards and
ordinances; and/or
   (I)   Fail to meet reasonable, objective, written stealth or concealment
criteria for small cell wireless facilities applicable in a historic district,
downtown or residential district, as specified in an ordinance or otherwise and
nondiscriminatory applied to all other occupants of the ROW, including electric
utilities, incumbent or competitive local exchange carriers, fiber providers,
cable television operators and the village.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.190 INSURANCE AND BONDING.
   (A)   (1)   The wireless provider shall furnish proof of insurance in an
amount and form satisfactory to the village, naming the village as an
additional insured.
      (2)   Such insurance shall cover a period of not less than the term of
this permit and shall provide that it cannot be canceled without 30 days’
advance written notice to the village.
   (B)   Before any work under a permit issued pursuant to this subchapter may
commence, a wireless provider shall furnish to the village a performance bond
in the form of an irrevocable bank letter of credit form or surety bond form
approved by village, in the amount of $1,000 per small cell wireless facility
included in the application for a permit, to provide for the reasonable costs
of removal of abandoned or improperly maintained small cell wireless facility,
to repair the ROW or to recoup unpaid rates or fees.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.191 LABELING.
   A small cell wireless facility for which a permit is issued shall be labeled
with the name of the wireless provider, emergency contact telephone number and
information that identifies the small cell wireless facility and its location.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.192 APPEALS.
   The applicant may appeal any village determinations related to this
subchapter to the highest elected body of the village or the Circuit Court in
the judicial circuit where the village is located.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 153.205 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter governs the processes and standards for all uses and
structures for which site plan approval is required under other provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Site plans for special land uses and planned unit developments shall
receive a recommendation from the Village Planning Commission and a final
decision by the Village Council.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall make the final decision on-site plans
that are not specifically required to be approved by Village Council.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.206 SITE PLAN REQUIRED.
   Site plans are required for the following use.
   (A)   All new uses and/or structures except residential structures with four
or fewer dwelling units, and the change in the use of an existing structure to
a use allowed by right in the zoning district in which it is located, provided
that no modification to the site is proposed or required by the standards of
this subchapter and that the site maintains full and continuing compliance with
this subchapter.
   (B)   Development that establishes more than one principal use on a parcel,
such as a single-family site condominium, mixed use building, or similar
project where a single parcel is developed to include two or more uses or sites
for development, excluding accessory dwelling units.
   (C)   Any development located within the Civic and Commercial Historic
Overlay District.
   (D)   Development of nonresidential uses in a residential zoning district.
   (E)   Development or construction of any accessory uses or structures,
except for uses or structures that are accessory to a residential use in the VR
and FR Zoning Districts.
   (F)   Excavating, filling or otherwise removing soil beyond that which is
customarily incidental to residential uses and residential structures with four
or fewer dwelling units.
   (G)   Additions or expansions of existing, conforming uses that increase the
amount of additional impervious surface by at least 1,500 square feet or 5%,
whichever is less.
   (H)   Any use, construction or approval for which a site plan is required by
any provision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.207 STANDARDS FOR SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   The following criteria shall be used as a basis upon which site plans will
be reviewed and approved.
   (A)   Adequacy of information. The site plan shall include all required
information in sufficiently complete and understandable form to provide an
accurate description of the proposed uses and structures.
   (B)   Site design characteristics. All elements of the site shall be
harmoniously designed in relation to the topography, size and type of land, and
the character of the adjacent properties, existing uses and the proposed use.
The site shall be developed so as not to impede the reasonable and orderly
development or improvement of surrounding properties for uses permitted on such
property.
   (C)   Site appearance. Landscaping, earth berms, fencing, signs, walls,
structures and other site features shall be designed and located on the site so
that the proposed development is harmonious with nearby existing or future
developments.
   (D)   Compliance with district requirements. The site plan shall comply with
the district requirements for minimum floor space, height of building, lot
size, open space, density and all other requirements set forth in the §§
153.060 through
153.067 for each district, unless otherwise provided in these regulations.
   (E)   Privacy. The site design shall provide reasonable visual and sound
privacy. Fences, walls, barriers and landscaping shall be used, as appropriate,
for the protection and enhancement of property and the safety and privacy of
occupants and uses.
   (F)   Emergency vehicle access. All buildings or groups of buildings shall
be so arranged as to permit convenient and direct emergency vehicle access.
   (G)   Circulation. Every structure or dwelling unit shall be provided with
adequate means of ingress and egress via public streets and walkways. The site
plan shall provide a pedestrian circulation system that is insulated as
completely as is reasonably possible from the vehicular circulation system. The
arrangement of public and common ways for vehicular and pedestrian circulation
shall respect the pattern of existing or planned streets or pedestrian ways in
the vicinity of the site. The width of streets and drives shall be appropriate
for the volume of traffic they will carry.
   (H)   Parking. Any off-street parking facility shall meet all applicable
design standards of this chapter.
   (I)   Drainage. Appropriate measures shall be taken to ensure that the
removal or drainage of surface water will not adversely affect adjoining
properties or the capacity of the public drainage system. Provisions shall be
made for a feasible storm drainage system, the construction of storm water
collection, storage and transportation facilities and the prevention of
erosion. Surface water on all paved areas shall be collected at intervals so
that it will not obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic and will not create
nuisance ponding in paved areas. Final grades may be required to conform to
existing and future grades of adjacent properties. Grading and drainage plans
shall be subject to review and approval by the appropriate designated official.
   (J)   Soil erosion and sedimentation. The proposed development shall include
measures to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation during and upon completion
of construction, in accordance with current village and county standards.
   (K)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting shall be designed so that it is
deflected away from adjoining properties, visual glare is minimized, the dark
sky is preserved and does not impede vision of drivers along adjacent streets.
   (L)   Public services. Adequate services and utilities, including water,
sewage disposal, sanitary sewer and storm water control services, shall be
available or provided, and shall be designed with sufficient capacity and
durability to properly serve the development.
   (M)   Screening.
      (1)   Off-street parking, loading and unloading areas, outside refuse
storage areas and other storage areas that are visible from adjacent homes or
from public rights-of-way shall be screened by walls, fencing or landscaping of
adequate height.
      (2)   All walls and fencing must be solid and constructed of durable
material and shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
   (N)   Danger from fire and hazards.
      (1)   The level of vulnerability to injury or loss from incidents
involving fire and hazardous materials, or processes, shall not exceed the
capability of the village to an evaluation, the village shall consider the
location, type, characteristics, quantities and use of materials or processes
in relation to the personnel, training, equipment and materials and emergency
response plans and capabilities of the village.
      (2)   Sites that include significant storage of flammable or hazardous
materials or waste, fuels, salt or chemicals shall be designed to prevent
spills and discharges of polluting materials to the surface of the ground,
groundwater and public sewer system.
   (O)   Health and safety concerns. Any use in any zoning district shall
comply with applicable federal, state, county and local health and pollution
laws and regulations with respect to noise, dust, smoke and other air
pollutants, vibration, glare and heat, fire and explosive hazards, gases,
electromagnetic radiation, radioactive materials and toxic and hazardous
materials.
   (P)   Phases. All development phases shall be designed in logical sequence
to ensure that each phase will independently function in a safe, convenient and
efficient manner without being dependent upon subsequent improvements in a
later phase or on other sites.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.208 SITE PLAN APPLICATION.
   (A)   Site plan application requirements. An application for site plan
review shall be submitted on a form provided by the village with the required
items presented in the table below. Required items shall be demonstrated on the
site plan drawings, written narrative/submitted documentation, or both as
indicated in the table.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-939.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-941.png]
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-943.png]
 
      (1)   Upon the recommendation of the Zoning Administrator, the Planning
Commission may waive any of the above required items based upon a finding that
it is not applicable.
      (2)   The Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator or other party
authorized by the village may request any additional information it deems
necessary in the review of submitted site plan.
      (3)   (a)   Evidence the plan has been submitted for review to all
affected jurisdictions, including but not limited to the County Road
Commission, the Village Department of Public Works, Michigan Department of
Transportation (MDOT) and Michigan Department of Energy, Great Lakes, and
Environment (MDEGLE).
         (b)   If an applicable review is not submitted, statement of a date
certain for submission or the reason why their review is not applicable must be
provided.
      (4)   A certificate of appropriateness from the Historic District
Commission shall be submitted as part of any site plan review application for
properties within the Civic and Commercial Historic Overlay District.
      (5)   All site plan drawings shall be submitted on one set of sheets 24
inches by 36 inches and in digital PDF format.
   (B)   Site plan application review procedures.
      (1)   Pre-application conceptual review. An applicant may request a pre-
application conceptual review with the Zoning Administrator or Planning
Commission to discuss in general the substantive requirements for the
application prior to formal submittal of a site plan review application. The
purpose is to gather feedback on the proposed land use and potential
requirements by the village. Feedback provided by the Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission under a pre-application conceptual review is non-binding,
subject to change and is not to be construed as a guarantee for approval. A
pre-application conceptual review does not include a completeness or technical
review by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Completeness review. All required application materials shall be
presented to the Zoning Administrator’s office by the property owner or their
designated agent at least 21 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting
where the site plan will be considered. The Zoning Administrator shall review
the application for completeness to determine if the application has been
properly submitted and the applicant has corrected all deficiencies.
Completeness reviews are solely for the purpose of determining whether the
preliminary information required for submission of the application is
sufficient to allow further processing and shall not constitute a decision as
to whether an application complies with the provisions of this subchapter. Once
deemed complete, the Zoning Administrator will begin the technical review.
      (3)   Technical review. An application determined to be complete will
undergo a technical review by the Zoning Administrator or village designee to
determine compliance with applicable standards. This review may include
distributing the plan to other local agencies or departments with jurisdiction
for comment on any problems the plans might pose and shall result in a report
submitted to the Planning Commission with the site plan review application.
Once the technical review is complete, the application will be placed on the
next regularly scheduled Planning Commission meeting.
      (4)   Administrative review. The Zoning Administrator may review and make
a determination on a site plan review application that meets all the standards
for administrative review eligibility. Nothing in this section shall prohibit
the applicant or Zoning Administrator from requesting the site plan review
application be submitted to the Planning Commission for determination. The
standards for administrative review eligibility shall be:
         (a)   The use is permitted by right in the established zoning
district;
         (b)   Will result in less than 1,500 square feet of new building and/
or impervious area; and
         (c)   Will generate less than 500 trip ends per day as determined by
the proposed land use activity based on the most recent edition of the Trip
Generation Manual published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers.
      (5)   Planning Commission review. All other uses requiring a site plan
shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission for a determination.
   (C)   Site plan application determinations. The Zoning Administrator or
Planning Commission shall review the application and make a determination to
approve the application, require any conditions it may find necessary or deny
the application.
      (1)   Approval. The site plan shall be approved upon determination that
it is in compliance with the standards of this subchapter, other village
planning documents, other applicable ordinances and state and federal statutes.
      (2)   Conditional approval. The Planning Commission may approve a site
plan, subject to any conditions to address necessary modifications, obtain
variances or approvals from other agencies. Conditions imposed shall meet each
of the following objectives:
         (a)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety and
welfare, as well as the social and economic well-being of those who will use
the land use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners
immediately adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as
a whole;
         (b)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power and
purposes which are affected by the proposed use or activity; and
         (c)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning
requirements, be related to the standards established in the chapter for the
land use or activity under consideration and be necessary to ensure compliance
with those standards.
      (3)   Denial. If the Planning Commission determines that a proposed site
plan does not meet the standards of this subchapter, or otherwise will tend to
be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or orderly development of
the village, it shall deny the application by a written endorsement which
clearly sets forth the reason for such denial.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.209 RECORD OF ACTIONS.
   The village shall keep a record of decisions on all site plans on file in
the Village Clerk’s office. The record shall include the following information.
   (A)   Minutes. All minutes from any meeting where the site plan was
considered.
   (B)   Findings of fact. The decision on a site plan review shall be
incorporated in a finding of fact relative to the land use under consideration
and shall specify the basis for the decision and any conditions imposed.
   (C)   Final site plans. An electronic PDF version and two full size print
sets (24 inches by 36 inches) of the final site plans stamped by a licensed
architect, landscape architect or civil engineer.
      (1)   (a)   Approved site plans shall include any required revisions and
the date of the revisions.
         (b)   1.   The print sets shall be marked “Approved” and signed and
dated by the Applicant and Planning Commission Chair if approved by the
Planning Commission, or the Zoning Administrator if administratively approved.
            2.   One signed set of site plans will be retained by the village
as part of the permanent record, while the other signed set will be returned to
the applicant.
      (2)   Denied site plans shall be marked “Denied” and signed and dated by
Planning Commission Chair if denied by the Planning Commission, or the Zoning
Administrator if administratively denied.
   (D)   Development agreement.
      (1)   An approved site plan shall include a site plan development
agreement outlining the approved use, any applicable conditions and procedural
process.
      (2)   The development agreement shall be signed and notarized by the
applicant and Planning Commission Chair.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.210 EXPIRATION, REVOCATION.
   (A)   Expiration.
      (1)   A site plan review approved under this subchapter shall be valid
for a period of one year from the date of approval. If the applicant fails to
submit an application for a zoning permit to the village for the approved site
plan review in that time period, then the site plan review approval shall
automatically expire.
      (2)   The applicant may request an extension of the permit by submitting
a written request for consideration to the Planning Commission before the
expiration date.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may grant one extension for a period of up
to one year.
   (B)   Revocation.
      (1)   If a violation of any of the conditions or standards imposed on an
approved site plan review is found to exist following inspection, the Zoning
Administrator shall notify the owner of the premises, the applicant of the site
plan review and the Planning Commission that such violation exists and that the
site plan review approval will be revoked within 15 days of such notification.
      (2)   If said violation is not corrected within 15 days, the Planning
Commission may revoke the permit.
      (3)   Furthermore, such a violation is hereby declared a violation of
this subchapter, subject to all the remedies and penalties provided for within
this subchapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.211 AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS.
   A previously approved site plan may be modified subject to the following
procedures.
   (A)   Insignificant deviations.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may authorize insignificant deviations in
an approved site plan if the resulting use will still meet all applicable
standards and requirements of this subchapter, and any conditions imposed.
      (2)   A deviation is insignificant if the Zoning Administrator determines
it will result in no discernible changes to or impact on neighboring
properties, the general public or those intended to occupy or use the proposed
development and will not noticeably change or relocate the proposed
improvements to the property.
   (B)   Minor amendments.
      (1)   The Planning Commission may permit minor amendments to an approved
site plan if the resulting use will still meet all applicable standards and
requirements of this subchapter, and any conditions imposed unless otherwise
requested to be modified, and do not substantially affect the character or
intensity of the use, vehicular or pedestrian circulation, drainage patterns,
demand for public services or vulnerability to hazards.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may make a decision on minor amendments
upon receipt of an application. MINOR AMENDMENTS are those modifications the
Zoning Administrator determines will have no substantial impact on neighboring
properties, the general public or those intended to occupy or use the proposed
development, but exceed the extent to which can be approved as an insignificant
deviation.
   (C)   Major amendments.
      (1)   All other requests for amendments to an approved site plan shall be
processed in the same manner as a new application.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may impose new conditions on the approval
of an amendment request if such conditions are warranted as described in this
subchapter.
      (3)   The holder of the original site plan approval may reject such
additional conditions by withdrawing the request for an amendment and
proceeding under the existing site plan approval.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.212 FEES, PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   Fees and performance guarantees associated with the review and approval of a
site plan review application shall be consistent with the requirements in §§
153.306 and
153.307.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
SPECIAL LAND USES
§ 153.225 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter provides the review procedures and standards
instituted to provide an opportunity to use a lot or parcel for an activity
which, under certain circumstances, might be detrimental to other permitted
land uses, or which contain unique features.
   (B)   The procedures and standards apply to those special land uses which
are specifically designated as such in this subchapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.226 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   Each application for a special land use permit shall be reviewed on an
individual basis for conformity and compliance with the standards of this
subchapter, including those for site plan review and the specific standards
below:
   (A)   Will be in accordance with the general objectives, intent and purposes
of this subchapter;
   (B)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, maintained and managed so as
to be appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended character of the
general vicinity;
   (C)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, of drainage structures,
refuse disposal or those persons or agencies responsible for the establishment
of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any such service;
   (D)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future neighboring
uses;
   (E)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public expense
for public facilities and services;
   (F)   Will be in accordance with all required conditions of the district in
which it will be located; and
   (G)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is to be located, and will not be detrimental to
existing and/or other permitted land uses in the applicable zoning district.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.227 SPECIAL LAND USE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Special land use application requirements. An application for special
land use permit approval shall include a complete site plan review satisfying
all the standards in §§
153.205 through
153.212.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/d6c21050848bb6eef9988b9b8c274868b8c1901b/
IMAGES/0-0-0-945.png]
 
   (B)   Special land use application review procedures. The procedures for a
special land use permit application review shall follow those for a site plan
review in §§
153.205 through
153.212 with the following modifications:
      (1)   Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission shall:
         (a)   1.   Review the application to determine if it satisfies the
standards for special land uses, and all other applicable standards of this
chapter.
            2.   Administrative review shall not be an option for special land
use permit applications;
         (b)   Hold a public hearing to consider the proposed special land use
consistent with the procedures for a public hearing in §
153.309; and
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall submit a finding of fact and make
a recommendation to the Village Council to approve, approve with conditions, or
deny the special land use permit.
      (2)   Village Council review. The Village Council shall:
         (a)   Review the application to determine if it satisfies the
standards for special land uses, and all other applicable standards of this
chapter, and Planning Commission’s recommendation;
         (b)   Determine whether to hold an additional public hearing at their
discretion or refer the application back to the Planning Commission for further
consideration; and
         (c)   Make a determination to approve, approve with conditions or deny
the application. Any decision made shall include the adoption of a finding of
facts to support the Village Council’s decision.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.228 SPECIAL LAND USE DETERMINATIONS.
   (A)   Approval. The special land use permit shall be approved upon
determination that it is in compliance with the standards of this chapter,
other village planning documents, other applicable ordinances and local, state
and federal statutes. Upon approval, a special land use shall be deemed a
conforming use permitted in the district in which it is proposed, subject to
any conditions imposed on the use. Such approval shall affect only the lot or
area thereof upon which the use is located.
   (B)   Conditional approval. The Village Council may approve a special land
use permit, subject to any conditions to address necessary modifications or
obtain variances or approvals from other agencies. Conditions imposed shall be
subject to the objectives of outlined in §§
153.205 through
153.212.
   (C)   Denial. If the Village Council determines that a proposed special land
use does not meet the standards of this subchapter, or otherwise will tend to
be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare or orderly development of
the village, it shall deny the application.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.229 RECORD OF ACTIONS.
   All decisions on a special land use shall be recorded consistent with the
requirements of §§
153.205 through
153.212 with the addition that the development agreement and final site plans
be recorded at the County Register of Deeds Office and evidence of the record
by submitted to the Village Clerk within 45 days.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.230 EXPIRATION, REVOCATION.
   The standards and procedures for expiration and revocation of an approved
special land use permit shall be the same as those for site plan review in §
153.210.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.231 AMENDMENTS, MODIFICATIONS.
   The standards and procedures for amendments or modifications of an approved
special land use permit shall be the same as those for site plan review in §
153.211, with the exception that a major amendment to an approved special land
use permit will require a new public hearing following the standards and
process in §§
153.205 through
153.212.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.232 FEES, PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   Fees and performance guarantees associated with the review and approval of a
special land use application shall be consistent with the requirements in §§
153.306 and
153.307.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
LAND DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS
§ 153.245 INTENT; PURPOSE.
   (A)   Development may be pursued in a variety of different ways. This
subchapter sets forth the development options established by the village.
   (B)   Depending on the circumstances of particular development scenarios,
these options may be used singly or jointly. The purpose of this subchapter is
to set forth the regulations regarding the different land development options
in order to protect the health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the
village.
   (C)   Where necessary the provisions relating to the different development
options contain standards and/or procedures that supplement or replace
particular standards and/or procedures elsewhere in this chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.246 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   The Planned Unit Development (PUD) option is intended to allow,
with village approval, private or public development which is consistent with
the goals and objectives of the Village Master Plan and Future Land Use Map.
      (2)   The development allowed under this section shall be considered as
an optional means of development only on terms agreeable to the village.
      (3)   Use of the PUD option will allow flexibility in the control of land
development by encouraging innovation through an overall comprehensive
development plan to provide variety in design and layout; to achieve economy
and efficiency in the use of land, natural resources, energy and in the
provision of public services and utilities; to encourage useful open spaces
suited to the needs of the parcel in question; to provide proper housing
including workforce housing; or to provide employment service and shopping
opportunities suited to the needs of the residents of the village.
      (4)   (a)   It is further intended the PUD may be used to allow
nonresidential uses of residentially zoned areas; to allow residential uses of
nonresidential zoned areas; to permit densities or lot sizes which are
different from the applicable district and to allow the mixing of land uses
that would otherwise not be allowed.
         (b)   Provided, other community objectives are met and the resulting
development would promote the public health, safety and welfare, reduce sprawl,
and be consistent with the Village Master Plan and Future Land Use Plan Map.
      (5)   It is further intended the development will be laid out so the
various land uses and building bulk will relate to one another and to adjoining
existing and planned uses in such a way that they will be compatible with no
material adverse impact of one use on another.
      (6)   The number of dwelling units for the PUD development shall not
exceed the number of dwelling units allowed under the underlying zoning
district.
   (B)   Uses permitted.
      (1)   (a)   A land use plan shall be proposed for the area to be included
within the PUD.
         (b)   The land use plan shall be defined primarily by the zoning
districts that are most applicable to the various land use areas of the PUD.
      (2)   (a)   Uses permitted and uses permitted subject to special land use
permit approval in this chapter may be allowed within the districts identified
on the PUD plan, except that some uses may be specifically prohibited from
districts designated on the PUD plan.
         (b)   Alternatively, the village may allow uses not permitted in the
district if specifically noted on the PUD plan. Conditions applicable to uses
subject to special land use permit approval shall be used as guidelines for
design and layout but may be varied by the Planning Commission provided such
conditions are indicated on the PUD plan.
   (C)   Height, bulk, density and area standards. The standards about height,
bulk, density and setbacks of each district shall be applicable within each
district area designated on the plan except as specifically modified and noted
on the PUD plan.
   (D)   Qualifying standards. Planned Unit Development proposals shall meet
the following qualifying standards to be considered under the PUD land
development option:
      (1)   The properties are zoned FR, DC, CC, LIW or PSP Districts;
      (2)   (a)   1.   The use of this option shall not be for the sole purpose
of avoiding the applicable zoning requirements.
            2.   Problems or constraints presented by applicable zoning
provisions shall be identified in the PUD application.
         (b)   Any permission given for an activity, building, dimensional
requirement or use not normally permitted shall result in an improvement to the
public health, safety and welfare in the area affected;
      (3)   The PUD option may be effectuated only when the proposed land use
will not materially add service and facility loads beyond those considered in
the Village Master Plan, and other public agency plans, unless the proponent
can prove to the sole satisfaction of the village that such added loads will be
accommodated or mitigated by the proponent as part of the PUD;
      (4)   The PUD shall not be allowed solely as a means of increasing
density or as a substitute for a variance request; such objectives should be
pursued through the normal zoning process by seeking a zoning change or
variance; and
      (5)   The PUD must meet, as a minimum, four of the following eight
objectives of the village:
         (a)   To permanently preserve open space or natural features because
of their exceptional characteristics, or because they can provide a permanent
transition or buffer between land uses;
         (b)   To permanently establish land use patterns which are compatible,
or which will protect existing or planned uses;
         (c)   To accept dedication or set aside open space areas for public
use in perpetuity;
         (d)   To provide alternative uses for parcels which can provide
transition buffers to residential areas;
         (e)   To promote the goals and objectives of the Village Master Plan;
         (f)   To foster the aesthetic appearance of the village through
quality building design and site development, provide trees and landscaping
beyond minimum requirements; the preservation of unique and/or historic sites
or structures; and the provision of open space or other desirable features of a
site beyond minimum requirements;
         (g)   To bring about redevelopment of sites where an orderly change of
use or requirements is determined to be desirable; and
         (h)   To provide a diverse mix of housing options, price points and
opportunities to rent or purchase.
   (E)   PUD application requirements and submission procedures. PUD
applications shall meet all the requirements of a site plan review in §§
153.205 through
153.212, and may require the following.
      (1)   A market study, traffic impact study and/or environmental impact
assessment, if requested by the Planning Commission or Village Council.
      (2)   A pattern book or design guidelines manual if requested by the
Planning Commission or Village Council.
   (F)   PUD application review procedures. The PUD application review
procedure follows four primary steps:
      (1)   Pre-application submission and review;
      (2)   Submission of PUD plan and application materials;
      (3)   Planning Commission review and recommended approval or denial of
the PUD; and
      (4)    Vill age Cou ncil final revi ew and appr oval or deni al of the PU
D.
   (G)   Pre-application submission and review.
      (1)   Any person owning or controlling land in the village may make
application for consideration of a PUD. Such application shall be made by
presenting a request for a preliminary determination to whether a development
proposal qualifies for the PUD option.
      (2)   The request shall be submitted to the village and the submission
shall include the information required below.
         (a)   Proof the qualifying standards in this section are or will be
met.
         (b)   A conceptual land use plan containing enough detail to explain
the role of open space; location of land use areas, streets providing access to
the site, pedestrian and vehicular circulation to and within the site; dwelling
unit density and types; buildings or floor areas contemplated; and a proposed
phasing plan, as applicable.
         (c)   A plan to protect historic structures and natural features, or
preservation of open space or greenbelts.
         (d)   A storm water management plan incorporating low impact
development (LID) water quality technologies, such as, but not limited to, rain
gardens, rooftop gardens, vegetated swales, cisterns, permeable pavers, porous
pavement, and filtered storm water structures.
         (e)   1.   The Planning Commission shall review the applicant’s
request for qualification.
            2.   If approved, the applicant may then continue to prepare a PUD
plan on which a final determination will be made.
      (3)   (a)   Based on the documentation presented, the Planning Commission
shall make a preliminary determination about whether a development proposal is
consistent with the intent and purpose of division (A) above and qualifies for
the PUD option under the qualifying standards in this division (D) above.
         (b)   If approved, the applicant may then continue to prepare a PUD
plan and application on which a final determination will be made. An approved
determination for qualification is not a guarantee for final PUD approval.
   (H)   PUD application determinations. The review of a PUD application by the
Planning Commission shall follow the procedures below.
      (1)   Completeness review. Upon submission of a PUD application, the
Zoning Administrator shall perform a completeness review consistent with §
153.208(B).
      (2)   Technical review. Once an application is determined to be complete,
the Zoning Administrator shall perform a technical review consistent with §
153.208(B).
      (3)   Planning Commission review. Upon notification from the Village
Zoning Administrator and/or Planner of a complete PUD plan application and
technical review, the Planning Commission shall review the proposed PUD plan
and make a determination about the proposal’s qualification for the PUD option
and for adherence to the following objectives and requirements.
         (a)   The proposed PUD adheres to the conditions for qualification of
the PUD option and promotes the land use goals and objectives of the village.
         (b)   All applicable provisions of this section shall be met. If any
provision of this section shall conflict with the provisions of any other
section of this chapter, the provisions of this section shall apply to the
lands embraced within a PUD area.
         (c)   There will be at the time of development an acceptable means of
disposing of sanitary sewage and of supplying the development with water and
the road network, storm water drainage system and other public infrastructure
and services are satisfactory.
      (4)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing
on the PUD plan and shall give notice as provided in §
153.309.
      (5)   Finding of facts. After the review and public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall adopt a finding of fact relative to the PUD under
consideration as the basis of their recommendation to approve or deny the
application, along with any applicable conditions.
      (6)   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall submit its
recommendation to the Village Council along with the technical review and
finding of facts for final determination.
   (I)   Village Council review and approval. Upon receipt of a PUD application
and recommendation form the Planning Commission, the Village Council shall
perform the following procedures.
      (1)   Determination. Upon receipt of the technical review, finding of
facts and recommendation of the Planning Commission with any applicable
conditions, the Village Council shall review the application and make a
determination to approve or deny the application, and any applicable
conditions.
      (2)   PUD Development agreement. If the Village Council approves the
application, it shall direct the village attorney to prepare a PUD Development
Agreement setting forth the conditions on which such approval is based. The PUD
Development agreement shall:
         (a)   Be signed by the Village President and the applicant;
         (b)   Become effective on execution after its approval;
         (c)   Be recorded at the County Register of Deeds’ office by the
applicant who shall provide a copy of the record to the village within 45 days;
and
         (d)   Limit the development and uses that may take place in such area
to those expressly permitted under the PUD Development agreement unless
otherwise amended following the procedures in this section.
   (J)   Submission of final site plans. Before any zoning permits are issued
for the PUD, final site plans for the project area shall be submitted to the
village for review and approval by the Planning Commission of the following:
      (1)   Review and approval of site plans shall comply with §
153.207, as well as this section except as otherwise modified in the approved
plan and PUD development agreement.
      (2)   Before approving of any final site plans, the Planning Commission
shall decide that:
         (a)   All portions of the project area shown on the approved plan for
the PUD for use by the public or the residents of lands within the PUD have
been committed to such uses under the PUD Development agreement;
         (b)   The final site plans are in conformity with the approved
development agreement and plan for the PUD;
         (c)   Provisions have been made under the PUD development agreement to
provide for the financing of any improvements shown on the project area plan
for open spaces and common areas which are to be provided by the applicant and
that maintenance of such improvements is assured under the PUD development
agreement; and
         (d)   If development of the approved final site plans for a specific
phase, if applicable, is not substantially completed in three years after
approval of the site plan, then further submittals under the PUD shall stop
until the site plan and/or phase in question is completed or cause can be shown
to the satisfaction of the Village Council for failure to complete.
      (3)   Uses allowed by right or through a special land use permit in the
current zoning ordinance shall be prohibited from occupancy until all
applicable conditions of the PUD or development phase are complete and
satisfied. Any use not allowed in the current zoning district but permitted
through the PUD shall be prohibited from occupancy until the whole PUD, or
applicable development phase, is completed in its entirety.
      (4)   The applicant shall be required, as the PUD is built, to provide
the village with “as built” drawings in both paper and digital format following
the same provisions outlined in this section.
   (K)   Termination and expiration. An approved PUD development agreement may
be terminated or expire in the following ways:
      (1)   An applicant or the applicant’s successors or assigns may choose to
terminate a PUD development agreement, before any development within the area
involved, by filing with the village and recording at the County Register of
Deeds an affidavit so stating. The approval of the plan under the PUD
development agreement shall terminate on such recording.
      (2)   No approved plan under a PUD development agreement shall be
terminated after development begins except with the approval of the Village
Council and of all parties in interest in the land.
      (3)   Within one year following execution of the PUD development
agreement by the Village Council, final approved site plans for an area
embraced within the PUD must be filed with the village. If such plans have not
been filed within the one-year period, the right to develop the approved plan
under the PUD development agreement shall be automatically terminated unless an
extension is requested in writing by the applicant and submitted to the
village. The applicant is entitled to one extension of one year by right and
shall be approved by the Zoning Administrator. The Village Council may approve
two additional extensions of one year each if the applicant can demonstrate a
need for the extension(s) acceptable to the Village Council.
      (4)   If development of approved final site plans is not substantially
completed as determined in the development agreement in three years after
approval, further final submittals under the PUD shall stop until the part in
question is completed or cause can be shown for not completing same.
   (L)   Fees and performance guarantees. Fees and performance guarantees
associated with the review and approval of a special land use application shall
be consistent with the requirements in §§
153.306 and
153.307.
   (M)   Interpretation of approval. Approval of a PUD under this section shall
be considered an optional method of development and improvement of property
subject to the mutual agreement of the village and the applicant.
   (N)   Amendments to Planned Development Plan. Proposed amendments or changes
to an approved PUD plan and/or PUD contract shall be presented to the Planning
Commission and shall decide whether the proposed modification is of minor or
major nature based on §
153.211, with the following additions.
      (1)   Minor amendment. If determined to be a minor amendment, the
Planning Commission may review and approve or deny the request. The PUD
development agreement shall be modified to reflect any approved minor
amendment.
      (2)   Major amendment. If determined to be a major amendment, the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing consistent with the
requirements in §
153.309 as part of its review and make a recommendation to the Village Council
to approve or deny the request. The Village Council shall have the final
determination to approve or deny a major amendment request. The PUD development
agreement shall be modified to reflect any approved major amendment.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.247 SITE CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by § 141 of the Condominium Act, Act 59 of
1978, as amended, all condominium subdivision plans shall be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission and Village Council. In determining whether
to approve a condominium subdivision plan, the Planning Commission and Village
Council shall consult with the Village Attorney, Engineer, Zoning Administrator
and Planner regarding the adequacy of the master deed, deed restrictions,
utility systems and streets, subdivision layout and design and compliance with
all requirements of the Condominium Act.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   Condominium lots. For the purposes of this section, each
condominium lot shall be considered equivalent to a single lot and shall comply
with all regulations of the zoning district in which located. In the case of a
site condominium containing single-family detached dwelling units, not more
than one dwelling unit shall be located on a condominium lot, nor shall a
dwelling unit be located on a condominium lot with any other principal
structure or use.
      (2)   Revision of condominium subdivision plan. If the condominium
subdivision plan is revised, the final site plan shall be revised accordingly
and submitted for review by the Planning Commission who shall make a
recommendation to the Village Council to approve or deny the application before
any zoning permit may be issued, where such permit is required.
      (3)   Amendment of Master Deed or bylaws. Any amendment to a master deed
or bylaws that affects the approved preliminary or final site plan, or any
conditions of approval of a preliminary or final site plan shall be reviewed by
the Planning Commission who shall make a recommendation to the Village Council
to approve or deny the application before any zoning permit may be issued,
where such permit is required. The Planning Commission may require its review
of an amended site plan if, in its opinion, such changes in the master deed or
bylaws require corresponding changes in the approved site plan.
      (4)   Development agreement. The Planning Commission may require, as a
condition of approval, that the applicant enter into a development agreement
with the Planning Commission and the village, incorporating therein the terms
and conditions of final site plan approval, and record the same in the County
Register of Deeds.
      (5)   Relocation of boundaries. Relocation of boundaries between
adjoining condominium lots, if permitted in the condominium documents, as
provided in § 48 of the Condominium Act, shall comply with all regulations of
the zoning district in which located and shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator. These requirements shall be made a part of the bylaws and
recorded as part of the master deed.
      (6)   Subdivision of lots.
         (a)   Each condominium lot that results from a subdivision of another
condominium lot, if such subdivision is permitted by the condominium documents,
as provided in § 49 of the Condominium Act, shall comply with all regulations
of the zoning district in which located, and shall be approved by the Zoning
Administrator.
         (b)   These requirements shall be made a part of the condominium
bylaws and recorded as part of the master deed.
      (7)   Private streets. All site condominium subdivisions in which private
streets are proposed shall be developed to the public street requirements of
the village. Site condominium subdivisions and condominium lots may abut public
or private streets.
      (8)   Road rights-of-way. Road rights-of-way shall be parcels separate
from individual condominium lots, and shall be accurately delineated by
bearings and distances on the condominium subdivision plan and the final site
plan. The right-of-way shall be for roadway purposes and for the purposes of
locating, installing, maintaining and replacing of public utilities. The
developer shall dedicate easements to the village for all public water and
sanitary sewer lines and appurtenances.
      (9)   Easement for utilities. The site condominium subdivision plan shall
include all necessary easements granted to the village for the purposes of
constructing, operating, inspecting, maintaining, repairing, altering,
replacing and/or removing pipelines, mains, conduits and other installations of
a similar character for the purpose of providing public utilities, including
conveyance of sewage, water and storm water run-off across, through and under
the property subject to said easement, and excavating and refilling ditches and
trenches necessary for the location of said structure.
      (10)   Monuments.
         (a)   Monuments shall be set at all boundary corners and deflection
points and at all roads right-of-way intersection corners and deflection
points. Lot irons shall be set at all condominium lot corners and deflection
points of condominium lot lines.
         (b)   1.   The Village Engineer may grant a delay in the setting of
required monuments or irons for a reasonable time, but not to exceed one year,
on condition that the developer deposit with the Village Clerk cash, a
certified check, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit running to the
village, whichever the developer selects, in an amount as determined from time
to time by resolution of the Village Council.
            2.   Such deposit shall be returned to the developer upon receipt
of a certificate by a surveyor registered in the state that the monuments and
irons have been set as required, within the time specified. If the developer
defaults, the Village Council shall promptly require a registered surveyor to
set the monuments and irons in the ground as shown on the condominium site
plans, at a cost not to exceed the amount of the security deposit.
      (11)   As-built drawings. A dimensionally stable copy of the as-built
drawings shall be submitted to the Village Clerk and a second dimensionally
stable copy shall be recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Site plan requirements. A site condominium application submitted for
consideration shall include a site plan with all the requirements outlined in
§§
153.205 through
153.212.
   (C)   Application submission procedures.
      (1)   Preliminary site plan.
         (a)   A preliminary site plan shall be filed for approval at the time
of notice of proposed action is filed with the village. Preliminary site plans
shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission who shall make a recommendation to
the Village Council to approve or deny the application.
         (b)   The preliminary site plan shall include all land that the
developer intends to include in the site condominium project.
         (c)   The preliminary site plan shall include all information required
herein, except in the case of single-family detached dwelling units.
         (d)   Dwelling units and required yards, shall be shown on the
preliminary site plan. In those instances where dwelling unit plans are not
known the plan may show the building envelope provided such building envelope
meets all side, front and rear setback requirements of the zoning district.
      (2)   Final site plan.
         (a)   A final site plan shall be filed for review for each phase of
development shown on the approved preliminary site plan. Final site plans shall
be reviewed by the Planning Commission who shall make a recommendation to the
Village Council to approve or deny the application.
         (b)   A final site plan for any phase of development shall not be
filed for review by the Planning Commission unless a preliminary site plan has
been approved by the Planning Commission and Village Council and is in effect.
         (c)   A final site plan shall include all information required by § 66
of the Condominium Act and the master deed and bylaws. The final site plan
shall also include all information required herein, except in the case of
single-family detached dwelling units, location and dimensions of condominium
units rather than individual buildings and required yards, shall be shown on
the site plan.
         (d)   The applicant shall provide proof of approvals by all county and
state agencies required to review the condominium subdivision plan, including
but not limited to the County Road Commission, County Drain Commissioner,
County Health Department and the Michigan Department of Natural Resources. The
Planning Commission and Village Council shall not approve a final site plan
until all county and state agencies, required to review the condominium
subdivision plan, have approved the condominium subdivision plan.
   (D)   Design and approval.
      (1)   All site condominium subdivision plans shall conform to the design,
layout and improvements standards of the village. A deposit in the form of
cash, certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit acceptable to the
Village Council shall be made with the village to guarantee the installation
and completion of any required public sanitary sewer, water supply, drainage
facilities, and public or private street and walkway improvements within a
length of time agreed upon from the date of final approval of the site
condominium subdivision plan by the Planning Commission and Village Council.
      (2)   No permits for erosion control, building construction, grading or
installation of water or sanitary sewerage facilities shall be issued for
property in a site condominium development until a final site plan therefor has
been approved by the Village Council and is in effect. This requirement shall
include contractible, conversion and expandable site condominiums as defined in
the Condominium Act (Public Act 59 of 1978 as amended).
      (3)   The approval of any site condominium plan under this section shall
expire one year after the date of such approval unless actual construction and
development have been commenced in accordance with said site plan prior
thereto. If such construction and development is commenced within said one-year
period, then such approval shall continue for a period of five years from the
date thereof; provided, however, that a lapse of more than one year in
continuous construction and development does not occur, in which event, said
approval shall expire. Prior to such expiration date the development owner
shall be notified in writing 30 days in advance of the expiration date. The
Zoning Administrator shall not issue a zoning permit for any type of
construction based on the approved site condominium plan after such approval
has expired. Fees for review of expired site plan may be waived in those
instances where no substantial change in conditions of the site condominium
plan nor of abutting uses has taken place. In those instances where conditions
have changed, the fee for review of expired site condominium plans for new site
condominium plans shall be the same as for the initial submittal.
      (4)   All site improvements including sanitary sewers, water mains, storm
sewers, retention basin, site grading and private street improvements shall
meet or exceed the minimum design standards of the village.
      (5)   (a)   A final survey plan of the site condominium subdivision or
phase thereof shall be submitted together with a closure sheet of the external
boundary and internal common areas, condominium land units, blocks of
condominium units, street rights-of-way and all other land units for review and
approval by the Village Engineer.
         (b)   The exact length and bearing of all external and internal
boundaries shall be clearly shown on the plan. The bearing source of
orientation of the survey plan shall conform with that of an existing adjacent
recorded subdivision or other established survey.
   (E)   Notice of proposed action. The notification requirements stated in §
71 of the Condominium Act (Public Act 59 of 1978, as amended), shall be filed
with the village and other listed agencies.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
NONCONFORMITIES
§ 153.260 INTENT, PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to permit legal nonconforming
uses, sites, structures and lots to continue until they are removed but not to
encourage their survival.
   (B)   It is recognized that there exists within districts established by
this chapter and subsequent amendments, uses, sites, structures and lots which
were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended which would be
prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future
amendments.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.261 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   Continuation. On or after the effective date of this subchapter or any
subsequent amendments, a nonconformity that was lawfully operated, established
or commenced in accordance with the provisions of all ordinances, statutes or
regulations in effect at that time may continue subject to this subchapter.
   (B)   Change in tenancy or ownership. There may be a change of tenancy,
ownership or management of any existing nonconforming use or structure which
does not alter the nonconforming status.
   (C)   Special land uses and variances. If a special land use or variance has
been approved, the structure or use shall not be considered nonconforming.
   (D)   Issued zoning permit. Any zoning permits issued prior to the effective
date of this chapter, or any subsequent amendments, shall be valid in
accordance with its terms, even though not conforming to the provisions of this
chapter, provided that construction is commenced within 12 months after the
date of permit issuance and proceeds meaningfully until completion.
   (E)   Exception for repairs pursuant to public order. Nothing in this
subchapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening or restoration to a
safe condition of a building or structure in accordance with an order of a
public official who is charged with protecting the public safety and who
declares such structure to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe
condition, provided that such restoration is not otherwise in violation of the
various provisions of this subchapter prohibiting the repair or restoration of
partially damaged or destroyed buildings or structures.
   (F)   Loss of nonconformity. A legal nonconformity is lost by changing to
conform to the chapter or through vacancy, lack of operation or otherwise for
12 or more successive calendar months. If lost, any future use of such premises
shall be in conformity, in its entirety, with the provisions of this chapter.
Loss of a nonconformity shall terminate the right to continue the
nonconformity.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.262 USES.
   Nonconforming uses may be continued, enlarged, or expanded in accordance
with the following provisions:
   (A)   Continuance.
      (1)   A legal nonconforming use of any structure may be continued,
although such use does not conform to the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Such use may be extended throughout the structure, provided that no
structural alterations or additions to the structure are made.
   (B)   Enlargement or expansion. A conforming structure in which a
nonconforming use is operated shall not be enlarged or expanded unless approved
by the Zoning Board of Appeals, except as required by law or to comply with an
order of the Building Official.
   (C)   Change of use regulations.
      (1)   Changes to conforming uses. Any nonconforming use may be changed to
a use conforming with the regulations established for the district in which the
nonconforming use is located, provided, however, that a nonconforming use so
changed shall not in the future be changed back to the former nonconforming
use.
      (2)   Changes to other nonconforming uses. Changes to other nonconforming
uses shall be prohibited. The Zoning Board of Appeals does not have the
authority to grant use variances.
      (3)   Approval standards. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall only approve
the enlargement or expansion of an existing conforming structure for a
nonconforming use if it makes findings in support of each of the following.
         (a)   The expansion will not be contrary to the public interest.
         (b)   The expansion will not substantially or permanently injure the
appropriate use of adjacent conforming property in the same district.
         (c)   The expansion will be in harmony with the spirit and purpose of
these regulations and the master plan goals, objectives and policies.
         (d)   The plight of the applicant for which the expansion is sought is
due to unique circumstances existing on the property and/or within the
surrounding district.
         (e)   Approval of the expansion will not substantially weaken the
general purposes of this section or the regulations established in this chapter
for the applicable zoning district.
         (f)   The expansion shall not require more off-street parking and
loading space than the former nonconforming use unless additional adequate off-
street parking and loading space is provided for the increment of the expansion
as if the increment were a separate use.
         (g)   The expansion shall conform to all regulations and standards
established this chapter.
         (h)   The expansion will not adversely affect the public health,
safety and welfare.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.263 SITES.
   Nonconforming sites may be continued, enlarged or expanded in accordance
with the following provisions.
   (A)   Applicable standards.
      (1)   (a)   Various site design standards are established in §§
153.095 through
153.098 and
153.155 through
153.169.
         (b)   Consequently, many development sites do not meet current
requirements for such items as parking lot standards, landscaping, exterior
lighting, storm water requirements and other design specifications.
      (2)   This section requires that such nonconforming sites be brought into
conformance with all applicable development standards prescribed by this
chapter.
   (B)   Authority to continue. Any legal nonconforming site may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful subject to this section.
   (C)   Extensions.
      (1)   In general. A nonconforming site on which there is a conforming use
shall not be expanded or contracted unless the site is brought into conformance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Single-family residential exception. A single-family residential
structure that is located on a legally nonconforming site with respect to
required yards, areas or height may be structurally altered or enlarged,
providing the portion of the structure that is altered or enlarged conforms
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Relocations. No structure shall be relocated within a nonconforming
site until the site is brought into conformance with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (E)   Change in use.
      (1)   A nonconforming site shall be allowed to be occupied by another use
allowed by right in the district so long as no exterior structural or site
modifications are to occur.
      (2)   In the event the new occupant desires to provide exterior
structural modifications, the site shall be brought into compliance with all
applicable site and use standards, unless a nonconforming site variance has
been approved by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.264 STRUCTURES.
   Nonconforming structures may be continued, repaired, replaced, enlarged or
expanded in accordance with the following provisions:
   (A)   Continuance of nonconforming structures. Subject to all limitations in
this subchapter, any nonconforming structure may be occupied, operated and
maintained in a state of good repair, but no nonconforming structure shall be
enlarged or extended unless in accordance with the allowable standards of this
subchapter.
   (B)   Repair and maintenance of nonconforming structures.
      (1)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the repair, reinforcement,
improvement or rehabilitation of any nonconforming structure, or any part
thereof, which results from wear and tear, deterioration, fire, windstorm,
snowstorm, rainstorm, flood or other casualty damage, nor shall it prevent
compliance with the provisions of the State Construction Code Act, relative to
the maintenance of buildings or structures.
      (2)   (a)   Such repair and maintenance shall not be so extensive as to
constitute a replacement of the structure by replacing an exterior wall(s).
         (b)   For the purposes of this section, the determination of whether
proposed repairs and maintenance constitute replacement shall be made by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (c)   The determination of the Zoning Administrator shall be
appealable to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Replacement of damaged nonconforming structures.
      (1)   (a)   Nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the replacement of
any nonconforming building or structure damaged or destroyed by fire,
windstorm, snowstorm, rainstorm, flood or other casualty damage beyond the
control of the owner, provided such replacement utilizes the original structure
footprint and does not increase the original usable floor area or volume of
such structure.
         (b)   Such replacement shall commence within 12 months of the damage
or destruction.
      (2)   If the property owner fails to commence reconstruction within this
time frame the nonconforming status shall expire and the property will be
required to follow applicable regulations for the zoning district and/or use.
   (D)   Enlargement or expansion.
      (1)   A nonconforming structure in which only permitted uses are operated
may be enlarged or expanded provided that the area of nonconformance is not
increased and provided further that compliance with all of the provisions of
this chapter established for structures in the district in which the
nonconforming structure is located.
      (2)   Such enlargement shall also be subject to all other applicable
village ordinances.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.265 LOTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any nonconforming lot of record may be used for any purpose
authorized by the district in which it is located, except those uses that
specify a minimum lot size.
      (2)   This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width applicable in the district, provided that yard
dimensions and other requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the
lot shall conform to the regulations for the district in which such lot is
located.
      (3)   Any required variances may be requested pursuant to the procedures
and standards of this chapter.
   (B)   If two or more contiguous lots, parcels or portions of lots or parcels
are under the same ownership and do not individually meet the lot width, depth
and/or area requirements of this chapter, then those contiguous lots, parcels
or portions of lots or parcels shall be considered an undivided lot or parcel
for the purposes of this subchapter, and no portion of such undivided lot or
parcel shall be used or divided in a manner that diminishes compliance with the
lot width, depth and/or area requirements established by this chapter or which
creates a nonconforming structure.
   (C)   No lot of record that currently meets the dimensional standards of the
zoning district can be divided to create a nonconforming lot.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.280 AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals (herein referred to as
the “ZBA”), which shall perform its duties and exercise its power as provided
for in this chapter and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of
2006, as amended, in such a way that the objectives of this chapter shall be
served, public health, safety and welfare protected and substantial justice
done.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.281 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Village Council shall serve as the Zoning Board of Appeals. In the event
a member of the Village Council is replaced through election or other means,
their replacement shall automatically fill the vacancy on the ZBA.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.282 ORGANIZATION.
   The ZBA shall adopt rules of procedure as may be deemed necessary to
properly conduct business and organize meetings, in addition to the following:
   (A)   The Village President shall preside as Chair of the ZBA. The ZBA shall
elect a Vice-Chair and Secretary annually from its membership.
   (B)   All meetings of the ZBA shall be held at the call of the Chair at such
times as the ZBA may determine.
   (C)   The ZBA shall render decisions upon all matters within a reasonable
time.
   (D)   The ZBA may distribute the application materials to the Zoning
Administrator or other designated village consultants to review the application
and provide a report to the ZBA that addresses applicable chapter issues,
whether the issue in question can be resolved by other means defined in this
chapter, and how the request may affect the Village Master Plan and any sub-
area plans.
   (E)   The ZBA may request that any or all of the following information be
provided to the ZBA by the Village Clerk or the Building Official where
available and applicable to the issue in question:
      (1)   The history of development on the site in question;
      (2)   A summary of past village approvals, orders and decisions related
to the site or issue in question; and
      (3)   Whether all outstanding infractions related to this chapter or
other village ordinances have been resolved, other than the issue to be
addressed by the ZBA.
   (F)   A concurring vote of a majority of the total ZBA membership shall be
necessary to render a decision. The ZBA shall not conduct business unless a
majority of its members are present.
   (G)   (1)   The Secretary shall keep minutes of the proceedings, record the
vote of each member upon each question, indicate absences and abstentions, and
keep records of hearings and other official action.
      (2)   Such minutes shall also be filed with the Village Clerk.
   (H)   The ZBA shall have the power to require attendance of witnesses, and
compel testimony and the production of documents, files and other information
pertinent to the matters before it.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.283 APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Applications to the ZBA shall be filed with the village on a form
provided by the village, and a fee established by Village Council shall be paid
at the time the application is filed.
   (B)   Applications shall be accompanied by the following information, where
applicable:
      (1)   The applicant’s name, address, telephone number and email address;
      (2)   The address, location and tax identification number for each parcel
involved in the request;
      (3)   The zoning classification of the subject parcel(s) and all abutting
parcels;
      (4)   A plot plan, drawn to scale, with a north arrow, existing lot
lines, street rights-of-way, easements, building and structures, setback
dimensions, parking areas, driveways, sidewalks and other site improvements;
      (5)   A letter from the applicant summarizing the request, and stating
the reasons for the request; and
      (6)   Any additional information deemed necessary by the ZBA to make a
determination on the issue in question.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.284 APPEALS OF ADMINISTRATIVE DECISIONS.
   (A)   The ZBA shall hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is
error of law in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the
person or body charged with administration or enforcement of the chapter. Such
appeals may be taken to the ZBA by the person, firm or corporation aggrieved,
or by an officer, department, board or bureau of the village affected by the
order, requirement, decision or determination, provided that a notice of appeal
application is filed with the village within a reasonable time of the order,
requirement, decision or determination, not to exceed 21 days. An appeal shall
stay all administrative or enforcement proceedings associated with the appeal,
unless the Building Official certifies to the ZBA that, by reason of facts
stated in the certificate, a stay in the opinion of the Building Official would
cause imminent peril to life or property.
   (B)   The ZBA shall reverse an administrative decision only after finding
that the order, requirement, decision or determination was arbitrary or
capricious, based upon an erroneous finding of a material fact, constituted an
abuse of discretion or based upon an erroneous interpretation of the chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.285 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   (A)   Where the actual lines of streets, alleys or property boundaries vary
from the portions indicated on the Official Zoning Map, or some ambiguity
exists as to zoning district boundaries, the ZBA shall have the power to
interpret the Official Zoning Map in such a way as to carry out the intents and
purposes of the chapter, Village Master Plan and/or other planning documents.
   (B)   Where uncertainty exists as to the boundaries of districts as shown on
the Official Zoning Map, the rules established for zoning district boundaries
in §§
153.060 through
153.067 shall apply.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.286 INTERPRETATION OF ZONING ORDINANCE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Interpretations. The ZBA shall have the power to hear and decide
requests for interpretations of chapter provisions in such a way as to preserve
and promote the character of the zoning district in question, and carry out the
intent and purpose of this chapter, the Master Plan or any sub-area plans. This
shall not include use determinations as provided for in this chapter, except
upon appeal of a determination that has been made.
   (B)   Determinations of similar uses. In recognition that every potential
use cannot be addressed in this chapter, the ZBA shall have the authority, upon
referral by the Zoning Administrator or appeal of the Zoning Administrator’s
determination, to determine whether a proposed use not listed in this chapter
is similar to a principal or special land use permitted by this chapter,
subject to the following:
      (1)   Prior to making such a determination, the ZBA must find that the
principal or special land use closely resembles the proposed use in terms of
characteristics, intensity, nature and other applicable common elements of such
uses, including but not limited to potential impacts on property values,
traffic generated, aesthetics, noise, vibration, dust, smoke, odor, glare and
other objectionable impacts on public health, safety and welfare.
      (2)   The ZBA may make a determination that the use is or is not similar
to a use listed in this chapter.
      (3)   If it is determined that there is no similar use listed in this
chapter, the use shall be prohibited.
      (4)   If it is determined that the proposed use is similar to a use
listed in this chapter, the proposed use shall comply with any conditions or
special land use standards that apply to the listed use.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.287 VARIANCES.
   (A)   (1)   Use variances shall be prohibited. The ZBA shall have authority
in specific cases to authorize one or more dimensional or non-use variances
from the strict letter and terms of this chapter by varying or modifying any of
its rules or provisions so that the spirit of this chapter is observed, public
safety secured and substantial justice done.
      (2)   A dimensional or non-use variance allows a deviation from the
dimensional (for example, height, bulk, setback) requirements of the chapter.
   (B)   The ZBA may grant a requested dimensional or non-use variance only
upon a finding that practical difficulties exist. A FINDING OF PRACTICAL
DIFFICULTIES is when the applicant has demonstrated all of the following.
      (1)   Strict compliance with restrictions governing area, setback,
frontage, height, bulk, density or other non-use matters will unreasonably
prevent the owner from using the property for a permitted purpose or will
render chapter conformity unnecessarily burdensome.
      (2)   The variance will do substantial justice to the applicant, as well
as to other property owners.
      (3)   The variance requested is the minimum variance needed to provide
substantial relief to the applicant and/or be consistent with justice to other
property owners.
      (4)   The need for the variance is due to unique circumstances peculiar
to the property and not generally applicable in the area or to other properties
in the same zoning district, and cannot be solely economic in nature.
      (5)   The problem and resulting need for the variance has been created by
strict compliance with the chapter, not by the applicant or the applicant’s
predecessors.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.288 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   To hear and decide requests for exceptions and other matters upon
which this chapter specifically authorizes the ZBA to act.
   (B)   Any exception shall be subject to such conditions as the ZBA may
require to preserve and promote the intent and purpose of this chapter, and the
character of the zoning district in question.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.289 HEARINGS AND DECISIONS.
   The ZBA shall make no determination on a specific case until after a public
hearing conducted in accordance with the requirements in §
153.309. Each decision of the ZBA shall include a written record of the ZBA’s
findings and determinations in the case.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.290 FEES.
   The Village Council may, from time to time, prescribe or amend a reasonable
schedule of fees to be charged to applicants for applications to the ZBA. Such
fees shall be paid to the village at the time of filing the application.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.291 LIMITATIONS OF AUTHORITY.
   (A)   No order of the ZBA permitting the erection or alteration of a
structure shall be valid for a period longer than one year, unless a zoning
permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within such period, and such
erection or alteration is started and completed in accordance with the terms of
such permit.
   (B)   The ZBA shall not consider appeals of any decisions by the Planning
Commission or Village Council regarding requests for approval of amendments,
special land uses or planned developments, as defined in this chapter.
   (C)   (1)   ZBA jurisdiction to consider appeals of site plan determinations
shall be limited to cases referred by the Planning Commission, where the
Planning Commission has approved a site plan contingent upon approval of one or
more variances by the ZBA.
      (2)   In such cases, the Planning Commission Secretary shall provide
copies of the site plan, application materials and Planning Commission meeting
minutes to the ZBA, and consideration shall be limited to the specific
variances identified as conditions of site plan approval by the Planning
Commission.
   (D)   The ZBA shall not have the authority to alter this chapter or the
Official Zoning Map.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND VIOLATIONS
§ 153.305 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   A Zoning Administrator shall be appointed by and on such terms as shall be
determined by the Village Council. The duties of the Zoning Administrator may
be delegated by the Village Council to another employee of the village or a
consultant approved by the Village Council. It shall be the duty of the Zoning
Administrator to:
   (A)   Receive applications for zoning permits and issue or deny the same;
   (B)   Inspect buildings or structures in order to determine compliance with
the zoning permits issued in compliance with this chapter;
   (C)   Be in charge of the enforcement of this chapter. The Village Council
may, in its discretion, instruct the Zoning Administrator to make efforts to
obtain voluntary compliance with this chapter. The Village Council may instruct
the Zoning Administrator in writing to initiate a criminal complaint or other
legal action. Under no circumstances is the Zoning Administrator permitted to
make changes in this chapter or to vary its terms in carrying out the Zoning
Administrator’s duties; and
   (D)   Perform pre-application conferences, completeness reviews and
technical reviews for all applications that include a site plan review, and to
perform administrative reviews of applicable development applications.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.306 FEES.
   The fees for applications, permits and other requests shall be established
by the Village Council. Fees must be paid before any review of an application
is performed or a permit is issued. Certain applications, permits and requests
are subject to the Village Escrow Policy, as defined in that policy.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.307 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   (1)   To ensure compliance with the chapter and any conditions
imposed, the Planning Commission and/or Village Council may require that a cash
deposit, irrevocable letter of credit, certified check, or surety bond
acceptable to the village covering the estimated cost of improvements be
deposited with the Village Clerk to ensure faithful completion of the
improvements.
      (2)   The performance guarantee shall be deposited at the time of the
issuance of the zoning permit.
   (B)   (1)   The village shall not require the deposit of the performance
guarantee until it is prepared to issue the zoning permit.
      (2)   If requested by the applicant of the site plan review, the village
shall rebate any cash deposits in reasonable proportion to the ratio of work
completed on the required improvements as work progresses.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.308 TAXES, OTHER MONIES OWED.
   (A)   When the village receives an application for any new or amended zoning
permit, site plan review, special land use permit, any other application or any
request for a permit or approval required by this chapter, the applicant shall
be required to present a signed statement from the Village Treasurer that all
real and personal property taxes, fees, penalties, fines, assessments, general
assessments and other monies owed to the village are current and paid up to
date.
   (B)   The Village Treasurer’s signed statement shall cover the accounts of
all named applicants and all properties upon which the application or request
is made.
   (C)   The village shall take no action on any application or request until
the applicant or requesting party acquires the Village Treasurer’s signed
statement that all of the above monies owed are current and paid up to date.
   (D)   The village shall make no final decision on any application or request
if any of the above monies owed become delinquent or remain unpaid during
consideration.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.309 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   The body charged with conducting a public hearing required by this chapter
shall, upon receipt of a completed application, select a reasonable time and
place for such hearing. Such hearings shall be held in accordance with the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2008, as amended, and the
following.
   (A)   Notice of the public hearing shall be:
      (1)   Posted by the Village Clerk at the place the hearing will be held;
      (2)   Published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village not
less than 15 days before the date of the public hearing;
      (3)   Sent by mail or personal delivery not less than 15 days before the
date of the public hearing to:
         (a)   The applicant, owner(s) of property for which approval is being
considered, all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of
the boundary of the property in question; and
         (b)   1.   All occupants of structures within 300 feet of the boundary
of the property in question. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term
“occupant” may be used in making notification.
            2.   Notification need not be given to more than one occupant of a
structure, except that one occupant of each unit or spatial area shall receive
notice if a structure contains more than one dwelling unit or spatial area
owned or leased by different individuals, partnerships, businesses or
organizations.
            3.   In the case of a single structure containing more than four
dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by different
individuals, partnerships, businesses or organizations, notice may be given to
the manager or owner who shall post the notice at the primary entrance to the
structure.
      (4)   Posting the notice on the village website is encouraged, but does
not alleviate the notice of public hearing requirements listed above.
   (B)   The notice shall include all of the following:
      (1)   Describe the nature of the request;
      (2)   (a)   Indicate the property that is the subject of the request.
         (b)   The notice shall include a listing of all existing street
addresses within the property.
         (c)   Street addresses do not need to be created and listed if no such
addresses currently exist within the property. If there are no street
addresses, other means of identification may be used;
      (3)   State when and where the request will be considered; and
      (4)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.310 ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   General.
      (1)   No person shall erect, alter, move or demolish a structure, over
200 square feet, whether temporary or permanent, or to establish a new use or
change in use for any parcel, without a zoning permit.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a zoning permit if the
proposed structure or use is in compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   (a)   The applicant shall furnish permits or approvals from all
applicable agencies before the Zoning Administrator may issue a permit.
         (b)   A certificate of appropriateness from the Historic District
Commission shall be submitted as part of any zoning permit for properties
within the Civic and Commercial Historic Overlay District.
      (4)   A copy of each zoning permit will be retained by the Zoning
Administrator as a part of the permanent records of the village.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall promptly inform the applicant of the
denial of a zoning permit if the proposed structure or use does not comply with
the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Issuance of a zoning permit, or approval of a site plan for a
permitted use or special land use permit does not waive the requirements to
comply with all applicable local, state and federal codes and statutes,
including, but not limited to State Construction Code, Electrical Code,
Property Maintenance Code, Mechanical Code and Fire Prevention Code.
   (B)   Application. Each application for a zoning permit shall include the
following minimum requirements:
      (1)   Plot plan. Drawn to scale illustrating:
         (a)   The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lot;
         (b)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other
structures to be erected, altered or moved, and if any building or other
structure is already on the lot;
         (c)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all such
structures upon it, including residential areas and the number of dwelling
units that the building is intended to accommodate; and
         (d)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as
may be essential to determining that the provisions of this chapter are being
observed.
      (2)   Property boundaries. In cases where property boundaries are not
clearly indicated by corner markers or other means, the Zoning Administrator
may require, at the applicant’s expense, the property to be located by a
registered surveyor.
      (3)   Evidence of ownership.
         (a)   All applications for zoning permits under the provisions of this
chapter shall include the land owner’s signature authorizing the application
for the permit and be accompanied with proof of ownership of all property
affected by the coverage of the permit.
         (b)   Proof of ownership shall be established by one of the following
means: current title policy, or commitment, abstract or attorney’s opinion of
title or such other evidence of ownership as the Zoning Administrator
determines acceptable.
      (4)   Supporting documentation. In the event the Zoning Administrator
feels additional information is required before determining the suitability of
an application for a zoning permit, the Zoning Administrator may request that
the applicant submit such additional information as surveys, deed descriptions,
soil suitability tests, surface water disposal surveys, erosion control
surveys, excavation disposal plans, easements and permits from other
governmental agencies.
   (C)   Voiding permit.
      (1)   Any permit granted under this section shall become null and void
after one year from the date of granting such permit unless the development
proposed shall have passed its first construction code inspection.
      (2)   The applicant shall have the option of extending the permit by a
maximum of one year upon written notice to the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Said notice shall be filed no later than five working days
following the expiration of the permit. If a zoning permit expires, the
applicant will have to reapply as a new application.
   (D)   Inspection. The developer of the property is solely responsible for
meeting the conditions and terms of the zoning permit and this chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.311 NUISANCES.
   (A)   Nuisance per se. Any uses, land, dwellings, buildings or structures,
including tents and trailer coaches, used, erected, altered, razed or converted
in violation of this chapter or in violation of any regulations, conditions,
permits or other rights granted, adopted or issued pursuant to this chapter are
hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   Municipal civil infraction.
      (1)   Any person, partnership, corporation or association who creates or
maintains a nuisance per se as defined above or who violates or fails to comply
with any provision of this chapter, or any permit issued pursuant to this
chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
      (2)   Every day that such violation continues shall constitute a separate
and distinct offense under the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall exempt the offender from compliance
with the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Nuisance abatement. In addition to enforcing this chapter as a
municipal civil infraction the village may initiate proceedings in the Circuit
Court to abate or eliminate the nuisance per se or any other violation of this
chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.312 ENFORCEMENT OFFICIAL.
   The Zoning Administrator, or other Village Council designee, is hereby
designated as the authorized village official to issue municipal civil
infraction citations directing alleged violators of this chapter to appear in
court.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.313 CONDITIONAL REZONING.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.
      (1)   (a)   It is recognized that there are certain instances where it
would be in the best interests of the village, as well as advantageous to
property owners seeking a change in zoning classification, that certain
conditions could be proposed by property owners as part of a request for
rezoning.
         (b)   This is especially true since the village must consider all
potential uses which may be made of property when considering a traditional
rezoning request, some of which may be inappropriate for a particular piece of
property considering items such as, but not limited to, the surrounding land
uses, the Village Master Plan, available infrastructure and natural features.
         (c)   It is the intent of this section to provide a process consistent
with the provisions of § 405 of the State Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110
of 2006, as amended, by which an owner seeking a rezoning may voluntarily
propose conditions regarding the use and/or development of land as part of the
rezoning request.
      (2)   It is not the intent of this section to provide for rezonings that
are inconsistent with the Village Master Plan or surrounding land uses, nor is
it the intent to provide a mechanism for circumventing any requirements of this
chapter.
   (B)   Conditional rezoning standards for approval. The following standards
shall be used as a basis upon which conditional rezoning requests will be
reviewed and approved. The applicant’s offer of conditions may not authorize
uses or developments not permitted in the requested new zoning district.
      (1)   Standards for rezoning.
         (a)   The owner’s offer of conditions shall bear a reasonable and
rational relationship to the property for which the conditional rezoning is
requested.
         (b)   Further, the Planning Commission and Village Council shall, at a
minimum, consider all the following standards in rendering a decision on a
request for conditional rezoning, although not all standards must be met in
order to approve a conditional rezoning:
            1.   Will the proposed rezoning be in accordance with the basic
intent and purpose of this chapter?
            2.   Is the proposed rezoning consistent with the Village Master
Plan?
            3.   Have the conditions changed since the current zoning was
adopted, or was there a mistake in the zoning ordinance that justifies a
rezoning?
            4.   Will the rezoning correct an inequitable situation created by
the zoning ordinance rather than merely grant special privileges?
            5.   Will the amendment set an inappropriate precedent?
            6.   Is the requested rezoning consistent with the existing or
planned surrounding land uses?
            7.   If the rezoning is granted, could all requirements in the
proposed zoning classification be complied with on the subject property?
            8.   Would the proposed rezoning be consistent with the trends in
land development in the general vicinity of the subject property?
            9.   Would the proposed rezoning have a negative impact on public
services, utilities or roads?
            10.   Would the proposed rezoning negatively impact natural
features on the site, such as woodlands or wetlands?
      (2)   Other required approvals.
         (a)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of
conditions that would require a special land use permit under the terms of this
chapter may only be commenced if a special land use permit for such use or
development is ultimately granted in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
         (b)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of
conditions that would require a variance under the terms of this chapter may
only be commenced if a variance for such use or development is ultimately
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter.
         (c)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of
conditions that would require site plan approval under the terms of this
chapter may only be commenced if site plan approval for such use or development
is ultimately granted in accordance with the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   Application and offer of conditions.
      (1)   An owner of land may voluntarily offer in writing conditions
relating to the use and/or development of land for which a conditional rezoning
is requested.
      (2)   This offer may be made either at the time the application for
conditional rezoning is filed, or additional conditions may be offered at a
later time during the conditional rezoning process as set forth below.
      (3)   For a request to be considered for a conditional rezoning, the
following items shall be submitted to the village:
         (a)   An application on a form provided by the village and any
applicable fees;
         (b)   A written proposal explicitly describing the proposed
conditional rezoning; and
         (c)   A conceptual site plan that includes all of the following items:
            1.   The applicant’s name, address and telephone number;
            2.   Scale, north arrow and dates of submission and revisions;
            3.   Zoning classification of applicant’s property and all abutting
parcels;
            4.   Existing lot lines, building lines, structures, parking areas,
driveways and other improvements on the property and within 100 feet of the
property;
            5.   Proposed lot lines and lot dimensions, and general layout of
proposed structures, parking area, driveways and other improvements proposed
for the property;
            6.   Dimensions, centerlines and right-of-way widths of all
abutting streets and alleys;
            7.   Location of existing drainage courses, floodplains, lakes and
streams, wetlands and woodlands;
            8.   All existing and proposed easements;
            9.   Location of sanitary sewer or septic systems, existing and
proposed;
            10.   Location and size of water mains, well sites and building
service, existing and proposed; and
            11.   A conceptual plan showing the specific proposed use(s) of the
property.
   (D)   Conditional rezoning application submission procedures.
      (1)   Pre-application conference.
         (a)   Prior to filing an application for a conditional rezoning, the
applicant must informally meet with the Zoning Administrator, and other
representatives as deemed necessary by the village, to discuss the proposed
development.
         (b)   1.   The pre-application conference is intended to be
informative and advisory in nature, and affords the applicant the opportunity
to discuss the land use and planning policies of the village. The applicant
must present a conceptual plan for the contemplated conditional rezoning at or
before the pre-application conference.
            2.   Any and all statements made by the village employees,
attorneys, agents or representatives at the pre-application conference have no
legal force and are not legally binding promises, commitments or contracts.
      (2)   Completeness review. Upon receipt of an application to amend this
chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall review the application to confirm all
required material has been submitted. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant of any outstanding items.
      (3)   Technical review. Prior to Planning Commission consideration, the
proposed amendment and application materials shall be distributed to
appropriate village officials for review and comment. The Zoning Administrator
may also submit the application materials to designated village consultants for
review.
   (E)   Conditional rezoning application review. Complete conditional rezoning
applications shall be reviewed following the procedures outlined below:
      (1)   Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall set and hold a public
hearing for all proposed conditional rezoning requests in accordance with the
procedures in §
153.309.
      (2)   Planning Commission review and recommendation. After the public
hearing and consideration of the standards for conditional rezoning set forth
in this section, the Planning Commission may recommend to the Village Council
approval as presented or denial of the conditional rezoning.
      (3)   Village Council review. After receipt of the Planning Commission’s
recommendation, the Village Council shall review the Planning Commission’s
recommendation consistent with the standards of this section and deliberate
upon the requested conditional rezoning, and may approve or deny the
conditional rezoning request. If the applicant initiates additional or
different conditions not considered by the Planning Commission subsequent to
the recommendation of the Planning Commission, then the Village Council shall
refer such proposed additional or different conditions to the Planning
Commission for review and recommendation within a time specified by the Village
Council, and the Village Council shall then proceed to deny or approve the
conditional rezoning.
      (4)   Amendment of conditions. The offer of conditions may be amended
during the process of conditional rezoning consideration, provided that any
amended or additional conditions are entered voluntarily by the owner, and
confirmed in writing. An owner may withdraw in writing all or part of its offer
of conditions any time prior to final rezoning action of the Village Council
provided that, if such withdrawal occurs subsequent to the Planning
Commission’s public hearing on the original conditional rezoning request, then
the rezoning application shall be referred back to the Planning Commission for
a new public hearing with appropriate notice and a new recommendation.
   (F)   Approval. If the Village Council finds the conditional rezoning
request and offer of conditions acceptable, the offer of conditions shall be
incorporated into a formal written statement of conditions acceptable to the
owner and conforming in form to the standards of this section. The statement of
conditions shall be incorporated by attachment or otherwise as an inseparable
part of the ordinance codified in this chapter adopted by the Village Council
to accomplish the requested conditional rezoning. The statement of conditions
shall:
      (1)   Be prepared in a form recordable with the County Register of Deeds;
      (2)   Contain a legal description of the land to which it pertains;
      (3)   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of conditions
runs with the land, and is binding upon successor owners of the land, unless
the property is rezoned pursuant to division (J) below;
      (4)   Incorporate by attachment the conceptual plan which formed the
basis of the conditional rezoning;
      (5)   Contain the notarized signatures of all the owners of the property
proceeded by a statement attesting to the fact that they are the only parties
having an interest in the property, and that they voluntarily offer and consent
to the provisions contained within the statement of conditions;
      (6)   The statement of conditions may be reviewed and approved by the
Village Attorney, with the applicant to pay all costs associated with such
review and approval;
      (7)   The approved statement of conditions shall be filed by the owner
with the County Register of Deeds within 45 days after approval of the
conditional rezoning. The owner shall provide the village with a recorded copy
of the statement of conditions within 45 days of receipt; and
      (8)   Upon the conditional rezoning taking effect, and after the required
recording of the statement of conditions, use of the land so rezoned shall
conform thereafter to all the requirements regulating use and development
within the new zoning district as modified by any more restrictive provisions
contained in the statement of conditions.
   (G)   Compliance with conditions.
      (1)   Any person who establishes development or commences a use upon land
that has been conditionally rezoned shall continuously operate and maintain the
development or use in full compliance with all the conditions set forth in the
statement of conditions.
      (2)   Any failure to comply fully with the conditions contained within
the statement of conditions shall constitute a violation of this chapter and be
punishable accordingly.
      (3)   Additionally, any such violation shall be deemed a nuisance per se
and subject to judicial abatement as provided by law.
   (H)   Time period for establishing development or use.
      (1)   The approved development and/or use of the land pursuant to
building and other required permits must be commenced upon the land within 18
months after the effective date by publication of the conditional rezoning, and
must thereafter proceed diligently to completion.
      (2)   This time limitation may, upon written request, be extended an
additional 18 months by the Village Council if:
         (a)   It is demonstrated to the Village Council’s sole satisfaction
that there is a strong likelihood that the development and/or use will commence
within the period of extension and proceed diligently thereafter to completion;
and
         (b)   The Village Council finds that there has not been a change in
circumstances that would render the conditional rezoning with statement of
conditions incompatible with other zones and uses in the surrounding area or
otherwise inconsistent with sound zoning policy.
   (I)   Reversion of zoning. If approved, development and/or use of the
rezoned land do not occur within the time frame specified in this section, then
the land shall revert to its former zoning classification as set forth in
M.C.L.A. § 125.3405(2).
   (J)   Subsequent rezoning of land.
      (1)   When land that is conditionally rezoned with the statement of
conditions is thereafter rezoned to a different zoning classification, or to
the same zoning classification but with a different or no statement of
conditions, whether as a result of a reversion of zoning pursuant to this
section, or upon application of the landowner, or otherwise, the statement of
conditions imposed under the former zoning classification shall cease to be in
effect.
      (2)   Upon the owner’s written request, the Village Clerk shall record
with the County Register of Deeds a notice that the statement of conditions is
no longer in effect.
   (K)   Amendment of conditions.
      (1)   During the time period for commencement of an approved development
or use specified pursuant to This section, or during any extension thereof
granted by the Village Council, the village shall not add to or alter the
conditions in the statement of conditions.
      (2)   The statement of conditions may be amended thereafter in the same
manner as was prescribed for the original conditional rezoning and statement of
conditions.
   (L)   Village right to rezone. Nothing in the statement of conditions or in
the provisions of this section shall be deemed to prohibit the village from
rezoning all or any portion of land that is subject to a statement of
conditions to another zoning classification. Any rezoning shall be conducted in
compliance with this chapter and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act. (Public Act
110 of 2006, as amended).
   (M)   Failure to offer conditions. The village shall not require an owner to
offer conditions as a requirement for rezoning. The lack of an offer of
conditions shall not affect an owner’s rights under this chapter.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter in any
particular, who creates or maintains a nuisance per se or who fails to comply
with any of the regulatory measures or conditions of the Zoning Board of
Appeals adopted pursuant hereto, shall, upon conviction thereof, be fined not
to exceed $500, and each day such violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
(Ord. 160, passed 4-21-2022)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date      Description
161      8-16-2022 Granting to SEMCO Energy Gas Company to lay, maintain and
                   operate gas mains, pipes and services within the village.
                  
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites            Code Section
15.231 et seq.            32.06
                          93.04;
15.231 through 15.246     93.17;
                          152.04
15.261 et seq.            32.06
                          31.06;
15.261 through 15.275     152.04;
                          152.06;
                          152.08
24.201 through 24.328     70.16
62.1(3)                   31.20;
                          31.35
64.3(3)                   32.03
65.8                      31.02
124.751 through 124.774   150.16
125.71 through 125.84     150.15;
                          150.19
125.651 et seq.           150.01
125.1401 et seq.          33.30;
                          33.31
125.1415a(5)              33.35
125.1501 through 125.1531 152.07;
                          152.09
                          32.01;
125.3101 et seq.          32.08;
                          32.09;
                          32.12
125.3203                  153.046
125.3405(2)               153.313
                          32.01;
125.3801 et seq.          32.08;
                          32.12
125.3865                  32.10
                          151.01;
125.4201 et seq.          151.02;
                          151.30
125.4217(2)               151.31
125.4911                  151.39
141.434                   31.06
247.651 through 247.675   93.13
257.1 through 257.923     70.15
280.1 through 280.630     153.189
324.3122                  51.001
                          152.02;
399.201 through 399.215   152.03;
                          152.05;
                          152.06
484.2102                  93.03
484.2251                  93.04
484.3101 et seq.          93.01;
                          93.03
484.3103                  93.03
484.3104(2)               93.16
484.3104(3)               93.07
484.3105                  93.04
484.3105(1)               93.04
484.3105(3)               93.04
484.3105(4)               93.04
484.3106(1)               93.04;
                          93.05
484.3106(2)               93.04;
                          93.05
484.3106(5)               93.04
484.3106(6)               93.05
484.3106(7)               93.08
484.3106(8)               93.07;
                          93.08
                          93.10;
484.3108                  93.11;
                          93.12
484.3110(4)               93.13
484.3110(5)               93.14
484.3113(1)               93.11
484.3113(4)               93.11
484.3113(5)               93.12
484.3113(6)               93.15
484.3115                  93.05
484.3115(2)               93.18
484.3115(3)               93.05
484.3115(4)               93.05
484.3115(5)               93.09
560.101 et seq.           32.11
600.101 et seq.           34.02
600.8396                  34.03
600.8705                  34.09
710.21 to 710.70          153.046
722.111(1)(h)             153.046
722.673                   153.046
752.362                   153.046
4800                      71.07
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        9-20-1979   151.01;
                     151.02
110      12-8-1983   151.01;
                     151.03
-        5-19-1992   52.10
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
92       1-19-1965   70.01;
                     70.99
93       2-9-1965    150.01
                     151.01—
110      6-21-1979   151.05;
                     151.07—
                     151.15
                     33.01—
119      9-7-1982    33.17;
                     33.99
122      12-30-1983  151.01—
                     151.03
125A     6-19-1984   30.01
                     92.01—
126      5-21-1985   92.10;
                     92.99
129      5-19-1992   52.01—
                     52.09
                     51.001;
                     51.015—
                     51.020;
                     51.035—
                     51.046;
                     51.060—
                     51.064;
                     51.075—
130      5-19-1992   51.079;
                     51.090—
                     51.101;
                     51.115—
                     51.117;
                     51.130;
                     51.145—
                     51.147;
                     51.999
                     151.30—
131      5-26-1992   151.38;
                     151.40;
                     151.41
                     91.01—
139      6-16-1998   91.05;
                     91.99
                     152.01—
140      1-15-2002   152.13;
                     152.99
142      5-10-2004   93.01—
                     93.20
144      9-12-2006   33.30—
                     33.37
                     72.01—
102      7-17-2007   72.03;
                     72.99
                     90.01;
145      7-17-2007   90.02;
                     90.99
143      12-15-2009  30.02
                     152.01—
140      6-27-2013   152.13;
                     152.99
94       10-17-2017  32.01—
                     32.12
                     50.01—
132      5-15-2018   50.04;
                     50.99
                     150.15—
146      10-16-2018  150.19;
                     150.99
                     94.01—
148      10-16-2018  94.04;
                     94.99
149      10-16-2018  34.01—
                     34.12
150      12-18-2018  70.16;
                     70.99
151      12-18-2018  70.15;
                     70.99
109      10-15-2019  71.01—
                     71.04
154      10-15-2019  31.01—
                     31.08
157      7-20-2021   31.20;
                     31.21
158      7-20-2021   31.35;
                     31.36
110      11-16-2021  151.06;
                     151.09
131      11-16-2021  151.39
                     153.001—
                     153.005;
                     153.020—
                     153.047;
                     153.060—
                     153.067;
                     153.080;
                     153.081;
                     153.095—
                     153.098;
                     153.110—
                     153.127;
                     153.140—
                     153.142;
160      4-21-2022   153.155—
                     153.169;
                     153.180—
                     153.192;
                     153.205—
                     153.212;
                     153.245—
                     153.247;
                     153.260—
                     153.265;
                     153.280—
                     153.291;
                     153.305—
                     153.313;
                     153.999
161      8-16-2022   TSO Table I
                    
 
 
