CITY OF CHEBOYGAN, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2009 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance effective 3-5-09
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
432 Walnut Street, 12th Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
E-Mail: customerservice@amlegal.com
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
Section
Preamble
Chapter 1
Boundaries and Subdivisions of the City
   
1.1.   Boundaries
   
1.2.   Ward
   
1.3.   Election precincts
Chapter 2
General Municipal Powers
   
2.1.   Powers of the city
   
2.2.   Further definition of powers
   
2.3.   Exercise of powers
   
2.4.   Continuation of rights and liabilities
   
2.5.   Inter-governmental contracts
Chapter 3
General Provisions Affecting Officers of the City
   
3.1.   Officers to be elected
   
3.2.   The administrative officers
   
3.3.   Terms of elective officers
   
3.4.   Administrative officers - appointment, terms, and remunerations
   
3.5.   Eligibility for office in city
   
3.6.   Vacancies in office
   
3.7.   Resignations
   
3.8.   Filling vacancies
   
3.9.   Term of office cannot be shortened or extended
   
3.10.   Oath and bond of office
   
3.11.   Surety and fidelity bonds
   
3.12.   Delivery of office
   
3.13.   Compensation of employees and officers
Chapter 4
The City Council
   
4.1.   City governing body
   
4.2.   Judge of qualification of members
   
4.3.   Salaries of members of the Council
   
4.4.   Duties of Mayor
   
4.5.   Mayor Pro Tem
   
4.6.   Meetings of the Council
   
4.7.   Restriction of powers of the Council
   
4.8.   Investigations
   
4.9.   Publication of Council proceedings
Chapter 5
Police Powers of the Council
   
5.1.   Public health and safety
   
5.2.   Streets and alleys
   
5.3.   Licenses
   
5.4.   Parks and recreational facilities
   
5.5.   Cemetery regulations
   
5.6.   House trailers
   
5.7.   City planning
   
5.8.   Zoning
   
5.9.   Health
Chapter 6
City Legislation
   
6.1.   Prior city ordinances and regulations
   
6.2.   Penalties
   
6.3.   Enactment, amendment, repeal and effective date of ordinances
   
6.4.   Technical codes
   
6.5.   Improvements, franchises and contracts
   
6.6.   Compilation
   
6.7.   Initiative and referendum
   
6.8.   Petitions
   
6.9.   Council procedure
   
6.10.   Submission to electors
   
6.11.   Ordinance suspended
   
6.12.   Severability of ordinances
Chapter 7
The Administrative Service
   
7.1.   City Manager
   
7.2.   Functions of the City Manager
   
7.3.   Administrative officers responsible to City Manager
   
7.4.   City Clerk
   
7.5.   City Attorney
   
7.6.   City Treasurer
   
7.7.   Deputy Clerk or Treasurer
   
7.8.   Assessor
   
7.9.   Purchasing Agent
   
7.10.   Other administrative officers
   
7.11.   Nepotism
   
7.12.   Civil service
   
7.13.   Employee welfare benefits
   
7.14.   Restrictions concerning other officers
Chapter 8
Justice Court
[deleted]
Chapter 9
Supervisors
[deleted]
Chapter 10
Elections
   
10.1.   Qualifications of electors
   
10.2.   Election procedure
   
10.3.   Regular elections
   
10.4.   Special elections
   
10.5.   Election Commission
   
10.6.   Notice of election
   
10.7.   Voting hours
   
10.8.   Nominating petitions
   
10.9.   Approval of petitions
   
10.10.   Public inspection of petitions
   
10.11.   Names on ballots
   
10.12.   Canvass of votes
   
10.13.   Tie vote
   
10.14.   Recount
   
10.15.   Recall
Chapter 11
General Finance - Budget Procedure
   
11.1.   Fiscal year
   
11.2.   Budget procedure
   
11.3.   Budget document
   
11.4.   Budget hearing
   
11.5.   Appropriations for city purposes
   
11.6.   Budget control
   
11.7.   Depository
   
11.8.   Audit
Chapter 12
General Taxation
   
12.1.   Power to tax
   
12.2.   Subjects of taxation
   
12.3.   Tax day
   
12.4.   Time for making assessment rolls
   
12.5.   Valuing of real and personal property
   
12.6.   Board of Review
   
12.7.   Meetings of Board of Review
   
12.8.   Notice of meeting
   
12.9.   Organization and functions of the Board of Review
   
12.10.   Validity of tax roll
   
12.11.   Serves for all tax purposes
   
12.12.   Clerk to certify tax levy
   
12.13.   City tax roll
   
12.14.   Tax roll certified for collection
   
12.15.   Taxes lien on property
   
12.16.   Notification of taxes due
   
12.17.   Collection of city taxes
   
12.18.   Tax roll to County Treasurer
   
12.19.   Apportioning on tax on portion of taxed item
   
12.20.   State, county and school taxes
Chapter 13
Municipal Borrowing Power
   
13.1.   General borrowing; debt limitation
   
13.2.   Special assessment bonds
   
13.3.   Mortgage bonds
   
13.4.   Other bonds
   
13.5.   Preparation and record
   
13.6.   Unsold bonds
Chapter 14
Special Assessments
   
14.1.   Council resolution
   
14.2.   Procedure fixed by ordinance
Chapter 15
Contracts - Franchises - Municipal Utilities
   
15.1.   City may perform public work
   
15.2.   Plans and specifications
   
15.3.   Contracts
   
15.4.   Right of regulation
   
15.5.   Maintenance and protection of city facilities
   
15.6.   General powers respecting municipal utilities
   
15.7.   Utility charges - collections
   
15.8.   Accounts
   
15.9.   Disposal of plants
   
15.10.   Administration of municipal utilities
Chapter 16
Miscellaneous
   
16.1.   City liability
   
16.2.   No estoppel
   
16.3.   Records to be public
   
16.4.   Definition of publication; mailing of notices
   
16.5.   Sundays and holidays
   
16.6.   Headings
   
16.7.   Interpretations
   
16.8.   Effect or illegality of any part of Charter
   
16.9.   Amendments
   
16.10.   Penalties for violations of Charter
Schedule
   
1.   Election to adopt Charter
   
2.   Form of ballot
   
3.   First election under this Charter
   
4.   Effective date of this Charter
   
5.   Supervisors
   
6.   Budget adjustments
   
7.   Status of schedule Charter
Resolution of Adoption
PREAMBLE
   To the end that the people of the City of Cheboygan may enjoy, to the
fullest extent, the advantages and benefits of local self-government as
authorized by the constitution and laws of the State of Michigan, they hereby
establish this charter.
CHAPTER 1
BOUNDARIES AND SUBDIVISIONS OF THE CITY
Sec. 1.1.  BOUNDARIES.
   The following described territory, together with all territories that may
hereafter be annexed thereto, shall continue and remain a body corporate under
the official name and title of “City of Cheboygan”, and shall be subject to the
municipal control of said city:
   Fractional sections nineteen, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty and thirty-
one; sections thirty-two and thirty-three, all in town thirty-eight north, of
range one west; all lying east of the north and south quarter line in
fractional section twenty-four, and the east half of sections twenty-five and
thirty-six, in town thirty-eight north, of range two west; the northeast
quarter of section one in town thirty-seven north, of range two west; the north
half of sections four, five and six; in town thirty-seven north, of range one
west; all lying and being in the county of Cheboygan and State of Michigan
(including the present organized village of Cheboygan), be and the same is
hereby set off and detached from the township of Benton, Beaugrand and
Inverness, in said county, as now organized, and erected into and declared to
be a city by the name of the City of Cheboygan, by which name it shall
hereafter be known.
   Said city shall have and enjoy full jurisdiction over the waters of the
Straits of Mackinac, for the full length of the water front of the city, and
for a sufficient distance out over the said waters to include all natural or
artificial accretions or grain of soil, the filling out from the shore and
making or reclaiming of land; also all break waters, wharves, piers, and
structures of every kind; and all boats, floats and vessels moored to any such
structure or at rest or at anchor or in use in the vicinity thereof, for all
proper sanitary, quarantine, police, and other municipal purposes, subject only
to the jurisdiction thereover had and exercised by the United States of America
and by the State of Michigan.
Sec. 1.2.  WARD.
   The City of Cheboygan shall consist of one (1) ward.
Sec. 1.3.  ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   The Council shall, by ordinance, establish convenient election precincts
which shall comply with the provisions of state law, but not less than three
(3).
CHAPTER 2
GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
Sec. 2.1.  POWERS OF THE CITY.
   Unless otherwise provided or limited in this charter, the City of Cheboygan
and its officers shall be vested with any and all powers, privileges and
immunities, expressed and implied, which cities and their officers are, or
hereafter may be, permitted to exercise or to provide for in their charters
under the constitution and laws of the State of Michigan, and of the United
States of America, including all the powers, privileges, and immunities which
cities are permitted to or may provide in their charters by Act 279 of the
Public Acts of 1909, as amended, as fully and completely as though those
powers, privileges, and immunities were specifically enumerated in and provided
for in this charter, and in no case shall any enumeration of particular powers,
privileges, or immunities in this charter be held to be exclusive. Also all
powers, privileges and immunities not inconsistent with the provisions of this
charter, possessed by the City of Cheboygan, by virtue of its incorporation as
such and enumerated in the charter of said city granted by the State
Legislature by Act 333 of Michigan Local Acts of 1889 and so subsequently
amended, which charter is hereby superseded, are expressly retained by the City
of Cheboygan under this charter.
   The City and its officers shall have power to exercise all municipal powers
in the management and control of municipal property and in the administration
of the municipal government, whether such powers be expressly enumerated herein
or not; to do any act to advance the interests of the city, the good government
and prosperity of the municipality and its inhabitants, and through its
regularly constituted authority, to pass and enforce all laws, ordinances, and
resolutions relating to its municipal concerns, subject to the Constitution and
general laws of the state and the provisions of this charter.
Sec. 2.2.  FURTHER DEFINITION OF POWERS.
   In addition to the powers possessed by the city under the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Michigan, and those set forth throughout this charter,
the city shall have power with respect to and may, by ordinance and other
lawful acts of its officers, provide for the following, but this enumeration
shall not be exclusive:
   (a)   The refunding of money advanced or paid on special assessments imposed
for water main extensions and for borrowing money for such refunding and for
issuing bonds therefor at an interest rate not to exceed six per cent per year;
   (b)   The purchase or condemnation of the franchises, if any exist, and of
the property used in the operation of companies or individuals engaged in
hospital, electric light, gas, heat, water and power business and for making a
contract to purchase, operate, and maintain any existing public utility
property for supplying water, heat, light or power to the city and the in
habitants thereof;
   (c)   A plan of streets and alleys within and for a distance of not more
than three miles beyond the municipal limits;
   (d)   The use, control and regulation of streams, waters and water courses
within its boundaries, subject to the restrictions of section 4-h(4) of Act 279
of 1909, as amended;
   (e)   The securing by condemnation, agreement or purchase, or by any other
means, an easement in property abutting or adjacent to any navigable stream,
for any municipal purpose as provided in section 4-h(5) of Act 279 of 1909, as
amended;
   (f)   The acquisition, establishment, operation, extension and maintenance
of parking facilities as permitted in section 4-h(6) of Act 279 of 1909, and to
finance the same as a local improvement;
   (g)   The regulation of trades, occupations and amusements within the city
boundaries and the prohibition of such trades, occupations and amusements as
are detrimental to the health, morals or welfare of the inhabitants;
   (h)   The acquisition by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction,
or in any manner permitted by statute, of private property of every type and
nature for public use, which property may be located within or without the
County of Cheboygan and which may be required for or incidental to the present
or future exercise of the purposes, powers and duties of the city, either
proprietary or otherwise, and for the maintenance, development, operation,
leasing and disposal of city property subject to any restrictions placed
thereon by statute or this charter;
   (i)   The use, regulation, improvement and control of the surface of its
streets, alleys, public ways and other public places and of the space above and
beneath them, whether such be located within or without the limits of the city;
   (j)   The use, by others than the owner, of property located in streets,
alleys and public places, in the operation of a public utility, upon the
payment of a reasonable compensation to the owners thereof;
   (k)   The regulation, restriction and limitation of the number and locations
of oil and gasoline stations;
   (l)   The establishment of districts or zones within which the use of land
and structures, the height, the area, the size and location of buildings and
required open spaces for light and ventilation of such buildings and the
density of population may be regulated by ordinance in accordance with
statutory provisions governing zoning;
   (m)   The prevention of injury or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city
from anything which is dangerous, offensive, or unhealthful, and for preventing
and abating nuisances and punishing those occasioning them or neglecting or
refusing to abate, discontinue or remove the same;
   (n)   The prescribing of the terms and conditions upon which licenses may be
granted, suspended, or revoked; for requiring payment of reasonable sums for
licenses; and for requiring the furnishing of a bond to the city for the
faithful observance of the conditions under which licenses are granted;
   (o)   The licensing, regulating, restricting and limiting of the number of
locations of advertising signs or displays and billboards within the city;
   (p)   The regulation of all airports located within its boundaries, and for
the purpose of promoting and preserving the public peace, safety and welfare,
for controlling and regulating the use of the air above the city by aircraft of
all types.
Sec. 2.3.  EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   Where no procedure is set forth in this charter for the exercise of any
power granted to or possessed by the city and its officers, resort may be had
to any procedure set forth in any statute of the State of Michigan which was
passed for the government of cities or townships, or in any other statute of
the State of Michigan. If alternate procedures are to be found in different
statutes, then the Council shall select that procedure which it deems to be
most expeditious and to the best advantage of the city and its inhabitants.
Where no procedure for the exercise of any power of the city is set forth,
either in this charter or in any statute of the State of Michigan, the Council
may prescribe by ordinance a reasonable procedure for the exercise thereof.
Sec. 2.4.  CONTINUATION OF RIGHTS AND LIABILITIES.
   The adoption of this charter shall not be regarded as discharging,
impairing, or limiting any right vested in or liability incurred by the City of
Cheboygan under the charter in force at the time of the adoption of this
charter.
Sec. 2.5.  INTER-GOVERNMENTAL CONTRACTS.
   The city shall have power to join with any governmental unit or agency, or
with any number or combination thereof, by contract or otherwise as may be
permitted by law, to have performed jointly, or by one or more of them, for or
on behalf of the other or others, or by any other person, firm or corporation
any power or duty which is permitted to be so performed by law or which is
possessed by or imposed upon each such governmental unit or agency.
CHAPTER 3
GENERAL PROVISIONS AFFECTING OFFICERS OF THE CITY
Sec. 3.1.  OFFICERS TO BE ELECTED.
   The elective officers of the city shall be seven (7) Councilmen, each of
whom shall be elected from the city at large.
(Amended by Charter Referendum following Res. eff. 9-28-76)
Sec. 3.2.  THE ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.
   The appointive officers of the city shall be the City Manager, Clerk,
Treasurer, Assessor, City Attorney, Health Officer, Chief of Police, and Fire
Chief. The Council may, by resolution, upon the recommendation of the City
Manager, create such additional administrative officers, or combine any
administrative offices in any manner not inconsistent with state law, and
prescribe the duties thereof as it may deem necessary for the proper operation
of the city government. No creation of any administrative office, or
combination thereof one with another, shall abolish the office of City Manager
nor diminish any of the duties or responsibilities of that office set forth in
this charter.
Sec. 3.3.  TERMS OF ELECTIVE OFFICERS.
   The terms of office of Councilmen shall be four (4) years for the three
candidates receiving the highest, second highest, and third highest votes for
that office and two (2) years for the candidate receiving the fourth highest
vote of that office at each municipal election at which Councilmen are elected.
The terms of office of all elected officers of the city shall commence on and
date from the Monday following the regular city election at which they are
elected. No councilmen shall serve more than three (3) consecutive terms,
whether full or partial terms.
(Amended by Charter Referendum following Res. eff. 9-28-76)
Sec. 3.4.  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS - APPOINTMENT, TERMS, AND REMUNERATIONS.
   (a)   The City Manager shall hold office by virtue of appointment by the
Council, which body shall also set his salary. He shall hold office at the
pleasure of the Council.
   (b)   Subject to the confirmation of the Council, the Clerk, City Treasurer,
Assessor, City Attorney, Health Officer, Chief of Police, Fire Chief and the
holders of such additional offices as shall be created by the Council in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be appointed or selected
by the City Manager. Officers appointed by the City Manager as herein provided
may be discharged by the City Manager without confirmation of the Council. The
salaries of the Clerk, Treasurer, Assessor, City Attorney and Health Officer
shall be set by the Council. Salaries of all other administrative officers
shall be set by the City Manager, subject to budget appropriations.
Sec. 3.5.  ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE IN CITY.
   No person shall be elected or appointed to any office who is in default to
the city. No person shall be eligible to any elective office of the city unless
he shall be an elector thereof. No person who holds or who has held the office
of Councilman shall be eligible to any appointive office of the city until two
(2) years have elapsed following the expiration of the term of office for which
he was elected.
Sec. 3.6.  VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   Every city office shall become vacant upon the happening of any of the
following events before the expiration of the term of such office.
   (a)   For any reason specified by state law as grounds for creating a
vacancy;
   (b)   If the officer of the city shall absent himself continuously from the
city for more than sixty (60) days without the permission of the Council;
   (c)   In the case of members of the Council, where such officer shall miss
four (4) consecutive regular meetings of the Council, or twenty-five (25) per
cent of such meetings in any fiscal year of the city, unless such absences
shall be excused by the Council and the reason therefor entered in the
proceedings of the Council;
   (d)   If the officer shall be convicted of any act constituting misconduct
in office under the provisions of this charter.
Sec. 3.7.  RESIGNATIONS.
   Resignations of elected officers and of the City Manager, Clerk, Treasurer,
Assessor, City Attorney, and Health Officer shall be made in writing and filed
with the Clerk; in the case of the Clerk, such resignation shall be filed with
the Mayor; and shall be acted upon by the Council at its next regular meeting
following receipt thereof by the Clerk or Mayor, as the case may be.
Resignations of appointive officers, other than those appointed by the Council,
shall be made in writing to the City Manager, and shall be immediately acted
upon by him.
Sec. 3.8.  FILLING VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy occurs in the office of City Manager, the Council shall, within
thirty (30) days after such vacancy occurs, appoint a person who possesses the
qualifications required of the holder of that office.
   If vacancy occurs in any appointive office, other than those appointed by
the Council, the City Manager shall within thirty (30) days thereafter, appoint
a qualified person to fill such vacancy in the manner required for making the
original appointment.
   If a vacancy should occur in the offices of a City Councilman or the Mayor,
the remainder of the unexpired term shall be filled as follows:
   (a)   If twelve (12) months or less remain in the unexpired term, the City
Council shall within thirty (30) days appoint a person having the same
qualifications for such office to fill the remainder of the term.
   Provided, however, in the event that that office shall be that of the Mayor,
the City Council may choose from its then existing members, one to fill the
office of Mayor, in which case that councilman's position shall become vacant.
   (b)   If more than twelve (12) months remain in the unexpired term, the City
Council shall within thirty (30) days appoint a person having the same
qualifications for such office in the same method as provided in subsection (a)
herein and schedule a special election as soon as permitted by law.
   Said person so appointed shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired term or
until a successor has been elected, whichever occurs, and the same has
qualified for and assumed the duties of his office.
   (c)   If other provisions of the City Charter or State Law shall prohibit
the calling of such a special election, then the appointment shall be in effect
until a special or general election is legally permitted whichever shall occur
first.
(Amended by Charter Referendum following Res. eff. 2-8-77)
Sec. 3.9.  TERM OF OFFICE CANNOT BE SHORTENED OR EXTENDED.
   Except by procedures provided in this charter, the term of the elected
officials of the city and of officers of the city appointed for a definite term
shall not be shortened. The terms of offices of the city may not be extended
beyond the period for which any such officer was elected or appointed except
that an elected officer of the city shall, after his term has expired, continue
to hold office until his successor is elected and has qualified.
Sec. 3.10.  OATH AND BOND OF OFFICE.
   Every officer, elected or appointed, before entering upon the duties of his
office, shall take the oath of office prescribed by Section 2 of Article XVI of
the Constitution of the State and shall file the same with the Clerk, together
with any bond which he may be required by this charter or by the Council to
give. The oath and bond of the Clerk shall be filed with and kept by the
Treasurer. In case of failure to comply with the provisions of this section
within ten (10) days from the date of his election or appointment, such officer
shall be deemed to have declined the office and such office shall thereupon
become vacant unless the Council shall, by resolution, extend the time in which
such officer may qualify as above set forth.
Sec. 3.11.  SURETY AND FIDELITY BONDS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the Council may require any
officer or employee to give a bond, to be approved by the Council, conditioned
upon the faithful and proper performance of the duties of his office or
employment, in such sums as the Council shall determine. All such officers or
employees receiving, disbursing, or responsible for the city funds shall be
bonded. The resignation or removal of any bonded officer or employee shall not,
nor shall the appointment of another to the office or employment, exonerate
such officer or employee or his sureties from any liability incurred by him or
them. All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums
thereon shall be paid by the city, except as otherwise provided in this
charter. No bond required by this section shall be renewed upon its expiration
or in the event of the reappointment of any officer or employee to a position
for which a bond is required, but a new bond shall be furnished. No bond shall
be issued for a term exceeding two (2) years.
(Amended by Charter Referendum following Res. eff. 9-28-76)
Sec. 3.12.  DELIVERY OF OFFICE.
   Whenever any officer or employee shall cease to hold such office or
employment for any reason whatsoever, he shall within five days, and sooner on
demand, deliver to his successor in office or to his superior all the books,
papers, money and effects in his custody as such officer or employee. Any
officer violating this provision may be proceeded against in the same manner as
public officers generally for a like offense under statute. Any employee found
guilty of violating this provision by a court of competent jurisdiction may be
punished by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars or imprisonment for
not to exceed ninety days or both in the discretion of the court.
Sec. 3.13.  COMPENSATION OF EMPLOYEES AND OFFICERS.
   (a)   The compensation of all employees and officers of the city whose
compensation is not provided for herein shall be fixed by the appointing
officer or body within the limits of budget appropriations and in accordance
with any over-all pay plan adopted by the Council.
   (b)   The respective salaries and compensation of officers and employees as
fixed pursuant to this charter shall be in full for all official services of
such officers or employees and shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions and
other compensation receivable by such officers or employees for their services.
Such fees, commissions and other compensation shall belong to the city and
shall be collected and accounted for by such officers or employees, and be paid
into the city treasury and a statement thereof filed periodically with the
Clerk. The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to fees,
commissions or other compensation paid by the County of Cheboygan to any
officer or employee serving as a city representative on the Board of
Supervisors.
CHAPTER 4
THE CITY COUNCIL
Sec. 4.1.  CITY GOVERNING BODY.
   All powers of the city shall be vested in and all matters of policy of the
city shall be exercised and determined by a Council of seven (7) members. In
all cases where the word “Council” is used in this charter, the same shall mean
and shall be synonymous with the terms “commission,” “common council,” “board
of aldermen,” “governing body,” “legislative body” or any other synonymous
term, as the same may be used in any state or Federal law in referring to
legislative or governing bodies of cities.
Sec. 4.2.  JUDGE OF QUALIFICATION OF MEMBERS.
   The Council shall be the judge of the eligibility and qualification of its
own members.
Sec. 4.3.  SALARIES OF MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Mayor and each Councilman shall receive, as remuneration for his service
to the city, the sum of five (5) dollars per meeting of the Council actually
attended by him, but not to exceed in total one hundred thirty (130) dollars
per year. The Mayor shall receive the sum of one hundred (100) dollars per year
in addition to the remuneration received by him as a member of the Council.
Such salaries shall be payable quarterly, and, except as otherwise provided in
this charter, shall constitute the only salary or remuneration which may be
paid for services performed by the Mayor or any Councilman for the discharge of
any official duty for or on behalf of the city during their term of office,
except services as supervisor and members of the Board of Review. Upon
authorization of the Council, reasonable expenses may be allowed when actually
incurred on behalf of the city.
Sec. 4.4.  DUTIES OF MAYOR.
   At the first regular meeting of the Council after the regular biennial
municipal election, the new Council shall choose one of its number to be Mayor
for the ensuing two-year period, and the powers and duties of said mayor shall
be:
   (a)   Insofar as required by law, and for all ceremonial purposes, the Mayor
shall be recognized as the executive head of the city and chairman of the City
Council. He shall have an equal voice and vote in the proceedings of the
Council, but shall have no veto power.
   (b)   He shall be a conservator of the peace, and may exercise within the
city the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress disorder, and shall have
the power to command the assistance of all able-bodied citizens to aid in the
enforcement of the ordinances of the city, and to suppress riot and disorderly
conduct.
   (c)   He shall authenticate by his signature such instruments as the
Council, this charter, or the laws of the State of Michigan or of the United
States shall require.
Sec. 4.5.  MAYOR PRO TEM.
   The Council shall, at its first regular meeting following each regular
biennial city election, select one (1) of its members to serve as Mayor Pro
Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall perform the duties of the Mayor when, on account
of absence from the city, disability, or otherwise, the Mayor is temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, and in case of vacancy in the
office of Mayor, until such vacancy is filled by the Council. The Mayor Pro Tem
shall preside over the meetings of the Council at the call of the Mayor. In the
event of a vacancy occurring in the office of Mayor Pro Tem, the Council shall
appoint from its membership to fill such vacancy.
Sec. 4.6.  MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (a)   The Council shall provide by resolution for the time and place of its
regular meetings and shall hold at least two regular meetings each month. If
any time set for the holding of a regular meeting of the Council shall be a
holiday, then such regular meeting shall be held at the same time and place on
the next secular day which is not a holiday.
   (b)   Special meetings of the Council shall be called by the Clerk on the
written request of the Mayor or of any two (2) members of the Council, on at
least twenty-four (24) hours written notice to each member of the Council,
designating the time, place, and purpose of any such meeting and served
personally or left at his usual place of residence by the Clerk or someone
designated by him. Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements for the calling
of special meetings, any special meeting of the Council at which all members of
the Council are present or have, in writing, waived the requirement that notice
be given at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time specified for the
holding of such meeting and at which a quorum of the Council is present, shall
be a legal meeting.
   (c)   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the Council
unless the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting. However, if all
the members of the Council are present at any special meeting of the Council,
then any business which might lawfully come before a regular meeting of the
Council may be transacted at such special meeting.
   (d)   All regular and special meetings of the Council shall be open to the
public and the rules of order of the Council shall provide that citizens shall
have a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
   (e)   Four (4) members of the Council shall be a quorum for the transaction
of business at all meetings of the Council, but, in the absence of a quorum,
two (2) members may adjourn any regular or special meeting to a later date.
   (f)   The Council shall determine its own rules and order of business and
shall keep a journal of all of its proceedings in the English language which
shall be signed by the Mayor and the Clerk. The vote upon the passage of all
ordinances, and upon the adoption of all resolutions shall be taken by “yes”
and “no” votes and entered upon the record, except that where the vote is
unanimous it shall only be necessary to so state. Each member of the Council
who shall be recorded as present shall vote on all questions decided by the
Council unless excused by the unanimous consent of the other members present.
Any citizens or taxpayer of the city shall have access to the minutes and
records of all regular and special meetings of the Council at all reasonable
times.
   (g)   The Council may, by vote of not less than four (4) of its members,
compel the attendance of its members and other officers of the city at its
regular and special meetings and enforce orderly conduct therein; and any
member of the Council or other officer of the city who refuses to attend such
meetings or conduct himself in an orderly manner thereat shall be deemed guilty
of misconduct in office. The Chief of Police shall serve as the Sergeant-at-
arms of the Council in the enforcement of the provisions of this section.
Sec. 4.7.  RESTRICTION OF POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (a)   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members shall
deal with the administrative service solely through the City Manager, and
neither the Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinate
of the City Manager either publicly or privately. Any violation of the
provisions of this section by a Councilman shall constitute misconduct in
office.
   (b)   There shall be no standing committees of the Council.
Sec. 4.8.  INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Council, or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office, or
officer of the city and to make investigations as to municipal affairs, and for
that purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the
production of books, papers, and other evidence. Failure on the part of any
officer of the city to obey such subpoena or to produce books, papers, or other
evidence as ordered under the provisions of this section shall constitute
misconduct in office. If such failure shall be on the part of any employee of
the city, the same shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Sec. 4.9.  PUBLICATION OF COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
   The proceedings of the Council shall be published at least once within ten
(10) days after approval of the Council. The publication of a synopsis of such
proceedings prepared by the clerk and approved by the Council showing the
substance of each separate proceeding of the Council shall be a sufficient
compliance with the requirements of this section.
(Amended by Res. eff. 8-30-76)
CHAPTER 5
POLICE POWERS OF THE COUNCIL
Sec. 5.1.  PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   Through the established departments and agencies of the city government,
together with any such departments or agencies as may be created under
authority of this charter, the Council shall provide for the public peace and
health and for the safety of persons and property.
Sec. 5.2.  STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Council shall have power to establish and vacate and to use, and to control
and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges, and public places,
whether such public places be located within or without the limits of the city,
and the space above and beneath them. Such power shall include, but not be
limited to, the proper policing and supervision thereof and to the licensing
and regulation, or the prohibition of the placing of signs, awnings, awning
posts, and other things which are of such nature as to impede or make dangerous
the use of sidewalks or streets, upon or over the sidewalks or streets of the
city, and the licensing and regulation of the construction and use of openings
in the sidewalks or streets, and of all vaults, structures, and excavations
under the same.
Sec. 5.3.  LICENSES.
   The Council shall by ordinance prescribe the terms and conditions upon which
licenses may be granted, suspended, or revoked; and may require and exact
payment of such reasonable sums for any licenses as it may deem proper. The
person receiving the licenses shall, before the issuing thereof, execute a bond
to the city, when required by any ordinance, in such sum and with such
securities as prescribed by such ordinance, conditioned for the faithful
observance of the charter of the city, and the ordinance under which the
license is granted.
Sec. 5.4.  PARKS AND RECREATIONAL FACILITIES.
   The Council shall have power to enact all ordinances deemed necessary for
the establishment, maintenance, and protection of all parks and recreational
facilities, together with the improvements thereon and appurtenances thereto,
owned or hereafter acquired by the city either within or without its corporate
limits.
Sec. 5.5.  CEMETERY REGULATIONS.
   The Council shall have power to enact all ordinances deemed necessary for
the establishment, maintenance, and protection of cemeteries, together with the
improvements thereon and appurtenances thereto, owned or hereafter acquired by
the city either within or without its corporate limits. All ordinances
pertaining to public health and welfare in the regulation and protection of
public cemeteries shall apply equally to all cemeteries within the city
belonging to, or under the control of, any church or religious society, or any
corporation, company, or association. The city may cause any bodies buried
within the city in violation of any rule or ordinance made in respect to such
burials, to be taken up and reburied in such manner as shall conform to the
ordinances of the city, or to be buried elsewhere. In any cemetery established
by the city, a plan for the platting, sale, and perpetual care of all lots,
plots, and lands therein shall be provided.
Sec. 5.6.  HOUSE TRAILERS.
   The Council shall, by ordinance, provide for the prohibition or regulation
of the use, occupancy, sanitation, and parking of house trailers within the
city. The right of the Council to so regulate any house trailer shall not be
abrogated because of any detachment thereof from its wheels or because of
placing it on, or attaching it to, the ground by means of any temporary or
permanent foundation, or in any manner whatsoever.
Sec. 5.7.  CITY PLANNING.
   The Council may appoint and maintain a City Planning Commission in
accordance with and having the powers and duties granted by the provisions of a
state law relating to such commissions. The Council shall appropriate the
necessary funds and provide all needed rules, regulations, and ordinances for
carrying into effect the work and purposes of such commission.
Sec. 5.8.  ZONING.
   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the city, the Council shall pass a zoning ordinance in accordance with the
provisions of the state law relating to such ordinances.
Sec. 5.9.  HEALTH.
   The Council shall constitute the Board of Health of the city. The Board of
Health shall adopt rules and regulations for their own government and shall
possess all powers, privileges, and immunities granted to boards of health by
state law. The Board of Health shall have supervision of all matters relating
to the sanitary condition of the city and the preservation of the life and
health of its inhabitants. The Mayor shall be president and the Health Officer
shall be the secretary and executive officer of the Board of Health.
CHAPTER 6
CITY LEGISLATION
Sec. 6.1.  PRIOR CITY ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City of Cheboygan
which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, in force and
effect at the time of the adoption of this charter, shall continue in full
force as ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City of
Cheboygan until repealed or amended by action of the proper authorities.
Sec. 6.2.  PENALTIES.
   The Council may provide in each ordinance for the punishment of those who
violate its provisions. No punishment for the violation of any city ordinance
or for the commission by any officer of the city of any act declared by this
charter to constitute misconduct in office shall exceed a fine of five hundred
(500) dollars or imprisonment for ninety (90) days, or both in the discretion
of the court, except that any officer of the city found guilty of any act
declared by this charter to constitute misconduct in office, shall, in addition
to such fine or imprisonment, or both, forfeit his office.
Sec. 6.3.  ENACTMENT, AMENDMENT, REPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   Subject to the exceptions which follow, (1) ordinances may be enacted,
amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of not less than four Councilmen,
(2) no ordinance shall be finally enacted by the Council until after
publication of the proceedings, or summary thereof, of the meeting at which it
is introduced, and (3) the effective date of all ordinances shall be prescribed
therein but the effective date shall not be earlier than twenty days after the
enactment nor before publication thereof. It is provided however, that an
ordinance which is declared therein to be immediately necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, health or safety may be enacted before
publication of the proceeding of the meeting at which it is introduced, or may
be given earlier effect than twenty days after its enactment, or both, by the
affirmative vote of not less than five Councilmen if six or seven Councilmen
are present at the meeting at which it is enacted or by the affirmative vote of
not less than four Councilmen if four or five Councilmen are present at the
meeting at which it is enacted. In case an ordinance is given effect earlier
than twenty days after its enactment, the requirements for publication before
such ordinance becomes operative may be met by posting copies thereof in
conspicuous locations in ten public places in the city; and the Clerk shall,
immediately after such posting, enter in the Ordinance Book under the record of
the ordinance a certificate under his hand stating the time and place of such
publication by posting, which certificate shall be prima facie evidence of such
publication by posting of the ordinance. Such ordinance shall also thereafter
be published in accordance with Section 4.9 of this charter, but not as a
requirement for the effectiveness thereof.
   Unless by the affirmative vote of four Councilmen, no office shall be
created or abolished, no tax or assessment shall be imposed, no street, alley
or public ground shall be vacated, no real estate, or any interest therein
shall be sold or disposed of, no action shall be taken to condemn private
property for public use, no money shall be appropriated, nor shall any vote of
the Council be reconsidered or rescinded.
   No ordinances shall be revised, altered or amended by reference to the title
only, but the section or sections of the ordinance revised, altered or amended
shall be reenacted and published. However, an ordinance or section thereof may
be repealed by reference to its title and ordinance or code number only.
Sec. 6.4.  TECHNICAL CODES.
   The Council may adopt any provision of state law or any detailed technical
regulations as a city ordinance or code by citation of such provisions of state
law or by reference to any recognized standard code, official or unofficial,
provided that any such provision of state law or recognized official or
unofficial standard code shall be clearly identified in the ordinance adopting
the same as an ordinance of the city. Where any recognized official or
unofficial standard code is so adopted, it may be published by providing to the
public not less than fifty (50) copies in book or booklet form, available for
public distribution at a reasonable charge, and any amendment to or revision of
such adopted code or detailed technical ordinance may be published in the same
manner.
Sec. 6.5.  IMPROVEMENTS, FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS.
   Every ordinance or resolution granting any franchise or right to occupy or
use the streets, highways, bridges, or public place in the city of any purpose
shall be complete in the form in which it is finally passed, and remain on file
with the Clerk for public inspection for at least one (1) week before the final
passage or adoption thereof.
Sec. 6.6.  COMPILATION.
   (a)   Copies of all ordinances enacted before or after the effective date of
this charter, and all amendments to this charter shall be available at the
office of the Clerk.
   (b)   Not later than July 1, 1951, and at least once in every ten (10)
years, the Council shall direct and complete the compilation or codification of
all ordinances of the city, then in force, in loose-leaf or pamphlet form, and
may provide for a reasonable charge for copies thereof. No further publication
of any such compilation or codification shall be required for the validity
thereof. In case the compilation or codification of the ordinances of the city
shall have been maintained current and up-to-date during and ten (10) year
period, no recompilation or re-codification of the ordinances of the city shall
be required during or at the end of such period.
   The copies of ordinances and of any compilation, code, or codes referred to
in this chapter may be certified by the Clerk and when so certified, shall be
competent evidence in all courts and legally established tribunals as to the
matters contained therein.
Sec. 6.7.  INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum or an ordinance
enacted by the Council may be had, by a petition as hereinafter provided.
Sec. 6.8.  PETITIONS.
   An initiatory or a referendary petition shall be signed by registered
qualified electors of the city in number equal to fifteen (15) per cent of the
electors of the city voting for the councilman receiving the highest number of
votes at the last regular city election held prior to the filing of the
petition. Before being circulated for signatures, all such petitions shall be
approved as to form by the Clerk. No such petition need be on one paper, but
may be the aggregate of two (2) or more petition papers. Each signer of a
petition shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil, and shall place
thereon, after his name, the date and his place of residence by street and
number, or by other customary designation. To each petition paper there shall
be attached a sworn affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of
signers thereto and that each signature thereon is the genuine signature of the
person whose name it purports to be, and that it was made in the presence of
the affiant. Such petition shall be filed with the Clerk who shall within ten
(10) days canvass the names thereon to determine the sufficiency thereof. If
found to contain an insufficient number of names of qualified electors of the
city, or to be improper as to form or compliance with the provisions of this
section, the City Clerk shall notify the person filing such petition forthwith
and ten (10) days from such notification shall be allowed for the filing of
supplemental petition papers. When found sufficient and proper, the Clerk shall
present the petition to the Council at its next regular meeting.
Sec. 6.9.  COUNCIL PROCEDURE.
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the Clerk, the
Council shall, within thirty (30) days, either
   (a)   If it be an initiatory petition, adopt the ordinance as submitted in
the petition or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the city;
   (b)   If it be a referendary petition, repeal the ordinance to which the
petition refers or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the
city.
Sec. 6.10.  SUBMISSION TO ELECTORS.
   Should the Council decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it shall
be submitted at the next election held in the city for any other purpose or, in
the discretion of the Council, at a special election. The result shall be
determined by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon, except in cases
where otherwise required by the constitution or laws of the State of Michigan.
Sec. 6.11.  ORDINANCE SUSPENDED.
   The certification by the Clerk of the sufficiency of a referendary petition
within thirty (30) days after the passing of the ordinance to which such
petition refers shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance in
question pending repeal by the Council or final determination by the electors
as the case may be. An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory
proceedings may not be amended or repealed by the Council for a period of two
(2) years after the date of the election at which it was adopted. Should two
(2) or more ordinances, adopted at the same election, have conflicting
provisions, the one receiving the highest vote shall prevail as to those
provisions.
Sec. 6.12.  SEVERABILITY OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless an ordinance shall expressly provide to the contrary, if any portion
of an ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall
be found to be invalid by a court, such invalidity shall not effect the
remaining portions or applications of the ordinance which can be given effect
without the invalid portion or application, provided such remaining portions
are not determined by the court to be inoperable, and to this end ordinances
are declared to be severable.
CHAPTER 7
THE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
Sec. 7.1.  CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
government. He shall be selected by the Council on the basis of training and
ability alone, without regard to his political or religious preferences and
need not be a resident of the city at the time of his appointment but shall
become a resident of the city within ninety (90) days after his appointment and
shall so remain throughout his tenure of office. The City Manager shall, with
the approval of the Council designate an appointive officer or employee of the
city to serve as an acting City Manager who shall perform the duties of the
City Manager during his temporary absence or incapacity. The acting City
Manager shall serve in such capacity at the pleasure of the Council. The
Council shall designate a qualified person to perform the duties of City
Manager during a vacancy in the office.
Sec. 7.2.  FUNCTIONS OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The functions of the City Manager shall be:
   (a)   To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
   (b)   To manage and supervise all public improvements, works, and
undertakings of the city;
   (c)   To have charge of the construction, repair, maintenance, lighting and
cleaning of streets, sidewalks, bridges, pavements, sewers, and of all public
buildings or other property belonging to the city;
   (d)   To manage and supervise the operation of all city utilities;
   (e)   To be responsible for the preservation of property, tools, and
appliances of the city;
   (f)   To see that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the city or
its inhabitants in any public utility franchise, or in any contract, are
faithfully kept and performed;
   (g)   To attend all meetings of the Council, with the right to take part in
discussions, but without the right to vote;
   (h)   To be a member, ex-officio, of all committees of the Council;
   (i)   To prepare and administer the annual budget under policies formulated
by the Council and keep the Council fully advised at all times as to the
financial condition and needs of the city;
   (j)   To recommend to the Council for adoption such measures as he may deem
necessary or expedient;
   (k)   To be responsible to the Council for the efficient administration of
all departments of the city government;
   (l)   To act as the Purchasing Agent for the city or, under his
responsibility, delegate such duties to some other officer or employee of the
city;
   (m)   To conduct all sales of personal property which the Council may
authorize to be sold;
   (n)   To assume all the duties and responsibilities as personnel director of
all city employees or delegate such duties to some other officer or employee of
the city;
   (o)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this charter or
required of him by ordinance or by direction of the Council, or which are not
assigned to some other official in conformity with the provisions of this
charter.
Sec. 7.3.  ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS RESPONSIBLE TO CITY MANAGER.
   The administrative officers of the city, except the City Attorney and the
City Clerk insofar as their duties as attorney and clerk for the Council are
concerned, shall, in the performance of the duties of their respective offices,
be subordinate to and under the direction of the City Manager and shall report
and be directly responsible to him. Except for the City Attorney all department
heads and administrative heads shall not need to be city residents at the time
of their hiring but shall live in the city within ninety (90) days after
beginning work with the city and shall remain so during the tenure of their
employment. The City Attorney shall not be required to become a resident of the
City.
Sec. 7.4.  CITY CLERK.
   (a)   The Clerk shall be clerk of the Council. He shall attend all meetings
of the Council and shall keep a permanent journal of its proceedings in the
English language. He shall keep a record of all ordinances, resolutions, and
actions of the Council;
   (b)   He shall have power to administer all oaths required by state law,
this charter and the ordinances of the city;
   (c)   He shall be custodian of the city seal, and shall affix it to all
documents and instruments requiring the seal, and shall attest the same. He
shall also be custodian of all papers, documents and records pertaining to the
City of Cheboygan, the custody of which is not otherwise provided for by this
charter. All records of the city shall be public and the Clerk and other
officers entrusted with such records shall so maintain and keep the same that
they may be available to the public at all reasonable times. He shall give to
the proper officials of the city ample notice of the expiration or termination
of any official bonds, franchises, contracts, or agreements to which the city
is a party;
   (d)   He shall certify by his signature all ordinances and resolutions
enacted or passed by the Council and perform any other duties required of him
by state or Federal law, this charter, or by the Council and ordinances of the
city;
   (e)   He shall be the general accountant of the city, shall keep the books
of account of the assets, receipts, and expenditures of the city, and shall
keep the Council and the City Manager informed as to the financial affairs of
the city. The system of accounts of the city shall conform to such uniform
systems as may be required by law;
   (f)   He shall examine and audit all accounts and claims against the city.
No withdrawals shall be made from any city fund which, after deducting all
prior withdrawals therefrom, has not a sufficient amount therein to pay such
proposed withdrawal;
   (g)   He shall, at least quarterly, and at any time upon direction of the
City Manager, examine and audit all books of account kept by any official,
board, or department of the city. He shall examine and audit all books of
account of the Treasurer and the Justice Court at least once each month;
   (h)   He shall balance all the books of account of the city at the end of
each calendar month, and shall make a report thereon to the City Manager;
   (i)   He shall perform such other duties in connection with his office as
may be required of him by state or Federal law, this charter, the resolutions
or ordinances of the Council, or by the City Manger.
Sec. 7.5.  CITY ATTORNEY.
   (a)   The City Attorney shall act as legal adviser to, and attorney and
counsel for, the Council in matters relating to their official duties. He shall
give legal opinions concerning the affairs of the City of Cheboygan only to the
Council and to the City Manager. All such opinions shall be in writing and a
copy thereof shall be filed with the Clerk.
      (a-a)   He need not be a resident nor an elector of the city.
   (b)   He shall conduct for the city all cases in all courts and before all
legally constituted tribunals whenever the city is a party thereto.
   (c)   He shall prepare, or officially pass upon, all contracts, bonds, and
other instruments in writing, in which the city is concerned, and shall certify
before execution as to their legality and correctness of form.
   (d)   He shall file in the office of the Clerk the original copy of all
franchises granted by the city, of all contracts and agreements entered into by
or in behalf of the city, and of all papers constituting a part of the
proceedings in all courts or legally constituted tribunals to which the city is
a party, together with the proper data and information concerning the same.
   (e)   He shall be charged with the responsibility of calling to the
attention of the Council and the City Manager all matters of law and changes or
developments therein affecting the city.
   (f)   He shall perform such other duties in connection with his office as
may be prescribed by this charter or by the Council.
   (g)   Upon the recommendation of the City Attorney, approved by the City
Manager, or upon its own motion, the Council may retain special legal counsel
to handle any matter to which the city is a party or in which the city has an
interest, or to assist and co-counsel with the City Attorney therein.
   The remuneration set by the Council for the City Attorney as required in
this charter shall be in contemplation of the normal duties of that office.
Special compensation may be provided at the discretion of the Council in cases
of appeals to, or litigation commenced in, the circuit or higher courts, courts
requiring extensive hearings before administrative or quasi-judicial tribunals,
for legal work in connection with the issuance of bonds of the city, the
compilation or codification of ordinances, and such other extensive legal work
as may, in the discretion of the Council warrant additional compensation. No
such special compensation shall be given by the Council, except in accordance
with an agreement between itself and the City Attorney, made before the service
for which such special compensation is to be paid has been rendered.
Sec. 7.6.  CITY TREASURER.
   (a)   The Treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys of the city, and
all evidences of value belonging to the city, or held in trust by the city;
   (b)   He shall receive all moneys belonging to and receivable by the city,
including license fees, taxes, assessments, and all other charges belonging to
and payable to the city and shall in all cases give a receipt therefor;
   (c)   He shall keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such manner and only
in such places as the Council may determine. He shall report the same in detail
to the Clerk;
   (d)   He shall have such powers, duties, and prerogatives in regard to the
collection and custody of state, county, school district, and city taxes and
moneys as are conferred by law to enforce the collection of state, county,
township, and school district taxes upon real and personal property;
   (e)   He shall perform such other duties in connection with his office as
may be prescribed for him by state or Federal law, this charter, or by the
Council or the City Manager.
Sec. 7.7.  DEPUTY CLERK OR TREASURER.
   The Clerk and the Treasurer may appoint their own deputies, subject to the
written confirmation of the Council. The Clerk and the Treasurer may terminate
the status of their respective deputies at pleasure, upon written notice to the
Council. Each deputy shall possess all the duties, powers and authorities of
his superior officer except as the same may be from time to time limited by his
superior or by the Council.
Sec. 7.8.  ASSESSOR.
   (a)   The Assessor shall possess all the powers vested in and shall be
charged with all the duties imposed upon assessing officers by the general laws
of the state.
   (b)   He shall make and prepare all regular and special assessment rolls in
the manner prescribed by this charter and the general laws of the state.
Sec. 7.9.  PURCHASING AGENT.
   (a)   All purchases and contracts for the city, its departments, board, and
agencies, for materials and supplies shall be executed by the Clerk, under the
direction of the City Manager, and shall be only pursuant to a written
requisition from the City Manager, and no contract or order shall be issued to
any vendor unless there is a sufficient and unencumbered appropriation balance
in the budget to pay for the supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual
services for which the contract or order is to be issued. He shall also conduct
all sales of personal property which the Council may authorize to be sold as
having become unnecessary or unfit for the city's use.
   (b)   All purchases and sales shall conform to such regulations as the
Council may from time to time prescribe, but in either case, if an amount in
excess of five hundred dollars ($500.00) is involved opportunity for
competition shall be given and contracts given to the lowest responsible bidder
who shall be deemed competent to do the work required, or to furnish the goods
or materials required, and who shall give adequate security for the fulfillment
of such contract.
   (c)   Under the direction of and with the assistance of the City Manager,
the Clerk shall:
      1.   Establish and enforce specifications with respect to supplies,
materials, and equipment required by the city government.
      2.   Inspect or supervise the inspection of all deliveries of supplies,
materials, and equipment and determine their quality, quantity, and conformance
with specifications; and
      3.   The City Manager shall have charge of the general storerooms and
warehouses of the city.
Sec. 7.10.  OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.
   The duties of all administrative officers, not otherwise provided for
herein, shall be those established by law or ordinance for such offices or
prescribed by the City Manager.
Sec. 7.11.  NEPOTISM.
   Except and unless relatives by blood or marriage of the Mayor, any
Councilman, or the City Manager, within the second degree of consanguinity or
affinity, are bona fide appointive officers or employees of the city at the
time of the election of such officers or appointment of such City Manager, such
relatives shall be disqualified from holding any appointive office or from
being employed by the city, during the term for which such Mayor or Councilman
was elected, or during the tenure of office of such City Manager. If the status
of relationship between any employee of the city and any officer of the city
changes to a relationship prohibited hereby after one (1) year following the
employment of such person or election or appointment of such officer, the
provisions of this section shall not apply.
Sec. 7.12.  CIVIL SERVICE.
   The Council may provide, by ordinance, for a merit system of personnel
management for employees in the service of the city.
Sec. 7.13.  EMPLOYEE WELFARE BENEFITS.
   The Council shall have power to make available to the administrative
officers and employees of the city and its departments and boards, any
recognized standard plan of group life, hospital, health, or accident
insurance, either independently of, or as a supplement to, any pension plan
provided by the city for its employees.
Sec. 7.14.  RESTRICTION CONCERNING OTHER OFFICERS.
   No appointive city officer or employee, shall seek any elective office of
the city, unless he resigns from his position with the city.
CHAPTER 8
JUSTICE COURT
   Deleted; (Michigan Constitution of 1963; and Local Referendum)
CHAPTER 9
SUPERVISORS
   Deleted; (P.A. No. 261 of Michigan, 1966 and by Local Referendum)
CHAPTER 10
ELECTIONS
Sec. 10.1.  QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   Each person who has the constitutional qualifications of an elector in the
State of Michigan or who will have such qualifications at the next ensuing
biennial or special city election, shall be entitled to register as an elector
of the City of Cheboygan in the voting district in which he resides.
Sec. 10.2.  ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   The election of all city officers shall be on a nonpartisan basis. The
general election laws of the state shall apply to and control, as near as may
be, all procedure relating to registration and city elections, except as such
general laws relate to political parties or partisan procedure, or require more
than one publication of notice, and except as otherwise provided by this
charter.
Sec. 10.3.  REGULAR ELECTIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, a nonpartisan biennial city
election shall be held on the first Monday in April in each even numbered year.
Sec. 10.4.  SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   Special elections shall be held when called by resolution of the Council at
least forty (40) days in advance of such election, or when required by this
charter or the general laws of the state. Any resolution calling a special
election shall set forth the purpose of such election. No more than two (2)
special elections shall be held in any one calendar year.
Sec. 10.5.  ELECTION COMMISSION.
   An election commission is hereby created, consisting of the Clerk, the Mayor
and the City Attorney. The Clerk shall be chairman. The commission shall have
charge of all activities and duties required of it by state law and this
charter relating to the conduct of elections in the city. To assure rotation of
the duties of election officials among the people of the community, the
aggregate number of inspectors of election, clerks of election, and gatekeepers
in each precinct at any biennial city election who have served in any such
capacity within two years prior to such biennial city election shall not exceed
three (3) in number. The compensation of election personnel shall be determined
in advance by the Council, and shall be a fixed amount for each election;
provided, such compensation shall not exceed the amount appropriated for
elections in the budget, unless such increase shall first have been approved by
the Council as are other increases in appropriations for any department or
function. In the event of a conflict in election procedure as between the
general election laws of the state and the provisions of this charter, or in
any case where election procedure is in doubt, the election commission shall
prescribe the procedure to be followed.
Sec. 10.6.  NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   Notice of the time and place of holding any election and the officers to be
elected and the questions to be voted upon shall, except as herein otherwise
provided, be given by the Clerk in the same manner and at the same times as
provided in the state election laws for the giving of notices by township
clerks in state elections.
Sec. 10.7.  VOTING HOURS.
   The polls of all elections shall be opened at the time prescribed by law for
the opening of polls at state elections, or as soon thereafter as may be, on
election day and shall remain open until the time prescribed by law for the
closing of polls at such elections of the same day. Every qualified elector
present and in line at the polls at the hour prescribed for the closing thereof
shall be allowed to vote.
Sec. 10.8.  NOMINATING PETITIONS.
   Persons desiring to qualify as candidates for any elective office under this
charter shall file with the Clerk a petition therefor signed by not less than
twenty-five (25) nor more than fifty (50) registered electors of the city not
later than 12 o'clock noon on the fourth Saturday prior to the date of the
biennial city election. Blank petitions in substantially the same form as
required by state law for state and county officers, except for references to
party, shall be prepared and furnished by the Clerk, At least one (1) week
before, and not more than three (3) weeks before, the last day for filing
nominating petitions, the Clerk shall publish notice to that effect. No person
shall sign his name to a greater number of petitions of candidates for any one
office than there are candidates to be elected to said office. Where any name
appears on more petitions than there are candidates to be elected to said
office, such name shall not be counted upon any petition for that office.
Sec. 10.9.  APPROVAL OF PETITIONS.
   The Clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform with the
forms provided and maintained by him and which, considered together contain the
required number of valid signatures for candidates having those qualifications
required for the respective elective city officers by this charter. When a
petition is filed by persons other than the person whose name appears thereon
as a candidate, it may be accepted only when accompanied by the written consent
of the candidate. The Clerk shall, forthwith after the filing of a petition,
notify in writing any candidate whose petition is then known not to meet the
requirements of this section, but the failure to so notify any candidate shall
in no way prevent a final determination that the petition does not meet such
requirements. Within five days after the last date for filing petitions, the
Clerk shall write his determinations as to the validity and sufficiency of each
nomination petition and whether or not the candidate has the qualifications
required for his respective elective city office by this charter and shall
write his determinations thereof on the face of the petition and shall notify
in writing the candidate whose name appears thereon of his determinations.
Sec. 10.10.  PUBLIC INSPECTION OF PETITIONS.
   All nominating petitions shall be open to public inspection after being
filed in the office of the clerk.
Sec. 10.11.  NAMES ON BALLOTS.
   The form of the ballot used in any city election shall conform as nearly as
may be to that prescribed by the general laws of the state, except that no
party designation or emblem shall appear upon any city ballot. The names of
qualified candidates for each office shall be listed in a single column and
shall be rotated systematically on the ballots. In all other respects the
printing and numbering of ballots shall conform to the general laws of the
state, relating to elections.
Sec. 10.12.  CANVASS OF VOTES.
   The Council shall be the board of canvassers to canvass the votes cast at
all elections under this charter. The Council shall meet at 8 p.m. legal time,
on the first Thursday after each city election and publicly canvass the
election returns of such election, and shall determine the vote upon all
questions and propositions, and declare whether the same have been adopted or
rejected and what persons have been elected at such election. The candidate, or
candidates, where more than one are to be elected to the same office, who shall
receive the greatest number of votes, shall be declared to be elected.
Sec. 10.13.  TIE VOTE.
   If, at any city election, there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two (2) or more candidates having received an equal number of votes,
then the council shall name a date for the appearance of such candidates for
the purpose of determining the election of such candidates by lot as provided
by state law. In the event of tie votes for two or more candidates for the
office of councilman, the offices and terms to be filled will be determined by
lot in accordance with the votes received by candidates so tied in relation to
the votes received by the other candidates.
Sec. 10.14.  RECOUNT.
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office, or upon any
proposition, may be had in accordance with the general election laws of the
state.
Sec. 10.15.  RECALL.
   Any elective official may be removed from office by the electors of the city
in the manner provided by the general laws of the state. A vacancy created by
the recall of any elective official shall be filled in the manner prescribed by
state law.
CHAPTER 11
GENERAL FINANCE - BUDGET PROCEDURE
Sec. 11.1.  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July and end on
the 30th day of June, of the following year.
Sec. 11.2.  BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   On or before the second Monday in March, each city officer shall submit to
the City Manager an itemized estimate of the expenditures for the next fiscal
year, for the department or activities under his control. The City Manager
shall prepare a complete itemized budget proposal for the next fiscal year and
shall submit it to the Council on or before the second Monday in April.
Sec. 11.3.  BUDGET DOCUMENT.
   The budget proposal shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year. It shall include at least, the following information:
   (a)   Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for each department
and office of the city, showing the expenditures for corresponding items for
the current and last preceding fiscal years, with reasons for increases and
decreases recommended, as compared with appropriations for the current year;
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the city, showing
the debt redemption and interest requirements, and debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated income of the city from sources
other than taxes and borrowing, with a comparative statement of the amounts
received by the city from each of the same or similar sources for the last
preceding and current fiscal years;
   (d)   A statement of the estimated balance or deficit, as the case may be,
for the end of the current fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which, together
with income from other sources, will be necessary to meet the proposed
expenditures;
   (f)   Such other supporting schedules as the Council may deem necessary.
Sec. 11.4.  BUDGET HEARING.
   A public hearing on the budget shall be held before its final adoption, at
such time and place as the Council shall direct, and notice of such public
hearing shall be published at least one (1) week in advance by the Clerk. A
copy of the proposed budget shall be on file and available to the public for
inspection during office hours at the office of the Clerk for a period of not
less than one (1) week prior to such public hearing.
Sec. 11.5.  APPROPRIATIONS FOR CITY PURPOSES.
   At the second regular meeting of the Council in May in each year, the
Council shall pass an annual appropriation resolution which shall be based on
the budget submitted by the City Manager, as approved or amended by the
Council. The total amount of appropriation shall not exceed the revenues of the
city as estimated by the Council, based upon a tax levy for all city purposes
which shall not exceed one and one-half per cent (1.5%) of the assessed value
of all real and personal property in the city, plus all miscellaneous revenues
derived by the city in accordance with the provisions of state and federal law,
this charter, and the ordinances of the city. The tax rate herein limited may
be increased above such limitation for any tax year or specified number of
years of the city where the authority to do so shall be given by a majority of
the electors of the city voting at any regular biennial or special city
election, held prior to the date of the second regular meeting of the Council
in May preceding the commencement of such fiscal year, at which said
proposition shall be submitted, but the increase in any case shall not be such
as to cause such rate to exceed two per cent (2%) of the assessed value of the
real and personal property in the city.
Sec. 11.6.  BUDGET CONTROL.
   Except for purposes which are to be financed by a method not requiring a
budget appropriation, no money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city
without an appropriation thereof, nor shall any obligation for the expenditure
of money be incurred without an appropriation covering all payments which will
be due under such obligation in the current fiscal year. The Council may
transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from
one department, fund or agency to another. In the case of emergency arising
from fire, flood or other calamity, the Council may make additional
appropriations to cover unanticipated expenditures required of the city because
of such emergency. The balance in any appropriation which has not been
encumbered at the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the general fund.
   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and more
often if required by the Council, the officer responsible for the maintenance
of the city accounting system shall submit to the Council data showing the
relation between the estimated and actual revenues and expenditures to date;
and if it shall appear that the revenues are less than anticipated, the Council
may reduce appropriations, except amounts required for debt and interest
charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep expenditures within the
revenues.
Sec. 11.7.  DEPOSITORY.
   The Council shall designate the depository or depositories for city funds,
and shall provide for the regular deposit of all city monies. The Council shall
provide for such security for city deposits as is authorized or permitted by
the general laws of the state, except that personal surety bonds shall not be
deemed proper security.
Sec. 11.8.  AUDIT.
   The Council shall provide that an annual audit of the accounts of all
officers, departments, and boards of the city government shall be made by
certified public accountants, which audit shall be completed within ninety (90)
days after the close of each fiscal year of the city.
CHAPTER 12
GENERAL TAXATION
Sec. 12.1.  POWER TO TAX.
   In order to carry out the purposes, powers, and duties of the city
government established by this charter, the city may assess, levy, and collect
taxes, rents, tolls, and excises.
Sec. 12.2.  SUBJECTS OF TAXATION.
   The subjects of taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same as for
State, County, and School purposes under the general law. No exceptions from
taxation upon such subjects shall be allowed, except such exemptions as are
expressly required to be made by state law. Except as otherwise provided by
this charter, city taxes shall be levied, collected, and returned in the manner
provided by state law.
Sec. 12.3.  TAX DAY.
   The Tax day for both real and personal property of the city shall be the tax
day provided by state law for similar property for state or county taxes.
Sec. 12.4.  TIME FOR MAKING ASSESSMENT ROLLS.
   Prior to the first meeting of the Board of Review in each year, the Assessor
shall make and complete an assessment roll in the manner and form provided in
the general tax law of the state.
Sec. 12.5.  VALUING OF REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY.
   Said Assessor shall estimate, according to state law, the value of every
parcel of real property and set the same down opposite such description. The
roll shall show separate figures for the value of the land and of the building
improvements. He shall also estimate the value of all taxable personal property
of each person and set the same down opposite the name of such person. Except
in the case of uniform general increases in property assessments in which cases
notice shall be given by publication, the Assessor shall give notice by first
class mail of any increase in the assessment of any property to the owner
thereof of record according to the last assessment roll of the city addressed
to the address of such owner shown on such roll, but the failure on the part of
the Assessor to give any such notice or of any such owner to receive any such
notice shall not invalidate any assessment roll of the city or any assessment
thereon.
Sec. 12.6.  BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The members of the Council shall comprise the Board of Review. Meetings of
the Board shall not constitute meetings of the Council in its functions as the
legislative body of the city. The remuneration of the members of the Board of
Review shall be the same compensation as may be from time to time provided by
state law for serving on the Board of Supervisors.
Sec. 12.7.  MEETINGS OF BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The Board of Review shall meet in two sessions in each year at such place as
shall be designated by the Council and at such times as provided by state law
for said meetings in townships. In each case where the assessed value is
increased or any property added to the roll by the Board, the Secretary shall,
forthwith, give notice to the owners thereof according to the last assessment
roll of the city by first class mail placed in the Cheboygan Post Office not
later than midnight of the Wednesday following the first meeting of the Board.
No assessment shall be changed in any way at any session of the Board except by
a motion regularly made and adopted by a majority of the members of said Board,
which motion shall state the amount at which the assessment is fixed as
reviewed by the Board. Each day's proceedings of said board shall be read,
approved, and signed by the chairman thereof. At the conclusion of the review
of said rolls, said Board shall prepare a signed statement, showing the amount
in gross and the additions or deductions made in total of the assessed
valuations of the real and personal property made by said Board.
Sec. 12.8.  NOTICE OF MEETING.
   The Clerk shall give notice to the public of the time and place of meeting
of the Board of Review by publication at least once not less than ten (10) days
immediately preceding such meeting.
Sec. 12.9.  ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW.
   On the first day of its meeting in each year, the Board of Review shall
elect one of its members chairman. The Assessor shall be Secretary of the Board
and shall attend its meetings with the privilege of participating therein but
without the right to vote upon any decision of the Board. It shall be the duty
of the Assessor to keep a permanent record of all proceedings, and to enter
therein all resolutions and decisions of the Board. A majority of the members
of the Board shall constitute a quorum. The members of said Board shall take
the constitutional oath of office which shall be filed with the Clerk. For the
purpose of reviewing and correcting assessments, the Board of Review shall have
the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as are by the general
law conferred upon and required of boards of review in townships, in reviewing
assessments in townships for township, state, and county taxes. It shall hear
the complaints of all persons considering themselves aggrieved by assessments,
and if it shall appear that any person or property has been wrongfully
assessed, or omitted from the roll, the Board shall correct the roll in such
manner as it shall deem just. In all cases, the assessment roll shall be
reviewed according to the facts existing on the tax day and no change of the
status of any property after said day shall be considered by the Board in
making its decisions.
   After the Board of Review has completed its review of the assessment roll,
and not later than the first Monday in April, the majority of its members shall
endorse thereon and sign a statement to the effect that the same is the
assessment roll of the city for the year in which it has been prepared. The
omission of such endorsement shall not affect the validity of such roll.
Sec. 12.10.  VALIDITY OF TAX ROLL.
   Upon completion of said roll and its confirmation in the manner aforesaid,
the same shall be conclusively presumed by all courts to be valid and shall not
be set aside, except for causes mentioned in the general tax laws of the state.
Sec. 12.11.  SERVES FOR ALL TAX PURPOSES.
   The assessment roll herein provided for shall be the assessment roll for the
county, school, and city taxes and for any other taxes on real and personal
property that may be authorized by law.
Sec. 12.12.  CLERK TO CERTIFY TAX LEVY.
   Within three (3) days after the Council has adopted the budget for the
ensuing year, the Clerk shall certify to the Assessor the total amount which
the Council determines shall be raised by general tax; all amounts of special
assessments which the Council requires to be assessed or reassessed upon any
property or against any person; and all other amounts which the Council may
determine shall be charged, assessed, or reassessed against any person or
property.
Sec. 12.13.  CITY TAX ROLL.
   After the Board of Review has completed its review of the assessment roll
the Assessor shall prepare a copy of the assessment roll to be known as the
“City Tax Roll,” and upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to
be raised, as provided in Section 12.12, the Assessor shall spread upon said
tax roll the several amounts determined by the Council to be charged, assessed
or reassessed against persons or property. He shall also spread the amounts of
the general city tax according to and in proportion to the several valuations
set forth in said assessment roll. To avoid fractions in computation on any tax
roll, the Assessor may add to the amount of the several taxes to be raised not
more than the amount prescribed by statute. Any excess created thereby on any
tax roll shall belong to the city.
Sec. 12.14.  TAX ROLL CERTIFIED FOR COLLECTION.
   After spreading the taxes aforesaid and not later than the 15th day of June
in each year, the Assessor shall certify said tax roll, and the Mayor shall
annex his warrant thereto, directing and requiring the Treasurer to collect
prior to March 1st of the following year from the several persons named in said
roll the several sums mentioned therein opposite their respective names as a
tax or assessment, and granting to him, for the purpose of collecting the
taxes, assessments, and charges on such roll, all the powers and immunities
possessed by township treasurers for the collection of taxes under the general
laws of the state.
Sec. 12.15.  TAXES LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   The city taxes thus assessed shall become at once a debt due to the city
from the persons to whom they are assessed, and the amounts assessed on any
interest in real property, shall on the first day of July become a lien upon
such real property, and the lien for such amounts and for all interest and
other charges thereon shall continue until payment thereof. All personal taxes
shall also be a first lien, prior, superior, and paramount, upon all personal
property of the persons so assessed from and after the first day of July in
each year and shall so remain until paid, which said tax liens shall take
precedence over all other claims, encumbrances and liens upon said personal
property whatsoever, whether created by chattel mortgage, execution, levy,
judgment, or otherwise, and whether arising before or after the assessment of
said personal taxes, and no transfer of personal property assessed for taxes
thereon shall operate to divest or destroy such lien except where such personal
property is actually sold in the regular course of retail trade.
Sec. 12.16.  NOTIFICATION OF TAXES DUE.
   The Treasurer shall not be required to call upon the persons named in the
city tax roll, nor to make personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he
shall give notice to the taxpayers of the city, at least ten (10) days prior to
the first day of July in each year, of the time when said taxes will be due for
collection by publication, or shall give such notice by first class mail
addressed to the owners of the property upon which taxes are assessed according
to the names of such owners and their addresses as indicated on the tax roll,
which notice shall be deemed sufficient for the payment of all taxes and
assessments on said tax roll. Failure on the part of the Treasurer to give said
notice shall not invalidate the taxes on said tax roll nor release the person
or property assessed from the penalty provided in this chapter in case of
nonpayment of the same.
Sec. 12.17.  COLLECTION OF CITY TAXES.
   City taxes shall be due and payable on the first day of July of each year.
No collection charge shall be added to taxes paid during the month of July. To
all taxes paid after July 31 there shall be added a three (3) per cent penalty.
To all taxes returned delinquent to the County Treasurer by the City Treasurer
there shall be added an additional penalty of seven (7) per cent.
Sec. 12.18.  TAX ROLL TO COUNTY TREASURER.
   If the Treasurer has been unable to collect any of the city taxes on said
roll on real property before the first day of March following the date when
said roll was received by him, it shall be his duty to return all such unpaid
taxes on real property to the county treasurer in the same manner and with like
effect as returns by township treasurers of township, school and county taxes.
Such returns shall be made upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the
Treasurer and shall include all the additional charges and fees hereinbefore
provided, which charges shall, in such return, be added to the amount assessed
in said tax roll against each description. The taxes thus returned shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to the county treasurer
are collected under the provisions of the general laws of the state and shall
be and remain a lien upon the lands against which they are assessed, until
paid.
Sec. 12.19.  APPORTIONING ON TAX ON PORTION OF TAXED ITEM.
   Any person owning an undivided share or other part of any parcel of real
property, assessed in one description, may pay on the share or part thus owned
by paying an amount having the same relation to the whole tax as the value of
the part on which payments is made has to the value of the whole parcel. The
person making such payment shall accurately describe the part or share on which
he makes payment and the receipt given and the record of the receiving officers
shall show such description and by whom paid; and in cases of the sale of the
remaining part or share, for nonpayment of taxes, he may purchase the same in
like manner as any disinterested person could. The values above referred to
shall be determined by the Assessor who before making such determination shall
set a time for hearing and shall notify the interested parties by registered
mail at their last known addresses, such notice to be mailed at least ten (10)
days before the hearing. Any person aggrieved by such determination may appeal
therefrom to the Board of Review by filing notice thereof with the Clerk within
ten (10) days after receiving notice of such decision. The Board of Review
shall then without delay meet and review such decision and either affirm or
modify it.
Sec. 12.20.  STATE, COUNTY AND SCHOOL TAXES.
   For the purpose of assessing taxes in the city for state, county, and school
purposes, the city shall be considered the same as a township, and all
provisions of state law relative to the collection of such taxes and the fees
to be paid therefor, the accounting therefor to the appropriate taxing units,
and the returning of property to the county treasurer of nonpayment thereof
shall apply to the performance thereof by the Treasurer, who shall perform the
same duties and have the same powers as township treasurers under state law. In
the event that school taxes are collected at the same time as city taxes, they
shall be collected subject to the same conditions and privileges as city taxes
under the provisions of this charter.
CHAPTER 13
MUNICIPAL BORROWING POWER
Sec. 13.1.  GENERAL BORROWING; DEBT LIMITATION.
   Subject to the applicable provisions of state law and this charter, the
Council, by proper ordinance or resolution, may authorize the borrowing of
money for any purpose within the scope of the powers vested in the city or
permitted by the present or future Constitution and laws of the state, and the
issuance of bonds of the city or other evidences or indebtedness therefor, and
may pledge the full faith, credit, and resources of the city for the payment of
the obligation created therefor; provided, however that nothing herein shall
authorize the Council to issue without an authorizing vote of the electors any
bonds which by state law require such a vote. The net bonded indebtedness shall
not at any time exceed 10 per cent of the assessed value of real and personal
property in the city, provided that in computing such net bonded indebtedness
there shall be excluded emergency loans, bonds issued in anticipation of the
payment of special assessments even though they are also a general obligation
of the city, mortgage bonds secured only by mortgage on the property or
franchise of a public utility, other bonds which are not a lien upon the taxing
power of the city, and bonds issued to refund money advanced or paid on special
assessments for watermain extensions.
Sec. 13.2.  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BONDS.
   The Council shall, subject to the applicable provisions of the general laws
of the state, have authority to borrow money in anticipation of the payment of
special assessments made for the purpose of defraying the cost of any public
improvement, or in anticipation of the payment of any combination of such
special assessments, and to issue bonds therefor. Such special assessment bonds
may be an obligation of the special assessment district or districts or may be
both an obligation of the special assessment district or districts and a
general obligation of the city. All collections on each special assessment roll
or combination of rolls shall be set apart in a separate fund for the payment
of the principal and interest of the bonds issued in anticipation of the
payment of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other purpose.
Sec. 13.3.  MORTGAGE BONDS.
   When the city is authorized to acquire, own, or operate any public utility,
it may, in accordance with the provisions of sections 23, 24, and 25 of Article
VIII of the Michigan Constitution of 1908, issue mortgage bonds therefor beyond
the general limit of bonded indebtedness prescribed by law in accordance with
the provisions of the Michigan Constitution of 1908 pertaining thereto.
Sec. 13.4.  OTHER BONDS.
   The City shall have power to issue revenue or other types of bonds in the
manner and for the purposes permitted by the constitution and general laws of
the State of Michigan.
Sec. 13.5.  PREPARATION AND RECORD.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement specifying the purpose for which the same is issued and it shall be
unlawful for any officer of the city to use the proceeds thereof for any other
purpose, except that whenever the proceeds of any bond issue, or any part
thereof, shall remain unexpended and unencumbered for the purpose for which
said bond issue was made, the Council may authorize the use of such unexpended
and unencumbered funds for the retirement of such bond issue, or if such bond
issue shall have been fully retired or if any of such funds remain after such
retirement, then for the retirement of other bonds or obligations of the city.
All bonds and other evidences of indebtedness issued by the city shall be
signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Treasurer, under the seal of the
city. Interest coupons may be executed with the facsimile signatures of the
Mayor and Treasurer. A complete and detailed record of all bonds and other
evidences of indebtedness issued by the city shall be kept by the Clerk. Upon
the payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the same shall be
marked “Cancelled.” Any officer who shall violate the provisions of this
section shall be deemed guilty of misconduct in office. No cancelled bond shall
be destroyed until ten (10) years have elapsed following its final retirement
date.
Sec. 13.6.  UNSOLD BONDS.
   No issued but unsold bonds of the city shall be sold to secure funds for any
purpose other than that for which they were specifically authorized, and if any
such bonds are not sold within three (3) years after authorization, such
authorization shall, as to such bonds, be null and void. Provided that the
limitation herein set forth shall not apply to mortgage-revenue bonds issued in
accordance with Section 15.6 of this charter.
CHAPTER 14
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Sec. 14.1.  COUNCIL RESOLUTION.
   The Council shall have power to determine that the whole or any part of the
expense of any public improvement shall be defrayed by special assessments upon
the property especially benefitted and shall so declare by resolution. Such
resolution shall state the estimated cost of the improvement, what proportion
of the cost thereof shall be paid by special assessments, and what part, if
any, shall be a general obligation of the city, the number of installments in
which assessments may be paid, and shall designate the districts or land and
premises upon which special assessment shall be levied.
Sec. 14.2.  PROCEDURE FIXED BY ORDINANCE.
   The council shall prescribe by general ordinance complete special assessment
procedure concerning plans and specifications, estimate of costs, notice of
hearing, the making of the assessment roll and correction of errors, the
collection of special assessments, and any other matters concerning the making
of improvements by the special assessment method.
CHAPTER 15
CONTRACTS - FRANCHISES - MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
Sec. 15.1.  CITY MAY PERFORM PUBLIC WORK.
   The Council shall have power to do any public work or make any public
improvement by the employment of the necessary labor and the purchase of the
necessary supplies and materials with separate accounting as to each
improvement so made, or to do such work by contract duly let after competitive
bidding. Where competitive bids are secured the city, or any city department
qualified to do the work, may enter a bid on equal footing with other bidders.
The Council shall also have power to do any public work or make any public
improvement under any legally constituted plan under which the labor is
furnished by any other governmental unit, department, or agency of the United
States or the State of Michigan, or which is wholly or in part financed by them
or either of them.
Sec. 15.2.  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter the responsibility for the
preparation of plans and specifications, estimating the cost, advertising for
bids, supervision and approval of the work upon or for any public work or
public or special improvement is vested in the City Manager.
Sec. 15.3.  CONTRACTS.
   The authority to contract on behalf of the city is vested in the Council and
shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions of the statutes and of
this charter. The Council shall establish procedures for the letting and making
of contracts, but no contract except an agreement of employment or an agreement
for the purchase or sale of goods, wares or merchandise in an amount of one
thousand dollars or less shall be made unless the same shall have first been
submitted to the attorney and his opinion obtained with respect to its legality
and form and unless the officer charged with maintenance of the city's
accounting system shall first have certified that sufficient funds are
available or that an appropriation has been made for the payment thereof. In
the case of a contract obligating the city for periodic payments in future
fiscal years for the furnishing of a continuing service or the leasing of
property, such certification need not cover payments on the contract which will
be due in future fiscal years, but this exception shall not apply to a contract
for the construction of a public improvement. A copy of all contracts requiring
such opinion and certification shall be filed in the office of the clerk.
   No contract shall be amended after the same has been made except upon the
authority of the Council.
   No compensation shall be paid to any contractor except in accordance with
the terms of the contract.
   No contract shall be made with any person, firm or corporation who is in
default to the city.
Sec. 15.4.  RIGHT OF REGULATION.
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to
the right of the city:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, or non-use, or for failure to comply
with the provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant and service and
maintenance thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (e)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the Council
to be conducive to the safety, welfare, and accommodation of the public;
   (f)   To require the public utility to which any franchise is granted to
permit joint use of its property and appurtenances located in the streets,
alleys, and public places of the city, by the city, and other utilities insofar
as such joint use may be reasonably practicable and upon payment of reasonable
rental therefor; provided, that, in the absence of agreement, upon application
by any public utility, the Council shall provide for arbitration of the terms
and conditions of such joint use and the compensation to be paid therefor.
Sec. 15.5.  MAINTENANCE AND PROTECTION OF CITY FACILITIES.
   Every public utility shall pay such part of the cost of improvement or
maintenance of streets, alleys, bridges and public places, as shall arise from
its use thereof and shall protect and save the city harmless from all damages
arising from said use.
Sec. 15.6.  GENERAL POWERS RESPECTING MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   The city shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by the constitution and general laws of the State of Michigan, by the
former charter of the City of Cheboygan, or by any elections heretofore held
for the purpose and specifically the city shall retain the powers in regard to
ownership of municipal utilities and the issuance of mortgage - revenue bonds
granted by Amendment to Act 333, Local Acts 1889 approved and passed at a
special election held November 5, 1946 in the City of Cheboygan, to acquire,
construct, own, operate, improve, enlarge, extend, repair, and maintain, either
within or without its corporate limits, public utilities, including, but not by
the way of limitation, public utilities for supplying water, light, heat,
power, gas and sewage treatment, and garbage disposal facilities, or any of
them to the municipality and the inhabitants thereof; and also to sell and
deliver water, light, heat, power, gas, and other public utilities and
services, without its corporate limits to an amount not to exceed the
limitations set by state law and constitution. In the event of the acquisition
of any public utility by the city through purchase of condemnation, the value
of such utility shall be based upon physical values only and shall in no event
include any item of value predicated upon any franchise granted by the city,
good will, or prospective profits. The Council shall have the power to fix,
from time to time, such just and equitable rates as may be deemed advisable for
supplying the inhabitants of the city and others with water, with electricity
for light, heat, and power and with such other utility services as the city may
provide.
Sec. 15.7.  UTILITY CHARGES - COLLECTIONS.
   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for the collection of all public
utility charges made by the city and for such purpose, shall have all the power
granted to cities by Act 178 of the Public Acts of 1939. When any person or
persons, or any firm or corporation, shall fail or refuse to pay to the city
any sums due on utility bills, the utility service or services upon which such
delinquency exists may be shut off or discontinued and suit may be instituted
by the city for the collection of the same in any court of competent
jurisdiction.
Sec. 15.8.  ACCOUNTS.
   Separate accounts shall be kept for each public utility owned or operated by
the city, distinct from other city accounts, and in such manner as to show the
true and complete financial result of such city ownership or operation, or
both, including all assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. They shall
show as nearly as possible the value of any service furnished to or rendered by
any such public utility by or to any other city department. The Council shall
annually cause to be made a report showing the financial results of such city
ownership or operation, or both, which report shall give for each utility, the
information specified in this section, and such further information as the
Council shall deem expedient, such report shall be on file in the office of the
Clerk for public inspection.
Sec. 15.9.  DISPOSAL OF PLANTS.
   The city shall not sell, exchange, lease or in any way alien or dispose of
the property, easements, income or other equipment, privilege or asset
belonging to and appertaining to any utility which it may acquire, unless and
except the proposition for such purpose shall first have been submitted, at an
election held for the purpose in the manner provided in this charter, to the
electors of the city who are qualified to vote on questions involving the
direct expenditure of money or the issuance of general obligation bonds of the
city and approved by them by a three-fifth (3/5) majority vote of the electors
voting thereon. All contracts, negotiations, licenses, grants, leases or other
forms of transfer in violations of this provision, shall be void and of no
effect as against the city. The provisions of this section shall not, however,
apply to the sale or exchange of any articles of equipment or any city-owned
utility as are worn out or useless, or which could, with advantage to the
service, be replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment.
Sec. 15.10.  ADMINISTRATION OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   All municipally owned utilities shall be administered as regular departments
of the city government and not by boards or commissions.
CHAPTER 16
MISCELLANEOUS
Sec. 16.1.  CITY LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be liable for damages sustained by any person either to
his person or property by reason of the negligence of the city, its officers or
employers, nor by reason of any defective condition of or obstruction in any
public place unless such person shall serve or cause to be served upon the
Clerk, within sixty days after the injury resulting in such damages shall have
occurred, a notice in writing, which notice shall set forth substantially the
time and place of such injury, the manner in which it occurred, the extent of
such damages as far as the same has become known, the names and addresses of
the witnesses known at the time by the claimant, and a statement that the
person sustaining such damages intends to hold the city liable for such damages
as may have been sustained by him.
   The city shall not be liable for any damages to person or property arising
out of any such injury unless there shall have been first presented to the
Clerk a claim in writing and under oath setting forth particularly the time,
place, nature and extent of such injury and the amount of damages claimed by
reason thereof. No person shall bring any action against the city for any such
damages until such claim shall have been filed with the Clerk and until the
Council shall have been given opportunity to act thereon either by allowing or
refusing to allow the claim.
   It shall be a sufficient bar and answer in any court to any action or
proceeding for the collection of any demand or claim against the city under
this section that the notice of injury and the verified proof of claim as in
this section required were not presented and filed within the time and in the
manner as herein provided.
Sec. 16.2.  NO ESTOPPEL.
   No estoppel may be created against the city.
Sec. 16.3.  RECORDS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All records of the city shall be public and shall be available for
inspection at all reasonable times.
Sec. 16.4.  DEFINITION OF PUBLICATION; MAILING OF NOTICES.
   The requirement contained in this charter for the publishing or publication
of notices, ordinances or proceedings shall be met by publishing an appropriate
insertion in a newspaper published in the English language for the
dissemination of news of a general character which newspaper shall have had a
general circulation at regular intervals in the city for at least two years
immediately preceding the time that it is used for such publication purposes.
The affidavit of the printer or publisher of such newspaper, or of his foreman
or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice, ordinance or
proceeding taken from the paper in which it was published and specifying the
times of publication shall be prima facie evidence of such publication.
   In any case in which this charter requires the mailing of notices, the
affidavit of the officer or employee responsible for such mailing that such
notice was mailed shall be prima facie evidence of such mailing.
Sec. 16.5.  SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
   Whenever the date fixed by this charter for the doing or completion of any
act falls on a Sunday or a legal holiday, such act shall be done or completed
on the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or legal holiday.
Sec. 16.6.  HEADINGS.
   The chapter and section headings used in this charter are for convenience
only and shall not be considered to be part of this charter.
Sec. 16.7.  INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context,
   (1)   All words used in this charter indicating the present tense shall not
be limited to the time of the adoption of this charter but shall extend to and
include the time of the happening of any event or requirement for which
provision is made herein;
   (2)   The singular number shall include the plural, the plural number shall
include the singular, and the masculine gender shall extend to and include the
feminine gender and the neuter;
   (3)   The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate and to partnerships as well as to individuals;
   (4)   The words “printed” and “printing” shall include reproductions by
printing, engraving, stencil duplicating, lithographing or any similar method;
   (5)   Except in references to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” shall include printing and typewriting;
   (6)   The word “officer” shall include the members of the Council, the
administrative officers and the Justice of the Peace;
   (7)   All references to statutes shall be considered to be references to
such statutes as amended;
   (8)   All references to section numbers shall refer to section numbers of
this charter.
Editor’s note:
   Office of the Justice of the Peace was abolished December 31, 1968
Sec. 16.8.  EFFECT OR ILLEGALITY OF ANY PART OF CHARTER.
   Should any provision or section, or portion thereof, of this charter be held
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, or
unconstitutional, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity
of this charter as a whole or of any remaining portion of such provision or
section, it being hereby declared to be the intent of the charter commission
and of the electors who voted thereon that such unconstitutionality or
illegality shall not affect the validity of any other part of this charter
except that specifically affected by such holding.
Sec. 16.9.  AMENDMENTS.
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided in Act No.
279 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended. Should two (2) or more amendments,
adopted at the same election, have conflicting provisions, the one receiving
the largest affirmative vote shall prevail as to those provisions.
Sec. 16.10.  PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF CHARTER.
   Any officer of the city found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
any act declared by this charter to constitute misconduct in office may be
punished by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars or imprisonment for
not to exceed ninety days or both in the discretion of the court. The
punishment provided in this section shall be in addition to that of having the
office declared vacant.
SCHEDULE
Sec. 1.  ELECTION TO ADOPT CHARTER.
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the
City of Cheboygan at a general election to be held Tuesday, the 7th day of
November in the year 1950. This election shall be conducted by the officers
under the existing charter charged with the conduct and supervision of
election, following the usual election procedure and shall be canvassed in the
manner provided in the existing city charter on the first Thursday following
said election.
Sec. 2.  FORM OF BALLOT.
   The form of the ballet on submission of this charter shall be as follows:
   Instruction - A cross (X) in the square  before the word “Yes” is in favor
of the proposed charter, and a cross (X) in the square  before the word “No” is
against the proposed charter.
   “Shall the proposed charter for the City of Cheboygan drafted by the Charter
Commission elected July 18, 1949, be adopted.”
     Yes.
     No.
Sec. 3.  FIRST ELECTION UNDER THIS CHARTER.
   For the purpose of nominating and electing officers, this charter shall take
effect October 4, 1950, which shall be the first day upon which nomination
petitions may be filed with the Clerk for the officers first to be elected
under this charter. All such petitions must be filed not later than 4 p.m. on
October 19, 1950, and all nomination procedures shall be as provided in this
charter. The City Clerk shall on October 4, 1950, make available petition forms
for the officers to be elected at the first election under this charter.
   The first election of officers under this charter shall be held on Tuesday,
November 7, 1950, in conjunction with the election on the adoption of this
charter. At this election, the electors shall be entitled to vote for not more
than seven (7) candidates for the City Council. The three candidates receiving
the 1st, 2nd and 3rd highest number of votes respectively shall be declared
elected for a term ending in 1954, and the four candidates receiving the 4th,
5th, 6th and 7th highest number of votes respectively shall be declared elected
for a term ending in 1952. Thereafter, the provisions contained in this charter
on the election and terms of councilmen shall govern.
   Terms of officers elected at this election shall expire on the Monday next
following the date of the regular city election in the year in which the terms
of the various officers expire.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of the existing charter of the city or of
this charter, a canvass of the election to be held on Tuesday, November 7,
1950, shall be made on Thursday evening, November 9, 1950, at the city council
room by the then existing city council.
   No Justice of the Peace shall be elected under this charter until the
regular municipal election of 1952 as provided in this charter and all
provisions of this charter concerning the office of Justice of the Peace
inconsistent with the tenure of the present incumbent shall be deemed to be
delayed in taking effect until the beginning of such term.
Editor’s note:
   Office of the Justice of the Peace abolished December 31, 1968
Sec. 4.  EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHARTER.
   For all purposes not otherwise provided for herein, this charter shall take
effect on November 10, 1950, at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. At such time,
the City Council first elected under this charter shall assemble in the
existing city council room. It shall be called to order by the chairman of the
Charter Commission, and when the new council shall have chosen a mayor the
previously existing city council shall cease to be and the office of each and
every member thereof shall terminate.
   The terms of office of the City Treasurer, Supervisors and all other
officers of the city by virtue of election under the former city charter, with
the exception of the Justice of the Peace, shall terminate and their offices
cease to exist. All other officers and employees of the city shall continue in
their respective offices and employment as though they had been appointed or
employed in the manner provided in this charter and shall in all respects be
subject to the provisions of this charter.
   The City Council, forthwith after taking office, shall appoint a City
Treasurer and a City Clerk to serve pending the appointment of same by the City
Manager. Pending the appointment of the first City Manager, the City Council
may temporarily fix authority and responsibility among officers and departments
or appoint an acting City Manager, in order to maintain the operations of the
city government.
Sec. 5.  SUPERVISORS.
   At the first meeting of the City Council under this charter the members
thereof shall determine by lot which member thereof, among those whose terms
expire in 1952, shall not represent the city on the Board of Supervisors. The
provisions of this charter as to supervisors shall apply thereafter.
Sec. 6.  BUDGET ADJUSTMENTS.
   The council shall have authority to make any interim budget required to
defray the cost of operating the city from the effective date of this charter
to July 1, 1951, in order to bring the City's financial plan in conformity with
the fiscal year herein provided. Any budget previously adopted by the City
Council under the City Charter existing at the time of the adoption of this
charter shall have no legal effect after November 10, 1950.
Sec. 7.  STATUS OF SCHEDULE CHARTER.
   The purpose of this schedule chapter is to inaugurate the government of the
City of Cheboygan under this charter and it shall constitute a part of this
charter only to the extent and for the time required to accomplish that end.
RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION
   At a regular meeting of the Charter Commission of the City of Cheboygan held
on the 11th day of April 1950, the following resolution was offered by
Commissioner Lahaie:
   RESOLVED, that the Charter Commission of the City of Cheboygan does hereby
adopt the foregoing proposed charter for the City of Cheboygan, and the Clerk
of this Commission is directed:
   1.   To transmit a copy of this charter to the Governor of the State of
Michigan for his approval in accordance with the statutes of the state,
   2.   To this day file with the City Clerk a copy of this charter,
   3.   To have this proposed charter published in the Cheboygan Daily Tribune
on May 29, 1950 and,
   4.   To arrange for the presentation of this charter to the electors of the
City of Cheboygan on June 26, 1950, in accordance with the provisions of this
charter and the state laws providing therefor.
   The resolution was seconded by Commissioner Green, and adopted by the
following vote:
   YEAS: Commissioners Garfield Atchison, Walter B. Green, Robert Humphrey,
Carl Leonall, Arthur Michelin, Archie E. Barnich, Charles Lahaie, Lewis E.
Berry Sr., Lewis E. Berry Jr.
   NAYS: None.
   The Chairman declared the foregoing resolution unanimously and requested the
members of the Charter Commission to authenticate said resolution and also the
copies of the charter to be presented to the Governor and filed with the City
Clerk by attesting their names thereto in the following manner:
   ARTHUR L. MICHELIN
   WALTER B. GREEN
   CARL A. LEONALL
   CHARLES E. LAHAIE
   ROBERT HUMPHREY
   ARCHIE E. BARNICH
   LEWIS E. BERRY
   GARFIELD G. ATCHISON
   LEWIS E. BERRY, JR.
   All of the Commissioners having attested as to said resolution and also
having attested the copies to be signed by the Governor and filed with the City
Clerk, the meeting adjourned subject to the call of the chairman.
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Contents of code
   
10.03   Interpretation
   
10.04   Application to future ordinances
   
10.05   Captions
   
10.06   Definitions
   
10.07   Rules of interpretation
   
10.08   Severability
   
10.09   Reference to other sections
   
10.10   Reference to offices; deputy or subordinate
   
10.11   Errors and omissions
   
10.12   Official time
   
10.13   Reasonable time
   
10.14   Ordinances repealed
   
10.15   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.16   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.17   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.18   Ordinances which amend or supplement code; amendment procedure
   
10.19   Section histories; statutory references
   
10.20   Responsibility
 
   
10.99   General penalty
Cross-reference:
   Ordinances generally, see Charter
Chapter 6
§ 10.01  TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Cheboygan shall be
designated as the “Cheboygan Code.”
(`73 Code, 12.105, § 1.5)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 10.02  CONTENTS OF CODE.
   This code contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature of the
City of Cheboygan and includes ordinances dealing with municipal
administration, utilities and services, parks and public grounds, streets and
sidewalks, zoning and planning, food and health, businesses and trades,
housing, building, electrical, heating and plumbing regulations, police
regulations and traffic regulations. The zoning ordinance of the city, adopted
July 11, 1967, as amended to the date of adoption of this code, is set forth as
Chapter 154 of this code, except as section numbers and references to other
ordinances of the city are changed to conform to the code numbering system. The
adoption of this code shall not be interpreted as authorizing or permitting any
use or the continuance of any use of a structure or premises in violation of
any ordinance of the city in effect on the date of adoption of this code.
(`73 Code, 12.104, § 1.4)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 10.03  INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.04  APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.05  CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section. No provision of this code shall be
held invalid by reason of deficiency in any chapter or section heading.
(`73 Code, 12.106, § 1.6)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 10.06  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule.  Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY.  The City of Cheboygan,
Michigan.
   CITY COUNCIL.  The City of Cheboygan City Council.
   CODE,THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES.  This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY.  Cheboygan County, Michigan.
   MAY.  The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH.  A calendar month.
   OATH.  An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT.  An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON.  Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING.  Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION.  Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE.  The State of Michigan.
   SUBCHAPTER.  A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading
in the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN.  Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR.  A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.07  RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   ANDorOR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,” if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable. Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the
context, all words used in this code indicating the present tense shall not be
limited to the time of adoption of this code but shall extend to and include
the time of the happening of any act, event, or requirement for which provision
is made therein, either as a power, immunity, requirement or prohibition. 
(`73 Code, 12.110, § 1.10) (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.08  SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application. It is the legislative intent of the City Council in adopting this
code, that all provisions and sections of this code be liberally construed to
protect and preserve the peace, health, safety and welfare of the inhabitants
of the City of Cheboygan and should any provision or section of this code be
held unconstitutional or invalid, such holding shall not be construed as
affecting the validity of any of the remaining provisions or sections, it being
the intent that this code shall stand, notwithstanding the invalidity of any
provision or section thereof.
(`73 Code, 12.113, § 1.13)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 10.09  REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.10  REFERENCE TO OFFICES; DEPUTY OR SUBORDINATE.
   (A)   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to
any office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
   (B)   Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the City of
Cheboygan is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, the
title of said officer shall mean and include such officer or his deputy or
authorized subordinate. 
(`73 Code, 12.109, § 1.9)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 10.11  ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when use of another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words shall be supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with
the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though
the correct words were contained in the text, as originally published. No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.12  OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.13  REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.14  ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.15  ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.16  EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.17  REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.18  ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE; AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
   (C)   This code shall be amended by ordinance. The title of each amendatory
ordinance, adapted to the particular circumstances and purposes of the
amendment, shall be substantially as follows:
      (1)   To amend any section:
         AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND SECTION          (OR SECTIONS        AND        
) OF CHAPTER        OF TITLE        OF THE CODE OF THE CITY OF CHEBOYGAN.
      (2)   To insert a new section, Chapter or Title:
         AN ORDINANCE TO AMEND THE CODE OF THE CITY OF CHEBOYGAN BY ADDING A
NEW SECTION            (NEW SECTIONS, A NEW CHAPTER, OR A NEW TITLE, as the
case may be) WHICH NEW SECTION (SECTIONS, CHAPTER OR TITLE) SHALL BE DESIGNATED
AS SECTION            (SECTIONS            AND           ) OF CHAPTER        OF
TITLE        (or proper designation if a Chapter or Title is added) OF SAID
CODE.
      (3)   To repeal a section, Chapter or Title:
         AN ORDINANCE TO REPEAL SECTION            (SECTIONS            AND    
      ), CHAPTER       , TITLE       , (as the case may be) OF THE CODE OF THE
CITY OF CHEBOYGAN.
(`73 Code, 12.102, § 1.2)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 10.19  SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (M.C.L.A. § 15.231) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “Statutory Reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, seePublic Act
442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
   (C)   If a section of this code is derived from the previous code of
ordinances of the city published in 1973 and subsequently amended, the 1973
code section number shall be indicated in the history by “(`73 Code,        §  
  ).”
§ 10.20  RESPONSIBILITY.
   Whenever any act is prohibited by this code, by an amendment thereof, or by
any rule or regulation adopted thereunder, such prohibition shall extend to and
include the causing, securing, aiding, or abetting of another person to do said
act.
(`73 Code, 12.107, § 1.7)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 10.99  PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, such greater
penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall apply to
the amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty is re-
enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
(`73 Code, 12.112, § 1.12)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY OFFICIALS
      
31.   DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
      
32.   AUTHORITIES AND COMMISSIONS
      
33.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
34.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION BUREAU
CHAPTER 30:  CITY OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Department heads
   
30.02   Vacancies
   
30.03   Employee residency
   
30.04   Administrative manual
   
30.05   Payment of monies
   
30.06   Approval of legal documents
   
30.07   Bonds
Specific Positions and Duties
   
30.20   City Manager
   
30.21   City Engineer
   
30.22   Mayor
Elections
   
30.35   Election of Mayor
   
30.36   Voting precincts
Cross-reference:
   Forfeit of office for misconduct, see Charter
Sec. 6.2.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  DEPARTMENT HEADS.
   (A)   All administrative officers are responsible to the City Manager for
the effective administration of their respective departments and offices, and
all activities assigned to them. The City Manager shall employ or appoint all
officers and employees except as otherwise provided by the City Charter or this
code. The City Manager may set aside any action taken by any administrative
officer and may supersede him in the functions of his office but, as to
officers appointed by the City Council, such action shall be subject to
approval by the City Council. 
(`73 Code, 12.152, § 1.52)
   (B)   All departments of the city shall comply with the following:
      (1)   All department heads shall keep informed as to the latest practices
in their particular field and shall inaugurate, with the approval of the City
Manager in the case of departments responsible to him or in the case of other
departments, with the approval of the office or body to whom the department
head is responsible, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the
service and to the public;
      (2)   Reports of the activities of each department shall be made to the
Manager as he shall direct;
      (3)   Each department head shall be held responsible for the preservation
of all public records under his jurisdiction and shall provide a system of
filing and indexing the same. No public records, reports, correspondence or
other data relative to the business of any department shall be destroyed or
removed permanently from the files without the knowledge and approval of the
City Council.
(`73 Code, 12.154, § 1.54)
§ 30.02  VACANCIES.
   In case of vacancy in office or during the absence of any administrative
officer, the City Manager may designate an interim acting head or perform
personally the functions of the office, until such vacancy is filled in
accordance with the Charter.
(`73 Code, 12.153, § 1.53)
§ 30.03  EMPLOYEE RESIDENCY.
   (A)   After the effective date of this section, any full-time employee of
the city shall establish a residence within 20 miles of the corporate limits of
the city with the exception of those officials obligated to be within the
boundaries of the city as set forth in the Charter.
   (B)   Any city employee violating this section shall be subject to discharge
after a hearing before the City Manager.
   (C)   Any appeal of the determination of the City Manager shall be directed
to the City Council whose decision upon appeal shall become final.
(`73 Code, 12.155, § 1.55)  (Am. Ord. passed 1-11-00)
§ 30.04  ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.
   The City Manager is authorized to adopt such administrative regulations in
addition to, but not inconsistent with, the Charter and this code, as he shall
deem necessary and proper to provide for the adequate functioning of all
departments. Such regulations shall comprise the Administrative Manual.
(`73 Code, 12.156, § 1.56)
§ 30.05  PAYMENT OF MONIES.
   All monies belonging to the city shall be paid out by checks drawn by the
City Treasurer and countersigned by the City Clerk.
(`73 Code, 12.157, § 1.57)
§ 30.06  APPROVAL OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS.
   The Mayor shall sign, the City Clerk shall attest to, the City Manager shall
approve as to substance, and the City Attorney shall approve as to form, all
contracts and agreements requiring the assent of the city, unless otherwise
provided for by law, the Charter, ordinances or the provisions of this code.
(`73 Code, 12.158, § 1.58)
§ 30.07  BONDS.
   Surety bonds, conditioned as required by Section 3.11 of the Charter, shall
be filed by the following officers of the city and in not less than the amounts
indicated:
   Treasurer            $50,000
   Manager            $25,000
   Deputy Treasurer         $25,000
   Clerk               $10,000
   Deputy Clerk            $10,000
   All other officers of the city and
   employees (except the Mayor and
   Councilmen)            Blanket Bond $2,500
(`73 Code, 12.159, § 1.59)
SPECIFIC POSITIONS AND DUTIES
§ 30.20  CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall see that all laws, ordinances, rules, regulations
adopted by the City Council, and the provisions of this code, are properly
enforced. He shall attend all meetings of the City Council, regular and
special. During the absence or disability of the Manager, the City Council
shall designate some qualified person to temporarily perform the duties of the
Manager.
(`73 Code, 12.151, § 1.51)
§ 30.21  CITY ENGINEER.
   (A)   Office established. There shall be a City Engineer, who shall be a
registered professional civil engineer. 
(`73 Code, 12.161, § 1.61)
   (B)   Appointment. The City Engineer shall be appointed by the City Manager,
subject to the approval of the Council, in accordance with Section 3.4 of the
Charter.
(`73 Code, 12.162, § 1.62)
   (C)   Powers and duties. The powers and duties of the City Engineer shall be
as follows:  He shall be responsible to the City Manager. 
(`73 Code, 12.163, § 1.63)
   (D)   City Manager to act if qualified. In the event that the City Manager
shall be a registered professional engineer, the office of the City Engineer
may remain vacant and the duties of such office shall automatically be
delegated to the City Manager. 
(`73 Code, 12.164, § 1.64)
(Am. Ord. passed 4-16-73)
§ 30.22  MAYOR.
   (A)   The Mayor's term of office shall be two years. No Mayor shall serve
more than three consecutive terms, whether full or partial terms.
(`73 Code, 12.284, § 1.184)
   (B)   The duties and powers of the Mayor as elected pursuant to §
30.35 shall be the same as provided by Charter. 
(`73 Code, 12.286, § 1.186)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.35  ELECTION OF MAYOR.
   (A)   Nomination. Candidates for the office of Mayor shall file nominating
petitions in conformity with the provisions governing nominating petitions for
Councilman.
(`73 Code, 12.281, § 1.181)
   (B)   Qualifications. Any person qualified under the Charter and this code
to be a candidate for the office of Councilman shall be qualified for the
office of Mayor.
(`73 Code, 12.282, § 1.182)
   (C)   Time of election. The Mayor shall be elected at each biennial
municipal election at which Councilmen are elected. 
(`73 Code, 12.283, § 1.183)
   (D)   Election. At each biennial municipal election at which Councilmen are
elected, there shall be two separate ballots as follows:
      (1)   The first ballot shall contain the names of those candidates for
the position of Councilman from which the required number of Councilmen shall
be elected;
      (2)   The second ballot shall contain the names of those candidates for
the position of Mayor from which one candidate shall be elected Mayor. The
Mayor shall also be a Councilman.
(`73 Code, 12.285, § 1.185)
   (E)   Councilman as candidate for Mayor. Any Councilman who shall desire to
be an eligible candidate for the office of Mayor shall resign from his position
on the Council not later than 12:00 noon on the sixth Saturday prior to the
date of the biennial municipal election, effective at 12:01 p.m. on the Monday
following the regular city election. 
(`73 Code, 12.287, § 1.187)
§ 30.36  VOTING PRECINCTS.
   (A)   The city shall be divided into three voting precincts which shall be
numbered, located and bounded as prescribed in this section.
   (B)   Precinct 1A shall be the entire geographical area of the city lying
southerly of Court Street and westerly of South Western Avenue.
   (C)   Precinct 2 shall be the entire geographical area of the city located
northerly of Court Street and easterly of South Western Avenue thence easterly
across the Cheboygan River to a line commencing at the intersection of the
center line of Garfield Avenue and the south city limits line, thence northerly
along the center line of Garfield Avenue, South "F" Street and North "F" Street
to East First Street, thence easterly along the center line of East First
Street to the centerline of Duncan Avenue, thence northerly along the
centerline of Duncan Avenue to Lake Huron and the point of ending.
   (D)   Precinct 3 shall be the entire geographical area of the city located
easterly of a line commencing at the intersection of Garfield Avenue and the
south city limit line, thence northerly along the center line of Garfield
Avenue, South "F" Street and North "F" Street to East First Street, thence
easterly along the center line of East First Street to the center line of
Duncan Avenue, thence northerly along the center line of Duncan Avenue to Lake
Huron and point of ending.
(Ord. passed 5-25-99; Am. Ord. passed 3-12-02; Am. Ord. eff. 2-9-04)
CHAPTER 31:  DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Department Operating Provisions
   
31.01   Merger of Police and Fire Departments
   
31.02   General functions and duties
   
31.03   Director of Public Safety; creation and duties
   
31.04   Powers and duties of police officers, fire fighters and public safety
officers
   
31.05   Oath of office
   
31.06   References in code
   
31.07   Police recruiting standards
   
31.08   Background investigation
   
31.09   Lost or abandoned property
Emergency Response Cost Recovery
   
31.20   Purpose
   
31.21   Definitions
   
31.22   Cost recovery authorization and procedure
   
31.23   Billing and collection of assessable costs
   
31.24   Procedure for appealing assessable costs
   
31.25   Assessable costs a lien upon property
   
31.26   Other remedies
   
31.27   No limitation of liability
DEPARTMENT OPERATING PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  MERGER OF POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   The Police Department and Fire Department, formerly existing as separate
departments in the city, are hereby merged and consolidated in the Department
of Public Safety. The Department of Public Safety shall consist of such
personnel, divisions, bureaus and offices as the City Manager may from time to
time recommend and the City Council approve.
(`73 Code, 12.190, § 1.90)  (Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 31.02  GENERAL FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The functions and duties of the Department of Public Safety shall consist of
the enforcement of laws and ordinances for the protection of life and property,
the keeping of the peace and good order, the prevention and extinguishment of
fires and the management of equipment necessary therefor, the inspection of
premises for fire hazards, and any and all other duties and activities related
thereto.
(`73 Code, 12.191, § 1.91)  (Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 31.03  DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY; CREATION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The office of Director of the Department of Public Safety is hereby
created. The operation, administration and control of the Department of Public
Safety, and all matters pertaining thereto, shall be under the control and
direction of the Director of Public Safety, who shall be appointed by, serve at
the pleasure of, and be immediately responsible to the City Manager.
(`73 Code, 12.192, § 1.92)
   (B)   The Director of Public Safety shall be the operating head and
commanding officer of the Department of Public Safety. The Director shall have
control of the Department, under the supervision and direction of the City
Manager and shall perform such duties as may be prescribed by the Charter, any
ordinances of the city, laws of the State of Michigan, and such further and
other duties as shall be prescribed by the City Manager.
   (C)   The Director of Public Safety shall have the power to issue such
verbal or written orders, rules and regulations to police officers, fire
fighters volunteers and public safety officers and employees of the Department
of Public Safety as he or she may deem proper, and it shall be the duty of the
police officers, firefighters, public safety officers, and employees of said
Department to fully and completely obey the Director's orders, rules and
regulations, but such orders, rules and regulations shall be in conformity of
law.
   (D)   The Director of Public Safety shall promulgate, subject to the
approval of the City Manager, employment standards for police officers,
firefighters and public safety officers. Said employment standards shall at a
minimum comply with those established by the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers'
Training Council in accordance with Public Act 203 of 1965, being M.C.L.A. §§
28.601 - 28.616, as amended.
   (E)   The Director of Public Safety, or police officers, public safety
officers or firefighters designated by the Director, shall be in command and
control of any fire scene and shall have the authority to issue such verbal
orders to any person at the scene as may be reasonably necessary to protect
life and property and to conduct fire suppression activities.
(`73 Code, 12.193, § 1.93) (Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 31.04  POWERS AND DUTIES OF POLICE OFFICERS, FIRE FIGHTERS AND PUBLIC SAFETY
OFFICERS.
   (A)   Police officers and public safety officers.
      (1)   All police officers and public safety officers are hereby
authorized to enforce the laws of the State of Michigan and the ordinances of
the city, and all officers shall have the following powers and duties:
         (a)   To suppress all riots, disturbances and breaches of the peace
and to pursue and arrest any person fleeing from justice in any part of the
state and to apprehend any and all persons in the act of committing any offense
against the laws of the state or ordinances of the city and to take the
offender forthwith before the proper court or magistrate to be dealt with for
the offense;
         (b)   To arrest without warrant any and all persons whom they have
probable cause to believe to have committed a felony, to make complaints to the
proper officers and magistrates of any person known or believed by them to be
guilty of a violation of the ordinances of the city or the penal laws of the
state and at all times diligently and faithfully to enforce all such laws,
ordinances, rules and regulations for the preservation of good order and public
welfare as the City Council may ordain;
         (c)   To serve all processes lawfully directed or delivered to them
for service; and for such purposes officers shall have all the powers of
constables, sheriffs and other peace officers and may arrest upon view and
without process any person in the act of violating any ordinance of the city or
committing any offense against the laws of the state; and
         (d)   To have any other power or authority given to them by state law.
      (2)   The officers may serve and execute all process in criminal
proceedings for the violation of state law and the ordinances of the city.
      (3)   When any person has committed or is suspected of having committed
any crime or misdemeanor within the city, or has escaped from any city jail,
officers shall have the same right to pursue, arrest and detain such person
outside the city limits as the sheriff of the county.
   (B)   Public safety officers and firefighters. All public safety officers
and firefighters, in conformity with the ordinances of the city and the laws of
the state, shall have the following powers and duties: To prevent and
extinguish fires; and in so doing may cause the removal of structures or
materials, the razing of walls of burning buildings, the cutting of openings in
buildings, breaking and entering, breaking down of partitions, removal of
wiring whenever, in their opinion, public safety requires that it shall be done
in order to retard the fire.
   (C)   Director of Public Safety Department.
      (1)   The Director of the Department of Public Safety, or any public
safety officer or firefighter designated by the Director, upon request by the
owner or occupant of a building or premises may enter into and upon any
building or premises within the city, for the purpose of inspection and
examination thereof, together with their occupancies and contents, for the
discovery of the existence of a fire hazard. Periodic building inspections
shall be made upon issuance of an administrative search warrant for the area,
to determine whether the buildings are dangerous buildings within the
provisions of this article. Whenever he/she shall find any building or
premises, either public or private, which for want of repairs, lack of or
insufficient fire escapes, automatic or other fire alarm apparatus, of fire
extinguishing equipment, or by reason of age or dilapidated condition,
defective electrical wiring or electrical equipment, defective chimneys,
defective gas connections, defective heating apparatus, accumulation of
rubbish, waste materials or inflammable substances or decorations, or from any
other condition or for any reason whatsoever, may cause an otherwise
preventable fire or explosion or endanger other property or premises or be
dangerous to the public peace, security or safety, he/she shall make and file a
report of his/her findings with the Director of Public Safety.
      (2)   The Director of the Department of Public Safety shall determine to
what extent such dangerous conditions or materials shall be remedied or
changed, and shall serve written notice to that effect on the owner or
occupant. The service of such notice may be made upon the occupant of the
premises to whom it is directed, either by delivering a copy of same to such
occupant personally or by delivering the same to and leaving it with any person
in charge of the premises. Whenever it may be necessary to serve such notice
upon the owner of the premises, it may be served either by delivering to and
leaving with such owner a copy of the notice, or if such owner is absent from
the city, by mailing such copy to the owner's last known post office address,
by registered mail.
      (3)   Any person who fails to comply with the provisions of a notice
served pursuant to this division (C) shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(`73 Code, 12.194, § 1.94) (Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 31.05  OATH OF OFFICE.
   All public safety officers shall take the constitutional oath of office
after appointment, before performing any of the duties of their office. Such
oath shall be in the form set forth below:
      “STATE OF MICHIGAN      )
       COUNTY OF CHEBOYGAN) ss I,                                              
     do solemnly swear that I will support the Constitution and laws of the
United States, and of the State of Michigan, and the Charter and ordinances of
the City of Cheboygan, and that I will, to the best of my ability, faithfully
and impartially discharge the duties of the office of public safety officer for
the City of Cheboygan. Subscribed and sworn to before me this                  
               day of                           ,  20    .
                                                                
                                                                
(`73 Code, 12.195, § 1.95) (Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 31.06  REFERENCES IN CODE.
   All references in this code or in the City Charter to police officer or
firefighter, or public safety officer, as may be applicable, shall mean a
public safety officer. All references in this code to Chief of Police or Chief
of the Fire Department shall hereinafter mean the Director of Public Safety.
All references to Police Department or Fire Department shall hereinafter mean
the Department of Public Safety.
(`73 Code, 12.196, § 1.96) (Ord. passed 10-1-84)
§ 31.07  POLICE RECRUITING STANDARDS.
   (A)   All police officers recruited for service shall possess the minimum
qualifications established and adopted by the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers
Training Council in accordance with Public Act 203 of 1965, being M.C.L.A. §§
28.601 - 28.616.
   (B)   The recruit shall have reached the age of 21 years and shall be a
citizen of the United States of America.
   (C)   He shall be a graduate of an accredited high school or shall have
attained a passing score on the General Education Development test indicating
high school graduation level.
   (D)   He shall not have been convicted of a felony offense and shall be
possessed of good moral character.
   (E)   He shall exhibit acceptable physical, emotional and mental fitness. He
shall possess normal hearing and normal color vision with normal visual
functions and visual acuity correctable to 20/20 in each eye. He shall be free
from any impediments of the senses. He shall be physically sound; well
developed physically with height and weight in relation to each other and to
his age as indicated by accepted medical standards. He shall be in possession
of his extremities; and must be free from any physical defects, chronic
diseases, organic diseases, organic or functional conditions, or mental
instabilities which may tend to impair efficient performance of duties or which
might endanger the lives of others or himself.
(`73 Code, 12.171, § 1.71)
§ 31.08  BACKGROUND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   All police officers recruited for service shall be fingerprinted and
local, state and national fingerprint files will be searched for evidence of
any criminal record. Moral character will be determined by an investigation
covering school and employment records, home environment, personal traits and
integrity. Consideration will be given to any and all law violations, including
traffic and conservation law convictions, in determining moral character.
   (B)   A declaration of the applicant's medical history shall be a part of
the background investigation. The declaration shall be made available to the
examining licensed physician who shall determine whether the applicant is free
from any and all physical, mental and emotional conditions which might
adversely affect his performance of duty as a police officer.
   (C)   An oral interview shall be held by the City Manager, or Personnel
Director, and Director of Public Safety to determine the applicant's
acceptability for a police officer's position and to assess appearance,
background and ability to communicate.
   (D)   Recruitment and employment practices and standards shall be in
compliance with existing Michigan statutes governing this activity.
(`73 Code, 12.172, § 1.72)
§ 31.09  LOST OR ABANDONED PROPERTY.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to any stolen money or
other property recovered by the city police which shall not be claimed within
six months after said recovery.
   (B)   Forthwith after the expiration of the six-month period, the Director
of Public Safety shall report to the City Council listing the money or other
property so recovered and held, and requesting authority from the City Council
to turn any money over to the City Treasurer to be credited to the general fund
and requesting authority from the City Council to sell at public sale any other
property so recovered and held.
   (C)   The City Council shall act on the request of the Director of Public
Safety within six months after the receipt of such request. In case authority
is granted to the Director of Public Safety to turn any money so recovered and
held over to the City Treasurer or to sell any other property so recovered and
held, the Director of Public Safety shall publish a notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city by insertions in three issues of the newspaper.
The notice shall describe the money so recovered and held and also the other
property so recovered and held, together with the time and place of public sale
at which the other property may be purchased by the highest bidder. Up until
the date of sale, the money or other property may be claimed at the office of
the Director of Public Safety for the city, and if ownership is proved, such
money or other property shall be turned over to the claimant, and the sale
canceled insofar as such property is concerned.
   (D)   After the holding of any such sale, the money received from such sale,
after deducting the cost of the conducting thereof, and any other money
recovered and held included in the notice provided for in division (C) shall be
turned over to the City Treasurer to be credited to the general fund of the
city.
   (E)   Except as provided in division (F) hereof, no claim shall be valid to
obtain any money or other property recovered by the city police, after notice
and sale as provided in division (C) of this section, said property and money
being considered as abandoned and belonging to the city.
   (F)   The owner of stolen property may prove his claim by proving the
identity of the property and be reimbursed from the City Treasurer in an amount
not to exceed the amount paid for such goods at the sale, if such proof is
accepted by the City Council after the sale; provided, however, that such claim
shall have been filed with the City Council not later than six months after
such sale.
(`73 Code, 12.175, § 1.75)
EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
§ 31.20  PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the city from extraordinary expenses resulting from the
utilization of city resources in response to certain public safety or fire
emergency incidents, this subchapter authorizes the imposition of charges to
recover actual costs incurred by the city in responding to such incidents.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
§ 31.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSABLE COSTS.  Those costs for services incurred by the city in
connection with a response to a public safety or fire emergency incident,
including, but not limited to, the actual labor and material costs of the city
(including, without limitation, employee wages, fringe benefits, administrative
overhead, costs of equipment, costs of equipment operation, costs of materials,
costs of transportation, costs of material disposal and costs of contracted
labor) whether or not the services are provided by the city or by a third party
on behalf of the city; service charges and interest; attorney fees, litigation
costs and any costs, charges, fines or penalties to the city imposed by any
court or state or federal governmental entities.
   BOMB THREATS.  The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device which, if discharged as threatened, would violate a federal, state or
local law.
   EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.  Emergency medical, public safety, police, fire, and
civil defense services.
   EXCESSIVE REQUESTS FOR EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.  Any request for emergency
assistance made to a particular location or premises if such location or
premises has requested emergency assistance more than five times in the
preceding 30 days.
   FALSE ALARM.  Any automated or manual device designed to request or summon
emergency assistance which device is activated intentionally or otherwise, in
the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The determination that
there was no actual need for emergency assistance shall be made by the most
senior person responding to a false alarm. Provided, however, a false alarm
shall not be deemed to have occurred if:
      (1)   Caused by an act of God, e.g., a lightning storm;
      (2)   It originates from a motor vehicle alarm system; or
      (3)   Has not occurred more frequently than three times in a calendar
month or four times in a calendar year.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Those elements, substances, wastes or by-products,
including, but not limited to, combustible liquid, flammable gas, explosives,
flammables, poisons, organic peroxides, oxidizers, pyrophorics, unstable
reactive matter, water reactive matter, petroleum products, anti-freeze,
polychlorinated biphenyls and asbestos, which are or are potentially harmful to
the environment or human or animal life, or which pose an unreasonable or
imminent risk to life, health or safety of persons or property, or to the
ecological balance of the environment as determined by the Director of Public
Safety or the senior fire official of the city in charge at the scene.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY.  Any occurrence, incident,
activity, accident or emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs
or is reasonably imminent and where the Director of Public Safety or his or her
designee has so declared such activity, accident or emergency a hazardous
material incident or emergency.
   ILLEGAL FIRE.  A fire set or determined to have been set in violation of a
federal, state or local law and shall include an arson fire and a fire set in
violation of a “no burning” ban or order. An illegal fire does not include an
unintentional fire or fire caused by an act of God, e.g., a lightning storm.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any self-propelled or towed vehicle designed or used on the
public streets, roads and highways to transport passengers or property which is
required to be registered for use upon such public streets, roads and highways
and, for the purposes hereof, all trailers or appurtenances attached to any
motor vehicle.
   PUBLIC SAFETY OR FIRE EMERGENCY INCIDENT.
      (1)   Excessive requests for emergency assistance;
      (2)   A false alarm;
      (3)   A hazardous material incident or emergency;
      (4)   An illegal fire;
      (5)   Bomb threats;
      (6)   Threats of harm to oneself or others;
      (7)   A structure demolition;
      (8)   A utility line failure; or
      (9)   Damage to property, real or personal.
   RELEASE.  Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, or disposing
into the environment, including, but not limited to, the air, soil,
groundwater, and surface water.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity,
or any other legal entity and their heirs, estates, successors, and assigns,
responsible for a public safety or fire emergency incident or any owner,
tenant, occupant, or party in control of real and personal property from which,
onto which or related to which there is a public safety or fire emergency
incident.
   STRUCTURE DEMOLITION.  The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire which
must, in the opinion of the Director of Public Safety or his or her designee,
be promptly demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
   THREATS OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS.  The verbal or written threat of
physical harm to oneself or another or another's property which, if carried
out, would be a violation of federal, state or local law.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE.  The disabling of any transmission or service line,
cable, conduit, pipeline, wire, or the like used to provide, collect or
transport electricity, natural gas, communication, or electronic signals
(including, but not limited to, telephone, computer, cable television and
stereo signals, or electronic impulses), water or sanitary or storm sewage if
the owner or party responsible for the maintenance of such utility line does
not respond within one hour to a request to repair or correct such failure or
negligent or intentional damage to utilities mentioned above.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
§ 31.22  COST RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city may recover all assessable costs in connection with a public
safety or fire emergency incident from any or all responsible parties, jointly
or severally.
   (B)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall determine the total
assessable costs and shall in consultation with other city personnel involved
in responding to a public safety or fire emergency incident determine whether
to assess any, all or part of such costs against any of the responsible
parties. In making such determination, the following shall be considered:
      (1)   The total assessable costs;
      (2)   The risk the public safety or fire emergency incident imposed on
the city, its residents and their property;
      (3)   Whether there was any injury or damage to person or property;
      (4)   Whether the public safety or fire emergency incident required
evacuation;
      (5)   The extent to which the public safety or fire emergency incident
required an unusual or extraordinary use of city personnel and equipment; and
      (6)   Whether there was any damage to environment.
   (C)   After consideration of the factors in division (B) immediately above,
the City Manager may allocate assessable costs among and between responsible
parties, including allocating all or some of such costs jointly and severally
against more than one responsible party regardless of whether a responsible
party has other legal liability therefor or is legally at fault.
   (D)   If the City Manager determines not to assess all or a part of
assessable costs against a responsible party, such determination shall not in
any way limit or extinguish the liability of the responsible party to other
parties.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
§ 31.23  BILLING AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   After determining to assess assessable costs against a responsible party,
the City Treasurer shall mail an itemized invoice to the responsible party at
its last known address. Such invoice shall be due and payable within 30 days of
the date of mailing and any amounts unpaid after such date shall bear a late
payment fee equal to 1% per month or fraction thereof that the amount due and
any previously imposed late payment fee remains unpaid. If a responsible party
shall appeal assessable costs pursuant to § 31.24 hereof, such costs, if
upheld, in whole or in part, shall be due and payable 30 days from the date of
determination of the appeal and any late payment fees shall apply thereafter.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
§ 31.24  PROCEDURE FOR APPEALING ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   (A)   (1)   Any responsible party who receives an invoice for assessable
costs shall have an opportunity to meet with the City Manager or his or her
designee to request a modification of assessable costs.
      (2)   The responsible party shall request in writing such meeting within
seven calendar days of the date of the invoice assessing the assessable costs.
   (B)   (1)   If after meeting with the City Manager or his or her designee
the responsible party is still not satisfied, he or she may request an
opportunity to appear before the City Council to further request a modification
of assessable costs.
      (2)   A responsible party who desires to appear before the City Council
must first meet with the City Manager or his or her designee as provided above
and shall file a written request to appear before the City Council with the
City Clerk within seven calendar days of the date of the meeting with the City
Manager.
   (C)   Upon receipt of such request, the City Clerk will place the
responsible party on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled City Council
meeting, which meeting is at least 14 calendar days after the date on which the
responsible party files the request to appear.
   (D)   Any filed request to appear shall specifically identify and explain
all reasons why the responsible party believes the assessed costs should be
modified.
      (1)   Any reason, basis or argument for modification of assessable costs
not set forth in the request to appear shall be deemed waived by the
responsible party.
      (2)   Failure to timely file a written request to appear shall constitute
a waiver of the responsible party's right to appear before the City Council;
and shall further constitute the responsible party's agreement to pay the
assessable costs invoiced.
   (E)   After a responsible party has been given an opportunity to appear
before it, the City Council shall promptly determine whether to confirm, modify
or void the payment of assessable costs invoiced.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
§ 31.25  ASSESSABLE COSTS A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   Assessable costs assessed against a responsible party not paid when due,
including late payment fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real property of
the responsible party in the city, from which, upon which or related to which
the public safety or fire emergency incident occurred. Such lien shall be of
the same character and effect as the lien created by city charter for city real
property taxes and shall include accrued interest and penalties. The City
Treasurer shall, prior to March 1 of each year, certify to the City Assessor
the fact that such assessable costs are delinquent and unpaid. The City
Assessor shall then enter the delinquent amount on the next general ad valorem
tax roll as a charge against the affected property, and the lien thereon shall
be enforced in the same manner as provided and allowed by law for delinquent
and unpaid real property taxes.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
§ 31.26  OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to the remedy set forth in §
31.25 above, the city shall be entitled to pursue any other remedy or may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent
jurisdiction as permitted by law to collect assessable costs from a responsible
party.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
§ 31.27  NO LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The recovery of assessable costs pursuant hereto does not limit the
liability of a responsible party under applicable local, state or federal law.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
CHAPTER 32:  AUTHORITIES AND COMMISSIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Existing boards and commissions
   
32.02   Vacancies
   
32.03   Removal
   
32.04   Compensation
City Planning Commission
   
32.15   Commission continued
   
32.16   Members
   
32.17   Organization; meetings; record
   
32.18   Powers and duties; reports and recommendations
   
32.19   Contracts for services; gifts
Downtown Development Authority
   
32.30   Short title
   
32.31   Definitions
   
32.32   Determination of necessity
   
32.33   Creation of Authority
   
32.34   Description of Downtown District
   
32.35   Board of Directors
   
32.36   Powers of Authority
   
32.37   Director
   
32.38   Fiscal year; adoption of budget
   
32.39   By-laws
   
32.40   Downtown Development Plan and Tax Increment Financing Plan
Housing Commission
   
32.55   Commission continued
   
32.56   Appointments
   
32.57   Powers
Local Officers Compensation Commission
   
32.70   Commission created
   
32.71   Determination of salaries; meetings
   
32.72   Change of procedure
   
32.73   Petition for referendum
Civil Rights - Human Relations Board
   
32.100   Findings; discrimination prohibited
   
32.101   Establishment; composition; terms; administrative support
   
32.102   Purpose
   
32.103   Duties and responsibilities
   
32.104   Meetings; rules; officers; quorum
Cross-reference:
   Department of Cemeteries, see
§ 91.10
   Department of Public Safety, see
Chapter 31
   Historic Resources Commission, see §§
155.03 and
155.04
   Parks and Recreation Department, see
§§ 96.50 through 96.56
   Rental Housing Board of Appeals, see
§ 97.42
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01  EXISTING BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS.
   All Boards and Commissions existing at the time of the adoption of this code
shall be continued and the members serving thereon shall remain in office for
the duration of the term for which they were appointed.
(`73 Code, 12.241, § 1.141)
§ 32.02  VACANCIES.
   Unless otherwise provided, any vacancy occurring in the membership of any
Board or Commission shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in
the manner provided for original appointment.
(`73 Code, 12.242, § 1.142)
§ 32.03  REMOVAL.
   The appointing authority may remove any member of any Board or Commission
for cause, but any member shall be entitled to a public hearing on such
removal, on written demand filed with the appointing authority within ten days
after notice of removal has been given to such member.
(`73 Code, 12.243, § 1.143)
§ 32.04  COMPENSATION.
   Unless otherwise provided, all members of Boards and Commissions shall serve
without compensation as members thereof.
(`73 Code, 12.244, § 1.144)
CITY PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.15  COMMISSION CONTINUED.
   The City Planning Commission heretofore created pursuant to Public Act 285
of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 - 125.45, as amended, and the City Charter,
is hereby continued.
(`73 Code, 14.001, § 5.201)
§ 32.16  MEMBERS.
   (A)   The City Planning Commission shall be composed of seven members, who
shall represent insofar as possible different professions or occupations. The
members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the
Council. The term of each member shall be three years, except that in the case
of the first Commission appointed hereunder, three of the members shall be
appointed for a term of one year, three for a term of two years, and three for
a term of three years. All such appointments shall date from May 1, 1954. Each
member shall hold office until his successor has been appointed. Vacancies
occurring otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Mayor, subject to approval by the Council. The City
Manager shall be a member ex-officio of the Commission and shall attend all of
its meetings and may participate in all of its discussions, but he shall not
have any power to vote.
   (B)   The Mayor, upon the recommendation of the City Manager, may designate
not more than two additional city employees to serve ex-officio on the
Commission and to assist in its work.
   (C)   All members of the City Planning Commission, including city employees
serving ex-officio, shall serve as such without compensation.
(`73 Code, 14.002, § 5.202)
   (D)   Members of the Commission may, after public hearing, be removed by the
Mayor for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in office; provided that
such removal be approved by the Council. 
(`73 Code, 14.003, § 5.203)
(Am. Ord. eff. 4-4-08)
§ 32.17  ORGANIZATION; MEETINGS; RECORD.
   The Commission shall annually elect its chairman from amongst the appointed
members and create and fill such other of its offices as it may determine. The
Commission shall hold at least one regular meeting in each month. It shall
adopt rules for transaction of business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a
public record and open to inspection in the office of the City Clerk.
(`73 Code, 14.004, § 5.204)
§ 32.18  POWERS AND DUTIES; REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The Commission shall have such powers concerning the preparation and
adoption of a master plan or any part thereof, the making of surveys as a basis
for such plan, the approval of public improvements, the carrying out of
educational and publicity programs, the approval of plats, and such other
rights, powers, duties and responsibilities as are expressly provided in Public
Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 - 125.45, as amended.
(`73 Code, 14.006, § 5.206)
   (B)   The City Planning Commission shall make reports and recommendations to
the Council; provided, however, that no such recommendation shall be binding
upon the Council. 
(`73 Code, 14.008, § 5.208)
§ 32.19  CONTRACTS FOR SERVICES; GIFTS.
   (A)   The Commission may contract with city planners, engineers, architects
and other consultants for such specialized services as it may require. In
addition, the services of regular city employees may be obtained as found
necessary for its work. The Commission shall not expend any funds or enter into
any contracts or agreements for expenditures in excess of amounts appropriated
for the purpose by the Council, which may appropriate such funds for city
planning as it may deem advisable. 
(`73 Code, 14.005, § 5.205)
   (B)   The Commission may receive gifts for purposes of carrying out its
objectives and may expend any funds in the form of a gift in such manner as it
may deem proper.  (`73 Code, 14.007, § 5.207)
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.30  SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Downtown Development
Authority ordinance.
(`73 Code, 13.001, § 1) (Ord. eff. 6-17-85)
§ 32.31  DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this subchapter shall have the same meaning as given to
them in Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1680 or as
provided in this section unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ACT 197.  Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1680 as
now in effect or hereafter amended.
   AUTHORITY.  the Cheboygan Downtown Development Authority created by this
subchapter.
   BOARD or BOARD OF DIRECTORS.  The Board of Directors of the Authority, the
governing body of the Authority.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  The Mayor of the city.
   COUNCIL.  The City Council of the City of Cheboygan.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.  The downtown district, and the Cheboygan River
Waterfront in the downtown district, designated by this subchapter as now
existing or hereafter amended.
(`73 Code, 13.002, § 2)  (Ord. eff. 6-17-85)
§ 32.32  DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY.
   The City Council hereby determines that it is necessary for the best
interests of the city to halt property value deterioration and increase
property tax valuation where possible in the business district of the city, to
eliminate the causes of that deterioration and to promote economic growth by
establishing a Downtown Development Authority pursuant to Act 197.
(`73 Code, 13.003, § 3)  (Ord. eff. 6-17-85)
§ 32.33  CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created pursuant to Act 197 a Downtown Development Authority
for the city. The Authority shall be a public body corporate and shall be known
and exercise its powers under title of Cheboygan Downtown Development
Authority. The Authority may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in any court of
this state and shall possess all of the powers necessary to carry out the
purpose of its incorporation as provided by this subchapter and Act 197. The
enumeration of a power in this subchapter or in Act 197 shall not be construed
as a limitation upon the general powers of the authority.
(`73 Code, 13.004, § 4)  (Ord. eff. 6-17-85)
§ 32.34  DESCRIPTION OF DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   The downtown district in which the Authority shall exercise its powers as
provided by Act 197 shall consist of the following described territory in the
city, subject to such changes as may hereinafter be made pursuant to this
chapter and Act 197:
Commencing at Reference Point #4 of the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources Environmental Area #5-9 Boundary Description in Cheboygan Township,
T18N, R1W, Michigan, Sections 29 and 30; distant from the point of beginning at
the ordinary high water line of Lake Huron where it intersects the NW right of
way of Huron Street, thence SWly along said ROW 560 ft.; thence N 56º W 360
ft.; thence S 20º E 160 ft.; thence S 64º W 225 ft.; thence S 44º W 470 ft.;
thence N 82º W 170 ft.; thence N 4º W 200 ft.; thence N 72' W 500 ft. to the
said Reference Point #4 thence from that said point of commencement S 78º W 330
ft.; thence S 16º W 280 ft.; thence S 53º E 610 ft.; thence S 36º W to the
northern right-of-way of Lake St.; thence southerly along the centerline of
Cass St. to the southern right-of-way of First St.; thence easterly along said
right-of-way line to center line of Clinton St.; thence southerly along center
line Clinton Street to the center line of Mackinaw Avenue; then Wly along said
center line to the center line of May St., extended, then Sly along said center
line extended to center line of Backus St.; thence easterly along said center
line to center line Huron St.; thence southerly along said center line to a
point which is 122 ft. southerly of south right-of-way Locust St.; thence Ely
at right angles to center line Huron St. 132 ft.; thence southerly parallel to
Huron St. to northerly right-of-way Nelson St.; thence easterly along right-of-
way line across the Cheboygan River, to the center line of “A” St., extended,
thence northerly along said center line to the center line of State St.; thence
easterly along said center line to the center line of Coast Guard Drive; thence
northerly along said center line to its intersection with the ordinary high
water line of Lake Huron; thence Wly along said ordinary high water line across
the Cheboygan River to the point of commencement.
(`73 Code, 13.005, § 5; 13.010, § 10)  (Ord. eff. 6-17-85; Am. Ord. passed 3-4-
86)
§ 32.35  BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Authority shall be under supervision and control of a Board of Directors
consisting of the Chief Executive Officer of the city and eleven members as
provided by Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 et seq. The members
shall be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer subject to approval by the
Council and shall hold office for the terms provided in Act 197 of 1975, being
M.C.L.A. § 125.1654. All members shall hold office until the members’ successor
is appointed.
(`73 Code, 13.006, § 6)  (Ord. eff. 6-17-85; Am. Ord. eff. 11-12-02; Am. Ord.
eff. 1-28-08)
§ 32.36  POWERS OF AUTHORITY.
   Except as specifically otherwise provided in this subchapter the Authority
shall have all powers provided by law subject to the limitations imposed by law
and herein.
(`73 Code, 13.007, § 7)  (Ord. eff. 6-17-85)
Statutory reference:
   Powers of downtown development authorities, see M.C.L.A. § 125.1657
§ 32.37  DIRECTOR.
   If a Director is employed as authorized by Public Act 197 of 1975, § 5,
being M.C.L.A. § 125.1655, he shall post bond in the penal sum of $75,000 as
required by that section of the statute.
(`73 Code, 13.008, § 8)  (Ord. eff. 6-17-85)
§ 32.38  FISCAL YEAR; ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Authority shall begin on July 1 of each year
and end on June 30 of the following year, or such other fiscal year as may
hereafter be adopted by the city.
   (B)   The Board shall annually prepare a budget and shall submit it to the
Council on the same date that the proposed budget for the city is required by
the Charter to be submitted to the Council. The Board shall not finally adopt a
budget for any fiscal year until the budget has been approved by the City
Council. The Board may, however, temporarily adopt a budget in connection with
the operation of any improvements which have been financed by revenue bonds
where required to do so by the ordinance authorizing the revenue bonds.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit financial reports to the Council at the
same time and on the same basis as departments of the city are required to
submit reports. The Authority shall be audited annually by the same independent
auditors auditing the city and copies of the audit report shall be filed with
the Council.
(`73 Code, 13.009, § 9)  (Ord. eff. 6-17-85)
Cross-reference:
   Date of city budget, see Charter
sec. 11.2
§ 32.39  BY-LAWS.
   This section sets forth the By-Laws of the Downtown Development Authority,
providing for its operation and procedure. 
(`73 Code, 13.101, § 1)
   (A)   Purpose. The Downtown Development Authority is organized with
reference to Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1680, as
amended. Its purposes will be to correct and prevent deterioration in business
districts and the Cheboygan riverfront in the business district; to encourage
historic preservation; to authorize the acquisition and disposal of interests
in real and personal property; to authorize the creation and implementation of
development plans in the districts; to promote the economic growth of the
district to create a board; to prescribe its powers and duties; to authorize
the levy and collection of taxes; and to authorize the use of tax increment
financing and to accomplish the foregoing by the following means:
      (1)   Prepare an analysis of economic changes taking place in the
downtown district and the waterfront of the Cheboygan River in the downtown
district.
      (2)   Study and analyze the impact of metropolitan growth upon the
downtown district and the waterfront of the Cheboygan River in the downtown
district.
      (3)   Plan and propose the construction, the renovation, repair,
remodeling, rehabilitation, restoration, preservation, or reconstruction of
public facilities, existing docks, and existing building, or multiple family
dwelling units which may be necessary or appropriate to the execution of a plan
which, in the opinion of the Board, aids in the economic growth of the downtown
district.
      (4)   Develop long-range plans, in cooperation with the agency which is
chiefly responsible for planning in the municipality, designed to halt the
deterioration of property values in the downtown district and to promote the
economic growth of the downtown district, and take such steps as may be
necessary to persuade property owners to implement the plans to the fullest
extent possible.
      (5)   Implement any plan of development in the downtown district
necessary to achieve the purposes of this act in accordance with the powers of
the Authority as granted by this section.
      (6)   Make and enter into contracts necessary or incidental to the
exercise of its powers and the performance of its duties.
      (7)   Acquire by purchase or otherwise, on terms and condition and in a
manner the Authority deems proper or own, convey or otherwise dispose of, or
lease as lessor or lessee, land and other property, real or personal, or rights
or interests therein, which the Authority determines is reasonably necessary to
achieve the purposes of this act, and to grant or acquire licenses, easements,
and options with respect thereto.
      (8)   Improve land and construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, restore, and
improve, maintain, repair and operate any building, including multiple-family
dwellings, and any necessary or desirable appurtenances thereto, within the
downtown district for the use, in whole or in part, of any public or private
person or corporation, or a combination thereof.
      (9)   Fix, charge, and collect fees, rents, and charges for the use of
any building or property under its control or any part thereof, or facility
therein, and pledge the fees, rents, and charges for the payment of revenue
bonds issued by the Authority.
      (10)   Lease any building or property under its control, or any part
thereof.
      (11)   Accept grants and donations of property, labor, or other things of
value from a public or private source.
      (12)   Acquire and construct public facilities, boat dock facilities, and
riverfront parks and boardwalks.
      (13)   Provide financial assistance, advisory services and reimbursement
of certain expenses to persons displaced from real property or deprived of
certain rights in real property pursuant to Public Act 227 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 231.321 - 231.332.
      (14)   To receive property taken by the City of Cheboygan under its power
of eminent domain for use in an approved development on terms and conditions
that it deems appropriate and as necessary for public purposes and for the
benefit of the public.
      (15)   The activities of the authority shall be financed from one or more
of the following sources:
         (a)   Donations to the Authority for the performance of its functions;
         (b)   Monies borrowed and to be repaid as authorized;
         (c)   Revenues from any property, building, or facility owned, leased,
licensed, or operated by the Authority or under its control, subject to the
limitations imposed upon the Authority by trusts or other agreements;
         (d)   Other types of financing as may be determined by the Authority.
      (16)   The Authority may borrow money and issue its negotiable revenue
bonds therefor pursuant to Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 -
141.139, as amended. Revenue bonds issued by the Authority shall not, except as
hereinafter provided, be deemed a debt of the municipality or the state. The
municipality by majority vote of the members of its governing body may pledge
its full faith and credit to support the Authority's revenue bonds.
      (17)   (a)   When the Authority determines that it is necessary for the
achievement of its purposes, the Authority shall prepare and submit a tax
increment financing plan to the governing body of the municipality. The plan
shall be pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 -
125.1680, as amended.
         (b)   The municipality may by resolution of its governing body
authorize, issue, and sell general obligation bonds subject to the limitations
herein set forth to finance the development program of the tax increment
financing plan and shall pledge its full faith and credit for repayment of the
bonds. The bonds shall mature in not more than 30 years and shall be subject to
Public Act 202 of 1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 131.1 - 139.3, as amended, and Public
Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1680, as amended.
      (18)   Carry on any activity for the purpose above stated, either
directly or as agent for or with public authorities, or in whole or in part
through or by means of public authorities, individuals, corporations or other
organizations.
      (19)   In general, and subject to such limitations and conditions as are
or may be prescribed by law, to exercise such other powers which now are or
hereinafter may be conferred by law upon a corporation organized pursuant to
Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1680, as amended.
(`73 Code, 13.102, § 2)
   (B)   Directors and management. The business and affairs of the corporation
shall be under the supervision and control of a Board of Directors except as
otherwise provided by statute, by the Articles of Incorporation or by the By-
Laws.
      (1)   Board of Directors.
         (a)   The Board of Directors of the corporation shall consist of the
Chief Executive Officer of the municipality and eleven members appointed by the
Chief Executive Officer of the municipality, subject to approval by the
governing body of the municipality. At least seven of the members shall be
persons having an interest in property located in the downtown district. Of the
members first appointed, three shall be appointed for one year, three for two
years, two for three years, and two for four years. A member shall hold office
until the member’s successor is appointed. Thereafter, a member shall serve for
a term of four years. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the
Chief Executive Officer of the municipality for the unexpired term only.
Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed
for actual and necessary expenses. The Chairman of the Board shall be elected
by the Board.
         (b)   Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by
taking and subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.
         (c)   The Board shall adopt rules governing its procedure and the
holding of regular meetings, subject to the approval of the governing body.
Special meetings may be held when called in the manner provided in the rules of
the Board. Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
         (d)   Pursuant to notice and an opportunity to be heard, a member of
the Board may be removed by the governing body.
         (e)   All expense items of the Authority shall be publicized monthly
and the financial records shall always be open to the public.
(`73 Code, 13.103, § 3.20)
      (2)   Conflict of interest. A Director who has a direct interest in any
matter before the corporation shall disclose his interest prior to the
corporation taking any action with respect to the matter which disclosure shall
become a part of the record of the corporation's official proceedings and the
interested director shall further refrain from participation in the
corporation's proceedings relating to the matter. 
(`73 Code, 13.103, § 3.30)
   (C)   Officers. The officers of the corporation shall consist of a Chairman,
Vice Chairman, Secretary and Treasurer. 
(`73 Code, 13.104, § 4.10)
      (1)   Director.
         (a)   The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Director,
subject to approval of the governing body of the municipality.
         (b)   The Director shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.
         (c)   Before entering upon the duties of his office, the Director
shall take and subscribe to the constitutional oath, and furnish bond, by
posting a bond in the penal sum determined in the ordinance establishing the
Authority payable to the Authority for use and benefit of the Authority,
approved by the Board, and filed with the City Clerk. The premium on the bond
shall be deemed an operating expense of the Authority, payable from funds
available to the Authority for expenses of operation.
         (d)   The Director shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the
Authority.
         (e)   Subject to the approval of the Board, the Director shall
supervise, and be responsible for, the preparation of plans and the performance
of the functions of the Authority in the manner authorized by this act.
         (f)   The Director shall attend the meetings of the Board, and shall
render to the Board and to the governing body of the municipality a regular
report covering the activities and financial condition of the Authority.
         (g)   If the Director is absent or disabled, the Board may designate a
qualified person as acting Director to perform the duties of the office. Before
entering upon the duties of his office, the acting Director shall take and
subscribe to the oath, and furnish bond, as required of the Director.
         (h)   The Director shall furnish the Board with information or reports
governing the operation of the Authority as the Board requires.
      (2)   Treasurer.
         (a)   The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Treasurer,
who shall keep the financial records of the Authority and who, together with
the Director, shall approve all vouchers for the expenditure of funds of the
Authority.
         (b)   The Treasurer shall perform such other duties as may be
delegated to him by the Board and shall furnish bond in an amount as prescribed
by the Board.
      (3)   Secretary. The Board may employ and fix the compensation of a
Secretary, who shall maintain custody of the official seal and of records,
books, documents, or other papers not required to be maintained by the
Treasurer. The Secretary shall attend meetings of the Board and keep a record
of its proceedings, and shall perform such other duties delegated by the Board.
      (4)   The Board may retain legal counsel to advise the Board in the
proper performance of its duties. The legal counsel shall represent the
Authority in actions brought by or against the Authority.
      (5)   The Board may employ other personnel deemed necessary by the Board.
(`73 Code, 13.104, § 4.20)
   (D)   Location of the first registered office. The location of the first
registered office is:
   City of Cheboygan
   403 North Huron Street
   Cheboygan, Michigan 49721
   (213) 627-9931
(`73 Code, 13.105, § 5)
   (E)   Name of first registered agent. The name of the first registered agent
is:
      William Elliott Chlopan
      City Manager/Engineer
(`73 Code, 13.106, § 6)
   (F)   Assets.
      (1)   The amount of assets which the Authority possesses is:
         (a)   Real property - None.
         (b)   Personal property - None.
      (2)   The Corporation will be financed from donations, gifts, grants and
devises, either solicited or unsolicited, obtained from public authorities,
individuals, corporations and other organizations, by earnings from its
activities, borrowings and issuances of its bonds.
      (3)   The By-Laws of the Downtown Development Authority shall become
effective ten days after adoption of this ordinance by the City Council, its
publication and its final approval as provided by law.
(`73 Code, 13.107, § 7)
   (G)   Distribution of earnings.
      (1)   No part of the net earnings of the corporation shall inure to the
benefit of any member, trustee, officer or director of the corporation, or any
private individual (except that reasonable compensation may be paid for
services rendered to or for the corporation affecting one or more of its
purposes) and no member, trustee, officer or director of the corporation or any
private individual shall be entitled to share in the distribution of any of the
corporate assets or dissolution of the corporation. No part of the earnings
shall be used for, nor shall the corporation engage in the carrying on of,
propaganda, or otherwise attempting, to influence legislation, and the
corporation shall not participate in or intervene in (including the publication
or distribution of statements) any political campaign on behalf of any
candidate for public office.
      (2)   Upon dissolution of the corporation or the winding up of its
affairs, all property and assets of the corporation shall be distributed
exclusively to the city or its successor.
(`73 Code, 13.108, § 8)
   (H)   Publication. These By-Laws shall be published in accordance with the
provisions of Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1680, as
amended. 
(`73 Code, 13.109, § 9)
   (I)   Adoption. The initial By-Laws of the Authority were adopted by the
Authority at its regular meeting of July 10, 1985, by a majority vote of the
Directors present, and shall be deemed fully enforceable upon ratification by
the City Council. The Board may amend or repeal the By-Laws or adopt new by-
laws subject to the approval of the City Council by ordinance. The by-laws may
contain any provision for the regulation and management of the Authority, not
inconsistent with the law of these by-laws and Public Act 197 of 1975, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1680, as amended. 
(`73 Code, 13.110, § 10)
(Ord. eff. 9-16-85; Am. Ord. eff. 1-28-08)
§ 32.40  DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   The Downtown Development Plan and Tax Increment Financing Plan as published
and presented to the City Council for the city on February 25, 1986, and as
amended, published and presented to the City Council on May 11, 2004 and
December 11, 2007, is hereby approved. Said approval is based upon the
following considerations:
   (A)   It constitutes a public purpose;
   (B)   The plan meets the requirements set forth in Public Act 197 of 1975, §
17(2), being M.C.L.A. § 125.1667;
   (C)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and the
Downtown Development Authority has the ability to arrange the financing;
   (D)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes
of Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680;
   (E)   The land included within the development area to be acquired is
reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the plan and of Public Act
197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, in an efficient and
economically satisfactory manner;
   (F)   The Downtown Development Plan is in reasonable accord with the Master
Plan of the city;
   (G)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities, are
or will be adequate to service the project area;
   (H)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections, and
utilities are reasonably necessary for the project in the city.
(Ord. passed 3-4-86; Am. Ord. eff. 2-11-08)
HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 32.55  COMMISSION CONTINUED.
   Pursuant to Public Act 18 of 1933 (Extra Session), being M.C.L.A. § 125.651
et seq., as heretofore amended, the Commission created for the city known as
the “Cheboygan Housing Commission,” is continued.
(`73 Code, 12.251, § 1.151)
§ 32.56  APPOINTMENTS.
   The City Manager shall appoint the members of the Housing Commission as
terms expire or vacancies occur.
(`73 Code, 12.252, § 1.152)
§ 32.57  POWERS.
   The Housing Commission shall have all the powers and duties vested or
permitted to be vested in housing commissions by Public Act 18 of 1933 (Extra
Session), being M.C.L.A. § 125.651 et seq., as heretofore or hereafter amended,
and any laws heretofore or hereafter enacted which are supplemental thereto, it
being the intention of the City Council to vest in the Housing Commission all
powers and duties permitted by law.
(`73 Code, 12.253, § 1.153)
LOCAL OFFICERS COMPENSATION COMMISSION
§ 32.70  COMMISSION CREATED.
   (A)   A local officers compensation commission is created which shall
determine the salaries of all local elected officials. The Commission shall
consist of five members who are registered electors of the city, appointed by
the Mayor subject to confirmation by a majority of the members elected and
serving in the legislative body. The terms of office shall be five years;
except that of the members first appointed, one each shall be appointed for
terms of one, two, three, four and five years. All first members shall be
appointed within 30 days after the effective date of the ordinance. Thereafter
members shall be appointed before October 1 of the year of appointment.
Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (B)   No member or employee of the legislative, judicial or executive branch
of any level of government or members of the immediate family of such member or
employee shall be eligible to be a member of the Commission.
(`73 Code, 12.302, § 1.102) (Ord. eff. 3-14-77)
§ 32.71  DETERMINATION OF SALARIES; MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall determine the salaries of such local elected
officials which determination shall be the salaries unless the legislative body
by resolution adopted by two-thirds of the members elected and serving on the
legislative body reject them. The determination of the Commission shall be
effective 30 days following their filing with the City Clerk unless rejected by
the legislative body. In case of rejection, the existing salary shall prevail.
Any expense allowance or reimbursement paid to elected officials in addition to
salary shall be for expenses incurred in the course of city business and
accounted for to the city.
   (B)   The Commission shall meet for not more than 15 session days in every
odd numbered year and shall make its determination within 45 calendar days of
its first meeting. A majority of the members of the Commission constitutes a
quorum for conducting the business of the Commission. The Commission shall take
no action or make determinations without a concurrence of a majority of the
members appointed and serving on the Commission. The Commission shall elect a
chairman from among its members. Session day means any calendar day on which
the Commission meets and a quorum is present. The members of the Commission
shall receive no compensation, but shall be entitled to their actual and
necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(`73 Code, 12.303, § 1.103)  (Ord. eff. 3-14-77)
§ 32.72  CHANGE OF PROCEDURE.
   The governing body shall implement this provision by resolution. After one
year following the date the ordinance goes into effect the procedure for
establishing the compensation of elected officials may be changed by Charter
amendment or revision.
(`73 Code, 12.304, § 1.204)  (Ord. eff. 3-14-77)
§ 32.73  PETITION FOR REFERENDUM.
   Within 60 days after the effective date of the ordinance, a petition for a
referendum on the ordinance may be filed in accordance with the procedure
provided in the Charter or otherwise by filing a petition with the City Clerk
containing the signatures of at least 5% of the registered electors of such
city on the effective date of the ordinance in which case the election shall be
conducted in the same manner as an election on a Charter amendment. If a
petition for referendum is filed, any determination of the Commission shall not
be effective until the ordinance has been approved by the electors.
(`73 Code, 12.305, § 1.205)  (Ord. eff. 3-14-77)
CIVIL RIGHTS - HUMAN RELATIONS BOARD
§ 32.100  FINDINGS; DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Legislative findings.  Prejudice and discrimination against any
individual or group because of religion, race, color, national origin, age,
sex, height, weight, familial status or marital status is harmful to democracy,
the cornerstone of our American tradition, and threatens the public peace and
the public welfare.  To endeavor to eliminate such prejudice and
discrimination, an instrumentality of government shall be established through
which the residents of the city may be kept informed of developments in human
relations and from which the elected and appointed officials and the
departments of the city may obtain expert advice and assistance in adopting
measures to keep peace, good order and harmony among the residents of the city,
to bring about and maintain harmony and avoid inter-group tensions, to promote
tolerance and good will and to ensure equality of treatment and opportunity to
all, regardless of religion, race, color, national origin, age, sex, height,
weight, familial status or marital status.
   (B)   Discrimination prohibited.  No corporation, person or entity shall
discriminate against any other person because of the religion, race, color,
national origin, age, sex or handicap.  Any such discrimination shall be
considered unlawful.
(Ord. eff. 10-2-03)
§ 32.101  ESTABLISHMENT; COMPOSITION; TERMS; ADMINISTRATIVE SUPPORT.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Human Relations Board which shall
consist of five members to be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the
City Council.  The members of the Board, as nearly as possible, shall be
representative of the community, including management, labor and the various
racial, ethnic and religious groups, and personally shall have manifested and
demonstrated their interest in improving human relations.  The members shall
serve without compensation.
   (B)   Of the five members first appointed, one shall be appointed for one
year, two for two years and two for three years.  Thereafter, all appointments
to the Board shall be for a term of three years. A member shall continue in
office until a successor is appointed and takes office.  A member may be
reappointed for a second full term.  After serving a second term, a member must
wait one year before becoming eligible for reappointment to another term on the
Board.  In the event of the death or resignation of any member, his or her
successor shall be appointed to serve for the unexpired term for which such
member had been appointed.
   (C)   Two additional ex-officio members shall be appointed annually by the
Mayor and the City Council.  One shall be a member of the City Council and the
other shall be a city official, other than a City Commissioner, recommended by
the City Manager.
   (D)   The City Manager, with the concurrence of the City Council, shall
designate someone to serve as Secretary to the Board and shall provide such
administrative support as may be required.
   (E)   Membership on the Board may be terminated by the City Council upon a
finding of good cause. Among others, three consecutive unexcused absences from
regularly scheduled meetings shall be considered good cause.
(Ord. eff. 10-2-03)
§ 32.102  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the Human Relations Board shall be to increase constructive
communication among our citizens across racial, ethnic and social economic
lines and between citizens and public officials, thereby promoting harmonious
and productive relationships within the community.
(Ord. eff. 10-2-03)
§ 32.103  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Human Relations Board shall have the following duties and
responsibilities:
      (1)   To foster mutual understanding and respect among all racial,
religious and nationality groups in the city; to discourage and prevent
discriminatory practices among any such group or any of its members; to
cooperate with city, state and federal agencies as well as with nongovernmental
organizations, including groups and agencies of governmental units adjacent to
the city; and to make such investigations and studies in any field of human
relations as are permitted by law and as, in the judgment of the Board, will
aid in effectuating its general purpose;
      (2)   To formulate and carry out programs of community education and
information, with the object of discouraging and eliminating any tension,
prejudice or discrimination;
      (3)   To secure the cooperation of various racial, religious, nationality
and ethnic groups, formal or informal groupings in the community, veterans'
organizations, business and industry organizations and fraternal, benevolent
and service groups in educational campaigns devoted to the need for eliminating
group prejudice or racial or area tension, intolerance and discrimination;
      (4)   To monitor conditions, practices, attitudes and other factors
contributing to or giving rise to misunderstandings, misapprehensions, failures
of communication, and incidents of non-cooperation among the citizenry and with
public officials;
      (5)   Special reports and recommendations may be prepared and rendered
when deemed warranted by the Board or when requested by the City Council or the
City Manager.  The reports should include a review and analysis of the
effectiveness of prior actions, projects or programs, including, where
appropriate, recommendations with regard thereto.
      (6)   To make a prompt and full investigation of claimed discrimination
upon receipt of a written complaint sworn to under oath before a notary public
setting forth the names, dates, witnesses and other factual matters pertaining
to the allegation.  Upon a determination that discrimination has occurred, the
Board shall attempt to eliminate or adjust the practice by conciliation and
persuasion.
   (B)   The Board may request the City Council to establish special ad hoc
committees or task forces to conduct studies, analyze situations and make
recommendations with regard to any of the areas set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 10-2-03)
§ 32.104  MEETINGS; RULES; OFFICERS; QUORUM.
   The Human Relations Board shall meet not less than once annually and may
adopt such rules as it deems expedient for the conduct of its business.  The
Board shall elect a Chairperson and such other officers as it deems necessary. 
The Board is hereby authorized to meet in the City Hall or such other place as
may be adequate to conduct its business.  A majority of the members of the
Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of its business.
(Ord. eff. 10-2-03)
CHAPTER 33:  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
33.01   Definitions
   
33.02   Advisory petition
   
33.03   Initiatory resolution
   
33.04   Plans and specifications
   
33.05   Report of City Manager
   
33.06   Notice and hearing
   
33.07   Resolution of determination
   
33.08   Special assessment roll; certificate; hearing
   
33.09   Objections
   
33.10   Corrections and changes
   
33.11   Confirmation or rejection of roll
   
33.12   Contract authorized in lieu of special assessment procedure
   
33.13   Lien
   
33.14   Due date; installment payments
   
33.15   Collection
   
33.16   Single lot procedure
   
33.17   Contested assessments
   
33.18   Illegal or invalid assessments
§ 33.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST.  Includes the expense of the survey, the preparation of the tax roll,
notices, advertising, printing, financing, legal, engineering, construction and
condemnation and all other costs incidental to the making of the improvement.
   IMPROVEMENT.  Any public betterment the cost of which may be defrayed by
special assessment as authorized by the Charter.
(`73 Code, 12.201, § 1.101)
§ 33.02  ADVISORY PETITION.
   (A)   The City Council, to ascertain whether or not a reasonable number of
property owners to be assessed desire any particular improvement to be made,
may request and receive a petition therefor, or may receive such a petition
voluntarily presented; but in either event, such petition shall be advisory
only. 
(`73 Code, 12.202, § 1.102)
   (B)   Each advisory petition shall be addressed to the Council and contain a
brief description of the improvement sought to be made or the nuisance or
hazard sought to be abated and shall be signed only by property owners. Each
signature shall be followed by a brief description of the property owned by the
signatory. The signatures on such petitions shall be verified by the oath of
one or more of the circulators of such petition, before filing. 
(`73 Code, 12.203, § 1.103)
   (C)   Advisory petitions shall be filed with the Clerk who shall refer them
to the City Manager. The petition shall be presented to the Council at its next
regular meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose, together with
the recommendation of the City Manager. 
(`73 Code, 12.204, § 1.104)
§ 33.03  INITIATORY RESOLUTION.
   Whenever the Council shall have power to make a public improvement by
special assessment, it shall by resolution set forth the improvement intended
to be made and direct the City Manager to prepare a report containing any
information it may require relative to such improvement.
(`73 Code, 12.205, § 1.105)
§ 33.04  PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The City Manager shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and
specifications of the improvement to be made; an estimate of the life of the
improvement and the cost thereof; a description of the assessment district or
lands affected; and such other pertinent information as the Council requests.
(`73 Code, 12.206, § 1.106)
§ 33.05  REPORT OF CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   The City Manager shall prepare his report and set forth therein:
      (1)   A schedule of all property affected by the proposed improvement and
the owners thereof;
      (2)   The assessed valuation of each parcel of land and any tax
delinquencies thereon and whether such land is improved or unimproved; and
      (3)   Such other information as Council may have requested.
   (B)   The City Manager shall present this report and the plans and
specifications to the Council together with his recommendations as to:
      (1)   What proportion of the cost should be paid by special assessment
and what part, if any, should be a general obligation of the city;
      (2)   The number of installments to which the assessment should be
spread;
      (3)   The anticipated interest rate thereon; and
      (4)   The lands which should be included in the special assessment
district.
(`73 Code, 12.207, § 1.107)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 33.06  NOTICE AND HEARING.
   (A)   After the filing of the report and the plans and specifications, the
Council shall by resolution, order the same filed with the Clerk and provide
for a public hearing. The hearing shall be held not less than ten days after
notice thereof has been given by publication and by notice sent by first class
mail to all property owners in the proposed district as shown by the current
assessment roll of the city. 
(`73 Code, 12.208, § 1.108)
   (B)   At the time and place specified in such notice for the public hearing,
the Council shall meet and hear any person to be affected by the proposed
public improvement. The hearing may be adjourned from time to time by the
Council and the Council may make any changes in the proposed improvement or
assessments which it deems reasonable or proper and in the best interests of
the city. In the event any proposed improvement is extended or enlarged upon or
additions made to the district to be assessed, no final determination shall be
made by the Council until after another hearing is held pursuant to notice as
required for the original hearings. 
(`73 Code, 12.209, § 1.109)
§ 33.07  RESOLUTION OF DETERMINATION.
   (A)   After the public hearing, the Council may, by resolution, determine to
make the improvement and defray the whole or any part of the cost of the
improvement by special assessment upon the property especially benefitted in
proportion to the benefits derived, or to be derived, and designate whether it
is to be assessed according to frontage, area, valuation, benefit, or other
basis.
   (B)   By such resolution the Council shall approve the plans and
specifications for the improvement; determine the number of installments in
which assessments may be paid; determine the rate of interest to be charged on
installments, not to exceed the rate allowed by law; designate the district or
land and premises upon which special assessments shall be levied; direct the
Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with the Council's
determination; and designate the name by which said assessment roll shall be
known and referred to.
(`73 Code, 12.210, § 1.110)  (Am. Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 33.08  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL; CERTIFICATE; HEARING.
   (A)   The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a special assessment roll
including all parcels of land within the special assessment district designated
by the Council and shall assess against each parcel of land such relative
portion of the whole sum to be levied against all the lands in the special
assessment district as the benefit to such lot or parcel of land bears to the
total benefits to all lands in such district. There shall also be entered upon
such roll the amount which has been assessed to the city at large, if any. 
(`73 Code, 12.211, § 1.111)
   (B)   Upon completion of such assessment roll, the Assessor shall attach
thereto, or endorse thereon, his certificate to the effect that said roll was
made by him pursuant to a resolution of the Council (giving date of adoption of
same) and that in making the assessments therein, he used his best judgment and
conformed in all respects to the directions contained in such resolution and
the Charter and the provisions of this chapter. Thereupon, the special
assessment roll shall be filed with the Clerk who shall present the same to the
Council. 
(`73 Code, 12.212, § 1.112)
   (C)   Upon receipt of such special assessment roll, the Council shall order
it filed in the office of the Clerk for public examination, and shall by
resolution, fix the time and the place when the Council will hold a public
hearing thereon. The hearing shall be held not less than ten days after notice
thereof has been given by publication and by notice sent by first class mail to
all property owners in the proposed district as shown by the current assessment
roll of the city. 
(`73 Code, 12.213, § 1.113)
§ 33.09  OBJECTIONS.
   (A)   Any person deeming himself aggrieved by the special assessment roll
may file his objections thereto in writing with the Clerk, which written
objections shall specify the manner in which he deems himself aggrieved. The
Council shall meet and review the special assessment roll at the time and place
appointed or at an adjourned date therefor and shall consider any written
objections thereto. 
(`73 Code, 12.214, § 1.114)
   (B)   If, at or prior to final confirmation of any special assessment roll,
written objections to the proposed improvement have been filed by the owners of
property who will be required to bear more than 50% of the amount of such
special assessment, the improvement shall not be made or authorized without the
affirmative vote of five members of the Council. 
(`73 Code, 12.215, § 1.115)
§ 33.10  CORRECTIONS AND CHANGES.
   The Council may correct the special assessment roll as to any assessment or
description of any lot or parcel of land or other errors appearing therein. Any
changes made in such roll shall be noted in the Council minutes.
(`73 Code, 12.216, § 1.116)
§ 33.11  CONFIRMATION OR REJECTION OF ROLL.
   After such hearing and review, the Council by resolution may confirm such
special assessment roll with such corrections as may have been made or refer it
back to the Assessor for revision or annul it and any proceedings in connection
therewith. The Clerk shall endorse the date of confirmation upon each special
assessment roll and upon confirmation such roll shall be final and conclusive.
(`73 Code, 12.217, § 1.117)
§ 33.12  CONTRACT AUTHORIZED IN LIEU OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   In the event that all persons or property owners to be affected by any
proposed improvement agree that such proposed improvement be made and that a
special assessment be levied in connection therewith, the city may, in lieu of
the foregoing procedure, enter into a written contract with all of the persons
or property owners affected thereby, which contract when approved and executed,
shall operate as a complete special assessment procedure and the assessment
shall be made in accordance with the contract.
(`73 Code, 12.218, § 1.118)
§ 33.13  LIEN.
   (A)   Upon the confirmation of each special assessment roll the special
assessments shall become a debt to the city from the persons against whom the
assessments were made, and shall until paid be a lien upon the property
assessed for the amount of such assessments and all interest and charges
thereon. Such lien shall be of the same character and effect as created by the
Charter for city taxes.
(`73 Code, 12.219, § 1.119)
   (B)   No judgment or decree nor any action of the Council vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair any lien of the city upon the premises
assessed for such amount of the assessment as may have been equitably or
lawfully charged and assessed thereon. Failure of any owner to receive any
notice required to be sent under the provisions of the Charter and this chapter
shall not invalidate any special assessment or special assessment roll. In
addition to the property tax lien created hereunder, any special assessment
levied by the city shall constitute a debt owed to the city and may be enforced
in the same manner as any contracted debt, or in the same manner as provided by
law for the collection of personal property taxes. 
(`73 Code, 12.220, § 1.120)
§ 33.14  DUE DATE; INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   All special assessments levied hereunder shall become due upon confirmation
of the special assessment roll unless such assessments are payable in annual
installments, in which event the Council shall determine the time such payments
are due and payable. The Council in its discretion may spread such special
assessments upon each annual city tax roll thereafter until all are paid.
(`73 Code, 12.221, § 1.121)
§ 33.15  COLLECTION.
   The assessment roll shall be transmitted by the Clerk to the Treasurer for
collection immediately after confirmation and in the event it is not a part of
the annual tax roll, the Treasurer shall give notice by publication that said
special assessment roll (describing it) has been filed in the Treasurer's
office and specify the time and place payments may be made thereon. Each
special assessment, or the initial installment of such assessment when
installment payments are provided for, shall be collected by the Treasurer and
collection fees shall be charged as prescribed in the Charter.
(`73 Code, 12.222, § 1.222)
§ 33.16  SINGLE LOT PROCEDURE.
   Whenever any expense shall have been incurred by the city upon or in respect
to any single lot or parcel of land, which expense is chargeable against such
lot or parcel of land and the owner thereof, and is not of that class required
to be prorated among several lots or parcels of land in a special assessment
district, the amount of labor and material or any other expense or service for
which such expense was incurred, with a description of the lot or parcel of
land upon or in respect to which the expense was incurred, and the name of the
owner, if known, shall be reported by the City Manager to the Council. Such
expense shall be charged as a special assessment and the procedure and
enforcement of payment shall conform with the provisions of the Charter.
(`73 Code, 12.223, § 1.123)
§ 33.17  CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   No owner of real property located in any special assessment district shall
commence any suit or action for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the
collection of any special assessments after he has received the benefits from
the substantial completion of that portion of such public improvement for which
he is assessed.
(`73 Code, 12.224, § 1.124)
§ 33.18  ILLEGAL OR INVALID ASSESSMENTS.
   Whenever any special assessment shall, in the opinion of the Council be
invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the proceedings, or if any
court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge such assessment to be illegal,
the Council shall, whether the improvement has been made or not, or whether any
part of the assessments have been paid or not, subject to the decision of the
court, have power to cause a new assessment to be made for the same purpose for
which the former assessment was made. All proceedings on such reassessment and
for the collection thereof shall be conducted in the same manner as prescribed
for the original assessment, and whenever any sum or part thereof levied upon
any property in the assessment so set aside has been paid and not refunded, the
payment so made shall be applied upon the reassessment or if the payments
exceed the amount of the reassessment refunds shall be made.
(`73 Code, 12.225, § 1.125)
CHAPTER 34:  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION BUREAU
Section
   
34.01   Purpose
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   Bureau established
   
34.04   Disposition of violations; limitation of Bureau’s authority
   
34.05   Violation notice; appearance and payment
   
34.06   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid
   
34.07   Ordinance violations designated civil infraction
   
34.08   Commencement of action
   
34.09   Issuance and service of municipal civil infraction citations
   
34.10   Contents of citations
§ 34.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a Municipal Civil Infraction
Bureau.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  The Revised Judicature Act, Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§
600.101 et seq., as amended.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL.  A police officer or other personnel of the city
authorized by this code or any ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction
citations or municipal civil infraction violation notices.
   BUREAU.  The City of Cheboygan Municipal Civil Infraction Bureau as
established by this chapter.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.  A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to  be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.  A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the
person cited.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION NOTICE.  A written notice prepared by an
authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the City Municipal
Civil Infraction Bureau and to pay the fines and costs, if any, prescribed for
the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the city, as authorized
under Public Act 236 of 1961, § 8396, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8396, as amended.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.03  BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   The city hereby establishes a Municipal Civil Infraction Bureau
(“Bureau”) as authorized under Public Act 236 of 1961, § 8396, being M.C.L.A. §
600.8396, as amended, to accept admissions of responsibility for municipal
civil infractions in response to municipal ordinance violation notices issued
and served by authorized city officials, and to collect and retain civil fines
and costs as prescribed by this code or any ordinance.
   (B)   The Bureau shall be located at City Hall, and shall be under the
supervision and control of the City Manager. The City Manager, subject to the
approval of the City Council, shall adopt rules and regulations for the
operation of the Bureau and appoint any necessary qualified city employees to
administer the Bureau.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.04  DISPOSITION OF VIOLATIONS; LIMITATION OF BUREAU’S AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Bureau may dispose only of municipal ordinance violations
designated as a civil infraction for which a fine has been scheduled and for
which a municipal ordinance violation notice has been issued. Nothing in this
chapter shall prevent or restrict the city from issuing a municipal civil
infraction citation for any violation or from prosecuting any violation in a
court of competent jurisdiction. No person shall be required to dispose of a
municipal civil infraction citation at the Bureau and may have the violation
processed before a court of appropriate jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any
person to dispose of any violation at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person
or in any way diminish the person's rights, privileges and protection accorded
by law.
   (B)   The scope of the Bureau's authority shall be limited to accepting
admissions of responsibility for municipal ordinance violations and collecting
and retaining civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The Bureau
shall not accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed
the offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and in no event
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.05  VIOLATION NOTICE; APPEARANCE AND PAYMENT.
   (A)   Municipal ordinance violation notices shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials under the same circumstances and upon the same
persons as provided for in §
34.06 of this Chapter. In addition to any other information required by this
code or other ordinance, the notice of violation shall indicate the time by
which the alleged violator must appear at the Bureau, the methods by which an
appearance may be made, the address and telephone number of the Bureau, the
hours during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the
alleged violation, and the consequences for failure to appear and pay the
required fine within the required time.
   (B)   An alleged violator receiving a municipal ordinance violation notice
shall appear at the Bureau and pay the specified fine and costs at or by the
time specified for appearance in the municipal ordinance violation notice. An
appearance may be made by mail, in person, or by representation.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.06  PROCEDURE WHERE ADMISSION OF RESPONSIBILITY NOT MADE OR FINE NOT PAID.
   If an authorized city official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the
civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the
violation are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation may
be filed with the district court and a copy of the citation may be served by
first-class mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator's last known
address. The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in all
particulars with the requirements for citations as provided by Public Act 236
of 1961, §§ 8705 and 8709, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8705 and 600.8709, but shall
consist of a sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the municipal
ordinance violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged violator how to
respond to the citation.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.07  ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS DESIGNATED CIVIL INFRACTION.
   (A) A person who violates any provision of this Code of Ordinances which is
punishable as a civil infraction is subject to payment of a civil fine plus
costs and other sanctions, for each infraction.
   (B)   As used in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal  ordinance violation designated as a civil infraction of
the same requirement or provision:
      (1)    committed by a person within any six-month period and
      (2)    for which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
   (C)   The increased fine for a repeat offense under this chapter shall be as
follows: The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be doubled plus costs.
   (D)   The Department of Public Safety is hereby designated as the authorized
city official(s) to issue municipal ordinance violation notices (directing
alleged violators to appear at the City of Cheboygan Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by this Code.
   (E)   A schedule of civil fines payable to the Bureau for admissions of
responsibility by persons served with municipal ordinance violation notices
shall be established from time to time by the Cheboygan City Council upon
recommendation of the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.08  COMMENCEMENT OF ACTION.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized city official of a municipal civil infraction citation directing the
alleged violator to appear in court, or a municipal ordinance violation notice
directing the alleged violator to appear at the City of Cheboygan Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.09  ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the district
court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the state court administrator. The original citation shall be filed
with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the city
and issued to the alleged violator as provided by Public Act 236 of 1961, §
8705, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8705.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint and
if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date and
signature of the official: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that the
statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and belief.”
   (E)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction
and if the prosecuting attorney or city attorney approves in writing the
issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
official as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by division (2) below, an authorized city
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator;
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involved the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the
copy on the land or attaching a copy to the building or structure. In addition,
a copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the
land, building, or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
§ 34.10  CONTENTS OF CITATION.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court, and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)    Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or
she may do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance, or in person, or by
representation;
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the city; or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance;
      (2)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a
scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is
specified on the citation;
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the city;
      (4)   That at an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney;
      (5)   That at a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldfaced type that a failure
of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or
at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will
result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on the
municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. passed 4-27-99)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   SOLID WASTE
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   CITY SEWER SERVICE
CHAPTER 50:  SOLID WASTE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Disposal of garbage and rubbish; disposition
   
50.03   Refuse preparation and storage
   
50.04   Containers
   
50.05   Collectable refuse
   
50.06   Setting refuse out
   
50.07   Business establishments
   
50.08   Additional regulations
Regulation of Collectors
   
50.20   Agreement or contract
   
50.21   License required
   
50.22   Collection vehicles
   
50.23   Disposal at landfill
   
50.24   Collection charges
Sanitary Landfill
   
50.35   Establishment
   
50.36   Definitions
   
50.37   Conformance with state regulations
   
50.38   Hours of operation
   
50.39   Permit required
   
50.40   Schedule of user fees
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDERS OR CONTRACTORS REFUSE.  Shall include all forms of refuse generated
as a result of building construction, alterations or repairs of contractors or
tradesmen.
   CITY CONTRACTOR.  The person who agrees for a stipulated sum to perform the
work or services and furnish materials and equipment as required in this
chapter.
   DWELLING. Any house, building, flat, apartment, or dwelling place within the
city, which is a private residence.
   GARBAGE.  Rejected food wastes including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter used or intended for food or that attending the
preparation, use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or
vegetables.
   REFUSE.  Putrescible and nonputresible solid wastes, except body wastes, and
includes garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue, street
cleanings and solid market and industrial wastes.
   YARD WASTE.  Consists of grass clippings, yard trimmings, leaves and general
yard and garden waste materials.
(`73 Code, 35.001, § 2.1)
§ 50.02  DISPOSAL OF GARBAGE AND RUBBISH; DISPOSITION.
   (A)   The following general provisions shall apply:
      (1)   Burning and burying. No person shall throw any garbage or rubbish
upon the grounds or bury the same on any premises, public or private, or burn
the same in any manner that may menace the public health, cause a nuisance of
smoke ash or offensive odors, or burn the same in any manner that may
constitute a fire hazard.
      (2)   Depositing and scattering. No person shall deposit or scatter
refuse on any public street, alley or public property in the city.
      (3)   Cleanliness. It shall be the duty of every owner, tenant, lessee or
occupant of any building, residential or commercial, having rubbish or waste
material to provide for and have within said building storage containers of
sufficient size to handle the accumulation of rubbish or refuse on the premises
during the interval between private and public collections.
      (4)   Accumulations. In the case of collections not taken care of by the
city, there shall be no undue accumulation of materials and the buildings and
premises shall be kept in a clean and orderly condition.
(`73 Code, 35.008, § 2.8)
   (B)   Disposition.
      (1)   Refuse shall be disposed of only to a licensed refuse collector,
except that any person may dispose of his own refuse by an approved incinerator
located within a building, where such refuse consists wholly of material which
will burn readily without objectionable odor or offensive smoke by outside
incineration.
      (2)   No person shall dispose of any garbage within the city other than
by means of an approved incinerator, approved garbage grinder or licensed
refuse collector.
      (3)   Only a licensed refuse collector shall pick up bulky items at the
premises of any occupant within the city. Payment therefor shall be at a
mutually agreed upon price between such collector and occupant. In the event
there is no licensed refuse collector, then, and in such event, the city shall
pick up and remove such bulky items.
(`73 Code, 35.013, § 2.13) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.03  REFUSE PREPARATION AND STORAGE.
   Refuse shall be prepared as follows:
   (A)   Garbage - domestic. All garbage not disposed of by the owner or
occupant of any property within the city through an incinerator, sink grinder
or other installation approved by the city for the disposal of garbage shall be
wrapped in several thicknesses of paper and placed in containers.
   (B)   Garbage - commercial. Garbage from hotels, clubs, restaurants,
institutions and other establishments for group eating other than private
residences, not disposed of through an incinerator, sink grinder or other
installation approved by the city for the disposal of garbage, and garbage from
markets, grocery stores, vegetable stands, bakeries, canneries and similar
establishments shall be well drained but need not be wrapped.
   (C)   Ashes. Ashes shall be placed in separate containers, shall be cooled
and kept as dry as possible.
   (D)   Other refuse. All other refuse shall be placed in a container or
containers of the size hereinafter prescribed, except refuse which cannot be
placed in containers because of its size and shape, and refuse not so placed in
containers shall be prepared as provided under bulk refuse.
   (E)   Bulk refuse. Any refuse not required to be placed in an approved
container will be prepared as follows: such refuse shall be compressed and
securely tied in bundles not heavier than 60 pounds or more than three feet in
length and more than 18 inches in diameter.
(`73 Code, 35.002, § 2.2) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04  CONTAINERS.
   No owner, tenant or lessee of any public or private premises shall permit to
accumulate upon his premises any garbage or rubbish unless it is placed and
maintained in containers as follows:
   (A)   Containers for garbage. All containers used for garbage shall be of
substantial construction, provided with handles or bails, and a tightfitting
cover. They shall have a capacity of not less than ten nor more than 30 gallons
and shall weigh not more than 60 pounds when filled.
   (B)   Containers for rubbish. Containers for rubbish shall be of reasonably
substantial construction to permit handling and large enough to prevent the
scattering of materials. They shall weigh not more than 60 pounds when full.
   (C)   Broken containers. Containers that are broken or fail to meet the
requirements of this chapter may be classified as rubbish, and, after due
notice to the owner, collected as such.
   (D)   Location of containers. Containers shall not be placed under the eaves
of any building in such a manner as to permit water to enter them and any
container filled or partially filled with ice or water will not be emptied.
(`73 Code, 35.003, § 2.3)  (Ord. passed 1-1-73) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.05  COLLECTABLE REFUSE.
   Refuse collected shall include the following items:
   (A)   Waste material resulting from the usual routine of housekeeping,
except garbage;
   (B)   Such articles as tin cans, tinware, ashes, porcelain ware, bottles,
glassware, earthenware, small automobile parts and other metallic substances
ordinarily discarded by householders;
   (C)   Newspapers, if tied in bundles, cardboard boxes, if collapsed and
tied, rags, leather and rubber goods, waste paper, if bundled, excelsior and
other articles which are not ordinarily burned in home incinerators;
   (D)   Rubbish shall not include discarded materials of building
construction, alterations and repair, nor trade or manufacturing wastes. No
crates shall be included unless disassembled and tied properly. Cuttings from
shrubbery, leaves, grass, bedding straw and such articles as would consume an
unreasonable amount of space in the trucks are not included.
(`73 Code, 35.005, § 2.5) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.06  SETTING REFUSE OUT.
   (A)   All refuse collected shall be set out properly bundled and in proper
containers as provided by this chapter in plain view along the roadside readily
accessible to collectors on the designated collection days as specified by the
City Manager and in the street adjacent to the premises from which collected.
   (B)   All refuse except garbage collected by licensed collectors other than
those under contract with the city, or by a department of the city, shall be
set out properly bundled and in proper containers as provided by this chapter
in plain view along the roadside readily accessible to said licensed collectors
and adjacent to the premises from which collected, except in the case of
business establishments where the same shall be set out in the alley adjacent
to the premises from which collected, provided, however, that licensed
collectors may collect such refuse from the inside of the premises.
   (C)   Waste containers placed in the street or alley shall be promptly
removed therefrom by such owner, tenant, lessee or occupant after the same
shall have been emptied. The City Manager shall be authorized to arrange dates
and schedules for the public collection of such refuse in the various sections
of the city.
   (D)   No owner, tenant, lessee or occupant shall permit refuse, excepting
garbage, to stand along the roadside waiting for collection for a continuous
period in excess of two days.
   (E)   No owner, tenant, lessee or occupant shall put out garbage or set out
garbage containers along any roadside or alley except on the date of
collection.
(`73 Code, 35.006, § 2.6) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.07  BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENTS.
   All business establishments shall arrange for the removal and disposition of
all refuse through collections and handlers licensed by the city.
(`73 Code, 35.007, § 2.7) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.08  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Council shall have the authority to pass any further regulations
necessary to carry out the provisions and intent of this chapter by resolution
of the City Council.
(`73 Code, 35.014, § 2.14)
REGULATION OF COLLECTORS
§ 50.20  AGREEMENT OR CONTRACT.
   The city may grant an exclusive contract to one or more persons for the
collection of garbage, trash, and rubbish within the city, or any part thereof,
provided, however, that any such agreement or contract executed pursuant to the
terms hereof, shall be for a period of not less than three years nor more than
five years. The terms, provisions and conditions of any such agreement or
contract shall be within the discretion of the City Council. It shall be
unlawful for any person other than authorized collectors as provided for herein
to collect, handle or interfere in any manner with garbage and refuse
containers, receptacles or bulk refuse placed in the streets, alleys or other
public places in the city.
(`73 Code, 35.004, § 2.4)
§ 50.21  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Every person transporting refuse over the streets or alleys of the city or
collecting refuse except yard waste, on a commercial basis shall obtain a
license so to do, and upon the issuance of such license shall agree and provide
that they shall pay all fees necessary for the disposal of such refuse at the
sanitary landfill.
(`73 Code, 35.011, § 2.11) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.22  COLLECTION VEHICLES.
   The transportation of all garbage, rubbish or waste material through
streets, alleys or thoroughfares within the city limits shall be conducted in
such manner as to create no nuisance and shall comply with this code.
Collection vehicles for garbage shall have completely enclosed water-tight
bodies. All collection vehicles shall be so designed that the wheel and axle
loads when fully loaded shall not exceed the schedule of weights allowed by the
laws of the State of Michigan and the city.
(`73 Code, 35.009, § 2.9) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.23  DISPOSAL AT LANDFILL.
   All collected refuse, with the exception of yard waste, originating in the
city collected by persons on a commercial basis, shall be disposed of by said
persons at the sanitary landfill in accordance with all the rules and
regulations of the city, unless the refuse is collected by persons from their
own premises and by them disposed of. The persons collecting and transporting
the refuse on a commercial basis shall pay the city the fees prescribed by the
city for disposal of refuse at such sanitary landfill.
(`73 Code, 35.010, § 2.10) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.24  COLLECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   In the event that a refuse collection service contract has been
entered into by the city, the rates for collection shall be paid to the city
and the contractor shall be paid by the city.
   (B)   Charges for refuse collection shall be fixed by resolution of the
Council and shall be collected on a quarterly basis from the premises receiving
services in the manner as are water and sewage disposal charges in the city.
Such charges shall be a lien upon the premises to which the service is
rendered. Refuse collection shall be deemed a service rendered to the parcel of
land where made.
(`73 Code, 35.012, § 2.12)
SANITARY LANDFILL
§ 50.35  ESTABLISHMENT.
   A sanitary landfill is hereby established on the following described
property: The northeast quarter of the northwest quarter, the south half of the
northwest quarter of the northwest quarter, the north half of the southwest
quarter of the northwest quarter and the northwest quarter of the southeast
quarter of the northwest quarter all in Section 4, Township 37, North, Range 1
West, City of Cheboygan, Cheboygan County, Michigan.
(`73 Code, 35.031, § 2.21)
§ 50.36  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES.  The residue from fires used for cooking or heating buildings.
   GARBAGE.  Animal or vegetable wastes which arise from the use, preparation
or storage of food for human consumption, but not including wastes from
industrial processes and manufacturing operations.
   RUBBISH.  Non-putrescible material from residential, commercial and
institutional property, including, but not limited to, paper, cartons, boxes,
barrels, wood excelsior, tree branches, yard trimmings, bedding, furniture,
metal, tin cans, bottles, glass, crockery and miscellaneous mineral refuse.
Rubbish shall not mean gravel, sand, earth, concrete building materials or
junked vehicles.
(`73 Code, 35.032, § 2.22)
§ 50.37  CONFORMANCE WITH STATE REGULATIONS.
   The sanitary landfill shall be operated in strict conformance with the rules
and regulations promulgated by the Michigan State Department of Health. It
shall be unlawful to deposit garbage, rubbish or ashes at any location on the
landfill site other than that designated by the attendant on duty. Hot ashes
shall not be deposited in the same disposal pit as combustible wastes.
(`73 Code, 35.033, § 2.23) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.38  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   The Council shall, by resolution, establish the time that the landfill shall
be open for use and it shall be unlawful for any person to deposit garbage,
rubbish, ashes or other materials on the site except during the designated
hours. Whenever an attendant is not on duty and/or the landfill is closed to
dumping, the access road shall be barricaded and it shall be unlawful to move,
or cause to be moved, such barricade.
(`73 Code, 35.034, § 2.24)
§ 50.39  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall dispose of garbage, rubbish, ashes or other materials on the
landfill site without first securing a permit for such disposal from the City
Clerk. Permits shall be issued only to residents, commercial establishments and
industries located within the corporate limits of the city and shall be
conditioned upon the prior payment of the appropriate fee from the schedule in
§ 50.40 below.
(`73 Code, 35.035, § 2.25) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.40  SCHEDULE OF USER FEES.
   The schedule of fees below shall be applied on each type of vehicle,
regardless of the size of the load on the vehicle.
 
Type of Vehicle                              Fee per Load
Passenger automobile                         $0.50
Pickup trucks, delivery vans and/or trailers $0.75
Stake and dump trucks                        $1.00
Pack type garbage and refuse trucks          $4.00
 
(`73 Code, 35.036, § 2.26)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose
   
51.02   Abbreviations
   
51.03   Definitions
Sewer Use Regulations
   
51.15   General discharge prohibitions
   
51.16   Pretreatment requirements
   
51.17   Dilution prohibitions
   
51.18   Spill prevention and slug control plans
   
51.19   Notification
   
51.20   Employee training
   
51.21   Records
   
51.22   Analytical requirements
   
51.23   Confidential information
   
51.24   Right of entry
Industrial Use Regulations
   
51.35   Wastewater contribution permit required
   
51.36   Permit application
   
51.37   Permit contents
   
51.38   Permit duration
   
51.39   Permit modifications
   
51.40   Permit transfer
   
51.41   Monitoring
   
51.42   Bypass
   
51.43   Upset provisions
   
51.44   Baseline report for categorical dischargers
   
51.45   Compliance date reports
   
51.46   Periodic compliance reports
   
51.47   Monitoring and analysis
   
51.48   Reporting requirements for nonsignificant industrial users
   
51.49   Hazardous waste notification
Water and Sewer Rates
   
51.60   Established; fiscal year
   
51.61   Definitions
   
51.62   Amounts, billing
   
51.63   Surcharges for BOD and suspended solids
   
51.64   Cost of construction, connection charges
   
51.65   Water rates
   
51.66   Free service prohibited
   
51.67   Collection
   
51.68   Use of proceeds
Administration and Enforcement
   
51.80   Fees and charges
   
51.81   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
51.82   Judicial remedies
   
51.83   Supplemental enforcement remedies
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are:
   (A)   To establish uniform requirements for direct and indirect contributors
into the wastewater collection and treatment system owned and operated by the
city and to enable it to comply with applicable state and federal laws and the
General Pretreatment Regulations (40 CFR Part 403);
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the municipality's
wastewater system which will:
      (1)   Interfere with the operation of the system;
      (2)   Cause the treatment plant to violate its NPDES discharge permits;
      (3)   Contaminate the sludge;
      (4)   Pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
waters or the atmosphere;
      (5)   Be otherwise incompatible with the system.
   (C)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and
sludges from the system; and
   (D)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.02  ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   BOD      -   Biochemical Oxygen Demand
   CFR      -   Code of Federal Regulations
   COD      -   Chemical Oxygen Demand
   US EPA   -   United States Environmental Protection Agency
   l      -   liter
   mg      -   Milligrams
   mg/l      -   Milligrams per liter
   NPDES   -   National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System
   POTW      -   Publicly Owned Treatment Works
   SIC      -   Standard Industrial Classification
   SWDA      -   Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC 6901 et seq.
   TSS      -   Total Suspended Solids
   USC      -   United States Code
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Clean Water Act
and the Water Quality Act of 1987, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   In the case of a corporation, a president, secretary, treasurer or
vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function;
      (2)   In the case of a partnership or proprietorship, a general partner
or proprietor; and
      (3)   An authorized representative of the individual designated above if:
         (a)   Such representative is responsible for the overall operation of
the facilities from which the discharge into the POTW originates;
         (b)   The authorization is in writing, and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the POTW.
   BYPASS.  The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility.
   INDUSTRIAL USER or USER.  Any person who introduces pollutants into a POTW
from any non-domestic source.
   INTERFERENCE.  Any discharge which alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW and any of its process or operations,
or its sludge use or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal.
   NPDES or STATE DISCHARGE PERMIT.  A permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 USC 1342).
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD, CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT
STANDARD.  Any regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by
the EPA in accordance with § 307(b) and (c) of the Act (33 USC 1317(b) and
(c)), which applies to a specific category of Industrial Users.
   NEW SOURCE.  Any building, structure, facility or installation of which the
construction commenced after the publication of proposed Pretreatment Standards
under § 307(b) (33 USC 1317(b)) which will be applicable to such source if such
standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided
that:
      (1)   The construction is a site at which no other source is located; or
      (2)   The process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source is totally replaced; or
      (3)   The production or wastewater generating processes are substantially
independent of an existing source at the same site.
   PASS-THROUGH.  A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the state in
quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, causes a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation).
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, firm, company, corporation,
association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental entity or any
other legal entity, or their legal representatives, agent or assigns. The
masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall include the
plural where indicated by the context.
   pH.  The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in moles per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT.  Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt and industrial, municipal, commercial, and agricultural waste or
any other contaminant.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT.  The reduction, elimination, or alteration of
pollutant properties to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharge
or introduction, into a POTW. This can be accomplished by physical, chemical or
biological processes, process changes, or other means, except as prohibited by
40 CFR 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT STANDARD or STANDARD.  Any local, state or federal regulation
containing pollutant discharge limits. This term includes local limits,
prohibitive discharge limits including those promulgated under 40 CFR 403.5,
and categorical pretreatment standards.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW).  A treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act, being 33 USC 1292, including any devices and systems used in
the storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage and
industrial waste. The systems include sewers, pipes, and equipment used to
convey wastewater to the treatment facility. The term also includes the
municipality as defined in § 502(4) of the Act, being 33 USC 1362, which has
jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a
treatment works.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE.  Substantial physical damage to property of the
treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or substantial and
permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be expected to occur
in the absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not  mean economic loss
caused by delays in production.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (2) below of this definition, the
term SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER means:
         (a)   All industrial users subject to Categorical Pretreatment
Standards under 40 CFR 403.6 and 40 CFR Chapter I, Subchapter N; and
         (b)   Any other industrial user that:
            1.   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater to the POTW (excluding sanitary, noncontact cooling and
boiler blowdown wastewater);
            2.   Contributes a process wastestream which makes up 5% or more of
the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW treatment
plant; or
            3.   Is designated as such by the POTW on the basis that the
industrial user has a reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW's
operation or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement (in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6)).
      (2)   Upon a finding that an industrial user meeting the criteria in
division (1)(b) above of this definition has no reasonable potential for
adversely affecting the POTW's operation or for violating any pretreatment
standard or requirement, the POTW may at any time, on its own initiative or in
response to a petition received from an industrial user, or POTW, and in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.8(f)(6), determine that such industrial user is not
a significant industrial user.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE (SNC).
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit or the average limit
for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical Review Criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily
maximum limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC=1.4
for BOD, TSS, fats, oil, and grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except
pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer-term average) that the Control Authority determines has caused, alone
or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through
(including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW's
exercise of its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports,
periodic self-monitoring reports, and reports in compliance with compliance
schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Control
Authority determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of
the local pretreatment program.
   SLUG DISCHARGE.  Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including
but not limited to an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STATE.  State of Michigan.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant or combination of pollutants identified as
toxic pursuant to § 307(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, being 33
USC 1317(a), or other federal statutes or in regulations promulgated by the
state under state law.
   WASTEWATER.  The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
whether treated or untreated.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  Includes:
      (1)   Both surfaces and underground waters within the boundaries of this
state subject to its jurisdiction, including all ponds, lakes, rivers, streams,
public ditches, tax ditches, and public drainage systems within this state,
other than those designed and used to collect, convey, or dispose of sanitary
sewage;
      (2)   The flood plain free-flowing waters determined by the Department of
Natural Resources on the basis of 100-year flood frequency; and
      (3)   Any other waters specified by state law.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
SEWER USE REGULATIONS
§ 51.15  GENERAL DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly to the POTW, any pollutant or wastewater which will pass through or
cause interference with the operation or performance of the POTW.
   (B)   No user shall contribute the following substances to the POTW:
      (1)   Any substances which by reason of their nature or quantity may
create a fire or explosion hazard or be injurious to the POTW or to the
operation of the POTW, including but not limited to, wastestreams with a closed
cup flashpoint of less than 140º F or 60º C using the test methods specified in
40 CFR 261.21.
      (2)   Any solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the
flow in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the waste treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater
than one-half inch in any dimension, or any material which can be disposed of
as trash.
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 5.0 or greater than 10 or
having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or hazard to
structures, equipment, or personnel of the POTW.
      (4)   Any substance which may cause a public nuisance, cause hazard to
life or prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and repair.
      (5)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in such quantities that the
temperature at the POTW Treatment Plant exceeds 40º C (104º F) unless the
Approval Authority, upon request of the POTW, approves alternate temperature
limits.
      (6)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, or products of mineral
oil origin in amounts that will cause interference or pass through.
      (7)   Pollutant which results in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
      (8)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the POTW.
      (9)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants released in a
discharge at a flow rate and/or concentration (including any slug load), which
may cause interference to the POTW.
      (10)   Any wastewater having effluent characteristics in excess of:
 
Constituent                Maximum
BOD
TSS                        Plant design criteria
Oil and grease
pH
Copper
Cadmium
Nickel
Zinc
Chromium                   To be calculated from data collected from a
Arsenic                    headworks loading analysis
Barium
Mercury
Selenium
Silver
Cyanide
Other pollutants (specify) To be calculated from data collected from a
                           headworks loading analysis
 
      (11)   (a)   The city has developed and shall enforce the following local
limits to implement the general and specific prohibitions contained in this
chapter.
Constituent Maximum Limits
Constituent            Maximum Limits
Total phosphorous      5.9 mg/l
CBOD5                  300 mg/l
Total suspended solids 300 mg/l
Oil and grease         10.0 mg/l
Copper                 0.189 lbs./day
Cadmium                0.0023 lbs./day
Nickel                 0.32 lbs./day
Zinc                   1.1 lbs./day
Chromium               1.2 lbs./day
Arsenic                0.27 lbs./day
Barium                 1.0 mg/l
Mercury                Non detect level
Selenium               0.0 mg/l
Silver                 0.005 lbs./day
Cyanide                0.137 lbs./day
pH                     Max. 10.0; Min. 5.0
Trichloroethylene      9.5 lbs./day
Lead                   0.27 lbs./day
 
         (b)   For all pollutants, limitations shall be established by
individual contract or permit based upon information required by this chapter
and sound engineering practices.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94; Am. Ord. passed 1-11-2000; Am. Ord. passed 6-25-02) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.16  PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with the most stringent of this chapter, federal
pretreatment standards, as established by 40 CFR Chapter N, Subpart I, state
standards and permit conditions, and shall achieve compliance with all national
categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as specified by
the federal pretreatment regulations, and with any other pretreatment standards
by applicable deadlines.
   (B)   Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater shall be provided,
operated, and maintained at the industrial user's expense. Detailed plans
showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted
to the POTW for review, and shall be approved by the POTW before construction
of the facility. The review and approval of plans and operating procedures does
not relieve the industrial user from complying with the provisions of this
chapter and permit conditions. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and approved by the POTW
prior to the industrial user's initiation of the changes.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.17  DILUTION PROHIBITIONS.
   No industrial user shall increase the use of process water or dilute a
discharge as a substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with any
pretreatment standard or requirement.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.18  SPILL PREVENTION AND SLUG CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   Industrial users shall provide protection from accidental discharge of
materials which may interfere with the POTW by developing spill prevention
plans. Facilities necessary to implement these plans shall be provided and
maintained at the owner's or industrial user's expense. Spill prevention plans,
including the facilities and the operating procedures shall be approved by the
POTW before construction of the facility.
   (B)   Industrial users that store hazardous substances shall not contribute
to the POTW after the effective date of this chapter unless a spill prevention
plan has been approved by the POTW. Approval of such plans shall not relieve
the industrial user from complying with all other laws and regulations
governing the use, storage, and transportation of hazardous substances.
   (C)   The POTW shall evaluate each significant industrial user at least once
every two years, and other industrial users as necessary, to determine whether
such user needs a plan to control slug discharges. If the POTW decides that a
slug control plan is needed, the plan shall contain, at a minimum, the
following elements:
      (1)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
      (2)   Description of stored chemicals;
      (3)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug discharges,
including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §
51.15, with procedures for follow-up written notification within five days;
      (4)   If necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from accidental
spill, including inspection, and maintenance of storage areas, handling and
transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control of plant site
run-off, worker training, building of containment structures or equipment,
measures for containing toxic organic pollutants (including solvents), and/or
measures and equipment for emergency response.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.19  NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   In the case of any discharge in violation of this chapter or permit
conditions, and in the case of any discharge that could cause problems to the
POTW, including any slug loadings, as defined by §
51.03 of this chapter, the industrial user shall immediately notify the POTW of
the discharge by telephone. The notification shall include:
      (1)   The date, time, location and duration of the discharge;
      (2)   The type of waste including concentration and volume; and
      (3)   Any corrective actions taken by the user.
   (B)   Within five days following such a discharge the user shall submit a
written report describing the cause of the discharge and the measures that will
be taken by the user to prevent similar future discharges.
   (C)   Such notification shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss,
damage, or other liability resulting from the discharge, nor shall such
notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability
which may be imposed under this chapter or other applicable state or federal
law.
   (D)   Notification of changed discharge. All industrial users shall promptly
notify the POTW in advance of any substantial change in the volume or character
of pollutants in their discharge, including the listed or characteristic
hazardous wastes for which the industrial user has submitted initial
notification under 40 CFR 403.12(p).
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.20  EMPLOYEE TRAINING.
   The industrial user shall permanently post a notice in a prominent place
advising all employees to call the City Manager for the City of Cheboygan at
(231) 627-9931 in the event of a dangerous discharge for which notification is
required. Employers shall advise all employees who may cause or be injured by
such a discharge of the emergency notification procedure.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.21  RECORDS.
   (A)   Users shall retain and make available upon request of authorized
representatives of the POTW, the state, or the EPA all records required to be
collected by the user pursuant to this chapter or any permit or order issued
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   These records shall remain available for a period of at least three
years after their collection.
   (C)   This period shall be extended during any litigation concerning
compliance with this chapter or permit conditions.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.22  ANALYTICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All analyses, including sampling results submitted in support of any
application reports, evidence or required by any permit or order shall be
performed in accordance with the techniques prescribed in 40 CFR Part 136 and
amendments thereto or, if 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, in accordance with
procedures approved by the EPA.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.23  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data (other than effluent data) about a user obtained
from reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring
programs and from inspections shall be available to the public unless the user
specifically requests and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
POTW that the release of such information would divulge information, processes
or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
Any such request must be asserted at the time of submission of the information
or data. When such a confidentiality claim is asserted, the information shall
be treated as such until a determination is made by the POTW. Effluent data
shall be available to the public without restriction.
   (B)   When the person furnishing a report satisfies the POTW that such
person has made the demonstration required by division (A) of this section, the
portions of a report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes
shall not be made available for inspection except by the state or EPA for uses
related to this chapter, the NPDES permit or the pretreatment program.
Confidential portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or
EPA in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the person
furnishing the report. Effluent data will not be recognized as confidential
information.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.24  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   Representatives of the POTW, the state and EPA, upon showing proper
identification shall have the right to enter and inspect the premises of any
user who may be subject to the requirements of this chapter. Industrial users
shall allow authorized representatives of the POTW, state and EPA access to all
premises for the purpose of inspecting, sampling, examining records or copying
records in the performance of their duties. Authorized representatives of the
POTW, state and EPA shall have the right to place on the user's property such
devises as are necessary to conduct sampling and monitoring. Where a user has
security or safety measures in force which would require clearance, training,
or wearing of special protective gear, the user shall make necessary
arrangements at its own expense, to enable authorized representatives of the
POTW, state, and EPA to enter and inspect the premises as guaranteed by this
division.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
INDUSTRIAL USE REGULATIONS
§ 51.35  WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a wastewater contribution
permit to the POTW any wastewater except as authorized by the Superintendent in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   All industrial users proposing to connect to or to contribute to the
POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit before connecting to or
contributing to the POTW. All existing significant users connected to or
contributing to the POTW shall obtain a wastewater contribution permit within
180 days after the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.36  PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Users required to obtain a wastewater contribution permit shall
complete and file with the city an application in the form prescribed by the
city, and accompanied by a fee which shall be established from time to time by
the City Council upon recommendation of the City Manager. Existing users shall
apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 60 days after the effective
date of this chapter, and proposed new users shall apply at least 120 days
prior to connecting to or contributing to the POTW.
   (B)   In support of the application, the user shall submit, in units and
terms appropriate for evaluation, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, and location, (if different from the address) and
name of owners and operator;
      (2)   Classification number according to the most recent edition of the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual or its successor manual (the North
American Industrial Classification System manual);
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in § 51.15 of this chapter as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to § 304(g) of the
Act, being 33 USC 1314(g), and contained in 40 CFR Part 136, as amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily and 30 minute peak wastewater flow rates, including
daily, monthly and seasonal variations if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation and a current water use schematic;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   The nature and concentration of any pollutants in the discharge
which are limited by any city, state, or federal pretreatment standards, and a
statement signed by an authorized representative of the user and certified by a
qualified professional regarding whether or not the pretreatment standards are
being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional operation and
maintenance (O&M) and/or additional pretreatment is required for the user to
meet applicable pretreatment standards;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet the
pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the user will provide
such additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable pretreatment
standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contract for
major components, commencing construction, completing construction, etc.).
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (a) shall exceed nine
months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Superintendent including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and
the steps being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the Superintendent.
      (10)   Each product and/or byproduct by type, amount, process or
processes and rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed (average and maximum
per day);
      (12)   Number and type of employees, and hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
      (13)    List of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility;
      (14)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the permit application.
   (C)   The POTW will evaluate the data furnished by the user and may require
additional information. After evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished,
the POTW may issue a wastewater contribution permit subject to terms and
conditions provided herein.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.37  PERMIT CONTENTS.
   Permits shall contain, as appropriate, the following:
   (A)   Statement of duration (not greater than 5 years) including issuance
and expiration dates;
   (B)   Effluent limitations based on the more stringent of categorical
pretreatment standards, local limits as established by this chapter, and state
and local law;
   (C)   General and specific discharge prohibitions as established by §
51.15;
   (D)   Requirements to pay fees for the wastewater to be discharged to the
POTW;
   (E)   Limitations on the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
   (F)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (G)   Requirements and specifications for monitoring programs including
sampling locations and frequency of sampling; and number, types and standards
for tests and reporting schedule;
   (H)   Compliance schedules;
   (I)   Requirements for submission of technical reports, discharge reports or
certification requirements. These include any reporting requirements contained
in a National Categorical Standard or pretreatment requirement;
   (J)   Requirements for collecting/retaining and providing access to plant
records relating to the user's discharge and for providing entry for sampling
and inspection;
   (K)   Requirements for notification of any new introduction of wastewater
constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of the
wastewater treatment system;
   (L)   Requirements for notification of spills, potential problems to the
POTW including slug loadings, upsets or violations;
   (M)   Requirements for installation, operation and maintenance of pollution
control equipment;
   (N)   Requirements to develop and implement spill and slug control plans;
   (O)   Other conditions as deemed appropriate by the POTW to ensure
compliance with this chapter, state and federal pretreatment standards and
requirements;
   (P)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of
pretreatment standards and requirements;
   (Q)   Statement of non-transferability;
   (R)   Conditions for modification or revocation of permit.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.38  PERMIT DURATION.
   Permits shall be issued for a specified time period, not to exceed five
years. The user shall apply for permit reissuance at least 180 days prior to
the expiration of the user's existing permit.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.39  PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Within nine months of the promulgation of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, the wastewater contribution permit of users subject to
such standards shall be revised to require compliance with such standards
within the time frame prescribed by such standard.
   (B)   Where a user subject to a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard
has not previously submitted an application for a wastewater contribution
permit as required by §
51.36, the user shall apply for a wastewater contribution permit within 180
days after the promulgation of the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard.
   (C)   In addition, a user with an existing wastewater contribution permit
shall submit to the Superintendent within 180 days after the promulgation of an
applicable federal Categorical Pretreatment Standard the information required
by §
51.36(B)(8) - (9).
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.40  PERMIT TRANSFER.
   Wastewater contribution permits are issued to a specific process or
operation. A wastewater contribution permit shall not be reassigned or
transferred or sold to a new owner, new user, different premises or a new or
changed operation without prior notification to the POTW and provision of a
copy of the existing wastewater contribution permit to the new owner or
operator. Any succeeding owner or user shall also comply with the terms and
conditions of the existing permit. The POTW may set additional conditions, such
as an application requirement.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.41  MONITORING.
   (A)   Users shall provide and maintain in safe and proper condition, at
their own expense, facilities to allow the authorized representatives of the
POTW, the EPA or the state to inspect, sample or measure flows from wastewater
subject to this chapter.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near facilities to allow accurate
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis.
   (C)   If locating such facilities on a user's property would be impractical,
the user may apply to the POTW for a right of way or for permission to
construct on public property.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.42  BYPASS.
   (A)   Bypass not violating applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements. An industrial user may allow any bypass to occur which does not
violate pretreatment standards or requirements, but only if it also is for
essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. These bypasses are not
subject to (B) and (C) below.
   (B)    Notice.
      (1)   If an industrial user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it
shall submit prior notice to the POTW, if possible at least ten days before the
date of the bypass.
      (2)   An industrial user shall orally notify the POTW of an unanticipated
bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment standards or requirements within 24
hours of becoming aware of the bypass. A written submission shall also be
provided within five days of becoming aware of the bypass. The written
submission shall contain a description of the bypass, including exact times and
dates, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is
expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the bypass.
   (C)   Prohibition of bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited and the POTW may take enforcement action
against an individual user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There are no feasible alternatives to bypass, such as use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of wastes or maintenance during
normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if
adequate back-up equipment should have been installed to prevent bypass which
occurred during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative
maintenance; and
         (c)   The industrial user submitted notices as required by division
(B) of this section.
      (2)   The POTW may approve an anticipated bypass, after considering its
adverse effects, if the POTW determines that it will meet the three conditions
listed in division (C)(1) of this section.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.43  UPSET PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Definition. For the purposes of this section, UPSET means an
exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with pretreatment standards because of factors beyond the
reasonable control of the industrial user. An upset does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   (B)   Effect of an upset. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense
to an action brought for noncompliance with pretreatment standards if the
requirements of division (C) are met.
   (C)   Conditions necessary for a demonstration for upset. An industrial user
who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall demonstrate,
through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or other relevant
evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the causes
of the upset;
      (2)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures.
      (3)   The industrial user has submitted the following information to the
POTW and control authority within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if
this information is provided orally, a written submission must be provided
within five days):
         (a)   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue;
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   Burden of proof. In any enforcement proceeding the industrial user
seeking to establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   User responsibility in case of upset. The industrial user shall
control production or all discharges to the extent necessary to maintain
compliance with pretreatment standards upon reduction, loss or failure of its
treatment facility until the facility is restored or an alternative method of
treatment is provided. This requirement applies in the situation where, among
other things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility is reduced,
lost or fails.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.44  BASELINE REPORT FOR CATEGORICAL DISCHARGERS.
   (A)   Industrial users subject to National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards shall submit baseline reports to the POTW in a form prescribed and
furnished by the POTW.
   (B)   Within 180 days after the effective date of a National Categorical
Pretreatment Standard, or 180 days after a final administrative decision has
been made upon a categorical determination submission in accordance with 40 CFR
403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, industrial users that are existing sources
subject to such National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and currently
discharging to the POTW shall submit a properly completed baseline report.
   (C)   New sources, when subject to a National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard, shall install and start up technology prior to discharge, and achieve
compliance within the shortest time feasible, not to exceed 90 days after
commencement of discharge.
   (D)   In support of the baseline report, the industrial user shall submit,
in units and terms specified in the application, the following information:
      (1)   Name and address of the facility including the name of the operator
and owners.
      (2)   List of any environmental control permits held by or for the
facility.
      (3)   Brief description of the nature, average rate of production, and
standard industrial classification of the operations carried out by such user.
This description shall include a schematic process diagram indicating points of
discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes.
      (4)   Information showing the measured average daily and maximum daily
flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from each of the following:
         (a)    Regulated process streams; and
         (b)   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined waste
stream formula of 40 CFR 403.6(e).
      (5)   (a)   The industrial user shall identify the National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards applicable to each regulated process, and shall submit
the results of sampling and analysis identifying the nature and concentration
of regulated pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process. Both
daily maximum and average concentrations shall be reported. The sample shall be
representative of daily operations.
         (b)   A minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organics. For all other
pollutants, 24-hour composite samples must be obtained through flow-
proportional composite sampling techniques where feasible. The Control
Authority may waive flow-proportional composite sampling for any industrial
user that demonstrates that flow proportional sampling is infeasible. In such
cases samples may be obtained through time-proportional composite sampling
techniques or through a minimum of four grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged.
         (c)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division.
         (d)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists. If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula of 40
CFR 403.6(e) in order to evaluate compliance with the pretreatment standards.
Where an alternate concentration or mass limit has been calculated in
accordance with 40 CFR 403.6(e) this adjusted limit along with supporting data
shall be submitted to the POTW.
      (6) The industrial user shall provide a statement, reviewed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user and certified by a qualified
professional, indicating whether National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation
and maintenance measures (O&M) or additional pretreatment is required for the
industrial user to meet the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards.
      (7)   If additional pretreatment or O&M will be required to meet the
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards, the industrial user will provide
the shortest schedule which will provide such additional pretreatment or O&M.
The completion date in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance
date established for the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
         (a)   Where the industrial user's National Categorical Pretreatment
Standard has been modified by a removal allowance (40 CFR 403.7) or the
combined waste stream formula (40 CFR 403.6(e)), or net/gross calculations (40
CFR 403.15), at the time the industrial user submits a baseline report the
information required in §
51.44(D)(6) and (7) shall pertain to the modified limits.
         (b)   If the National Categorical Pretreatment Standard for the
industrial user is modified after the Baseline Report is submitted, the
industrial user shall make any necessary amendments to information provided as
a response to §
51.44(D)(6) and (7) and submit them to the POTW within 60 days after the
modified limit is approved.
      (8)   The following conditions shall apply to any schedule submitted in
response to §
51.44(D)(7):
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standards (e.g., hiring
an engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing
contract for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction, etc.).
         (b)   No increment referred to in §
51.44(D)(8)(a) shall exceed nine months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
POTW including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment of
progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date on which it expects to
comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps
being taken by the industrial user to return the construction to the schedule
established. In no event shall more than nine months elapse between such
progress reports to the POTW.
      (9)   Such other information as may be reasonably requested by the POTW.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.45  COMPLIANCE DATE REPORTS.
   (A)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
Categorical Pretreatment Standards or, in the case of a new source, following
commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any user subject
to Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall submit to the POTW a report
indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from
the regulated process which are limited by such standards and the average and
maximum daily flow for these process units in the user facility which are
limited by such pretreatment standards or requirements.
   (B)   (1)   Where equivalent mass or concentration limits are established by
the POTW for a user, this report shall contain a reasonable measure of the
user's long-term production rate.
      (2)   Where a user is subject to categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in terms of allowable pollutant discharge per unit of production, the
report shall include the user's actual production during the appropriate
sampling period.
      (3)   The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional O&M
and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards. This statement shall be signed by an
authorized representative of the industrial user, and certified to by a
qualified professional.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.46  PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)    Any user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard after the
compliance date of such pretreatment standard, or, in the case of a new source,
after commencement of the discharge into the POTW, shall submit to the POTW
during the months of June and December, unless required more frequently in the
pretreatment standard or by the Superintendent, a report indicating the nature
and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by such
pretreatment standards. In addition, this report shall include a record of all
daily flows which during the reporting period exceed the average daily flow
reported in §
51.44(D)(4). At the discretion of the Superintendent and in consideration of
such factors as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, etc.,
the Superintendent may agree to alter the months during which the above reports
are to be submitted.
   (B)   The POTW may impose mass limitations on users which are using dilution
to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in other cases
where the imposition of mass limitations are appropriate. In such cases, the
report required by division (A) shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated
by pretreatment standards in the effluent of the user. These reports shall
contain the results of sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the
flow and the nature and concentration, or production and mass where requested
by the Superintendent, of pollutants contained therein which are limited by the
applicable pretreatment standards.
   (C) For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration limits
established by the POTW in accordance with the procedures in 40 CFR 403.6(c),
the report required by division (A) shall contain a reasonable measure of the
user's long-term production rate. For all other industrial users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards expressed only in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), the
report required by division (A) shall include the user's actual average
production rate for the reporting period.
   (D)   Significant noncategorical industrial users shall submit to the POTW
at least once every six months (on dates specified by the Control Authority) a
description of the nature, concentration, and flow of the pollutants required
to be reported by the Control Authority.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.47  MONITORING AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   The reports required by §§
51.44,
51.45,
51.46 and
51.48 shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in the period covered
by the report, and performed in accordance with the techniques described in 40
CFR Part 136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 CFR Part 136 does not contain
sampling or analytical techniques are inappropriate for the pollutant in
question, sampling and analysis shall be performed by using validated
analytical methods or any other applicable sampling and analytical procedures,
including procedures suggested by the POTW or other persons, and approved by
the Administrator. This sampling and analysis may be performed by the POTW in
lieu of the industrial user. Where the POTW itself collects all the information
required for the report, the significant industrial user will not be required
to submit the report.
   (B)   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation, the
user shall notify the POTW within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation.
The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and submit the results of
the repeat analysis to the POTW within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation, except the industrial user is not required to resample if:
      (1)   The POTW performs sampling at the industrial user at a frequency of
at least once per month, or
      (2)   The POTW performs sampling at the user between the time when the
user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user receives the
results of this sampling.
   (C)   The reports required in §
51.46(A) and (D) shall be based upon data obtained through appropriate sampling
and analysis performed during the period covered by the report, which data is
representative of conditions occurring during the reporting period. The POTW
shall require that frequency of monitoring necessary to assess and assure
compliance by industrial users with applicable pretreatment standards and
requirements.
   (D)   If an industrial user subject to the reporting requirement in §§
51.44,
51.45 and
51.46 monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW, using
the procedures prescribed in this section, the results of this monitoring shall
be included in the report.
   (E)   Signatory requirements for industrial user reports. The reports
required by §§
51.44,
51.45,
51.46 and
51.48 shall include the certification statement as set forth in 40 CFR 403.6(a)
(2)(ii), and shall be signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.48  REPORTING REQUIREMENTS FOR NONSIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   The POTW shall require appropriate reporting from those industrial users
with discharges that are not subject to Categorical Pretreatment Standards and
are not otherwise deemed by the POTW to be significant.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.49  HAZARDOUS WASTE NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any industrial user, except as specified in division (E) below, which
discharges to the POTW any substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be
a listed or characteristic hazardous waste under 40 CFR Part 261, shall notify
the POTW in writing of such discharge.
   (B)   All hazardous waste notifications shall include:
      (1)   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 CFR Part 261;
      (2)   The EPA hazardous waste number;
      (3)   The type of discharge (continuous, batch or otherwise); and
      (4)   A certification that the user has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
   (C)   In addition to the information submitted in the previous division,
notification from industrial users discharging more than 100 kg of hazardous
waste per calendar month to the POTW shall contain, to the extent such
information is known and readily available to the industrial user, the
following:
      (1)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
waste;
      (2)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents in
the wastestream discharged during that calendar month; and
      (3)   An estimation of the mass of the constituents in the wastestream
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
   (D)   Hazardous waste notifications shall be submitted no later than
February 19, 1991, except that industrial users commencing the discharge of
listed or characteristic hazardous wastes after August 23, 1990, shall provide
the notification no later than 180 days from the discharge of the wastes. Any
notification under this provision need be submitted only once for each
hazardous waste discharged, although notification of changed discharges must be
submitted under §
51.19(D).
   (E)   Industrial users are exempt from the hazardous waste notification
requirement during a calendar month in which the user discharges 15 kg or less
of non-acute hazardous wastes. Discharge of any quantity of acute hazardous
waste as specified in 40 CFR 261.30(d) and 261.33(e) requires a one-time
notification.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
WATER AND SEWER RATES
§ 51.60  ESTABLISHED; FISCAL YEAR.
   (A)   Rates and charges for the use of the disposal system of the city are
hereby established. Such charges and rates shall be made against each lot,
parcel of land or premises which may have any sewer connections with the sewer
system of the city or which may otherwise discharge sewage or industrial waste,
either directly or indirectly, into such system or any part thereof. Such
charges shall be based upon the quantity of water used thereon or therein. 
(`73 Code, 25.071, § 2.121)
   (B)   The system shall be operated on the basis of a fiscal year commencing
on the first day of July and ending on the thirtieth day of June. 
(`73 Code, 25.074, § 2.124)
(Ord. eff. 12-13-82)
§ 51.61  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  A substance amenable to treatment in the sewage
treatment plant, such as BOD, suspended solids pH and fecal coliform bacteria
plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES Permit if the sewage
treatment plant is designed to treat such pollutants, and in fact does remove
such pollutants to a substantial degree. Examples of such pollutants may
include: chemical oxygen demand, total organic carbon, phosphorus and
phosphorus compounds, nitrogen compounds and fats, oils and greases of animal
or vegetable origin.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE.  A charge levied to customers of the sewage works and
sewage treatment plant which is used to pay principal, interest and
administrative costs of retiring the debt incurred for construction of the
local portion of said facilities. The debt service charge shall be in addition
to the user charge.
   FEDERAL GRANT.  A grant in aid of the construction of the project provided
under Pub. L. 92-500, being 33 USC 1281 et seq.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The wastewater discharges from manufacturers, trade or
business process as distinct from their employees' domicile waste or waste from
sanitary conveniences.
   LOCAL AGENCY OR CITY.  The city or its designated official, the City
Manager.
   MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY.  Any industrial user of the sewage works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average work day;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the sewage works;
      (3)   Has in its wastes a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
the standards issued under § 307(a) of Pub. L. 92-500, being 33 USC 1317; or
      (4)   Is found to have significant impact, either singly or in
combination with other contributing industries, on the sewage works or upon the
quality of effluent from the sewage works. All major contributing industries
shall be monitored.
   NPDES PERMIT.  A permit issued pursuant to the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System prescribed in Pub. L. 92-500, being 33 USC 1342.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.  All work, materials, equipment, utilities and
other effort required to operate and maintain the components of the sewage
works and the sewage treatment plant for the purpose of insuring adequate
treatment of wastewater to produce an effluent in compliance with NPDES permit
and other applicable state, federal and local regulations. OPERATION AND
MAINTENANCE shall include the cost of replacement.
   PL 92-500.  The Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972, being Pub. L.
92-500 of the 92nd United States Congress as adopted on October 18, 1972, and
codified in 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   PREMISES.  Each lot or parcel of land, building or structure having any
connection to the water distribution system of the city, or the sewage disposal
system of the city.
   PROJECT C-26-2314-02.  The separate and distinct project for the
construction of the sewage works and sewage treatment plant sponsored by the
U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of Pub. L. 92-500,
being 33 USC 1281a, and granted through the Cheboygan County Board of Public
Works. The project does not include past or future construction, equipment or
other services not included under the specific project number and the approved
plans, specifications and approved change orders for the project.
   REPLACEMENT.  The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment or
facilities in the sewage works or sewage treatment plant to insure continuous
treatment of wastewater in accordance with the NPDES permit and other
applicable state, federal and local regulations.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.  The sum of the user charge, surcharge, industrial
cost recovery and debt service charges.
   SURCHARGE.  A service charge which any customer discharging wastewater
having strength in excess of 250 mg per liter B.O.D. and 300 mg per liter SS
shall pay to cover the cost of treating such excess strength wastewater.
   USER CHARGE.  A charge levied on users of the sewage works and sewage
treatment plant for the cost of operation and maintenance thereof pursuant to §
204b of Pub. L. 92-500, being 33 USC 1284, and includes the cost of
replacement.
   USER CLASS.  The kind of user connected to sanitary sewers including but not
limited to residential, industrial and commercial.
      (1)   INDUSTRIAL USER.  Any user which discharges an industrial waste as
defined in this subchapter.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the sewage works whose premises or
buildings are used primarily as a domicile for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached, semidetached, and row houses, mobile homes,
apartments, or permanent multi-family dwellings. Hotels, motels and other
transient lodging accommodations are not included, they being deemed
commercial.
(`73 Code, 25.078, § 2.128)  (Ord. eff. 12-13-82)
§ 51.62  AMOUNTS, BILLING.
   (A)   The rates and charges for services furnished by such system shall be
levied upon each lot or parcel of land, building or premises, having any sewer
connections with such system, on the basis of quantity of water used thereon or
therein as the same is measured by meters therein used, or in the absence
thereof, by such equitable method as shall be determined by the city.
   (B)   (1)   Charges shall be collected at the same time, and in the same
manner as provided for the payment of charges for water used, except:
         (a)   In cases where the character of the sewage from a manufacturing
or industrial plant, building or premises is such that unreasonable additional
burden is placed upon the system, greater than that imposed by the average
sewage delivered to the system plant, the additional cost of treatment created
thereby shall be an additional charge over the regular rates hereinafter set
forth; or
         (b)   The city may, if it deems it advisable, compel such
manufacturing or industrial plant, building or premises, to treat such sewage
in such manner as shall be specified by the city before discharging such sewage
into the sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Rates for all users obtaining all or part of their water supply
from sources other than the city's water system may be determined by gauging or
metering the actual sewage entering the system or by metering the water used by
them, in a manner acceptable to the city.
   (C)   The city may classify the users of the system according to the
quantity of water used and charge such rates to users in each class as it may
deem reasonable.
   (D)   The rate to be billed for use of the system shall be for all users
within the sanitary sewer service area and shall be as established by City
Council from time to time upon recommendation of the City Manager.
(`73 Code, 25.072, §2.122)  (Ord. eff. 12-13-82; Am. Ord. eff. 1-28-07)
§ 51.63  SURCHARGES FOR BOD AND SUSPENDED SOLIDS.
   (A)   For BOD greater than 250 parts per million, there shall be a charge
per pound and for suspended solids greater than 300 parts per million, there
shall be a charge per pound; both being established from time to time by the
City Council upon recommendation of the City Manager.
   (B)   There shall be an additional charge for laboratory testing or
wastewater samples. The laboratory charge shall be for the cost thereof and
will be determined for each user.
   (C)   Suburban user or users of sewer or sewer services located outside of
the corporate limits of the city who have connection with the sewage system of
the city shall pay for such service at the above rates and such additional rate
to that charged to users within the corporate limits as the City Council may
determine to cover additional costs to the city of transportation of wastewater
and depreciation of investments by the city in sewage facilities.
(`73 Code, 25.073, § 2.123)  (Ord. eff. 12-13-82; Am. Ord. eff. 1-28-07)
§ 51.64  COST OF CONSTRUCTION, CONNECTION CHARGES.
   Where a sewer or sanitary sewer is constructed by a landowner, said
landowner shall pay the cost of construction. Construction shall not be
commenced until all required permits are obtained and connection charges are
paid to the city.
(`73 Code, 25.077, § 2.127)  (Ord. eff. 12-13-82) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.65  WATER RATES.
   The rates to be charged for water service furnished by the water
distribution system of the city shall be as prescribed by the City Council from
time to time upon recommendation of the City Manager. Rates shall be furnished
to the public upon request.
(`73 Code, 25.081, § 2.133)  (Ord. eff. 12-13-82; Am. Ord. eff. 2-14-83)
§ 51.66  FREE SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No free service shall be furnished to the city or any person, or to any
public or private agency. The city shall pay an annual hydrant rental charge
for each hydrant located within the city in such amount as shall be determined
by resolution of the Council.
(`73 Code, 25.079, § 2.131)  (Ord. eff. 12-13-82)
§ 51.67  COLLECTION.
   (A)   (1)    The City Manager is hereby authorized to enforce the payment of
charges for water service to any premises by discounting the water service to
such premises in accordance with the provisions of this section, and the
payment of charges for sewage disposal service to any premises may be enforced
by discontinuing either the water service or the sewage disposal service to
such premises in accordance with the provisions of this section, or both, and
an action of assumpsit may be instituted by the city against the customer.
      (2)   (a)   It is the policy of the city to discontinue utility service
to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only after notice and a
meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. If any bill is not paid
by or before the date noted in the bill, a second bill will be mailed
containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within ten days of the
mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for nonpayment.
         (b)   Any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have a
right to a hearing at which time he may be represented in person and by counsel
or any other person of his choosing and may present orally or in writing his
complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of utility billing.
This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's service not be
discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final determination of the
customer's complaint.
         (c)    Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be
entertained; only questions of proper and correct billing will be considered.
In the absence of payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing
procedure provided herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified.
   (B)   The charges for water service and sewage service which, under the
provisions of Public Act 178, § 2, of 1939, being M.C.L.A. § 123.162, as
amended, are made a lien on the premises to which furnished, are hereby
recognized to constitute such lien; and the City Clerk shall, on the Tuesday
following the second Monday in March of each year; certify to the City Council,
at their regular Council meeting, the amounts which are over six months
delinquent and the billing address on which the lien is to be placed.
   (C)   The City Council, no later than the Tuesday following the second
Monday in April, shall at these regular Council meetings, direct the City
Assessor to spread the several amounts against the properties listed on the
summer tax roll. Such charges shall be collected in the same manner as general
city taxes.
   (D)   (1)   In cases where the city is properly notified in accordance with
Public Act 178, § 5, of 1939, being M.C.L.A. § 123.165, that a tenant is
responsible for water or sewage disposal service charges, no such service shall
be commenced or continued to such premises until there has been deposited with
the Department a $100 water deposit.  This deposit shall be held by the city to
apply against the final bill of the tenant when service is discontinued, either
through default of payment or vacation of the premises. Any amount in excess of
the final billing will be refunded to the tenant.  Failure to pay the deposit
shall result in shut-off of the service until the deposit is paid in full.  The
water deposit amount may be changed from time to time by resolution as deemed
appropriate by City Council.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the landlord to pay all water/
sewer billings on rental properties. In the event an amount owed becomes six
months delinquent, it shall be placed as a lien on the city tax roll pursuant
to Public Act 178 of 1939, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.162 - 123.167, as amended. In
cases where the city is properly notified in accordance with Public Act 178 of
1939, being M.C.L.A. § 123.165, that a tenant is responsible for water/sewer
billings, as stated in their lease agreement, then no such lien shall be place
on the landlord's taxes. An affidavit with respect to the execution of a lease
containing this provision shall be filed with the utility billing clerk, and 20
days written notice to the utility billing clerk shall be given by the lessor
to the utility billing clerk of any cancellation, change in, or termination of
the lease. In lieu of an affidavit, a verified copy of the current lease which
has been signed and dated by both the landlord and tenant shall be filed with
the utility billing clerk. The affidavit shall contain a notation of the
expiration date of the lease. Upon expiration of the lease agreement, the
water/sewer account shall be placed in the name of the landlord. Payment for
subsequent billings shall then be the responsibility of the landlord and
subject to tax liens, until such time that the city is provided a current lease
properly signed and dated.
      (3)   In any other case where, in the discretion of the city, the
collection of charges for water or sewage disposal service may be difficult or
uncertain, the city may require a similar deposit.
      (4)   The city shall discontinue water/sewer service to any tenant in
arrears of their water/sewer bill. When the water/sewer billing becomes 30 days
past due, a 15-day Turn-Off Notice shall be sent to the tenant and the
landlord. If the account is not paid in full or other payment arrangements made
by the end of the 15-day period, the water service shall be shut-off.
Thereafter, the water service shall not be renewed until payment is received in
full, and a $40 reconnection fee is paid. This reconnection fee may be changed
from time to time by resolution of City Council. In the event that any one
tenant should vacate the premises with an outstanding balance due the city and
reside at a different residence, then water/sewer service to the new residence
shall not commence until any previous amounts owed to the city for the
preceding six years are paid in full and a water deposit paid for the new
residence in an amount set forth in division (D)(1) above.
(`73 Code, 25.080, § 2.132)  (Ord. eff. 12-13-82; Am. Ord. eff. 2-14-83; Am.
Ord.  eff. 4-30-06)
§ 51.68  USE OF PROCEEDS.
   (A)   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for
the payment of any or all indebtedness, to provide for the expenses of
administration and operation and such expenses of maintenance of such system as
are necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order, to build
up a reasonable reserve for depreciation thereof, and to build up a reserve for
reasonable and proper improvements, betterments and extensions thereto other
than those necessary to maintain the same in good repair and working order.
Such rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time as may be necessary to
produce these amounts. An annual audit shall be prepared. Based on said audit,
rates for sewage services shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary
to meet system expenses.  (`73 Code, 25.075, § 2.125)
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, the gross revenues
received by virtue of this article shall be set aside and used for the
operation, maintenance and extension of the sewage works.
(`73 Code, 25.076, § 2.126)  (Ord. eff. 12-13-82)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 51.80  FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   The POTW may adopt charges and fees which may include:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
POTW pretreatment program;
      (2)   Fees for monitoring, inspection and surveillance procedures
including the cost of reviewing monitoring reports submitted by the industrial
user;
      (3)   Fees for reviewing accidental discharge procedures and
construction;
      (4)   Fees for permit applications including the cost of processing such
applications;
      (5)   Fees for filing appeals;
      (6)   Other fees as the POTW may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
   (B)   These fees relate solely to the matters covered by this chapter and
are separate from all other fees chargeable by the POTW.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.81  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Notification of violation. Whenever the POTW finds that any industrial
user has violated or is violating this chapter, or a wastewater permit or order
issued hereunder, the Superintendent or his agent may serve upon the user
written notice of the violation. Within ten days of the receipt date of this
notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required actions, shall
be submitted to the Superintendent. Submission of this plan in no way relieves
the user of liability for any violations occurring before or after receipt of
the notice of violation.
   (B)   Consent orders. The Superintendent is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the industrial user responsible for the
noncompliance. Such orders will include compliance schedules, stipulated fines
or remedial actions, and signatures of the Superintendent and industry
representatives. Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as
administrative orders issued pursuant to division (D) below of this section.
   (C)   Show cause order. The Superintendent may order any user which causes
or contributes to violation of this chapter, a wastewater permit or order
issued hereunder, to show cause why a proposed enforcement action should not be
taken. The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by registered or
certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days prior to the
hearing. Such notice may be served on any principal executive, general partner
or corporate officer. Whether or not a duly notified industrial user appears as
noticed, enforcement action may be pursued as appropriate.
   (D)   Compliance order. When the Superintendent finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate the ordinance or a permit or order
issued thereunder, he may issue an order to the industrial user responsible for
the discharge directing that, following a specified time period, sewer service
shall be discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or other
related appurtenances have been installed and are properly operated, and
compliance is achieved. Orders may also contain such other requirements as
might be reasonably necessary and appropriate to address the noncompliance,
including the installation of pretreatment technology, additional self-
monitoring, and management practices.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders.  When the Superintendent finds that an
industrial user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit
or order issued hereunder, the Superintendent may issue an order to cease and
desist all illegal or authorized discharges immediately.
      (1)   In an emergency, the order to cease and desist may be given by
telephone.
      (2)   In nonemergency situations, the cease and desist order may be used
to suspend or permanently revoke industrial wastewater discharge permits.
      (3)   The cease and desist order may order the industrial user to take
such appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be needed to properly
address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations and
terminating the discharge.
   (F)   Administrative fines. Notwithstanding any other section of this
chapter, any user who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter,
or permits and orders issued hereunder, shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed the maximum allowable under state law per violation. Each day on which
noncompliance shall occur or continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct
violation. Such assessments may be added to the user's next scheduled sewer
service charge and the Superintendent shall have such other collection remedies
as he has to collect other service charges. Unpaid charges, fines, and
penalties shall constitute a lien against the individual user's property.
Industrial users desiring to dispute such fines must file a request for the
Superintendent to reconsider the fine within ten days of being notified of the
fine. Where the Superintendent believes a request has merit, he shall convene a
hearing on the matter within 15 days of receiving the request from the
industrial user.
   (G)   Emergency suspensions.
      (1)   The Superintendent may suspend the wastewater treatment service
and/or wastewater permit of an industrial user whenever such suspension is
necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge presenting or
causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, the POTW, or the environment.
      (2)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the wastewater permit shall immediately stop or eliminate its
contribution. In the event of a user's failure to immediately comply
voluntarily with the suspension order, the Superintendent shall take such steps
as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment
to any individuals. The Superintendent shall allow the user to recommence its
discharge when the endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings
set forth in division (H) below are initiated against the user.
      (3)   An industrial user which is responsible, in whole or in part, for
imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement describing the
causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future
occurrence to the Superintendent prior to the date of the hearing described in
division (2) above.
   (H)   Termination of permit.
      (1)   Significant industrial users proposing to discharge into the POTW,
must first obtain a wastewater discharge permit from the Control Authority. Any
user who violates the following conditions of this chapter or a wastewater
discharge permit or order, or any applicable or state and federal law, is
subject to permit termination:
         (a)   Violation of permit conditions;
         (b)   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
         (c)   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics; and
         (d)   Refusal of reasonable access to the user's premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling.
      (2)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their wastewater permit and be offered an opportunity to show
cause under division (C) of this section why the proposed action should not be
taken.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.82  JUDICIAL REMEDIES.
   (A)   If any person discharges sewage, industrial wastes, or other wastes
into the wastewater disposal system contrary to the provisions of this chapter
or any order or permit issued hereunder, the Superintendent, through the City
Attorney, may commence an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable relief
in the Circuit Court for Cheboygan County.
   (B)   Whenever an industrial user has violated or continues to violate the
provisions of this chapter or permit or order issued hereunder, the
Superintendent, through counsel, may petition the court for the issuance of a
preliminary or permanent injunction or both (as may be appropriate) which
restrains or compels the activities on the part of the industrial user.
   (C)   The Superintendent shall publish, at least annually in the largest
daily newspaper circulated in the service area, a description of those
industrial users which are found to be in significant noncompliance, as defined
in §
51.03 of this chapter, with any provisions of this chapter or any permit or
order issued hereunder during the period since the previous publication.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94) 
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.83  SUPPLEMENTAL ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Performance bonds. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a permit
to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of this
chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder unless such user first
files with it a satisfactory bond, payable to the POTW, in a sum not to exceed
a value determined by the Superintendent to be necessary to achieve consistent
compliance.
   (B)   Liability insurance. The Superintendent may decline to reissue a
permit to any industrial user which has failed to comply with the provisions of
this chapter or any order or previous permit issued hereunder, unless the
industrial user first submits proof that it has obtained financial assurances
sufficient to restore or repair POTW damage caused by its discharge.
   (C)   Water supply severance. Whenever an industrial user has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this chapter or an order or permit
issued hereunder, water service to the industrial user may be severed and
service will only recommence, at the user's expense, after it has
satisfactorily demonstrated its ability to comply.
   (D)   Public nuisances. Any violation of the prohibitions or effluent
standards of this chapter or a permit or order issued hereunder is hereby
declared a public nuisance and shall be corrected or abated as directed by the
Superintendent or his designee. Any person creating a public nuisance shall be
subject to the provisions of
Chapter 95 of this code, governing such nuisance, including reimbursing the
POTW for any costs incurred in removing, abating, or remedying said nuisance.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Any industrial user who has violated or continues to violate this
chapter or any order or permit issued hereunder, shall be liable to the POTW
for a civil penalty of not more than the maximum allowable under state law,
plus actual damages incurred by the POTW per violation per day for as long as
the violation continues. In addition to the above described penalty and
damages, the POTW may recover reasonable attorneys fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with the enforcement activities, including sampling,
monitoring and analysis expenses.
      (2)   The Superintendent shall petition the court to impose, assess, and
recover such sums. In determining amount of liability, the court shall take
into account all relevant circumstances, including, but not limited to, the
extent of harm caused by the violation, the magnitude and duration, any
economic benefit gained through the industrial user's violation, corrective
actions by the industrial user, the compliance history of the user, and any
other factor as justice requires.
   (B)   Criminal prosecution.
      (1)   Any industrial user who willfully or negligently violates any
provision of this chapter or any orders or permits issued hereunder shall, upon
conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed
$1,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or
both. In the event of a second conviction, the user shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $3,000 per violation per day or imprisonment for not more
than three years or both.
      (2)   Any industrial user who knowingly makes any false statements,
representations, or certifications in any application, record, report, plan or
other document filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or
wastewater permit, or who falsifies, tampers with, or knowingly renders
inaccurate any monitoring device or method required under this chapter shall,
upon conviction, be punished by a fine or not more than $1,000 per violation
per day or imprisonment for not more than one year or both.
(Ord. passed 2-8-94)
CHAPTER 52:  WATER
Section
Water System Use
   
52.01   Permit required for connection to water system; connections to service
pipe
   
52.02   Connection with water system mandatory
   
52.03   Wells
   
52.04   Application for permit
   
52.05   Tapping fees
   
52.06   Supplying water to others; waste of water
   
52.07   Service pipes to be installed under city supervision
   
52.08   Disruption of service
   
52.09   Use on one connection
   
52.10   Water and sewer services to privately held developments
   
52.11   Lawn sprinkling regulations
   
52.12   Fire prevention regulations
   
52.13   Damage to meters
Water Cross Connection
   
52.25   State rules adopted by reference
   
52.26   Inspections
   
52.27   Right of entry
   
52.28   Discontinuance of service for violation
   
52.29   Potable water supply
   
52.30   Regulations supplement to state code
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.40   Adoption of regulations by Council; emergency regulations
   
52.41   Discontinuance of service for violation
   
52.42   Access to premises
 
   
52.99   Penalty
WATER SYSTEM USE
§ 52.01  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION TO WATER SYSTEM; CONNECTIONS TO SERVICE
PIPE.
   (A)   No person shall tap any water main or distribution pipe of the
waterworks system, or insert therein any corporation cock, stop cock or any
other fixture or appliance or alter or disturb any service pipe, corporation
stop, curb stop, gate valve, water meter or any other attachment, being part of
the waterworks system and attached thereto. No person shall install any water
service pipe or connect or disconnect any such service pipe with or from the
mains or distribution pipes of said waterworks system, nor with or from any
other service pipe now or hereafter connected with the system, nor make any
repairs, additions to, or alterations of any such service pipe, tap, stop cock
or any other fixture or attachment connected with any such service, without
first procuring a permit therefor from the city water utility.
   (B)   No person shall turn the water from any main or distribution pipe into
any service pipe without a permit from the city water utility.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99) 
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.02  CONNECTION WITH WATER SYSTEM MANDATORY.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley or right of way in which there is located, or may in the
future be located, a water main belonging to the city are hereby required, at
their own expense, to connect and be made part of the waterworks system;
provided, however, that the waterworks system is within 200 feet of the nearest
property line of the premises.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99) 
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.03  WELLS.
   (A)   Drilling of wells for the purposes of water production for private use
within the city shall be prohibited unless the city's waterworks system is in
excess of 200 feet from the nearest property line of the premises. An exception
shall be allowed for wells exclusively used for sprinkling lawns and gardens,
and for wells exclusively used for cooling of machinery and equipment used in
conjunction with an industrial use.
   (B)   Any existing well at the time of the enactment of this chapter shall
be allowed. However, the size of any such well shall not be expanded.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99; Am. Ord. passed 8-8-06).
§ 52.04  APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Before any service connection shall be made to any part of the waterworks
system, or any work performed upon old or new connections, a permit shall be
obtained from the city water utility. Such permit shall be issued upon written
application on forms obtainable from the city water utility. Applicants for
water service shall furnish and lay and install all that portion of the service
not provided by the city at their own expense, subject, however, to the
supervision and inspection of the city water utility.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.05  TAPPING FEES.
   Upon filing an application for a permit to connect with any water main or
distribution pipe of the waterworks system, there shall be paid to the city
water utility such tapping fee as shall be prescribed by the regulations
governing the waterworks system. Such fees shall include all the costs of
tapping the main, installing the corporation cock, furnishing the service pipe
to the property line, furnishing the stop cock, shutoff box, water meter and
setting, and all other appurtenant materials; all such materials to be and
remain the property of the city water system. Such fees are subject to review
and revision as deemed necessary by the City Council from time to time upon
recommendation of the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.06  SUPPLYING WATER TO OTHERS; WASTE OF WATER.
   The owner or occupant of any building or premises entitled to the use of
water from the system shall not supply water to any other person except upon
written permission of the city water utility, nor shall he permit unnecessary
waste of water.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.07  SERVICE PIPES TO BE INSTALLED UNDER CITY SUPERVISION.
   All service pipes connecting with the distribution mains of the waterworks
system, from the city main to the stop and waste inside the building, shall be
laid under the supervision of the city water utility and in accordance with the
ordinances and/or regulations governing the waterworks system thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.08  DISRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   The city shall not be liable for any failure or deficiency in the supply of
water to consumers, whether occasioned by shutting off the water to make
necessary repairs or connections or for any other cause.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.09  USE ON ONE CONNECTION.
   In all cases where water service is intended to supply more than one
tenement, shop, store or building, it shall be the duty of the person making
such service connection, or causing the same to be made, to install a branch
with a stop cock for each branch outside the line of the premises so to be
supplied. Such stop cock shall be suitably protected and marked as to be easily
located. In no case shall one service supply more than one lot, unless occupied
by a single building covering more than one lot used for a single industry or
enterprise.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.10  WATER AND SEWER SERVICES TO PRIVATELY HELD DEVELOPMENTS.
   The city, notwithstanding any other provision within this chapter or code,
in recognition of the need to provide water and sewer services to privately
held developments within and outside of its corporate boundaries, may so
provide such water and sewer services when requested, with the following
conditions being applicable:
   (A)   The city shall require that a single, properly sized water meter be
provided for all developments that consist of more than one single-family home
per development. This includes, but is not limited to, mobile home parks,
condominium development communities, manufactured housing communities, which
have shared common land, leased land or other developments that meet such
criteria.
   (B)   The city shall be responsible for the maintenance of a meter and for
taking monthly or quarterly readings from the meter, and for providing one
water and sewer bill for the development. The responsibility for the billing
for water and sewer to the residents of the development shall be upon the
administration offices of the development or community.
   (C)   The water system improvements shall remain under the control of the
development community. Maintenance of the water and sewage network within the
development shall also be the responsibility of the development or association.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.11  LAWN SPRINKLING REGULATIONS.
   The use of water for sprinkling lawns and gardens and the hours for such use
shall be prescribed by the Council from time to time, upon recommendation of
the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.12  FIRE PREVENTION REGULATIONS.
   The owner or occupant of any premises of any manufacturing establishment,
lumber yard, warehouse, elevator, store, hotel, school or any public building
desiring to install pipes with hydrant and hose couplings to be used only in
case of fire will be permitted to make connection with the street main at his
own expense upon application to the city water utility, and the applicant shall
pay all charges as prescribed by the Council and such connection shall be made
in accordance with the specifications of the city water utility.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.13  DAMAGE TO METERS.
   Water meters may be installed upon any premises supplied with water, and any
damage to said meter resulting from failure of the owner, agent or tenant to
properly protect same shall be assessed against such owner or tenant. Water
consumers shall not tamper with or remove the meter or any appurtenant
structures thereto, or interfere with the reading thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
WATER CROSS CONNECTION
§ 52.25  STATE RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules of the
Michigan Department of Public Health, being R. 325.11401 to 325.11407 of the
Michigan Administrative Code.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.26  INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the city to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water supply where cross connections with the
public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and re-
inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as established
by the city and as approved by the Michigan Department of Public Health.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.27  RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The representative of the city shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
system of the city for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or systems
thereof for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessees or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system or systems on such property. The
refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.28  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR VIOLATION.
   The city is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service
after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in violation of
this subchapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the cross
connection has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.29  POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this subchapter and by the state plumbing code. Any water outlet which could
be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the
potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
“WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING”
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
Statutory reference:
   State plumbing code, see M.C.L.A. § 125.1502a.
§ 52.30  REGULATIONS SUPPLEMENT TO STATE CODE.
   This subchapter does not supercede the state plumbing code but is
supplementary to it. In the event of any conflict, the state plumbing code
shall control.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.40  ADOPTION OF REGULATIONS BY COUNCIL; EMERGENCY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Council shall from time to time adopt such regulations for
the operations and use of the water system and the supplying of water to
consumers as the Council shall deem expedient and necessary, and such
regulations when adopted shall be and become a part of this chapter and
enforceable hereunder, and the penalties prescribed in
Chapter 10 of this Code shall apply to the violation of any such regulations.
   (B)   Whenever in the discretion of the city water utility the amount of
pumpage of water from the distribution system of the city has reached such a
volume that unless restricted, the public health, safety and general welfare of
the people is likely to be endangered, the city water utility shall prescribe
rules and regulations to conserve the water supply during such emergency.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.41  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR VIOLATION.
   Any premises may be disconnected from the distribution pipes of the city
waterworks system and the supply of water withheld from such premises upon
violation by the owner or occupant of said premises of any provision of this
chapter or of the regulations adopted pursuant thereto. Whenever the water is
turned off from any premises because of any such violation, it shall not be
turned on again until the owner or occupant has deposited with the City
Treasurer a reconnection fee in the amount established by the City Council by
resolution from time to time, upon recommendation of the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.42  ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The city water utility or any of its agents shall have power and authority
at all reasonable hours to enter upon any premises where water is furnished
from the city waterworks system, for the purpose of reading meters or the
inspection of all pipes and fixtures connected with the waterworks system, and
they shall have authority to require any defective pipes or fixtures to be
repaired, removed or replaced where the same are not in compliance with the
provisions of the regulations pertaining to the waterworks system, and any
person refusing or neglecting to make such repairs when so ordered shall be
deemed guilty of a violation of this Code.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
§ 52.99  PENALTY.
   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, or any written order of the city, in pursuant thereof, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day upon which a violation of the
provisions of this act shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for
the purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-22-99)
CHAPTER 53: CITY SEWER SERVICE
Section
Definitions
   
53.01   Definitions
Use of Public Sewers Required
   
53.02   Waste deposits
   
53.03   Water pollution
   
53.04   Sewer connection required
   
53.05   Privies and septic tanks
Private Sewage Disposal
   
53.10   Private sewer systems
   
53.11   Permit
   
53.12   Inspection
   
53.13   Specifications
   
53.14   Septic tank cleaners
   
53.15   Disconnection of system
Building Sewers and Connections
   
53.20   Permit required
   
53.21   Installation costs
   
53.22   Separate building sewer
   
53.23   Specifications
   
53.24   Excavations
   
53.25   Sewage lift
   
53.26   Connection supervision
   
53.27   Inspection
   
53.28   Variances
Permits
   
53.40   Permits
 
   
53.99   Penalty
DEFINITIONS
§ 53.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drain pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning approximately five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   CESSPOOL. An underground pit into which raw household sewage or other
untreated liquid waste is discharged and from which the liquid seeps into the
surrounding soil or is otherwise removed.
   CITY MANAGER.  The City Manager for the City of Cheboygan or his/her
authorized representative or agent.
   COMBINATION SEWER or COMBINED SEWER.  The extension from the building drain
to the public sewer or other place of disposal.
   DRY WELL.  See SEEPAGE PIT.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, processing and sale of perishable produce.
   GREASE INTERCEPTOR (or GREASE TRAP).  A tank of suitable size and material
located in a sewer line and designed to remove grease and oily wastes from the
sewer.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The legally designated health authority of the city, or his
authorized representative.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes, solids, or semi-solids from
industrial processes as distinct from domestic sanitary sewage.
   MAY.  Is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of water, either surface or ground water.
   NUISANCE.  Shall mean, but is not limited to, any condition where sewage (or
garbage) is exposed to the surface of the ground or is permitted to drain on or
to the surface of the ground, into any ditch, storm sewer, lake or stream, or
when the odor, appearance, or presence of this material has an obnoxious or
detrimental effect on or to the senses and for health of persons, or when it
shall obstruct the comfortable use or sale of adjacent property.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group.
   pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the cooking, preparation and
dispensing of food that has been cut or shredded to such a degree that all
particles will be carried freely under flow conditions normally prevailing in
public sewers, with no particle greater than one-half inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting property have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEEPAGE PIT (or DRY WELL). A cistern underground enclosure constructed of
concrete blocks, bricks, or similar material loosely laid with open joints so
as to allow the septic tank overflow or effluent to be absorbed directly into
the surrounding soil.
   SEPTIC TANK.  A water-tight receptacle receiving sewage and having an inlet
and outlet designed to permit the separation of solids in suspension from such
wastes and to permit such retained solids to undergo decomposition therein.
   SEWAGE.  Any combination of water carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments together with such
ground, surface and storm waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITIES.  Privy, cesspool, seepage pit, septic tank,
absorption field, or other devices used in the disposal of sewage or human
excreta.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER.  Any pipe, tile, tubes, or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN.  A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage but which excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORM WATER. That part of precipitation which reaches the sewers as run-off
from natural land surface, building roofs, or pavements or as ground water
infiltration.
   SUB-SURFACE DISPOSAL FIELD. A facility for the distribution of septic tank
overflow or effluent below the ground surface through a line, or a series of
branch lines, of drain tile laid with open joints to allow the overflow or
effluent to be absorbed by the surrounding soil throughout the entire field.
   UNCONTAMINATED INDUSTRIAL WASTE.  Waste water which has not come into
contact with any substance used in or incidental to industrial processing
operations and to which no chemical or other substance has been added.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 53.02  WASTE DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place or deposit or permit to be
deposited in any area under the jurisdiction of the City of Cheboygan, any
human or animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable wastes for discharge
into any natural watercourse or any substance which is injurious to the public
health or detrimental to the public welfare.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.03  WATER POLLUTION.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged into any storm
sewer, natural watercourse, or artificial watercourse, any sewage or other
polluted waters other than storm water or uncontaminated industrial wastes as
heretofore defined; or to increase an approved use except upon special
agreement or arrangement with the City Manager and in accordance with rules and
procedures of appropriate agencies of the State of Michigan.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.04  SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   The owners of all houses, buildings or properties used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city and abutting
on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is located or may in the
future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the city are hereby
required, at their own expense to install suitable toilet facilities therein,
and to connect such facilities directly to the public sewer in accordance with
the provision of this chapter, as and where required under the terms of Act
151, of the Michigan Public Act of 1961, as amended (regardless of any
population requirements in the Acts). Such owner or occupant shall also be
required to install suitable toilet facilities within such structures, and
provided that said public sewer is within 100 feet of the nearest property line
of said premises.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.05  PRIVIES AND SEPTIC TANKS.
   Except as hereinafter provided it shall be unlawful to construct or maintain
any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facilities intended or
used for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL
§ 53.10  PRIVATE SEWER SYSTEMS.
   Where a public sanitary sewer or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of
§ 53.04, the building sewer shall be connected with a private disposal system
complying with the provisions hereof.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
§ 53.11  PERMIT.
   No septic tanks shall be constructed or installed within the city unless the
plans for the installation are approved by the City of Cheboygan Health Officer
as conforming to the regulations herein prescribed and a permit issued by the
City Clerk. The fee for such permit shall be $5.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
§ 53.12  INSPECTION.
   The City Health Office shall have authority to require that ample notice be
given to the Health Officer to permit inspection of the installations prior to
backfilling, to regulate the use, operation and maintenance of any and all
septic tanks in said city, to order the tanks to be cleaned, repaired, or
reconstructed or further use discontinued when, in his judgment, the use,
operation or maintenance of any septic tank shall be unhealthful or harmful.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
§ 53.13  SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Every septic tank shall have a capacity of at least 1,000 gallons. The
tank shall have a water depth of at least 48 inches and shall have one
compartment at least five feet in length measuring inside from the inlet to the
outlet. The tank shall be of water-tight construction and of materials not
subject to corrosion or decay. All tanks shall be provided with one or more
openings with covers, to permit inspection and cleaning.
   (B)   Septic tanks shall be located at least 50 feet from any well, spring,
pump, water service line, surface water, natural or artificial drain, or open
joint subsurface ground water tile drain unless special design approval has
been obtained from the City Health Officer.
   (C)   Dosing chambers equipped with automatic siphons of the type approved
by the State Department of Health shall be used in all installations where the
liquid capacity of septic tank is over 1,000 gallons.
   (D)   Seepage pits, and sub-surface drainage fields shall be located at
least 50 feet from any surface water, natural or artificial drain, or open
joint subsurface ground water tile drain unless special design approval has
been obtained from the City Health Officer.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
§ 53.14  SEPTIC TANK CLEANERS.
   All persons engaged in cleaning sewage disposal systems shall keep all
receptacles, appliances and equipment used for this purpose in a sanitary
condition at all times. The method of disposal of tank contents shall be
approved by the City Health Officer. A permit for use of the city waste water
treatment plant shall be obtained at the City Clerk's Office. All persons
engaged in cleaning sewage disposal systems must conform to the regulations set
forth in this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.15  DISCONNECTION OF SYSTEM.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times and at no expense to the city.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 53.20  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Only authorized persons shall uncover and make any connections with or
openings into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
and then only after first obtaining a written permit from the City Manager.
   (B)   (1)   There shall be two classes of building sewer permits:
         (a)   For residential and commercial service and
         (b)   For industrial establishments.
      (2)   In either case, the owner or his agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the city before any connection is made to a public
sewer. The permit application shall be supplemented by any plans,
specifications, or other information considered pertinent in the judgment of
the City Manager.
   (C)   Permit and inspection fees shall be paid at the City Clerk's office at
the time the application is filed, and shall be in such amounts as the Council
shall, from time to time, determine by resolution.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.21  INSTALLATION COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner of said property. The owner shall
indemnify the city for all loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be
occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.22  SEPARATE BUILDING SEWER.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for each
building, except, where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available nor can one be constructed to
the rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway, the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.23  SPECIFICATIONS.
   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the City Manager or City Engineer, but in no event shall the diameter of the
pipe be less than four inches. The slope of building sewer shall be not less
than one-eighth inch per foot.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.24  EXCAVATIONS.
   (A)   All excavations required for the installation of a building sewer
shall be open trench work, unless otherwise approved by the City Manager.
Trenches shall be adequately guarded with barricades and lights so as to
protect the public from hazard.
   (B)   Backfill shall be performed in accordance with good practice to 95%
density, except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been
inspected.
   (C)   Streets, sidewalks, parkways, and other public property, disturbed in
the course of the work, shall be restored to the original condition of said
property or better.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06) 
Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.25  SEWAGE LIFT.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such building drain shall
be lifted by an approved means and discharged to the building sewer. This
provision shall not apply to kitchen facilities and/or toilets which are
prohibited at this elevation.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
§ 53.26  CONNECTION SUPERVISION.
   No person shall make connection of roof downspouts, areaway drains or other
sources of surface run off or ground water to a building sewer or building
drain which in turn is connected directly or indirectly to a public sanitary
sewer.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
§ 53.27  INSPECTION.
   The applicant for the building sewer permit shall notify the City Manager or
City Engineer when the building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to
the public sewer. Such notice shall be prior to any filling of any part of the
system to be connected.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
§ 53.28  VARIANCES.
   Any deviation from the procedures prescribed in this chapter must be
approved by the City Manager before installation upon showing to the City
Manager of good cause or hardship, or changed conditions or circumstances.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
PERMITS
§ 53.40  PERMITS.
   (A)   As a prerequisite to the issuance of all permits under this code for
the continuance thereof, satisfactory evidence must be received by the City
Clerk indicating compliance with all state laws and regulations concerning
sewage disposal.
   (B)   Permit fees shall be paid at the City Clerk's office at the time the
application is filed, and shall be in such amounts as the Council shall, from
time to time, determine by resolution.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be considered a
misdemeanor which is punishable by fine in an amount of not more than $500 and/
or 93 days in jail. Each day upon which there is a violation of any provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed a separate and an additional violation.
(Ord. passed 3-28-06)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   SNOWMOBILES
      
72.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
73.   BICYCLES
      
74.   COASTER WHEELED DEVICES
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Code
   
70.02   Motor Vehicle Code
Cross-reference:
   Driving over sidewalks, see
§ 98.27
§ 70.01  UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   Code and amendments and revisions adopted.  The Uniform Traffic Code
for Cities, Townships and Villages, sometimes hereinafter referred to in this
Traffic Code as the Uniform Traffic Code, promulgated by the Director of State
Police and published in the 1979 edition of the Michigan Administrative Code,
and amendments as published in the 1981 and 2002 Annual Supplement to the
Michigan Administrative Code, in accordance with Act 62 of the Public Acts of
1956, as amended (Administrative Rules R 28.1001-28.2075), as thereafter
amended or deleted, are hereby adopted by reference as if fully set forth
herein.
   (B)   Adoption of amendments. The city also adopts and incorporates by
reference all future amendments and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when
they are promulgated and effective in this state.
   (C)   References in Code. References in the Uniform Traffic Code to a
"governmental unit" shall mean the City of Cheboygan.
   (D)   Amendments and deletions of UTC sections.  The following sections and
subsections of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages are
hereby added, amended or deleted as set forth and additional sections and
subsections are added as indicated.  Subsequent section numbers used in this
section shall refer to the like numbered section of the Uniform Traffic Code:
   Rule 159.   PRESUMPTION OF VEHICLE WEIGHT.
         1.   A presumption of the minimum weight of a vehicle shall be
established by evidence of the weight indicated on the Michigan registration
certificate for the truck or other commercial vehicle in question.
   Rule 160.   AUTHORITY OF CITY ENGINEER; CLOSING STREETS.
         2.   Unless otherwise provided by law, the City Engineer is hereby
authorized to close any highway, street, alley or other right-of-way or portion
thereof which is under process of construction, improvement or repair, by
placing traffic control devices in accordance with the Michigan Vehicle Code. 
A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil infraction.
   Rule 204.   USE OF COASTERS, ROLLER SKATES, ROLLER BLADES, SKATE- BOARDS, OR
ANY LIKE DEVICES.
         1.   Coasters, roller skates, roller blades, skateboards or any like
devices are allowed upon all City streets within the City of Cheboygan with the
exception of Main Street (M-27) from the southerly side of State Street (U.S.
23) to the southerly city limits and State Street (U.S. 23) from the easterly
portion of "B" Street to the easterly city limits.
         2.   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
   Rule 823.   AUTOMOBILE PARKING SYSTEM.
         1.   SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM.  The Automobile Parking System of the City
of Cheboygan shall be under the supervision and direction of the Police
Department.
         2.   RATES AND TIME LIMITS.  The rates and time limits for parking in
off-street parking lots and structures, operated as a part of the Automobile
Parking System, shall be established by resolution of the City Council from
time to time upon recommendation of the City Manager.  Such rates and time
limits need not be uniform throughout the System, but shall be based upon
demand for parking in the area which the lot or structure serves and such other
considerations as the City Manager and the Council shall deem pertinent.  No
person shall park any vehicle for a period of time longer than permitted by the
regulation pertaining to the lot where such vehicle is parked.
         3.   PARK IN DESIGNATED SPACES.  No person shall park any motor
vehicle in any parking lot or structure other than within the boundaries of the
space designated as markings.  Any person parking any motor vehicle in any
parking lot or structure otherwise than as herein prescribed, shall be guilty
of a violation of the ordinance and in parking structures and in parking lots
other than metered parking lots, any person who shall park a motor vehicle so
as to occupy or encroach upon more than one designated parking space, shall pay
the full rate or charge for each parking space occupied or encroached upon, in
addition to being guilty of a violation of this ordinance.
         4.   PRESUMPTION FROM OWNERSHIP.  In any proceeding for violation of
the provisions of this Ordinance relative to parking, the registration plate
displayed on the motor vehicle parked in violation hereof, shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the owner of such vehicle was the
person who parked or placed such motor vehicle at the point where such
violation occurred.
         5.   ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.  No person shall park a vehicle on
the city streets or alleys from November 1 to April 1 of each year and on any
public parking lot from December 1 to April 1 of each year for a period of time
longer than thirty (30) minutes between the hours of 2:00 A.M. and 7:00 A.M.,
except physicians on emergency calls.
         6.   UNMETERED PARKING ZONES. The Traffic Engineer for the City of
Cheboygan with consent of the City Council by resolution shall designate such
unmetered parking zones in the City of Cheboygan where it is determined that
such zones shall be necessary to aid in the regulation, control and inspection
of parking vehicles. Said unmetered parking zones shall be identified by the
appropriate parking sign giving notice of the time limits in said parking zone.
Parking in excess of the time provided in said unmetered parking zones shall be
an offense under this Ordinance and shall carry with it a penalty which shall
be established by resolution of the City Council from time to time upon
recommendation of the City Manager for each offense if paid within 48 hours of
the time noted on the violation notice. In the event the same is not paid
within 48 hours, said violation shall bear a penalty which shall be established
by resolution of the City Council from time to time upon recommendation of the
City Manager.
         7.   VIOLATIONS BUREAU. Pursuant to §§ 8395 of the Revised Judicature
Act, State of Michigan, as added by Public Act 154 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §
600.8395, as amended, a Parking Violations Bureau, for the purpose of handling
alleged parking violations within the City is hereby established. The Parking
Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and control of the City Clerk.
         8.   LOCATION, EMPLOYEES, RULES. The City Clerk shall, subject to the
approval of the City Council establish a convenient location for the Parking
Violations Bureau, appoint qualified city employees to administer the Bureau
and adopt rules and regulations for the operation thereof.
         9.   VIOLATIONS HANDLED. Violations scheduled in this section (Rule
823) shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau. The fact that a
particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged violator to
disposition of the violation at the Bureau and in any case the person in charge
of such Bureau may refuse to dispose of such violation in which case any person
having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any court
having jurisdiction of the offense as provided by law.
         10.   JURISDICTION. No violation may be settled at the Parking
Violations Bureau except at the specific request of the alleged violator. No
penalty for any violation shall be accepted from, any person who denies having
committed the offense and in no case shall the person who is in charge of the
Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or
matter relating to such alleged violation. No person shall be required to
dispose of a parking violation at the Parking Violations Bureau and all persons
shall be entitled to have any such violation processed before a court having
jurisdiction thereof if they so desire. The unwillingness of any person to
dispose of any violation at the Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice
him or in any way diminish the rights, privileges and protection accorded to
him by law.
         11.   PARKING TICKETS. The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of
violation by a Police Officer or Parking Enforcement Attendant of the city
shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation. Such traffic ticket or
notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in which the person to
whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking Violation Bureau. It
shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours during which the
Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the offense for which
the ticket was issued and advice that a warrant for the arrest of the person to
whom the ticket was issued will be sought if such a person fails to respond
within the time limited.
Offense                               UTC Sections
Parking too close to curb             801
Parking on a 1-way street             802
Parking on streets angled for parking 803
Parking in alley                      813
Parking for certain purposes          814
Parking in metered zones              821
Parking within metered spaces         822 and 823
Parking in designated spaces          823
All-night parking                     823
Unmetered parking                     823
 
Monetary penalty for the above shall be established by resolution of City
Council from time to time upon recommendation of the City Manager.
         3.   The City Clerk for the City of Cheboygan shall publish a notice
of adoption of this amendment to ordinance in the manner required by M.C.L.A.
117.3(K) and shall at the same time publish the fact that complete copies of
the Code as hereby amended are available at the office of the Clerk for
inspection by and distribution by purchase to the public from 9:00 A.M. to 4:00
P.M., Mondays through Fridays.
(Ord. eff. 12-17-06)
§ 70.02  MOTOR VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   Code and amendments and revisions adopted.  The Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to 257.923, as amended, is
adopted by reference as if fully set froth herein, except as may be amended or
deleted. References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to “local authorities” shall
mean the City of Cheboygan. The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code
are adopted by reference; provided, however, that the city may not impose a
penalty of imprisonment for greater than 93 days.
   (B)   Adoption of amendments.  The city also adopts and incorporates by
reference all future amendments and revisions to the Michigan Motor Vehicle
Code when they are enacted and effective in this state.
(Ord. eff. 12-17-06)
CHAPTER 71:  SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
71.01   Definitions
   
71.02   Registration
   
71.03   Designated routes
   
71.04   Unlawful operation
   
71.05   Careless or reckless operation; operation by minors
   
71.06   Equipment requirements
   
71.07   Notice of accident
   
71.08   Owner’s liability
   
71.09   Impoundment of snowmobiles
   
71.10   Presumption of ownership
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATE.  To ride in or on and be in actual physical control of the
operation of a snowmobile.
   OPERATOR.  Any person who operates or is in actual physical control of a
snowmobile.
   OWNER.  Any of the following:
      (1)   A person who holds the legal title to a snowmobile.
      (2)   A vendee or lessee of a snowmobile which is the subject of an
agreement for the conditional sale or lease thereof with the right of purchase
upon performance of the conditions stated in the agreement and with an
immediate right of possession vested in the conditional vendee or lessee.
   PASSENGER.  The second person on a snowmobile who is not in physical control
of that same snowmobile.
   SNOWMOBILE.  Any motor driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow
or ice of a type which utilizes sled type runners or skis, or an endless belt
tread or any combination of these or similar means of contact with the surface
upon which it is operated.
   STREET.  The entire width between the boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained with the city when any part thereof is open to the use of the public
for purposes of vehicular travel including the shoulders and non-paved areas
thereof.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97)
§ 71.02  REGISTRATION.
   (A)   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city unless registered in
accordance with the provisions of Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.82103 to 324.82105, and as provided in this chapter and identification
numbers must be displayed as may be required thereby.
   (B)   City residents using city streets other than the designated snowmobile
route are permitted access to the designated snowmobile trail across city
streets by the issuance of an authorized permit from the city for guests and
residents to access snowmobile routes provided that, upon issuance of a permit,
the permit holder shall attach an assigned city snowmobile registration number
in a minimum of three-inch letters clearly visible at a distance of 50 feet or
more on each side of the snowmobile. The tire registration number display
requirement is waived for guest.
   (C)   Operators of permitted snowmobiles under city street use permit will
be required to carry the registration for each snowmobile on his/her person.
   (D)   Each machine operating on designated city streets shall carry a city
permit depicting the most direct route from residence to the designated trial.
   (E)   It shall be considered prima facia evidence if the operator of a
snowmobile in violation of this chapter cannot be identified and the registered
owner shall be deemed to be the operator of the snowmobile and responsible for
the violation.
   (F)   All snowmobiles operating on city streets other than the designated
snowmobile route streets shall be subject to investigation by any peace
officer.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97)
§ 71.03  DESIGNATED ROUTES.
   (A)   The following described streets are hereby designated as streets that
access the snowmobile trail route:
      (1)   West side.
         (a)   Lincoln Avenue Huron Street to the DNR snowmobile trail at
Western Avenue eastbound and westbound/shoulder.
         (b)   Huron Street shoulder from Mill Street, to Lincoln Avenue
northbound and southbound.
         (c)   Division Street from DNR trail to Huron Street eastbound and
westbound.
         (d)   Mill Street, east and west, from Main Street to Huron.
      (2)   East side.
         (a)   East Lincoln Avenue shoulder and right-of-way from Lincoln
Avenue Bridge to South Street.
         (b)   Eastern Avenue shoulder from Duncan Avenue to Vanyea Road west
to DNR trail.
         (c)   Lafayette Avenue shoulder from East State Street south to DNR
trail which intersects Lafayette Avenue.
   (B)    Sidewalk and right-of-way routes include the following:
      (1)   From Lincoln Avenue to Taylor Street along Main Street for two-way
snowmobile traffic.
      (2)   From the north and south sides of the Lincoln Avenue Bridge for
east and west travel across the bridge on the bridge sidewalks.
      (3)   Lincoln Avenue sidewalks from Huron Street eastbound and westbound
to Main Street.
      (4)   On the west side of Main Street from Lincoln Avenue south to the
city limits.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97; Am. Ord. passed 11-28-2000)
§ 71.04  UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a snowmobile in the city
in the following manner or under the following conditions:
      (1)   At a rate of speed greater 15 miles per hour;
      (2)   On or across a cemetery or burial ground;
      (3)   Within 100 feet of a slide, ski or skating area;
      (4)   On private property without consent of the property owner or his
agent;
      (5)   With more than one passenger on a snowmobile;
      (6)   While towing any conveyance other than one specifically designed to
be towed by a snowmobile;
      (7)   Between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m.;
      (8)   In any parade or safari unless specifically authorized by the
Police Chief with adequate safeguards for policing and appropriate escort.
   (B)   Any person operating a snowmobile within the city limits shall:
      (1)   Operate the snowmobiles only on designated city streets, sidewalks
or DNR trail as provided herein, and travel only in single file;
      (2)   Obey all traffic signals, signs and devices;
      (3)   Yield the right-of-way to all vehicular traffic and pedestrians.
   (C)   No snowmobile may be operated on any state trunk line within the city
or on Huron Street from State Street to Court Street.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.05  CARELESS OR RECKLESS OPERATION; OPERATION BY MINORS.
   (A)   No person shall operate a snowmobile in the city in a reckless,
negligent or careless manner likely to endanger any persons or property.
   (B)   A parent or legal guardian shall not permit his or her child who is
less than 12 years of age to operate a snowmobile without the direct
supervision of an adult except on land owned or under the control of the parent
or legal guardian.
   (C)   A person who is at least 12 but less than 17 years of age may operate
a snowmobile if one of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   The person is under the direct supervision of a person who is 21
years of age or older;
      (2)   The person has in his or her immediate possession a snowmobile
safety certificate issued pursuant to state law;
      (3)   The person is on land owned or under the control of his or her
parent or legal guardian;
      (4)   The person possesses a snowmobile safety certificate issued to the
person under the authority of a law of another state or province of Canada.
   (D)   A person who is operating a snowmobile pursuant to division (C)(2)
above shall present the snowmobile safety certificate to any peace officer upon
demand.
   (E)   An operator who is less than 12 years of age shall not cross a highway
or street. An operator who is at least 12 years of age but less than 17 years
of age may cross a highway or street, only if he or she has a valid snowmobile
safety certificate in his or her immediate possession.
   (F)   The owner of a snowmobile shall not permit the snowmobile to be
operated contrary to this section.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.06  EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   No snowmobile shall be operated in the city:
   (A)   Unless it has at least one headlight and one taillight turned on at
all times during operation including daylight;
   (B)   Unless it has an adequate braking system capable of:
      (1)   Stopping the snowmobile in not more than 40 feet from an initial
steady speed of 20 miles per hour; or
      (2)   Locking the snowmobile's traction belt or belts; and
   (C)   Unless it is equipped with a muffler in good working order and in
constant operation to prevent excessive or unusual noise.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.07  NOTICE OF ACCIDENT.
   The operator of a snowmobile involved in an accident resulting in injuries
to or death of any person, or property damage in an estimated amount of $100 or
more, or some person acting for him, or the owner of the snowmobile having
knowledge of the accident shall immediately by the quickest means of
communication notify the Police Department.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97) 
Penalty, see § 71.99
§ 71.08  OWNER’S LIABILITY.
   (A)   Any snowmobile operated within the city will be presumed to be
operated with the consent of the owner.
   (B)   The owner of a snowmobile may be held jointly and severally liable
with the operator thereof for damages arising out of the neglect or improper
operation of his snowmobile.
   (C)   The owner of a snowmobile may be held jointly and severally liable to
a property owner for three times the amount of damages to trees, shrubs,
landscaping, or personal property occurring on private property and caused by
the snowmobile where the snowmobile is operated without the consent of the
property owner or his agent.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97)
§ 71.09  IMPOUNDMENT OF SNOWMOBILES.
   Any snowmobile operated contrary to or in violation of any provisions of the
Public Acts of the State of Michigan, or being operated with defective
equipment, may be impounded at the discretion of the Police Department of the
city. In the event a snowmobile is impounded, the owner of the snowmobile must
pay the cost of transportation, towing and storage and prove ownership of the
snowmobile before it will be released to him.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97)
§ 71.10  PRESUMPTION OF OWNERSHIP.
   It is hereby declared that for the purposes of this chapter it is presumed
that the snowmobile registered to an owner is being operated by the owner and
unless the presumption is rebutted the owner shall be liable under the penalty
and impoundment clauses as herein provided.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97)
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
civil infraction and shall be punished by fine of not more than $500 plus the
cost of prosecution.
(Ord. passed 12-23-97)
CHAPTER 72:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Meters
   
72.01   Definitions
   
72.02   Parking meter zones
   
72.03   Utility company permits
   
72.04   Damaging, tampering with meters
   
72.05   Parking meter receipts
   
72.06   Collections
   
72.07   Violations
   
72.08   Violation records
Parking on Private Property
   
72.20   Unlawful to park; permission required
   
72.21   Notice on property
   
72.22   Prima facie evidence
   
72.23   Unmetered parking zones
PARKING METERS
§ 72.01  DEFINITIONS.
   Terms used in this chapter shall have the meanings defined in the Uniform
Traffic Code, adopted in §
70.01 of the city code.
(`73 Code, 20.141, § 10.11)
§ 72.02  PARKING METER ZONES.
   Parking meter zones shall be established in the manner provided in §
70.01.
(`73 Code, 20.142, § 10.12)
§ 72.03  UTILITY COMPANY PERMITS.
   (A)   Any utility company operating trucks or other vehicles within the city
for utility maintenance purposes, may secure from the city a parking permit for
each of the vehicles so used in the city which permit shall be in lieu of all
parking meter charges.
   (B)   Parking permits shall be issued as follows:
      (1)   The City Clerk shall issue a parking permit upon application from a
utility company upon payment of fees as hereinafter specified;
      (2)   Each parking permit shall identify the utility company owner and
the motor vehicle license number of the vehicle for which it is issued;
      (3)   Each parking permit shall be valid for a period of one year from
and after March 1 of each year;
      (4)   Applicants shall pay a fee for each parking permit as established
by resolution of the City Council from time to time upon recommendation of the
City Manager;
      (5)   Each parking permit shall be valid for one vehicle;
      (6)   Each parking permit shall be displayed on the vehicle in a visible
place on the right hand side of the windshield when in use; and
      (7)   Each parking permit shall be valid only when it is necessary to
park the vehicle for utility company maintenance or servicing.
   (C)   The utility company shall furnish plastic bags to cover the parking
meter.
(`73 Code, 20.144, § 10.14)  (Am. Ord. eff. 7-13-81)
§ 72.04  DAMAGING, TAMPERING WITH METERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to open, or for any person
to deface, injure, tamper with or break, destroy or impair the usefulness of
any parking meter installed pursuant to this code, or to hitch any animal
thereto.
(`73 Code, 20.145, § 10.15)  Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.05  PARKING METER RECEIPTS.
   The amount of coins required to be deposited in parking meters as provided
herein is hereby levied and assessed as a fee to provide for the proper
regulation, control and inspection of traffic upon the public streets, and to
cover the cost of supervising, regulating and inspecting the parking of
vehicles in the parking meter zones provided for herein, the cost of placing
and maintaining lines or markings, designating parking spaces in parking meter
zones, and the cost of the purchase, supervision, protection, inspection,
installation, operation, maintenance, control and use of the parking meters
installed hereunder, and the special fund in which such fees shall be placed
shall be used for those purposes and for the maintenance and establishment of
parking facilities and for the upkeep and maintenance of public thoroughfares
in the city.
(`73 Code, 20.147, § 10.17)
§ 72.06  COLLECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the City Manager to designate some person to make
regular collections of the coins deposited in the said parking meters, and to
deliver same to the City Treasurer, who shall deposit such moneys in a fund to
be known as the “Parking Meter Fund,” which fund shall be used only for the
purposes specified in §
72.05. The person making such collections shall be bonded in a sum to be
determined by the Council to insure the faithful performance of his duties.
(`73 Code, 20.148, § 10.18)
§ 72.07  VIOLATIONS.
   Parking meters when installed and properly operated shall be in conformity
with the requirements of Uniform Traffic Code as it applies to metered parking
zones. In cases where vehicles remain in a metered parking for 60 minutes after
having received a citation for parking beyond the time allowed in the parking
zone, the enforcement officer shall attach to the vehicle, or hand to the
operator, a second violation notice, different in color than the original
violation notice, indicating the vehicle has been parked in excessive violation
of this section and instructing the owner and/or operator of the vehicle to
report to the Parking Violations Bureau in regard to such violation. Such owner
or operator may within 48 hours of the time when such notice was attached to
such vehicle or handed to him, pay the Parking Violations Bureau, and in full
satisfaction of such violation, an amount which shall be established by
resolution of the City Council from time to time upon recommendation of the
City Manager.
(`73 Code, 20.143, § 10.13)  (Am. Ord. eff. 7-13-81)
§ 72.08  VIOLATION RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Safety, under the
direction of the Council, to keep a record of all violations of this chapter.
   (B)   He or she shall keep an account of and report the number of each
parking meter which indicates that the vehicle occupying the parking space
adjacent to such parking meter is or has been parked in violation of any of the
provisions of this code, the date and hour of such violation, the make and the
state license number of such vehicle, and any other facts, a knowledge of which
is necessary to a thorough understanding of the circumstances attending such
violation.
   (C)   He or she shall attach to such vehicle a notice stating that it has
been parked in violation of this code. The owner or operator of such vehicle
may at any time within 24 hours after the time which such notice was attached
to such vehicle, deposit an amount of money which shall be established by
resolution of the City Council from time to time upon recommendation of the
City Manager in the envelope provided for that purpose in any of the Fine-O-
Meter boxes located through the parking meter area, in full payment for such
violation. After the expiration of 24 hours from the time when such notice was
attached to such vehicle, the owner or operator of such motor vehicle shall pay
to the Parking Violations Bureau the sum prescribed in §
70.01.
(`73 Code, 20.146, § 10.16)
PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 72.20  UNLAWFUL TO PARK; PERMISSION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any motor vehicle on any private
property without the express consent, authorization or ratification of the
owner, holder, occupant, lessee, agent, or trustee of such property. Complaint
for the violation of this section shall be made by the owner, holder, occupant,
lessee, agent, or trustee of such property.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)  Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 72.21  NOTICE ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   An owner, holder, occupant, lessee, agent, or trustee of property may
in lieu of making a complaint for a violation of §
72.20 post such property with notice that parking is prohibited and in such
event it shall not be necessary for a complaint to be made by the owner,
holder, occupant, lessee, agent, or trustee of such property.
(`73 Code, 20.202, § 2)
   (B)   The notice referred to in division (A) above shall be located on the
property in a conspicuous place clearly visible to persons making use of said
property and shall contain the following language:
   “NO PARKING WITHOUT PERMIT - VIOLATORS WILL BE TICKETED OR TOWED”.
(Ord. passed 9-12-00)
§ 72.22  PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   In any proceeding for violation of the parking provisions of this chapter,
the registration plate displayed on such motor vehicle shall constitute in
evidence a prima facie presumption that the owner of such motor vehicle was the
person who parked or placed such motor vehicle at the point where the violation
occurred.
(`73 Code, 20.204, § 4)
§ 72.23  UNMETERED PARKING ZONES.
   The Traffic Engineer for the city with consent of the City Council by
resolution shall designate such unmetered parking zones in the city where it is
determined that such zones shall be necessary to aid in the regulations,
control and inspection of parking vehicles. The unmetered parking zones shall
be identified by the appropriate parking sign giving notice of the time limits
in said parking zone. Parking in excess of the time provided in said unmetered
parking zones shall be an offense under this chapter and shall carry with it a
penalty which shall be established by resolution of the City Council.
(`73 Code, 20.205, § 5)
CHAPTER 73:  BICYCLES
Section
   
73.01   Definition
   
73.02   Responsibility of parents and guardians
   
73.03   Traffic laws apply to persons riding bicycles
   
73.04   Obedience to traffic-control devices
   
73.05   Manner of riding
   
73.06   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
73.07   Riding on sidewalks
   
73.08   Speed
   
73.09   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
73.10   Clinging to vehicles; carrying articles
   
73.11   Parking
   
73.12   Lamps and other equipment
 
   
73.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Licensing provisions for bicycles, see
Chapter 110
§ 73.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE.  Every device propelled by human power upon which a person may
ride, having two tandem wheels. It includes pedal bicycles with helper motors
rated less than one brake horsepower transmitted by friction and not by gear or
chain, which produce only ordinary pedaling speeds up to a maximum of 20 miles
per hour.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 73.02  RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS AND GUARDIANS.
   No parent of any child, nor guardian of any ward, shall authorize or
knowingly permit any such child or ward to violate any of the provisions of
this chapter, or
Chapter 110.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.03  TRAFFIC LAWS APPLY TO PERSONS RIDING BICYCLES.
   Each person riding a bicycle upon a roadway shall be granted all the rights
and shall be subject to all the duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by
the laws of this state declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by
the traffic regulations of the city applicable to the driver of a vehicle,
except as to special regulations in this chapter pertaining to bicycles and
except as to those provisions of laws and regulations which, by their nature,
can have no application.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 73.04  OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   (A)   Each person operating a bicycle shall obey the instructions of
official traffic-control signals, signs, and other control devices applicable
to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police officer.
   (B)   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left
or “U” turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle shall disobey the
direction of any such sign, except where such person dismounts from the bicycle
to make any such turn, in which event such person shall then obey the
regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.05  MANNER OF RIDING.
   (A)   No person propelling a bicycle shall ride other than astride a
permanent and regular seat attached thereto.
   (B)   No bicycle shall be used to carry more persons at one time than the
number for which it is designed and equipped.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.06  RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Each person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   No person riding a bicycle upon a street or highway shall ride more
than two abreast, except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the
exclusive use of bicycles.
   (C)   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a
street or highway, bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the
street or highway.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.07  RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   The Chief of Police or Traffic-Control Officer with the approval of Council
is authorized to erect signs on any sidewalk, street or roadway, prohibiting
the riding of bicycles thereon by any person, and, when such signs are in
place, no person shall disobey the same.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.08  SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.09  EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle, emerging from an alley, driveway or building,
shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the sidewalk area extending across any
alleyway, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians approaching on the sidewalk
or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway shall yield the right-of-way to
all vehicles approaching on the roadway.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.10  CLINGING TO VEHICLES; CARRYING ARTICLES.
   (A)   No person operating a bicycle shall attach the same or himself to any
vehicle upon a roadway.
   (B)   No person operating a bicycle shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the rider from keeping at least one hand upon the
handlebars.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.11  PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle other than upon a sidewalk in a rack to
support the bicycle or upon a sidewalk, in such manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.12  LAMPS AND OTHER EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Each bicycle when in use at night-time shall be equipped with a lamp
on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a distance of at least
500 feet to the front and with a red reflector on the rear of a type which
shall be visible from all distances from 50 feet to 300 feet to the rear when
directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle. A lamp
emitting a red light visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear may be
used in addition to the red reflector.
   (B)   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the
operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 73.99
§ 73.99  PENALTY.
   Any violation of any section of this chapter shall be considered a civil
infraction which is not a crime and shall not be punishable by imprisonment or
a penal fine, but which shall bear a civil fine in an amount established by
resolution of Council from time to time upon recommendation of the City
Manager.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
CHAPTER 74:  COASTER WHEELED DEVICES
Section
   
74.01   Findings
   
74.02   Definitions
   
74.03   Coaster wheeled devices prohibited
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01  FINDINGS.
   The City Council has determined that the use of coaster wheeled devices on
certain streets and sidewalks within the city can create a hazard for
pedestrian traffic, motor vehicular traffic and to the individuals themselves
who are using the coaster wheeled devices.  The city further finds that in
order to avoid this hazardous condition, and to eliminate the potential for
accidents, it is necessary to enact this chapter prohibiting their use in
certain areas.
(Ord. passed 7-9-02)
§ 74.02  DEFINITIONS.
   COASTER WHEELED DEVICES .  Any roller skates, roller blades, skate boards,
or toy wheeled devices operated or propelled on or by a coaster type wheel. 
These coaster wheeled devices are propelled by human power but include those
which may be propelled by motor.  Human power often times control the movement
and direction of the device.
(Ord. passed 7-9-02)
§ 74.03  COASTER WHEELED DEVICES PROHIBITED.
   The use of coaster wheeled devices is hereby prohibited in the city on all
sidewalks and streets in the city where signs have been erected prohibiting
such coaster wheeled devices.
(Ord. passed 7-9-02)
§ 74.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any section of this chapter shall be considered a civil
infraction which is punishable by fine in an amount established by resolution
of City Council from time to time upon recommendation of the City Manager and/
or fines assessed by the court of jurisdiction and said coaster wheeled device
(s) used shall be impounded by the city until disposition of the case.
(Ord. passed 7-9-02)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   CEMETERIES
      
92.   FAIR HOUSING
      
93.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
94.   INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   RENTAL HOUSING STANDARDS
      
98.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
99.   TREES
CHAPTER 90:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Animals prohibited
   
90.02   Goats and swine
   
90.03   Disturbing birds
   
90.04   Coloring birds prohibited
   
90.05   Sick or dead animals
   
90.06   Depositing poison
   
90.07   Unwholesome food, water
   
90.08   Sanitary requirements
Dogs
   
90.20   License required
   
90.21   Impounding dogs; disposition; records
   
90.22   Female dogs restricted
   
90.23   Report of bite to Police Department
   
90.24   Quarantine
   
90.25   Running at large
   
90.26   Dogs causing annoyance
   
90.27   Vicious dogs prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01  ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep any animal or fowl within 500
feet of any dwelling, street, alley or public place; permit any animal or any
fowl owned by him or in his possession or control to run at large in any
street, alley or public place, or upon the premises of another without express
permission of the owner or occupant thereof, except such animals as are
commonly kept or housed as household pets.
(`73 Code, 35.182, § 9.52) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.02  GOATS AND SWINE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep live goats or swine on any
premises within the city; except in slaughterhouses or yards adjacent thereto;
and as required to conduct the weekly stock sale.
(`73 Code, 35.181, § 9.51) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.03  DISTURBING BIRDS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure, molest, or disturb
in any way any birds or the nest, eggs, young or brood of any such birds,
except that this provision shall not apply to any birds declared by any law or
ordinance to be “pests.”
(`73 Code, 35.183, § 9.53) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.04  COLORING BIRDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to artificially color, spray or paint
any bird or fowl or to sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of any such
colored bird or fowl.
(`73 Code, 35.184, § 9.54) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.05  SICK OR DEAD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, throw or place any dead or
fatally sick or injured animal, or part thereof, on any public or private
place, or into or on the banks of any stream, lake, pond, sewer or other body
of water.
(`73 Code, 35.185, § 9.55) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.06  DEPOSITING POISON.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit poisoned meat, or any poison or
harmful substances in any street, alley or public place, or on any private
premises within the city, for the purpose of destroying any dog, bird, fowl or
other animal.
(`73 Code, 35.186, § 9.56) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.07  UNWHOLESOME FOOD, WATER.
   It shall be unlawful to feed any animal unwholesome or unsuitable food, or
unclean water to drink which is likely to cause or produce disease in the
animal.
(`73 Code, 35.187, § 9.57) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.08  SANITARY REQUIREMENTS.
   Every person lawfully keeping or harboring any animal, shall keep or cause
to be kept all manure, or offal therefrom, which shall be deposited or
accumulated from such animal, securely and closely confined to or buried upon
his premises and in such manner as will prevent it from being scattered from
such place of deposit into or upon any street, sidewalk, alley or gutter of the
city, and shall so cover and care for it as to prevent any malodorous or
offensive condition to exist and to prevent any nuisance to arise therefrom.
(`73 Code, 35.188, § 9.58) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
DOGS
§ 90.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, maintain, keep or harbor any dog
within the city without first procuring a license therefor as prescribed by
state law. Application for a license shall be made to the City Clerk and shall
state the breed, sex, age, color and markings of the dog, and the name and
address of the applicant and the last known previous owner. The application
shall be accompanied by a certificate of a licensed veterinarian showing that
the dog has been vaccinated against rabies.
(`73 Code, 35.191, § 9.61) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.21  IMPOUNDING DOGS; DISPOSITION; RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Department of Public Safety or dog warden
to seize and impound any dog found anywhere in the city contrary to the
provisions of this chapter. No dog so impounded shall be released to its owner
or other authorized person without payment of a sum in an amount which shall be
established by resolution of the City Council from time to time upon
recommendation of the City Manager to the Department of Public Safety or dog
warden for its care and maintenance and without procuring a license as herein
provided. The Department of Public Safety or dog warden shall, upon impounding
any dog, turn the animal over to the Humane Society or other appropriate
facility. 
(`73 Code, 35.192, § 9.62)
   (B)   The Department of Public Safety or dog warden shall maintain a
complete record of all dogs impounded under the provisions of this chapter and
the disposition of same. 
(`73 Code, 35.193, § 9.63)
§ 90.22  FEMALE DOGS RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner or custodian of any female dog to permit
such dog off the premises of the owner or custodian when in heat unless the dog
is under control and attached to a leash.
(`73 Code, 35.194, § 9.64) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.23  REPORT OF BITE TO DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   If any person is bitten by a dog, it shall be the duty of that person, or
the owner or custodian of the dog having knowledge of same, to report same to
the Department of Public Safety or dog warden within 12 hours thereafter. If
the owner or custodian of any dog has any reason to believe or suspect that
such dog has become infected with rabies, it shall be the duty of that person
to report the same to the Department of Public Safety or dog warden within 12
hours thereafter.
(`73 Code, 35.195, § 9.65) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.24  QUARANTINE.
   In the event of any report to it as set forth in the preceding section, the
Department of Public Safety or dog warden shall seize such dog and deliver it
to the Health Officer. The Health Officer shall hold such dog in quarantine
until a laboratory analysis by a licensed veterinarian is made to determine
whether the dog is infected. The Health Officer shall promulgate and adopt such
rules as he deems necessary for the procedure in all such cases and for the
disposition of any dog delivered into his custody.
(`73 Code, 35.196, § 9.66) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.25  RUNNING AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, or any other person having the
possession, care, custody or control thereof, to permit any dog to run at large
upon the public streets, walks, parks, or other public places within the city,
unless such dog shall be attached to a leash of sufficient strength to restrain
such dog in such manner as to be kept under the control of the person
accompanying it.
(`73 Code, 35.197, § 9.67) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.26  DOGS CAUSING ANNOYANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, harbor or keep any dog which
shall cause annoyance or disturbance to persons by frequent and habitual
barking, howling or yelping.
(`73 Code, 35.198, § 9.68) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.27  VICIOUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to suffer or permit a vicious, fierce or
dangerous dog to go unconfined and unrestrained on such person's premises, or
to run at large.
(`73 Code, 35.199, § 9.69) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 91:  CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Prohibited activities and uses
   
91.03   Lot planting, decorating and improvements
   
91.04   Monuments, headstones and markers
   
91.05   Interment and disinterment
   
91.06   Perpetual care funds
   
91.07   Mandatory perpetual care
   
91.08   Fees and charges
   
91.09   Management
   
91.10   Department of Cemeteries
   
91.11   Financial responsibility of city
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Charter provisions, see Charter
Sec. 5.5.
§ 91.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURIAL SPACE.  A lot or portion of lot in any cemetery designated and
maintained for the interment of a human body or bodies and for no other
purpose.
   CEMETERY.  Pine Hill Cemetery as heretofore established, and any other
public cemetery owned, managed or controlled by the city.
   OWNER.  Any person or persons owning or possessing the privilege, license or
right of internment in any burial space.
   SUPERINTENDENT/SEXTON.  The city representative responsible for care and
maintenance of cemeteries.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99)
§ 91.02  PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES AND USES.
   (A)   It is the intent of the following provisions to provide the best
possible cemetery conditions, upkeep and aesthetics without infringing on
public use; to provide for the sanctity of the grounds devoted to the burial of
the dead; and to provide for the maximum use of space owned by an individual
without infringing on the rights of other individuals.
      (1)   Vehicles. The use of recreational vehicles shall not be allowed in
the cemetery. This includes, but is not limited to, off-road vehicles, three
and four-wheeled and other all-terrain vehicles, mopeds, mini-bikes, motor
scooters, off-road motorcycles and snowmobiles or any motorized vehicles used
in a recreational manner. No person shall operate a motor vehicle in excess of
five miles per hour in Pine Hill Cemetery.
      (2)   Prohibited activities. Certain recreational activities disruptive
or disrespectful in nature to the intended purpose of the cemetery are not
permitted. This includes but is not limited to, rollerblading, skateboarding,
skiing, snowshoeing, golfing, flying a kite, jogging, bicycling, or playing in
the cemetery.
   (B)   Activities not related to cemetery use shall be considered a trespass,
including those set forth in divisions (A)(1) and (2) above.
   (C)   Cemetery shall be closed from dusk until dawn.
   (D)   No minors, unless accompanied by an adult or with permission of the
Superintendent/Sexton, shall be permitted in the cemetery.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03  LOT PLANTING, DECORATING AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   The following provisions are enacted to create and preserve the maximum
beauty of the entire cemetery:
   (A)   The city reserves to itself the sole right to plant and maintain all
permanent planting within the cemetery. Lot owners desiring special permanent
planting on their lots may make their request to the Cemetery Superintendent/
Sexton who may permit such planting to be done at the lot owner's expense. Such
planting shall immediately become the property of the cemetery. All plantings
so installed shall be subject to the satisfaction and approval of the city.
Approved trees and shrubbery are the responsibility of the lot holder; they
must be maintained so as not to encroach on any other spaces or memorial. If
they are overgrown or not otherwise maintained, they are subject to removal at
owner’s expense.
   (B)   Permanent receptacles for cut flowers approved by the Cemetery
Superintendent/Sexton are allowed.
      (1)   In addition to the containers, baskets on “shepherd” hooks will be
permitted. One single shepherd hook will be permitted per marked occupied
gravesite except for double headstone sites, wherein two may be allowed. The
hooks shall be located on either side of the marker and must be flush to the
marker with the basket hanging directly over the marker.
      (2)   Containers must be made out of bronze, concrete, steel, clay,
copper, marble, or granite. Containers made of other materials require approval
in advance from the Superintendent/Sexton. Containers shall be located at the
head of the grave beside the marker, not in front or behind, and it is
recommended that they be placed upon a concrete slab not to exceed 18" x 18" or
incorporated into the marker.
   (C)   Miscellaneous articles, such as glass jars, tin cans, crushed stones,
plastic or metal edging, and objects of similar nature, including those of
styrofoam or other plastics are not to be placed on any lot or grave at any
time.
   (D)   Dead or dying trees, bushes, or other plants shall be removed at the
discretion of the Superintendent/Sexton. Artificial flowers must be located
within containers approved by the Superintendent/Sexton.
   (E)   Winter decoration may be maintained on graves from November 1 until
April 15, at which time they shall be removed by the cemetery employees.
Rubbish, refuse and unused containers shall not be left on lots, but shall be
placed at the edge of the nearest accessible row, alley or in a container
provided for such disposal. The city reserves the right to remove all floral
designs, flowers, trees, shrubs, plants, or herbage of any kind from the
cemetery as soon as, in the judgment of the Cemetery Superintendent/Sexton,
they become unsightly, dangerous, detrimental or diseased or when they do not
conform to the established standards and rules promulgated by the City Council
without informing lot owners prior to removal.
   (F)   Flower beds are allowed on grave sites, provided they are maintained
from the headstone to the outer edge of the flower bed, and do not encroach
upon adjoining lots. One flowerpot or one urn for each side of headstone per
plot shall be allowed on each grave. All urns and flowerpots are to be placed
immediately next to the side of the headstone. Urns and flowerpots shall be
maintained by the owner.
   (G)   Flowers and winter wreaths. Flowers, natural, dried or artificial, are
permitted within the approved containers listed in division (B)(2) above.
   (H)   Unsightly objects erected or placed upon lots or graves which are
objectionable, non-conforming to rules or detrimental to cemetery appearance
shall not be permitted. Whenever such objects become unsightly due to
weathering, deterioration or become withered, the city reserves the right to
remove them without notice to the owner.
   (I)   Summer articles.  In order for the city to complete fall and spring
maintenance, all articles placed on lots are to be removed by October 1 of each
year and no placement of articles may be made prior to May 1 of each year.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04  MONUMENTS, HEADSTONES AND MARKERS.
   (A)   No monument area(s). The City Council may by resolution set aside an
area in which no monuments, other than flush type or headstones shall be
permitted. All monuments or headstones shall be set on permanent foundations
and shall be of such dimension as to not interfere with adjacent view, crowd a
lot or interfere with use of adjacent lots. Markings, designs and shapes shall
be in good taste and not objectionable to a person of ordinary sensibilities.
All foundation work shall conform to the standards as set by the
Superintendent/Sexton as approved by the City Manager.
   (B)   Monument setting. Monument retailers and independent stone setters
shall set all memorials in conformity with Pine Hill Cemetery requirements and
in accordance with trade standards of proper methods of handling and setting
with non-staining material. Monuments shall be placed at the head of the grave
when at all possible. The city may correct any error that may occur in the
placing of a monument, marker or foundation.
   (C)   Foot monuments. All foot monuments or markers shall be flush at ground
level.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99)
§ 91.05  INTERMENT AND DISINTERMENT.
   (A)   Only manufactured cement boxes and vaults of equal or superior
construction to the cement boxes, at the discretion of the City Manager, shall
be used for interment. The following exceptions shall be allowed at the
discretion of the City Manager and that is when the religion or conviction of
the deceased shall prevent the use of said cement box, or where sufficient
money is not available from the deceased's estate. In either case, the deceased
shall be buried in a designated portion of the cemetery for such burial types.
   (B)   Reasonable notice must be given the Superintendent/Sexton and all
arrangements must be completed for services to be furnished and payment made
prior to a grave opening. All interments, disinterments, grave openings, grave
locations and arrangements shall be under the direction of the Superintendent/
Sexton.
   (C)   The city reserves the right of refusal for any disinterments except by
order of the next of kin or legal representatives of the deceased. Presentation
of a permit from the State Board of Health except for re-interment in any
cemetery operated by the city shall be required prior to disinterment.
   (D)   No interment shall take place without a burial permit, nor until all
laws, ordinances and rules and regulations relative to burials have been
complied with. The city shall not be liable for such burial permit or
responsible for the accuracy of the data contained therein, or for the identity
of the person to be interred. No grave shall be opened unless the grave space
has been paid for, with the exception of indigent cases, or unless the funeral
director assumes the responsibility of payment for such grave space. Funeral
directors making arrangements for burials shall be responsible for all
interment charges if not paid by the owner or his agent.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99) 
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.06  PERPETUAL CARE FUNDS.
   (A)   The city hereby covenants to maintain lots on which perpetual care has
been paid, provided that all lots on which perpetual care has been paid shall
be maintained in a like condition.
   (B)   The existing “Cemetery Perpetual Care Funds of the City of Cheboygan”
and all monies hereafter paid for perpetual care shall constitute the “Cemetery
Perpetual Care Funds of the City of Cheboygan” and shall be segregated from all
other funds of the city, said principal to be held in trust for perpetual care
purposes and invested as herein provided; and no part of said trust shall be
used except for deposit or investment in bonds of the United States, State of
Michigan and any political subdivision thereof, or certificates of deposit of
any bank. Provided, however, said money may be loaned to the city on its
promissory note or other evidence of debt in which case the city shall pay
interest on monies borrowed that is reasonable and just.
   (C)   All payments for perpetual care shall be paid to the City Treasurer
for deposit in the account of “Cemetery Perpetual Care Funds of the City of
Cheboygan.” The perpetual funds shall be invested by the City Treasurer in the
above-mentioned securities upon authorization of the City Council.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99)
§ 91.07  MANDATORY PERPETUAL CARE.
   (A)   The rates established for sale of lots or fractions thereof shall
include perpetual care and no sales or interments shall be made hereafter
without providing for perpetual care.
   (B)   The essential perpetual care that the city agrees to give shall
consist of mowing, seeding, filling sunken graves to grade, raking, removal of
dead flowers and leaves, and trimming trees and shrubbery when necessary. It
shall not include watering, repair or replacement of markers or memorial
structures of any nature or maintenance of urns, vases, flowers or receptacles
placed upon any lot or grave.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. passed 7-10-01)
§ 91.08  FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Council shall by resolution, from time to time upon recommendation
of the City Manager, set a schedule of fees, payments and service charges for
sale of lots, perpetual care, and services provided. The City Council may by
resolution charge non-residents a higher percentage of such fees and services.
Such schedule of fees shall be kept on file in the office of the City Clerk and
City Treasurer.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. passed 7-10-01)
§ 91.09  MANAGEMENT.
   The care, management, preservation, and control of all public cemeteries and
grounds within the city including the improvement thereof, shall be vested in
the City Manager under the provisions of the City Charter and in the City
Council.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99)
§ 91.10  DEPARTMENT OF CEMETERIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall appoint the Cemetery Superintendent who shall
be head of the Department. The Superintendent/Sexton shall be responsible for
the enforcement of this chapter, the operation and maintenance of the cemetery
and the regulation and removal of all trees or shrubs on all property within
the cemetery.
   (B)   The City Council may enact rules to further regulate cemeteries within
its jurisdiction and to supplement the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99)
§ 91.11  FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY.
   The city shall not be liable for any loss or damage caused by an Act of God,
common enemy, thieves, vandals, malicious mischief makers, unavoidable
accidents, riots or order of any military or civil authority, to any loss of
structures or objects thereon, nor flowers or articles removed from any lot or
grave, nor for any loss or damage or bodily injuries sustained by any person
except as a result of the negligence on the part of the city or its employees.
All claims against the city must be made in accordance with the provisions of
the City Charter or ordinance relating to the procedure for making claims.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a civil infraction.
(Ord. passed 7-13-99)
CHAPTER 92:  FAIR HOUSING
Section
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Prohibited acts by persons engaging in real estate transaction, broker
or salesperson
   
92.03   Exemptions
   
92.04   Discrimination by financial institution
   
92.05   Condition restriction or prohibition unlawful; exception
   
92.06   Representation of change in neighborhood
 
   
92.99   Penalty
§ 92.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATIONS.  Includes improved or unimproved real property, or a
part thereof, which is used or occupied, or is intended, arranged, or designed
to be used or occupied, as the home or residence of one or more persons.
   REAL ESTATE BROKER OR SALESMAN.  A person, whether licensed or not, who, for
or with the expectation of receiving a consideration, lists, sells, purchases,
exchanges, rents, or leases real property; who negotiates or attempts to
negotiate any of those activities; who holds himself out as engaged in those
activities; who negotiates or attempts to negotiate a loan secured or to be
secured by a mortgage or other encumbrance upon real property; who is engaged
in business of listing real property in a publication; or a person employed by
or acting on behalf of a real estate broker or salesman.
   REAL ESTATE TRANSACTION.  The sale, exchange, rental or lease of real
property, or an interest therein.
   REAL PROPERTY.  Includes a building, structure, mobile home, real estate,
land, mobile home park, trailer park, tenement, leasehold, or an interest in a
real estate cooperative or condominium.
(`73 Code, 18.200, § 6.200)  (Ord. eff. 9-17-84)
§ 92.02  PROHIBITED ACTS BY PERSONS ENGAGING IN REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS;
BROKER OR SALESPERSON.
   (A)   A person engaging in a real estate transaction, or a real estate
broker or salesman, shall not on the basis of religion, race, color, national
origin, age, sex, familial status, or disability of a person or a person
residing with that person:
      (1)   Refuse to engage in a real estate transaction with a person;
      (2)   Discriminate against a person in the terms, conditions, or
privileges of a real estate transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or
services in connection therewith;
      (3)   Refuse to receive from a person or transmit to a person a bona fide
offer to engage in a real estate transaction;
      (4)   Refuse to negotiate for a real estate transaction with a person;
      (5)   Represent to a person that real property is not available for
inspection, sale, rental or lease when in fact it is so available, or knowingly
fail to bring a property listing to a person's attention, or refuse to permit a
person to inspect real property;
      (6)   Print, circulate, post, mail or otherwise cause to be published a
statement, advertisement, notice or sign, or use a form of application for a
real estate transaction, or make a record of inquiry in connection with a
prospective real estate transaction, which indicates, directly or indirectly,
an intent to make a preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination
with respect thereto;
      (7)   Offer, solicit, accept, use or retain a listing of real property
with the understanding that a person may be discriminated against in a real
estate transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or services in connection
therewith.
   (B)   This section is subject to §
92.03.
(`73 Code, 18.201, § 6.201)  (Ord. eff. 9-17-84) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.03  EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   As used in this section, IMMEDIATE FAMILY means a spouse, parent,
child or sibling.
   (B)   §
92.02 shall not apply:
      (1)   To the rental of a housing accommodation in a building which
contains housing accommodations for not more than two families living
independently of each other if the owner or a member of the owner's immediate
family resides in one of the housing accommodations, or to the rental of a room
or rooms in a single-family dwelling by a person if the lessor or a member of
the lessor’s immediate family resides therein.
      (2)   To the rental of a housing accommodation for not more than 12
months by the owner or lessor where it was occupied by him and maintained as
his home for at least three months immediately preceding occupancy by the
tenant and is temporarily vacated while maintaining legal residence.
      (3)   With respect to the age provision only, to the sale, rental or
lease of housing accommodations meeting the requirements of federal, state, or
local housing programs for senior citizens, or accommodations otherwise
intended, advertised, designed or operated, bona fide, for the purpose of
providing housing accommodations for persons 50 years of age or older.
   (C)   Information relative to the familial status of an individual may be
obtained when necessary for the preparation of a deed or other instrument of
conveyance.
(`73 Code, 18.202, § 6.202)  (Ord. eff. 9-17-84)
§ 92.04  DISCRIMINATION BY FINANCIAL INSTITUTION.
   (A)   A person to whom application is made for financial assistance or
financing in connection with a real estate transaction or in connection with
the construction, rehabilitation, repair, maintenance, or improvement of real
property, or a representative of that person, shall not:
      (1)   Discriminate against the applicant because of the religion, race,
color, national origin, age, sex, familial status or disability of the
applicant or a person residing with the applicant;
      (2)   Use a form of application for financial assistance or financing or
make or keep a record of inquiry in connection with an application for
financial assistance or financing which indicates, directly or indirectly a
preference, limitation, specification, or discrimination as to the religion,
race, color, national origin, age, sex, familial status or disability of the
applicant or a person residing with applicant.
   (B)   Division (A)(2) shall not apply to a form of application for financial
assistance prescribed for the use of a lender regulated as a mortgagee under
the National Housing Act, as amended, being 12 USC 1701 to 1750g or by a
regulatory board or officer acting under the statutory authority of this State
or the United States.
(`73 Code, 18.203, § 6.203)  (Ord. eff. 9-17-84)
§ 92.05  CONDITION RESTRICTION OR PROHIBITION UNLAWFUL; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   A condition restriction, or prohibition, including a right of entry or
possibility of reverter, which directly or indirectly limits the use or
occupancy of real property on the basis of religion, race, color, national
origin, age, sex, familial status or disability is void, except a limitation of
use on the basis of religion relating to real property held by a religious
institution or organization, or by a religious or charitable organization
operated, supervised, or controlled by a religious institution or organization,
and used for religious or charitable purposes.
   (B)   A person shall not insert in a written instrument relating to real
property a provision that is void under this section or honor such a provision
in the chain of title.
(`73 Code, 18.204, § 6.204)  (Ord. eff. 9-17-84) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.06  REPRESENTATION OF CHANGE IN NEIGHBORHOOD.
   A person shall not represent, for the purpose of inducing a real estate
transaction from which the person may benefit financially, that a change has
occurred or will or may occur in the composition with respect to religion,
race, color, national origin, age, sex, familial status or disability of the
owners or occupants in the block, neighborhood, or area in which the real
property is located, or represent that this change will or may result in the
lowering of property values, an increase in criminal or antisocial behavior, or
a decline in the quality of schools in the block, neighborhood, or area in
which the real property is located.
(`73 Code, 18.205, § 6.205)  (Ord. eff. 9-17-84) 
Penalty, see § 92.99
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of violating the provisions of this chapter shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500, or imprisonment for 90 days, or both,
at the discretion of the court.
(`73 Code, 18.206, § 6.206)  (Ord. eff. 9-17-84)
CHAPTER 93:  FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Prevention Code
   
93.01   Adoption of Fire Prevention Code; enforcement
   
93.02   Modifications
   
93.03   Appeals
Smoke Detectors
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Smoke detectors required
   
93.17   Installation
   
93.18   Maintenance
   
93.19   Tampering prohibited
   
93.20   Inspection by city
   
93.21   Exempt rental unit
   
93.22   Enforcement; appeals
 
   
93.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Fire safety standards for rental housing, see
§ 97.26
   Open burning, see
§ 95.08
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 93.01  ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the state fire code as established by Public
Act 207 of 1941, being M.C.L.A. §§ 29.1 through 29.34, as amended, as its fire
code.
   (B)    The code hereby adopted shall be enforced by the Public Safety
Director.
§ 93.02  MODIFICATIONS.
   The Public Safety Director shall have power to modify any of the provisions
of the Code hereby adopted upon application in writing, by the owner or lessee,
or his duly authorized agent, when there are practical difficulties in the way
of carrying out the strict letter of the Code, provided that the spirit of the
Code shall be observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
The particulars of such modification when granted or allowed and the decision
of the Director of Public Safety thereon shall be entered upon the records of
the Department and a signed copy shall be furnished the applicant.
(`73 Code, 40.005, § 9.135)
Cross reference:
   Director of Public Safety, see
§ 31.03
§ 93.03  APPEALS.
   Whenever the Director of Public Safety shall disapprove an application or
refuse to grant a permit applied for, or when it is claimed that the provisions
of the Code do not apply or that the true intent and meaning of the Code have
been misconstrued or wrongly interpreted, the applicant may appeal from the
decision of the Director of Public Safety to the Board of Building Appeals
within 30 days from the date of the decision appealed.
(`73 Code, 40.006, § 9.136)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 93.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED SMOKE DETECTORS.  All devices or systems which comply with the
specifications of Underwriters Laboratories, Inc., or any other nationally
recognized laboratory standards, and which bear a label indicating that the
detector has been so listed and approved.
   BUSINESS.  All structures open year round or on a seasonal basis for the
purpose of conducting any type of commercial enterprise and having one or more
owners/employees.
   DWELLING UNIT.  One, two or more rooms with kitchen facilities designed as a
unit for rental occupancy by only one family for cooking, living, and sleeping
purposes, together with the common areas which support the unit, and in the
case of hotels, motels, bed and breakfast establishments, boarding houses or
other similar structures, each individual room or rooms to be occupied as a
separate unit.
   LANDLORD.  Any person who owns or controls a rental unit and rents such unit
personally or through an agent to any person or persons.
   RENTAL UNIT.  Any one-family dwelling unit, two-family dwelling unit,
multiple-family dwelling unit or residential structure containing sleeping
units, including but not limited to, hotels, motels, bed and breakfast
establishments, boarding houses, or sleeping rooms which are rented by the
owner or individual(s), whether by the day, week, month, year or any other
term.
   SINGLE STATION ALARM DEVICE.  Assembly incorporating an approved smoke
detector, control equipment and a signaling device in one unit, operating from
a power supply either in the unit or obtained at the point of installation.
   SMOKE DETECTION SYSTEM.  One or more smoke detectors in any system composed
of self supervised smoke detection and signaling device operating on an
approved, permanently wired electric circuit, and so arranged that the
activation of any one smoke detection device will activate all signaling
devices throughout the building.
   SMOKE DETECTOR.  An instrument which detects visible or invisible particles
of combustion and activates a signaling device.
(Ord. passed 5-10-94)
§ 93.16  SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   All single and multiple rental dwellings, motels, single rented residences,
and businesses, whether rented or not, located within the city shall be
provided with a minimum of one U. L. approved single station smoke detector
located in the sleeping area of each rental unit, hotel or motel room, lodging
or boarding house, rented mobile home or rented dwelling unit. This requirement
shall apply to all rented housing and all businesses, whether rented or not,
located within the city. The detectors shall be located in accord with the
particular building code in effect within the city.
(Ord. passed 5-10-94) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.17  INSTALLATION.
   (A)   Every landlord or property owner shall install an approved smoke
detector in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions on the ceiling or
within six inches of the ceiling in each of the following locations in a rental
unit:
      (1)   In each bedroom or sleeping area;
      (2)   In the immediate vicinity of the main heating unit and the water
heater. If either or both of these are located in the basement, the smoke
detector shall be installed in the stairwell leading to the basement;
      (3)   In each common hallway between dwelling units in any structure
containing more than one dwelling unit;
      (4)   As otherwise required by any applicable state or local building
code in effect or at the direction of the Director of Public Safety in the
city.
   (B)   When activated, a smoke detector shall provide an alarm capable of
warning an occupant within an individual room, unit or apartment of the rental
unit. In multi-dwelling units, one smoke detector shall be required per
dwelling unit.
(Ord. passed 5-10-94) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.18  MAINTENANCE.
   Each landlord or property owner shall inspect every smoke detector required
to be installed pursuant to this subchapter, at least once every six months to
confirm that such smoke detector is in proper working order. Where such smoke
detector is operated by a battery, the tenant shall replace the battery with a
new battery at least once every six months in each smoke detector. The landlord
or property owner shall keep a record of each inspection on a form provided by
the city and rental landlords shall file a copy with the Director of Public
Safety. The landlord shall maintain such records for a period of at least three
years.
(Ord. passed 5-10-94) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.19  TAMPERING PROHIBITED.
   Any person tampering or interfering with the effectiveness of a smoke
detector shall be in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-10-94) 
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.20  INSPECTION BY CITY.
   Upon reasonable request, the Director of Public Safety or his/her designee
shall have the right to inspect the records maintained pursuant to the
preceding section. In addition, the Director of Public Safety or his/her
designee shall have the right, if he/she has reasonable cause to believe there
is a violation of this chapter, to inspect any rental unit to investigate any
violation or alleged violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 5-10-94)
§ 93.21  EXEMPT RENTAL UNIT.
   Any rental unit that is inspected by the Department of Housing and Urban
Development, the Federal Housing Administration, the Farmers Home
Administration or the Michigan State Housing Development Authority on a regular
basis shall be exempt from the requirements of this subchapter. However,
nothing in this subchapter shall relieve any owner of a rental unit from
complying with federal, state or local laws, whether or not such laws contain
similar provisions to those contained in this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 5-10-94)
§ 93.22  ENFORCEMENT; APPEALS.
   The Director of Public Safety or his/her designee shall have authority and
responsibility for the enforcement and administration of this section. The
Director of Public Safety or any person aggrieved by a decision of the Director
of Public Safety may make application to the Construction Board of Appeals. The
Board shall have the powers and duties described in the Building and Housing
code, including power to affirm, overrule, or modify a decision of the Director
of Public Safety and to make interpretations of this section. A fee for appeals
shall be established by the Board.
(Ord. passed 5-10-94)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Whoever violates or fails to comply with any of the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.22 or tampers with the operation of a smoke detector shall be fined not less
than $50 nor more than $500 or imprisoned not more than 90 days, or both, for
each offense. A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or
on which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues. 
(Ord. passed 5-10-94)
CHAPTER 94:  INOPERATIVE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Accumulation of certain vehicles on private property
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.  Motor vehicles which by reason of dismantling,
disrepair, or being unlicensed, uninsured or other cause, are incapable of
being propelled under their own power, or are unsafe for operation on the
streets and highways of this state because of inability to comply with the
State Motor Vehicle code.
   MOTOR VEHICLES.  Any wheeled vehicles which are or are intended to be
operable as self-propelled vehicles.
   PARTS.  Mechanical units or other pieces, objects or accessories commonly
used in the manufacture or operation of motor vehicles.
(Ord. passed 3-14-00)
§ 94.02  ACCUMULATION OF CERTAIN VEHICLES ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise permitted, no person or other entity, whether the
owner, tenant or manager of private property, or whether the last registered
owner of the vehicle or transferee on a bill of sale covering the vehicles,
shall permit the accumulation on private property of one or more vehicles or
parts thereof which do not meet the following conditions:
      (1)   Any motor vehicle must be in operating condition and be licensed
and insured for use in accordance with the requirements of the Michigan Vehicle
Code, being Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923 as
amended, and the Uniform Traffic Code of the city.
      (2)   These provisions shall apply to all areas or zones except when the
storage of the vehicles is in a completely enclosed building or in a commercial
zoned area which permits the use of new and used automotive dealers or a
licensed junk dealer or within any area permitted by a zoning chapter of the
code of ordinances.
   (B)   An exception is hereby made to the requirements of divisions (A)(1)
and (2) above for recreational vehicles, historical vehicles as defined in the
Michigan Vehicle Code, being Public Act 300, § 803(a), of 1949, being M.C.L.A.
§ 257.803(a) as amended, and vehicles which are required to be licensed under
the Motor Vehicle Code and are used in the construction industry on a seasonal
basis.
   (C)   Any violations of the above sections shall constitute a nuisance.
   (D)   The Department of Public Safety is hereby authorized and directed to
enforce the provisions of this subchapter and may issue appearance tickets in
accordance with Public Act 175, § 9c, of 1927, being M.C.L.A. § 764.9c, or take
any other legal action necessary for the enforcement of this chapter. Further,
any person or entity which fails to comply with divisions (A)(1) and (2) above
of this section shall be responsible for a civil infraction, and each
additional day during which such nuisance continues shall be deemed a separate
offense.
(Ord. passed 3-14-00)
Cross-reference:
   Uniform Traffic Code, see
§§ 70.01 et seq.
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any section of this chapter shall be considered a civil
infraction which is punishable by fine in an amount established by resolution
of City Council from time to time upon recommendation of the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 3-14-00)
CHAPTER 95:  NUISANCES
Section
   
95.01   Nuisance defined, prohibited
   
95.02   Nuisances per se
   
95.03   Noises declared nuisance
   
95.04   Grass and noxious weeds
   
95.05   Abandoned refrigerators
   
95.06   Blighted exterior property, structures or buildings
   
95.07   Distribution of handbills
   
95.08   Defacing and littering public property; open burning
   
95.09   Barbed wire fences
   
95.10   Abatement
   
95.11   Action to enjoin
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Inoperative motor vehicles, see
Chapter 94
§ 95.01  NUISANCE DEFINED, PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Whatever annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort, or
repose of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs or
renders dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake or stream; or in any way
renders the public insecure in life or property is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance. Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to,
whatever is forbidden by any provision of this chapter. No person or entity
shall commit, create, or maintain any nuisance.
   (B)   A violation of any of the sections of this chapter, including division
(A) above, shall be considered a public nuisance.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
§ 95.02  NUISANCES PER SE.
   (A)   No person or entity shall commit, create, or maintain any nuisance or
permit any nuisance to be committed, created or maintained on any property
owned, occupied or possessed by the person. The following are deemed nuisances
per se:
      (1)   The maintenance of any pond, pool of water, or vessel holding
stagnant water;
      (2)   The throwing, placing, depositing or leaving in any street,
highway, lane, alley, public place, square or sidewalk, or in or on any private
place or premises where such throwing, placing, depositing is dangerous or
detrimental to public or personal health, or likely to cause sickness or
attract flies, insects, rodents and/or vermin, by any person of any animal or
vegetable substance, dead animal, fish, shell, tin cans, bottles, glass, or
other rubbish, dirt, excrement, filth, unclean or nauseous water, or fluids,
hay, straw, soot, garbage, swill, animal bones, hides or horns, rotten soap,
grease or tallow, offal or any other offensive article or substance whatever;
      (3)   The pollution of any stream, lake or body of water by depositing or
permitting to be deposited any refuse, foul, or nauseous liquid or water,
creamery or industrial waste, or forcing or discharging into any public or
private sewer or drain any steam, vapor or gas;
      (4)   Any vehicle used for any immoral or illegal purpose;
      (5)   Betting, bookmaking and all apparatus used in such occupations
except as these activities may be permitted by state or federal statutes;
      (6)   All gambling devices except those licensed by state or federal
statutes;
      (7)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous
sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame and bawdy houses;
      (8)   All explosives, inflammable liquids and other dangerous substances
stored in any manner or in any amount contrary to the provisions of this code,
or statutes of the State of Michigan;
      (9)   All buildings, walls and other structures, vehicles, boats,
trailers, personal property or other objects  which have been damaged by fire,
decay, or otherwise;
      (10)  All excavations remaining unfilled or piles of dirt caused thereby
which remain uncovered for a period of five days or longer. A written extension
of this five-day period may, in appropriate cases, be granted by the City
Manager upon request of the owner or other possessor of the premises where
insurance monies are forthcoming for clean-up purposes but have not been
received;
      (11)   The disposing of any garbage within the city, on private or public
property, or disposing of garbage in any public or private dumpster or
receptacle without authorization of the owner of the dumpster or receptacle to
do so;
      (12)   Any two-family or multi-housing unit or rental housing unit or
business establishment shall have its garbage containers, dumpsters,  trash
receptacles or grease containers, containing 30 gallons or more, in a fenced
area made of chain link, brick or block enclosure of at least the same height
and width of the container(s). (All business/rental housing units shall comply
by 01/01/2007; all other units shall comply upon this chapter becoming
effective).  Private residences are prohibited from placing dumpsters on the
property unless a temporary permit is issued by the City Manager for
construction, remodeling or demolition;
      (13)   The placing of garbage containers, dumpsters or trash receptacles
in a public right-of-way except on collection day;
      (14)   The throwing or placing of any garbage or refuse upon the grounds
or burying the same on any premises, public or private, or burning the same in
any manner;
      (15)   The depositing or scattering of garbage or refuse on any public
street, alley or other public property in the city;
      (16)   All dangerous, unguarded excavations or machinery in any public
place, or so situated, left or operated on private property as to attract the
public;
      (17)   The parking or placing of any motor home, camper, tent,
recreational vehicle, or shelter of any type on public or private property and
using such motor home, camper, tent, recreational vehicle, or other type of
shelter for the purpose of camping or residing unless the parking and use is at
an authorized or permitted camping site, without a permit from the Director of
Public Safety. This section shall not apply to common over-night sleep out of
children in their residential yards;
      (18)   The owning, driving or moving upon any public streets and alleys
of trucks or other motor vehicles which are constructed or loaded so as to
permit any part of their load or contents to blow, fall, or be deposited upon
any street, alley, sidewalk or other public or private place, or which deposits
from its wheels, tires, or other parts onto the street, alley, sidewalk or
other public or private place dirt, grease, sticky substances, or foreign
matter of any kind. Provided, however, that under circumstances determined by
the City Manager to be in the public interest, he may grant persons temporary
exemption from the provisions of this subsection conditioned upon cleaning and
correcting the violating condition at least once daily and execution of an
agreement by such person to reimburse the city for any extraordinary
maintenance expenses incurred by the city in connection with such violation;
      (19)   The placing or causing to be placed in or on any motor vehicle,
wagon, trailer, or coach, owned, leased operated or under the control of any
person or entity, parked upon any street, alley or other public place within
the corporate limits of the city, any paper, posters, signs, cards, or other
advertising, excluding commercial services vehicles;
      (20)   No person shall tack, nail, paste or in any manner attach or affix
to any telegraph, telephone, electric light, power or fire alarm pole any
advertisement or any advertising matter, sign, notice or placard, in any
street, alley, park, lane, or public place in the city with the following
exceptions: agents, employees and/or representatives of the city are exempt
from this provision for placing directional, traffic control devices, tourist
directional or other informational signs;
      (21)   Earth changes which disturb less than one acre of land for which
allowed uses are other than industrial or commercial, which may include deposit
or removal of top soil, sub- soil, gravel, sand,  earth, rock, stone, concrete
materials and other similar materials in an amount of more than 30 cubic yards
without written permission of the City Manager, or designee, upon showing that
such changes will not impair the use of the property as zoned or unreasonably
interfere with the lawful use of abutting property.
      (22)   The parking of commercial or private trailer/containers on any
property, private or public, for the use as a storage unit or shed is
prohibited unless obscured from view or a temporary permit is issued by the
City Manager;
      (23)   All swimming pools capable of containing water at a depth greater
than two feet, shall abide by the following restrictions:
         (a)   The pool shall be placed on the property within the rear and
sidelines of the residence unless placement elsewhere on the property is
authorized by permit from the City Manager.
         (b)   A fence made of chainlink, wood or plastic shall be constructed
around the perimeter of the pool at a minimum height of four feet above the
ground surface.
      (24)   Fences erected within the city shall conform to the following
minimum requirements; and any additional requirements set forth on the fence
permit application:
         (a)   The fence shall be placed on or within the applicants property
line of owner.
         (b)   Construction materials shall only be of chainlink, wood,
plastic, brick or block, and it shall not exceed six feet in height. The
finished side shall be erected towards the neighbor or public right-of-way. The
property owner shalt maintain the fence. No fence shall be constructed using
barbed or razor wire.
   (B)    Any violation of any one or more of the following housing provisions
is considered a nuisance per se:
      (1)   Exterior requirements.
         (a)   Scope and responsibility. The owner or occupier of the dwelling
unit shall maintain such structures and exterior premises in compliance with
the requirements of this section. A person shall not rent to another for
occupancy or use premises which do not comply with section.
         (b)   Premises conditions.
            1.   Sanitation. All exterior premises shall be maintained in a
safe condition and shall not be occupied unless in a sanitary condition as
described by
§ 97.27.
            2.   Grading and drainage. All exterior property shall be graded
and maintained so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon.
         (c)   Structural conditions.
            1.   Generally. The exterior of a building shall be structurally
sound and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the health and safety of the
occupants, neighbors or the general public, and so as to protect the occupants
from the outside environment.
            2.   Structural members. All supporting structural members of
buildings shall be kept structurally sound, free of deterioration and
maintained so as be capable of safely bearing the dead and live loads imposed
upon them.
            3.   Exterior surfaces. Every foundation exterior wall, roof and
other exterior surface shall be maintained in a workmanlike state of
maintenance and repair and shall be kept in such condition as to exclude
rodents and birds.
            4.   Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained so
as to carry the safe design and operating dead and live loads.
            5.   Exterior walls.  Exterior walls shall be free of holes,
breaks, loose or rotting boards or timber and other conditions which might
admit rain or dampness to the interior portion of the walls or to the occupied
spaces of the building. All exterior surface materials, including wood,
composition or metal siding, shall be maintained weatherproof and shall be
properly surface coated, when required, to prevent deterioration such as by
painting or similar surface treatment.
            6.   Roofs. The roof shall be structurally sound, tight and shall
not have defects which might admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to
prevent rain water from causing dampness in the walls or interior portion of
the building.
            7.   Chimneys. All chimneys and similar appurtenances shall be
maintained structurally safe, sound and in good repair. All exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
            8.   Stairs and porches.  Every stair, porch and balcony, and any
appurtenance attached thereto, shall be constructed to be safe for use and
capable of supporting the loads to which it is subjected and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
            9.   Window and door frames.  Every window, door and frame shall be
constructed and maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall construction
so as to exclude rain as completely as possible and to substantially exclude
wind from entering the dwelling or structure.
            10.   Weathertight.  Windows and exterior doors shall be fitted
reasonably in the frames and shall be weathertight. Weather stripping shall be
used to exclude wind or rain from entering the dwelling or structure and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
      (2)   Interior requirements.
         (a)   Scope and responsibility. The owner or occupier of a dwelling
unit shall maintain the interior of a structure and its equipment in a safe,
structurally sound and sanitary condition and in compliance with the
requirements of this section. Both the owner and the occupier shall be jointly
and severally responsible for compliance.
         (b)   Structural members. The supporting structural members of every
building shall be maintained so as to be structurally sound and shall not show
any evidence of deterioration which would render them incapable of carrying the
imposed loads.
         (c)   Interior conditions.
            1.   Surfaces. Floors, walls, including windows and doors, ceilings
and other interior surfaces shall be maintained in a good, clean and sanitary
condition.
            2.   Lead-based paint.  Lead-based paint with a lead content of
more than 0.5% shall not be applied to any interior or exterior surface of a
dwelling, dwelling unit or child care facility, including fences and
outbuildings at these locations. Existing interior and exterior painted
surfaces of dwelling units and child care facilities that contain an excess of
0.5% lead shall be removed or covered with paneling or other suitable covering
approved by the Housing Administrator.
            3.   Bathroom and kitchen floors.  Every toilet, bathroom and
kitchen floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be
substantially impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily
kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
            4.   Decay.  Every dwelling unit and common space shall be
maintained reasonably free from mold, mildew, standing water and other
conditions conducive to decay or deterioration of the structure.
         (d)   Exit doors.  Every door available as an exit shall be capable of
being opened easily from the inside without the use of a key.
         (e)   Exit facilities. All interior stairs and railings and other exit
facilities of every structure shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair by replacing treads and risers that evidence excessive wear or that are
broken, warped or loose. Every inside stair shall be so constructed and
maintained as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the anticipated
loads.
      (3)   Light and ventilation.
         (a)   Scope and responsibility. The owner or occupier of a dwelling
unit shall provide and maintain light, ventilation and space conditions in
compliance with the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Alternative devices. In place of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, alternative arrangement of windows, louvers or
other methods and devices that will provide the equivalent minimum performance
requirements shall be permitted when complying with the state construction
code.
         (c)   General requirements.
            1.   All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient light and
ventilation so as not to endanger health and safety.
            2.   Every habitable room shall have at least one window of an
approved size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum total
window area, measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 8% of
the floor area of such room, except in rooms where artificial light may be
provided in accordance with the state construction code.
      (4)   Plumbing.
         (a)   Scope and responsibility. The owner or occupier of a dwelling
unit shall provide and maintain plumbing facilities and fixtures in compliance
with the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Required facilities.  Every rental dwelling unit shall have its
own plumbing facilities which are in proper operating condition, which can be
used in privacy and which are adequate for personal cleanliness and the
disposal of human waste. All plumbing facilities shall be supplied and
maintained in a sanitary and safe working condition.
         (c)   Water closet and lavatory.  Every rental dwelling unit shall
contain within its walls a room, separate from habitable rooms, which room
affords privacy and a water closet supplied with cold running water. The
lavatory may be placed in the same room as the water closet or, if located in
another room, the lavatory shall be located in close proximity to the door
leading directly into the room in which such water closet is located. The
lavatory shall be supplied with hot and cold running water.
         (d)   Bathtub or shower.  Every dwelling unit shall contain a room
which affords privacy to a person in such room and which is equipped with a
bathtub or shower supplied with hot and cold running water.
         (e)   Kitchen sink.  Every dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink
apart from the lavatory required under this section, and such sink shall be
supplied with hot and cold running water.
         (f)   Water system.
            1.   Generally.  Every sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower, drinking
fountain, water closet or other facility shall be properly connected to either
a public water system or to an approved private water system. All lavatories,
bathtubs, showers and required sinks shall be supplied with hot and cold
running water.
            2.   Contamination.  The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located above
the overflow rim of the fixture.
            3.   Supply.  The water supply system shall be installed and
maintained to provide at all times a supply of water to plumbing fixtures,
devices and appurtenances in sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to
enable them to function satisfactorily.
            4.   Water heating facilities.  Where hot water is provided, water
heating facilities shall be installed in an approved manner, properly
maintained and properly connected with hot water lines to the fixtures required
to be supplied with the hot water. Water heating facilities shall be capable of
heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, shower,
laundry facility or other similar unit at a temperature of not less than 110ºF
(43.33ºC).
         (g)   Sewerage system.
            1.   Every sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower, drinking fountain,
water closet or other facility shall be properly connected to either a public
sewerage system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
            2.   Every plumbing stack, waste and sewer line shall be so
installed and maintained as to function properly and shall be kept free from
obstructions, leaks and defects to prevent structural deterioration or health
hazards. All repairs and installations shall be made in accordance with the
state construction code.
      (5)   Mechanical requirements.
         (a)   Scope and responsibility.  The owner or occupier of a dwelling
unit shall provide and maintain such mechanical facilities and equipment in
compliance with the requirements of this section.
         (b)   Heating facilities. Every dwelling shall be provided with
heating facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 65ºF (18.33ºC)
at a point three feet (0.91 m) above the floor and three feet (0.91 m) from any
exterior wall.
         (c)   Cooking and heating equipment.  All cooking and heating
equipment, components and accessories in every heating, cooking and water
heating device shall be maintained free from leaks and obstructions and shall
be kept functioning properly so as to be free from fire, health and accident
hazards. All installations and repairs shall be made in accordance with the
state construction code or other law or ordinances applicable thereto.
         (d)   Portable cooking equipment. Portable cooking equipment employing
flame is prohibited, except for approved residential type food trays or salvers
which are heated by a candle or alcohol lamp.
         (e)   Installations. All mechanical equipment shall be properly
installed and safely maintained in good working condition and shall be capable
of performing the function for which it was designed and intended.
         (f)   Flues. All fuel-burning equipment shall be connected to an
approved chimney, flue or vent, and all required clearances to combustible
materials shall be maintained. All chimneys shall be free of excessive creosote
buildup.
         (g)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment
shall be maintained in effective operation.
         (h)   Combustion air. A supply of air for the complete combustion of
fuel and for ventilation of the space shall be provided to the fuel-burning
equipment.
         (i)   Fireplaces.  A fireplace or other construction or device
intended for a use similar to a fireplace shall be stable, structurally safe
and connected to an approved chimney.
      (6)   Electrical requirements.
         (a)   Scope and responsibility.  The owner or occupier of a dwelling
unit shall provide and maintain electrical facilities and equipment in
compliance with the requirements of this section. A person shall not rent to
another for occupancy any premises which do not comply with the requirements of
this section.
         (b)   Outlets. Every room, except a closet, shall contain at least two
separate and remote outlets, one of which may be a ceiling or wall-type
electric light fixture. In a kitchen, three separate and remote wall-type
electric convenience outlets or two such convenience outlets and one ceiling or
wall-type electric light fixture shall be provided. Every public hall, water
closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room or furnace room shall contain at
least one electric light fixture. In addition to the electric light fixture in
every bathroom and laundry room, there shall be at least one electric outlet.
         (c)   Installations. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances
shall be installed and maintained in a safe manner in accordance with all
applicable laws. All electrical equipment shall be of an approved type.
         (d)   Defects.  Where it is found that the electrical system in a
structure constitutes a hazard to the occupants or to the structure by reason
of inadequate service, improper fusing, insufficient outlets, improper wiring
installation, deterioration or damage, or for similar reasons, the owner or
occupier shall correct the defects within ten days. Failure to do so
constitutes a nuisance.
      (7)   Fire safety.
         (a)   Scope and responsibility. The owner of a  dwelling unit shall
provide and maintain fire safety facilities and equipment in compliance with
the requirements of this section, other ordinances and state law. No person
shall rent to another for occupancy any premises which do not comply with the
requirements of this section.
         (b)   Egress. A safe, continuous and unobstructed means of egress
shall be provided from the interior of a structure to the exterior at a street,
or to a yard, court or passageway leading to a public open area at grade.
         (c)   Direct exit. Every dwelling unit or room shall have access
directly to the outside or to a public corridor.
         (d)   Locked doors. All doors in the required means of egress shall be
readily openable from the inside without the use of keys. Exits from dwelling
units shall not lead through other such units or through toilet rooms or
bathrooms.
         (e)   Fire escapes. All required fire escapes shall be provided and
maintained in working condition and shall be structurally sound.
         (f)   Emergency escapes.
            1.   Windows or doors.  Every sleeping room shall have a safe means
of emergency escape to the outside consisting of an emergency escape window or
door.
            2.   Maintenance. Emergency escape windows and doors shall be
maintained operational and available to occupants of sleeping rooms in
residential uses.
            3.   Security.  Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices shall not
be installed in a required emergency escape window except when such devices are
equipped with approved release mechanisms which are openable from the inside
without the use of a key, special knowledge or excessive force.
         (g)   Accumulation and storage.
            1.   Waste materials. Waste, refuse or other materials shall not be
allowed to accumulate in stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire escapes
or other means of egress.
            2.   Flammable and explosive matter.  Highly flammable or explosive
matter, such as paints, volatile oils and cleaning fluids, or combustible
refuse, such as waste paper, boxes and rags, shall not be accumulated or stored
on residential rental premises except in reasonable quantities consistent with
normal usage.
            3.   Flammable liquids. A dwelling unit shall not be located within
a structure containing an establishment handling, dispensing or storing
flammable liquids with a flash point of 110ºF (43.33ºC) or lower, except as
provided for in the state construction code.
            4.   Generally. Floors, walls, ceilings and other elements and
components, when provided to meet a fire-resistant rating, shall not be altered
so that the respective fire-resistant rating of the enclosure, separation or
construction is diminished.
         (h)   Fire protection systems.
            1.   Generally.  All fire protection systems and equipment shall be
maintained in proper operating condition at all times.
            2.   Fire alarms.  Fire alarms and detecting systems shall be
maintained and shall be suitable for their respective purposes.
            3.   Fire extinguishers.  All portable fire extinguishers shall be
visible, accessible and maintained in an efficient and safe operating
condition.
            4.   Smoke detectors.  Smoke detectors shall be provided as
required by city ordinances.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 6-21-04; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
§ 95.03  NOISES DECLARED NUISANCE.
   (A)   All loud or unusual noises or sounds and annoying vibrations which
offend the peace and quiet of persons of ordinary sensibilities are hereby
declared to be public nuisances.
   (B)   Each of the following acts is declared unlawful and prohibited, but
its enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
      (1)   Animal and bird noises. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any person;
      (2)   Construction noises. The erection (including excavating therefor),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, and the excavation of streets
and highways, on Sundays, and other days, except between the hours of 7:00 a.m.
and 6:00 p.m., unless a permit be first obtained from the City Manager;
      (3)   Sound amplifiers. Use of any loud speaker, amplifier or other
instrument or device, whether stationary or mounted on a vehicle for any
purpose except one which is non-commercial in character and when so used shall
be subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech;
         (b)   Operations are permitted for four hours each day, except on
Sundays and legal holidays when no operations shall be authorized. The
permitted four hours of operation shall be between the hours of 11:30 a.m. and
1:30 p.m., and between the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m.;
         (c)   Sound amplifying equipment mounted on vehicles shall not be
operated unless the sound truck upon which such equipment is mounted is
operated at a speed of at least ten miles per hour except when said truck is
stopped or impeded by traffic;
         (d)   Sound shall not be issued within 100 yards of hospitals, schools
or churches;
         (e)   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be
audible for a distance in excess of 100 feet from the sound amplifying
equipment and so that the volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring,
disturbing, or a nuisance to persons within the area of audibility;
         (f)   No sound amplifying equipment shall be operated with an excess
of 15 watts of power in the last stage of amplification.
      (4)   Engine exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device which effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (5)   Handling merchandise. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in
connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction
of bales, boxes, crates, and containers;
      (6)   Blowers. The discharge into the open air of air from any noise
creating blower or power fan unless the noise from such blower or fan is
muffled sufficiently to deaden such noise;
      (7)   Hawking. The hawking of goods, merchandise, or newspapers in a loud
and boisterous manner;
      (8)   Horns and signal devices. The sounding of any horns or signal
device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion,
except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching, apparently out of
control, or to give warning of intent to get under motion, or if in motion,
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
      (9)   Radio and musical instruments. The playing of any radio, television
set, phonograph, or any musical instrument in such a manner or with such
volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at
any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of
persons in any office or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type of residence, or
of any persons in the vicinity;
      (10)    Shouting and whistling. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling, or
singing or the making of any other loud noise on the public streets between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or the making of any such noise at any time
so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of persons in any
school, place of worship, or office, or in any dwelling, hotel, or other type
of residence, or of any person in the vicinity; and
      (11)    Whistle or siren. The blowing of any whistle or siren, except to
give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or
danger.
   (C)   None of the terms or prohibitions of this section shall apply to or be
enforced against:
      (1)   Emergency vehicles. Any police or fire vehicle or any ambulance,
while engaged upon emergency business;
      (2)   Highway maintenance and construction. Excavations or repairs of
bridges, streets, or highways by or on behalf of the city, county, or the
state, during the night, when the public safety, welfare, and convenience
renders it impossible to perform such work during the day.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am.Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
§ 95.04  GRASS AND NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (A)   Weed growth prohibited.  No person occupying any premises, and no
person owning any unoccupied premises shall permit or maintain on any such
premises any growth of noxious weeds; nor any growth of grass or other rank
vegetation to a greater height than five inches on the average; nor any
accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush. NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include, but
not be limited to, Canada thistle (Cirsium arvense), dodders (any species of
Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of
Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus
arvensis), perennial sow thistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa
incana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior) and poison ivy (rhus radicans), poison
sumac (Toxicodendron vernix).
   (B)   Cutting of grass. Lawns shall be cut (grass can be no higher than five
inches) and maintained 50 feet from the property line in developed areas,
whether or not the same is occupied, and of a primary business structure. This
requirement shall not apply to land used for agricultural purposes or to
lowlands which are incapable of maintenance.
   (C)   Duty of occupant or owner. It shall be the duty of the occupant of
every premises and the owner of unoccupied premises within the city, to cut and
remove or destroy by lawful means all such noxious weeds and grass, at least
once each year not later than the first of July, and thereafter as often as may
be necessary to comply with the provisions of divisions (A) and (B) above of
this section.
   (D)   Cutting by city.  If any person shall fail to comply with the
provisions of division (B) of this section by the specified time, the City
Manager shall, through the Department of Public Works, cause all such grass and
noxious weeds to be cut or destroyed upon lands of the person not complying
with the provisions hereof. The Superintendent of the Department shall keep an
accurate account of all expense incurred with respect to each parcel of land
entered upon in carrying out the provisions of this chapter and shall make a
sworn statement of said account and present the same to the City Manager. Said
accounts shall become a lien and shall be collected as set forth in §
95.10(C)(5), (6) and (7).
   (E)   Notice of requirements.  The City Clerk shall on or before the
fifteenth of June of each year give notice of the requirements and provisions
of divisions (A) through (D) above by publishing a notice thereof once a week
for two successive weeks in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   (F)   Violation not excused; penalty. The fact that grass or noxious weeds
are cut by the city and the cost thereof charged to or paid by the owner shall
not excuse the owner from responsibility for the violation of this code thereby
abated. Failure to cut grass or noxious weeds by the owner as required herein
shall constitute a violation of this code punishable as a civil infraction
regardless of whether such grass and noxious weeds are cut subsequent to the
commission of such violation.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
§ 95.05  ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building
or dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded icebox, refrigerator or container having doors, drawers or lids.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to leave
outside of any building or dwelling in a place accessible to children any
abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or any other container
of any kind which has an air tight snap lock or other device thereon without
first removing the snap lock or doors from the icebox, refrigerator or
container.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.06  BLIGHTED EXTERIOR PROPERTY, STRUCTURES OR BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE OR BUILDING.  Any dwelling, garage, accessory or
outbuilding,  or any factory, shop, store, office building, warehouse, or any
other structure or part of a structure which:
      (a)   Because of fire, wind, other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration, is no longer habitable as a dwelling or useful for the purpose
for which it was originally intended; or
      (b)   Is partially completed and which is not presently being constructed
under an existing, valid building permit issued by or under the authority of
the city; or
      (c)   Is not structurally sound, weather-tight, waterproof or vermin-
proof; or
      (d)   Is not covered by a water resistant paint or other waterproof
covering so as to protect said structure from the adverse effects of the
elements or from physical deterioration; or
      (e)   Which causes or tends to cause devaluation of the subject property
or other adjacent or nearby properties in the area due to neglect.
   BUILDING MATERIAL.  Any lumber, bricks, concrete, cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts or equipment,
shingles, mortar, cement, nails, screws, or other materials commonly used in
the construction or repair of any buildings or structures.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.  The Building Inspector and/or officer of the
Department of Public Safety.
   GARISH.  Any structure which, because of painting method (i.e., haphazard
multicolors), is determined by the enforcement officer to be devaluing of
subject property or other adjacent or nearby properties in the area.
   GOODS.  Any goods, warehouse merchandise or other property capable of being
the object of a sale regulated under this chapter.
   JUNK/REFUSE.  Any abandoned, discarded, unusable objects or equipment, any
object or equipment unused for its originally intended purpose, including, but
not limited to, furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans, implements,
parts of motor vehicles, machinery, cloth, rubber, bottles, any metals, boxes,
cartons, or crates.
   PERSON.  Shall include all natural persons, firms, co-partnerships,
corporations, and all associations of natural persons, incorporated or
unincorporated, whether acting by themselves, or by a servant, agent or
employee. All persons who violate any of the provisions of this ordinance,
whether as owner, occupant, lessee, agent, operator, servant, or employee
shall, except as herein otherwise provided, be equally liable as principals.
   TRASH and RUBBISH.  Any and all forms of debris not herein otherwise
classified.
   (B)   Blighted structures or buildings prohibited.  It shall be unlawful for
any person to keep or maintain a garish exterior upon any vacant structure,
building, dwelling, garage, or outbuilding, factory shop, store, or warehouse
as described in division (A) of this section or which displays three or more of
the following conditions:
      (1)   Deteriorating roof; and/or
      (2)   Siding off and/or damaged; and/or
      (3)   Broken and/or deteriorating windows; and/or
      (4)   Unfinished exterior; and/or
      (5)   Collapsing porch or deck; and/or
      (6)   Scaffolding unless associated with current building permit; and/or
      (7)   Cracked and broken foundations/chimneys which constitute a
structural or health hazard unless such structure is in the course of
construction in accordance with a valid building permit issued by the city and
unless such construction is completed within a reasonable time; and/or
      (8)   Is partially completed and which is not presently being constructed
under an existing, valid building permit issued by or under the authority of
the city.
   (C)   Blighted exterior and maintenance requirement of property.  Every
owner and operator shall improve and maintain all property under its control to
comply with the following minimum requirements:
      (1)   All exterior property areas shall be properly maintained in a clean
and sanitary condition, free from debris, brush, severed tree limbs, rubbish or
garbage, physical hazards, rodent harborage and infestation; storage or
placement of junk refuse or other objects, including, but not limited to,
campers, trailers, lawnmowers, snowmobiles, tractors, motorcycles, boats, and
others items not having been used recently for their original intended purpose
in the right-of-way, yard, front porch or outside area exposed to the view of
neighbors or the general public is prohibited, unless a temporary permit is
issued by the City Manager;
      (2)   All stored firewood shall be in neat, orderly stacks;
      (3)   The storage and accumulation of junk as herein defined is permitted
only for the purpose of collection and disposal and only in a closed container
or in a closed structure. Storage and accumulation shall be only for 14 days to
provide for collection and disposal of same;
      (4)   The storage and accumulation of any building material shall only be
for a period that is reasonably necessary for the immediate use of such
materials, but in no event longer than 60 days, unless a building permit issued
for the construction of a structure has not expired;
      (5)   Yard or garage sales in which items are for sale to the public
shall be no longer in duration than seven days within a 90-day period.
      (6)   All outside storage on commercial property shall be screened from
view by the general public. Outside storage of items in commercial zones not
related to the zoned business shall not be allowed without a permit from the
City Manager;
      (7)   There shall be no more than six operable and registered motor
vehicles, two registered campers, two registered boats, and two registered
trailers stored out of doors on the property per dwelling. There shall not be
storage of such vehicles, campers, boats or trailers on property that are not
owned by the family living within the dwelling.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.07  DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Littering streets. No person or entity shall distribute, post, throw,
drop or scatter in any street, alley or public place any posters, handbills,
cards, samples or matter used for the purpose of advertising in such a manner
as to result in the littering of any street, alley or public place.
   (B)   Littering private property. No person or entity shall distribute
handbills, cards, samples or advertising matter on private property in such a
manner as to cause the littering of any private property not his or her own.
   (C)   Depositing on vehicles. No person or entity shall attach any
handbills, cards, papers or advertising material to any portion of any motor
vehicle parked in any public place, or deposit such material within or upon
such vehicle.
   (D)   At night. No person or entity shall go about the streets, alleys or
other public places for the purpose of distributing posters, handbills, cards,
samples or matter used for the purpose of advertising from sunset to sunrise of
the following day.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.08  DEFACING AND LITTERING PUBLIC PROPERTY; OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   No person or entity shall mar or litter any hallway, stairway,
sidewalk or step to any public building or place of worship.
   (B)   No person or entity shall place or throw any goods, wares,
merchandise, machinery, junk, wood, rubbish, manure, leaves, grass, sawdust,
ashes, garbage or refuse upon any public street, alley or sidewalk, except that
leaves, grass clippings and brush may be placed at the curbline of streets for
collection by city forces during a period designated by the City Manager for
such collection.
   (C)   Any person or entity having the care, either as owner or occupant, of
any premises bordered by a public street, alley or graded or paved sidewalk
shall remove any of the materials described in division (B) hereof from that
portion of the public street or alley abutting the premises and bordered by the
nearest limit of the traveled portion of the street or alley.
   (D)   No person or entity shall use any street or alley for the temporary
storage of building material, equipment, facilities or merchandise, or for
barricading or protecting building operations, without first obtaining a permit
therefor. No building material, equipment or facilities so stored shall be
placed in such a manner as to interfere with the normal drainage of the street
or alley.
   (E)   No person or entity shall burn leaves, grass, wood, rubbish or other
matter within the city without a permit issued by the Director of Public
Safety/Fire Chief, except logs, brush, charcoal, and similar materials for the
purpose of food preparation or recreation, unless such burning results in a
complaint of smoke or ash from neighbor(s).
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06) 
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.09  BARBED WIRE FENCES.
   No person or entity shall place or maintain any barbed wire fencing or any
strands of barbed wire along the line of or in any street, alley or public
place. No person or entity shall place or allow barbed wire fencing or barbed
wire to remain between any premises owned or occupied by him or her and the
adjoining premises, or place or allow to remain any barbed wire fencing or
barbed wire in any place where it may expose any person to injury. However, a
person or entity may place such barbed wire at the top of a legal fence when
placed not less than six feet from the ground. A person or entity who violates
this section is responsible for a civil infraction.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.10  ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Inspection of premises. Whenever a complaint is made that a public
nuisance exists or has existed in the city, the Chief of Police/Director of
Public Safety, the Building Inspector or some other city official whom the City
Manager designates, or a representative of any of such persons, shall forthwith
inspect or cause to be inspected the premises and shall make a written report
of findings.
   (B)   Separate violations. Each day that a public nuisance exists shall
constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
   (C)   Summary abatement.
      (1)   Proceeding under this section shall not preclude the city from
proceeding under any other section of this chapter such as §
95.04. If the inspecting officer determines that a public nuisance exists on
private property and that there is great and immediate danger or emergency to
the public health, safety, peace, morals or decency, the City Manager or the
Director of the Department of Public Safety/Chief of Police may direct that a
notice be served on the owner or, if the owner cannot be found, on the
occupant, entity or person causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance,
and that a copy of the notice may be mailed to the last known address of the
owner and to the occupant, entity  or person causing, permitting or maintaining
such nuisance. In the alternative, the Director of the Department of Public
Safety/Chief of Police may cause a citation to be issued to the owner, or if
the owner cannot be found, to the occupant, entity  or person causing,
permitting or maintaining such nuisance. If one or more of the owner, occupant,
entity or person responsible for the nuisance condition cannot be found, the
notice shall be published once in a local newspaper.
      (2)   Such notice shall direct the owner, occupant, entity or person
causing, permitting or maintaining such nuisance to abate or remove such
nuisance within a definite time and shall state that unless such nuisance is so
abated, the city will cause the same to be abated and will charge the cost
thereof to the owner, occupant, entity or person causing, permitting or
maintaining the same, as the case may be.
      (3)   A written abatement schedule shall be submitted to the City Manager
from the property owner, occupant, entity or person causing, permitting or
maintaining such nuisance with a completion schedule and, upon approval by the
City Manager and when the work is completed, it must pass inspection by the
Building Inspector or Ordinance Officer for all repairs, remodeling or
abatement before and occupancy permit is issued
      (4)   In order to enforce the provisions of this chapter, when the City
Manager or his/her duly authorized agents and representatives find and
determine that the severity of the violation warrants immediate action, he/she
may clean up or abate violation thereof. The cost of such cleanup or abatement
may be recovered by the city in a civil action or as set forth in divisions (C)
(5) through (7) below. Such emergency cleanup or abatement will not relieve the
person of further action which may be taken by the City Manager or his/her duly
authorized agents and representatives, including but not limited to, liability
for any violations of this chapter or any other applicable provisions of state
law and local ordinances.
      (5)   The City Manager is hereby authorized to enforce the collection of
the amounts incurred for the abatement or removal of such nuisances by
recording the amount of such cost in the City Clerk's office. By such
recording, the total amount of the cost shall become a lien on the real estate
of the owner of the premises.
      (6)   The City Clerk shall, on the Tuesday following the second Monday in
March of the following year, certify to the City Council, at the regular
Council meeting, the amount which has become a lien upon the premises.
      (7)   The City Council shall, no later than the Tuesday following the
second Monday in April, at their regular Council meeting, direct the City
Assessor to spread this amount against the property listed on the summer tax
roll. Such amount shall be collected in the same manner as general city taxes.
   (D)   Abatement by court action. If the inspecting officer determines that a
public nuisance exists on private premises, but that the nature of such
nuisance is not such as to threaten great and immediate danger to the public
health, safety, peace, morals or decency, such officer shall file a written
report of findings with the City Attorney, who shall cause an action to abate
such nuisance to be commenced in the name of the city upon motion or resolution
by the City Council declaring a nuisance to exist.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
§ 95.11  ACTION TO ENJOIN.
   In addition thereto, any person who by reason of another's violation of any
provision of this chapter suffers special damage to himself different from that
suffered by other property owners throughout the city generally, then nothing
contained in this chapter shall prohibit an action to enjoin or otherwise abate
an existing violation, and/or to recover money damages suffered thereby.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be considered a civil
infraction which is punishable by fine in an amount established by resolution
of City Council from time to time upon recommendation of the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 10-27-98; Am. Ord. eff. 7-17-06)
CHAPTER 96:  PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Park operating hours
   
96.02   Injury to park property
   
96.03   Waste containers
   
96.04   Ball games
   
96.05   Additional rules
Bathing Beaches
   
96.15   License, Health Officer’s certificate, and agreement with city required
   
96.16   Lifeguards required
   
96.17   Hours of operation
   
96.18   Sanitary regulations
   
96.19   Entrances and exits
   
96.20   Throwing or depositing sharp objects
   
96.21   Interference with bathers
   
96.22   Indecent language and conduct
Cheboygan Harbor
   
96.35   Definitions
   
96.36   Harbor Master and deputies; powers and duties
   
96.37   Harbor regulations
Parks and Recreation Department
   
96.50   Definitions
   
96.51   Purpose and powers
   
96.52   Commission
   
96.53   Parks and recreation head
   
96.54   Recreation program
   
96.55   Records, budgets and reports
   
96.56   Establishment, maintenance and operation of equipment and facilities
 
   
96.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01  PARK OPERATING HOURS.
   Parks shall be open to the public during hours which shall be established by
resolution of City Council from time to time as may be necessary to protect
public property and the safety, health, morals and welfare of the public. Signs
shall be erected or otherwise posted in conspicuous places within or near
respective parks which shall indicate to the public the times of opening and
closing of same. Any person who enters a park during hours which a park is
closed to the public shall be guilty of a misdemeanor if notice to that effect
is erected or otherwise posted in conspicuous places within or near a
respective park.
(`73 Code, 35.112, § 3.2)  (Am. Ord. eff. 10-31-83) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.02  INJURY TO PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall obstruct any walk or drive in any public park or playground
and no person shall injure, mar or damage in any manner, any monument,
ornament, fence, bridge, seat, tree, foundation, shrub, flower, playground
equipment, fireplaces, or other public property within or pertaining to the
parks.
(`73 Code, 35.111, § 3.1) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.03  WASTE CONTAINERS.
   No person shall place or deposit any garbage, glass, tin cans, paper or
miscellaneous waste in any park or playground except in containers provided for
that purpose.
(`73 Code, 35.113, § 3.3) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.04  BALL GAMES.
   No baseball, football or softball throwing, or other violent or rough
exercises or play shall be engaged in, in any public park or other public
place, except in areas designated therefor by the City Manager.
(`73 Code, 35.114, § 3.4) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.05  ADDITIONAL RULES.
   The City Council shall adopt by resolution such additional rules and
regulations pertaining to the conduct and use of parks and public grounds as
are necessary to administer the same and to protect public property and the
safety, health, morals and welfare of the public, and no person shall fail to
comply with such rules and regulations.
(`73 Code, 35.115, § 3.5) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
BATHING BEACHES
§ 96.15  LICENSE, HEALTH OFFICER’S CERTIFICATE, AND AGREEMENT WITH CITY
REQUIRED.
   (A)   License required. No person shall engage in the business of operating,
conducting or maintaining a public bathing beach or bathhouse without first
obtaining a license. No such license shall be granted except upon approval by
the Director of Public Safety, Building Inspector and the Health Officer, and
such approval shall be endorsed in writing upon the face of the application. 
(`73 Code, 35.161, § 7.141)
   (B)   Health Officer’s certificate. No such license shall be granted without
first obtaining a certificate from the Health Officer, certifying as follows:
      (1)   That the water for bathing and drinking purposes, and the buildings
and equipment upon said premises used or to be used in conducting such
business, are sanitary and will not be injurious to the public health;
      (2)   That the place and premises are provided with sanitary, enclosed
buildings containing sanitary lockers or checking facilities for the checking
or storage of clothes, and that such buildings are equipped with sanitary
showers and towels for the use of persons using the premises.
(`73 Code, 35.162, § 7.142)
   (C)   Agreement required. No such license shall be issued to any applicant
unless such applicant first executes an agreement with the city whereby he
agrees to permit any authorized member of the Public Safety Department or
representative of the Health Officer to enter upon the premises at any
reasonable time for the purpose of inspecting and examining such premises and
all of the facilities thereof. Refusal to permit such investigation after the
granting of any license shall be deemed sufficient cause for the immediate
revocation of such license. 
(`73 Code, 35.163, § 7.143) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.16  LIFEGUARDS REQUIRED.
   Any licensee operating a public bathing beach shall maintain at least one
duly qualified lifeguard for each 300 persons in bathing at any time, and shall
maintain such lifeguards on duty while the bathing beach is open for business.
(`73 Code, 35.164, § 7.144) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.17  HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No bathing beach shall be operated or used as such between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(`73 Code, 35.165, § 7.145) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.18  SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   No person shall conduct such public bathing beach or bathhouse unless the
bathing water, drinking water, buildings and equipment of said beach and
bathhouse shall be and remain in sanitary condition, nor permit or allow
clothing to be changed upon the premises except in an enclosed building, nor
permit the sale or use of intoxicating liquors or beverages upon the premises.
(`73 Code, 35.166, § 7.146) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.19  ENTRANCES AND EXITS.
   Whenever any bathing beach, public bath, swimming or wading pool is
enclosed, no person shall enter or leave the same except at the indicated
entrances and exits, and shall pass through such entrance showers and shall
wade through such chemically treated wading water as may be provided at said
places before entering or upon leaving the same.
(`73 Code, 35.167, § 7.147) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.20  THROWING OR DEPOSITING SHARP OBJECTS.
   No person shall throw, drop, place or deposit on the sands, ground or other
surface adjoining bathing beaches, or swimming or wading pools, or into the
water or the bottom thereof, any glass bottles, broken glass, nails, tacks,
wire, crockery, cans, or any other sharp or cutting substances, or chemicals,
or things dangerous to bathers or other persons.
(`73 Code, 35.168, § 7.148) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.21  INTERFERENCE WITH BATHERS.
   No person shall conduct himself in or about any municipal bathing beach or
swimming or wading pool by violent racing about, swimming, churning and
splashing of water, or by throwing balls or other objects or materials, or by
playing games in such a manner, or by resorting to any other conduct, any of
which does or tends to disturb, annoy, offend or injure other persons either on
or near the beach, or in any such pool or waters, or to interfere with or
damage any clothing or property belonging to any other person.
(`73 Code, 35.169, § 7.149) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.22  INDECENT LANGUAGE AND CONDUCT.
   No unlawful, threatening, abusive, profane, lewd or indecent language,
gestures or conduct shall be permitted on or in the vicinity of any bathing
beach, wading or swimming pool, recreation center or playground; nor shall any
person who is lawfully at any such place be so annoyed or unlawfully touched.
(`73 Code, 35.170, § 7.150) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
CHEBOYGAN HARBOR
§ 96.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HARBOR.  All the navigable waters within the city limits and all the
lagoons, wing dams, wharves, docks, revetments and piers adjacent thereto.
   VESSEL, CRAFT and FLOAT.  Every kind of steam, sailing or other craft or
vessel, irrespective of its means of propulsion, and every barge, raft or scow,
irrespective of its means of propulsion.
(`73 Code, 35.141, § 3.41)
§ 96.36  HARBOR MASTER AND DEPUTIES; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Harbor Master.  There shall be an office of Harbor Master, which
office shall carry with it the powers and duties usually appertaining thereto
and, in addition, the enforcement of this subchapter and the powers and duties
hereinafter set forth. The office of Harbor Master shall be held by the City
Engineer. 
(`73 Code, 35.142, § 3.42)
   (B)   Deputies. The Harbor Master shall have the power to appoint one or
more deputies to assist him in the performance of his duties and to assume his
duties during his absence, disqualification or illness. 
(`73 Code, 35.143, § 3.43)
   (C)   Powers. The Harbor Master and his deputies shall be sworn in as
special policemen for the purpose of enforcing the regulations of the city
concerning the harbor, enforcement of this chapter, and the preservation of the
public peace and quiet in and about the harbor, and, for such purposes only,
shall have the power and authority of police officers of the city. 
(`73 Code, 35.144, § 3.44)
   (D)   Duties.
      (1)   The Harbor Master shall keep an accurate account and record of all
damage to bridges, docks, wharves and other public or private property
pertaining to the harbor, and shall gather information and evidence concerning
such damage, the cause thereof and the responsibility therefor. It shall be the
duty of the Harbor Master to take such action as may be necessary to prevent
encroachments upon the harbor lines as now established or which may hereafter
be established.
      (2)   The Harbor Master shall give such orders and directions relative to
the location, change of place of station, manner of moving or use of the harbor
of or by every vessel, craft or float lying, moving, anchored or laid up in the
harbor or laid partially in the harbor and partially on adjacent properties of
whatsoever nature, as may be deemed necessary to promote good order therein and
the safety and equal convenience of such vessels, crafts and floats, and so
regulate the same so that the harbor shall not be unnecessarily congested.
      (3)   The Harbor Master shall give such further orders and directions
relative to the speeds at which vessels, crafts and floats may be floated,
propelled, driven, rowed, operated or moved in said harbor, as may be deemed
necessary to promote the safety of all objects upon the waters of said harbors
as well as the shores, wharves, docks, landings and all properties of
whatsoever nature adjacent to the harbor.
(`73 Code, 35.145, § 3.45)
§ 96.37  HARBOR REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall throw, dump, deposit, or cause or permit to be thrown,
dumped or deposited, any garbage, refuse or other unwholesome substance or any
stone, timber, rubbish, junk or similar substance upon the margin or within the
limits or into the waters of the harbor, or into the waters of the Straits of
Mackinac, except with a written permit from the Building Inspector and under
the supervision of the Harbor Master.
   (B)   No person shall drive any piles or deposit any timber, stone or other
substances or structure so as to project above or below the surface of the
waters of the harbor or any part thereof, or beyond the established dock lines,
without written permission of the Harbor Master. All piling, timber, stone or
other substance or structure so placed or laid is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance.
(`73 Code, 35.146, § 3.46) 
Penalty, see § 96.99
PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT
§ 96.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT.  The Parks and Recreation Department of the city.
   DIRECTOR.  The Director of the Parks and Recreation Department.
(`73 Code, 12.181, § 1.81)
§ 96.51  PURPOSE AND POWERS.
   (A)   The Department shall supervise and assist in planning recreational
programs and shall maintain parks and recreational facilities in the city of
Cheboygan unless otherwise specified by resolution of the Council. 
(`73 Code, 12.182, § 1.82)
   (B)   The Department shall be a regular department of the city subject to
all rules, regulations, privileges, or restrictions of every other department
of the city, unless otherwise stated in this code. 
(`73 Code, 12.183, § 1.83)
§ 96.52  COMMISSION.
   (A)   There shall be no less than three nor more than five Commissioners
appointed by the Mayor, the appointments subject to the approval of the
Council.
   (B)   The Commission shall act in an advisory capacity.
   (C)   In appointing the first members of the Commission, the Mayor shall
designate two members to serve one-year terms each, and three members to serve
two-year terms each. Subsequent appointments shall be terms of two years for
all members. The Mayor shall fill a vacancy whether created by resignation,
death or otherwise for the remainder of the unexpired term. Each member shall
hold office until the appointment of his successor, upon which time he shall
turn over all Department books and records to his successor.
   (D)   Upon appointment of the first Commission, they shall meet and select a
Chairman, Vice-Chairman, and Secretary. The Chairman shall act as official
spokesman for the Commission. The Commission shall appoint or reappoint a new
Chairman at the beginning of each regular fiscal year.
   (E)   A quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of three of the
appointive members and it shall require the vote of three members to bind the
Commission. The Commission shall, by resolution, designate the time and place
of regular meetings, to be held by it, at least once in every three months, or
more often by majority consent of the Commission. The members shall be given
written notice of all meetings 48 hours prior to the time of holding the same.
Presence of all members at any meeting shall be deemed to be a waiver of said
notice.
   (F)   The Commission shall make all necessary and appropriate rules and
regulations for the orderly carrying on of its affairs.
   (G)   The members of the Commission shall not receive compensation for their
services as such members but may be reimbursed for any reasonable expense
incurred while performing their duties as such members, subject to the approval
of the City Council.
(`73 Code, 12.184, § 1.84)
§ 96.53  PARKS AND RECREATION HEAD.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to employ a Director and from time to
time as many full-time or part-time employees as may be necessary to perform
the duties of the Department. The Director shall be hired for no more than 12
months consecutively, subject to renewal at the beginning of each regular
fiscal year. The City Council shall determine the wages and remuneration of the
Director. The Department shall make no commitments in excess of appropriated
funds for the Department.
(`73 Code, 12.186, § 1.86)
§ 96.54  RECREATION PROGRAM.
   It shall be the duty of the Director, upon recommendation of the Commission,
to develop and administer a recreation program within the limitations set by
the Council. The Director shall have administrative authority over the
recreation program. A reasonable fee may be levied by the Director upon the
recommendation of the Commission for use of any recreational facility or for
participation in any recreational program, and the fee shall be subject to the
approval of the Council.
(`73 Code, 12.185, § 1.85)
§ 96.55  RECORDS, BUDGETS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   The Department's records and books shall be open for inspection at all
times by the City Manager and the City Council or persons designated by either
of them. All records and books shall be kept in an understandable manner and as
up to date as possible. 
(`73 Code, 12.187, § 1.87)
   (B)   The Director shall submit to the City Manager an annual recreational
program and an itemized budget on or before the second Monday in March. The
Department Head or Commission Chairman shall submit a quarterly report to the
City Manager, said report shall contain such information as the City Manager or
City Council shall require.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the authority to alter or change the
quarterly or annual budget or recreational program.
   (D)   The Department budget shall have three distinct major divisions;
Supervision, Maintenance and Equipment. Funds may not be transferred from one
division of the budget to another without consent of the Council.
   (E)   Costs or expense of establishing new facilities or expanding existing
facilities shall be the responsibility of the City Council, and said costs or
expenses may or may not be charged against the Department's budget.
   (F)   All revenues, contributions, gifts, or other moneys designated for the
Department shall be collected and disbursed by the City Council or their agent.
   (G)   All agreements between the Department and other governmental agencies,
or units, or individuals shall be entered into by the City Council only. 
(`73 Code, 12.188, § 1.88)
§ 96.56  ESTABLISHMENT, MAINTENANCE AND OPERATION OF EQUIPMENT AND FACILITIES.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the City Council to establish or
expand the facilities of the Department, and may from time to time appropriate
additional funds which may or may not be charged against the Department budget,
but the Council may not delete the budget other than at the beginning of each
quarter. The Commission or Director may make recommendations to the Council
from time to time concerning the operation, maintenance, functions, etc. of the
Department program or facilities.
   (B)   The Department shall have access to any city owned or leased equipment
or property by consent of the City Manager or city Council for use in
performing the Department's duties. The Department may utilize any authorized
city personnel by consent of the City Manager or City Council for purposes of
performing the Department's duties. The cost of utilizing the aforementioned
equipment, property or personnel may or may not be charged against the
Department's budget.
   (C)   The Director shall be responsible for the upkeep of all Department
equipment and facilities.
(`73 Code, 12.189, § 1.89)
§ 96.99  PENALTY.
   Any master, owner or person in possession, charge or control of any vessel,
craft or float, or any other person who shall violate any of the provisions of
this chapter or shall refuse or fail to comply with any lawful order of the
Harbor Master, shall, upon conviction, be punished as prescribed in §
10.99.
(`73 Code, 35.147, § 3.47)
CHAPTER 97:  RENTAL HOUSING STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Definitions
   
97.02   Scope
   
97.03   Interpretation
   
97.04   Application of state construction code
   
97.05   Application of chapter to existing structures
   
97.06   Conflicting provisions
Required Standards
   
97.20   Exterior requirements
   
97.21   Interior requirements
   
97.22   Light and ventilation
   
97.23   Plumbing
   
97.24   Mechanical requirements
   
97.25   Electrical requirements
   
97.26   Fire safety
   
97.27   Sanitation
   
97.28   Rooming houses
Administration and Enforcement
   
97.40   Enforcement by Housing Administrator
   
97.41   Enforcement procedures
   
97.42   Rental Housing Board of Appeals
 
   
97.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED.  Approved by the local or state authority having administrative
authority.
   BUILDING.  A structure or part thereof.
   DWELLING UNIT.  Any room or group of rooms located within a dwelling and
forming a single habitable unit with facilities which are used or intended to
be used for living, sleeping, cooking or eating.
   EMERGENCY ESCAPE WINDOW OR DOOR.  An outside window or door, operable from
the inside without the use of tools, and providing a clear opening of not less
than 20 inches (50.8 cm) in width, 24 inches (61 cm) in height and 5.7 square
feet (.53 sq. m) in area. The bottom of the opening shall not be more than 44
inches (112 cm) off the floor. Such means of escape shall be acceptable if:
      (1)   The window is within 20 feet (6.1 m) of the grade.
      (2)   The window is directly accessible to an approved rescue apparatus.
      (3)   The window or door opens onto an exterior balcony.
   HABITABLE ROOM.  A room or enclosed floor space used or intended to be used
for living, sleeping, cooking or eating purposes, excluding bathrooms, water
closet compartments, laundries, furnace rooms, pantries, kitchenettes and
utility rooms of less than 50 square feet of floor space, foyers or
communicating corridors, stairways, closets, storage spaces and workshops.
   HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Manager or Director of the Department of
Public Safety or any person appointed by the City Manager who is charged with
the administration of this chapter, or the Housing Administrator's duly
authorized representative.
   OCCUPANT.  Any person over one year of age living, sleeping, cooking or
eating in, or having actual possession of, a dwelling unit or a rooming unit.
   OWNER.  Any person who has equitable or legal title to any premises,
dwelling or dwelling unit.
   PREMISES.  A platted lot or part thereof, or an unplatted lot, parcel of
land or plot of land, either occupied or unoccupied by any dwelling or non-
dwelling structure, and includes any building, accessory structure or other
structure thereon.
   RENTAL DWELLING UNIT.  All dwellings, dwelling units and habitable rooms
which are leased or otherwise made available for rental purposes, except:
      (1)   Hotels and motels;
      (2)   Any dwelling unit or mobile home which the state has exclusive
authority under state law to inspect and regulate;
      (3)   The principal residence of the owner which is temporarily occupied
by persons other than the owner for not more than two years; and
      (4)   Dwellings in a dormitory operated by an institution of higher
education.
   RENTER.  Any person who, alone or jointly or severally with others, has the
right to occupy a premises and pays compensation therefor, and includes a
tenant.
   ROOMING HOUSE.  A residential building where rooms or suites of rooms are
rented and where the renters use common facilities, such as hallways and
bathrooms. A rooming house shall not include hotels, motels, apartment houses,
two- and multi-family dwellings or fraternity and sorority houses.
   STRUCTURE.  Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires a
more or less permanent location on the ground or an attachment to something
having a permanent location on the ground, including, but not limited to,
advertising signs, billboards, back stops for tennis courts and pergolas.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
§ 97.02  SCOPE.
   This chapter is enacted to protect the public health, safety and welfare and
is intended to apply to all dwelling units which are not owner occupied. Toward
that goal, this chapter establishes the following:
   (A)   Minimum standards for the maintenance of rental structures and the
surrounding premises;
   (B)   Responsibilities of owners, renters, operators and occupants of such
structures; and
   (C)   Administration, enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
§ 97.03  INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall be construed liberally to ensure the public health,
safety and welfare as they are affected by the maintenance of rental structures
and premises. The provisions of this chapter shall be deemed cumulative and
shall not be construed to prevent the enforcement of other ordinances or
regulations or the utilization of other remedies.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
§ 97.04  APPLICATION OF STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE.
   In the event of a conflict between this chapter and the state construction
code, any repair or alteration to a structure, or change of use therein, which
may be caused directly or indirectly by the enforcement of this chapter, shall
be done in accordance with the state construction code.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
Statutory reference:
   Michigan's state construction code, see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.
§ 97.05  APPLICATION OF CHAPTER TO EXISTING STRUCTURES.
   This chapter establishes the minimum requirements for the initial and
continued occupancy and use of every dwelling unit which is not owner occupied.
Such structures and premises existing on the effective date of this chapter
shall be brought into full compliance not more than 12 months from such
effective date or such earlier or later date as may be ordered by the Housing
Administrator for good cause involving health and safety.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
§ 97.06  CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   If any of the provisions of this chapter are inconsistent with the
provisions of any other statute, state administrative regulation or ordinance
of the city presently existing or enacted in the future, the more restrictive
requirement shall apply.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
REQUIRED STANDARDS
§ 97.20  EXTERIOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope and responsibility. The owner of the rental dwelling unit shall
maintain such structures and exterior premises in compliance with the
requirements of this section. A person shall not rent to another for occupancy
or use premises which do not comply with this section.
   (B)   Premises conditions.
      (1)    Sanitation. All exterior premises shall be maintained in a safe
condition and shall not be initially rented for occupancy unless in a sanitary
condition as described by §
97.27.
      (2)    Grading and drainage. All exterior property shall be graded and
maintained so as to prevent the accumulation of stagnant water thereon.
   (C)   Structural conditions.
      (1)   Generally. The exterior of a building shall be structurally sound
and sanitary so as not to pose a threat to the health and safety of the
occupants, neighbors or the general public, and so as to protect the occupants
from the outside environment.
      (2)   Structural members. All supporting structural members of buildings
shall be kept structurally sound, free of deterioration and maintained so as be
capable of safely bearing the dead and live loads imposed upon them.
      (3)    Exterior surfaces. Every foundation exterior wall, roof and other
exterior surface shall be maintained in a workmanlike state of maintenance and
repair and shall be kept in such condition as to exclude rodents and birds.
      (4)    Foundation walls. All foundation walls shall be maintained so as
to carry the safe design and operating dead and live loads.
      (5)    Exterior walls. Exterior walls shall be free of holes, breaks,
loose or rotting boards or timber and other conditions which might admit rain
or dampness to the interior portion of the walls or to the occupied spaces of
the building. All exterior surface materials, including wood, composition or
metal siding, shall be maintained weatherproof and shall be properly surface
coated, when required, to prevent deterioration such as by painting or similar
surface treatment.
      (6)    Roofs. The roof shall be structurally sound, tight and shall not
have defects which might admit rain. Roof drainage shall be adequate to prevent
rain water from causing dampness in the walls or interior portion of the
building.
      (7)    Chimneys. All chimneys and similar appurtenances shall be
maintained structurally safe, sound and in good repair. All exposed surfaces of
metal or wood shall be protected from the elements and against decay or rust by
periodic application of weather-coating materials, such as paint or similar
surface treatment.
      (8)   Stairs and porches. Every stair, porch and balcony, and any
appurtenance attached thereto, shall be constructed to be safe for use and
capable of supporting the loads to which it is subjected and shall be kept in
sound condition and good repair.
      (9)   Window and door frames. Every window, door and frame shall be
constructed and maintained in such relation to the adjacent wall construction
so as to exclude rain as completely as possible and to substantially exclude
wind from entering the dwelling or structure.
      (10)    Weathertight. Windows and exterior doors shall be fitted
reasonably in the frames and shall be weathertight. Weather stripping shall be
used to exclude wind or rain from entering the dwelling or structure and shall
be kept in sound condition and good repair.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.21  INTERIOR REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope and responsibility. The owner and the renter of a rental
dwelling unit shall maintain the interior of a structure and its equipment in a
safe, structurally sound and sanitary condition and in compliance with the
requirements of this section. Both the owner and the renter shall be jointly
and severally responsible for compliance.
   (B)   Structural members. The supporting structural members of every
building shall be maintained so as to be structurally sound and shall not show
any evidence of deterioration which would render them incapable of carrying the
imposed loads.
   (C)   Interior conditions.
      (1)   Surfaces. Floors, walls, including windows and doors, ceilings and
other interior surfaces shall be maintained in a good, clean and sanitary
condition.
      (2)   Lead-based paint. Lead-based paint with a lead content of more than
0.5% shall not be applied to any interior or exterior surface of a dwelling,
dwelling unit or child care facility, including fences and outbuildings at
these locations. Existing interior and exterior painted surfaces of dwelling
units and child care facilities that contain an excess of 0.5% lead shall be
removed or covered with paneling or other suitable covering approved by the
Housing Administrator.
      (3)   Bathroom and kitchen floors. Every toilet, bathroom and kitchen
floor surface shall be constructed and maintained so as to be substantially
impervious to water and so as to permit such floor to be easily kept in a clean
and sanitary condition.
      (4)   Decay. Every dwelling unit and common space shall be maintained
reasonably free from mold, mildew, standing water and other conditions
conducive to decay or deterioration of the structure.
   (D)   Exit doors. Every door available as an exit shall be capable of being
opened easily from the inside without the use of a key.
   (E)   Exit facilities. All interior stairs and railings and other exit
facilities of every structure shall be maintained in sound condition and good
repair by replacing treads and risers that evidence excessive wear or that are
broken, warped or loose. Every inside stair shall be so constructed and
maintained as to be safe to use and capable of supporting the anticipated
loads.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.22  LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   (A)   Scope and responsibility. The owner of the rental dwelling unit shall
provide and maintain light, ventilation and space conditions in compliance with
the requirements of this section. A person shall not rent to another for
occupancy or use any premises which do not comply with such requirements.
   (B)   Alternative devices. In place of the means for natural light and
ventilation herein prescribed, alternative arrangement of windows, louvers or
other methods and devices that will provide the equivalent minimum performance
requirements shall be permitted when complying with the state construction
code.
   (C)   General requirements.
      (1)   All spaces or rooms shall be provided sufficient light and
ventilation so as not to endanger health and safety.
      (2)   Every habitable room shall have at least one window of an approved
size facing directly to the outdoors or to a court. The minimum total window
area, measured between stops, for every habitable room shall be 8% of the floor
area of such room, except in rooms where artificial light may be provided in
accordance with the state construction code.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
§ 97.23  PLUMBING.
   (A)   Scope and responsibility. The owner of a building in which there is a
rental dwelling unit shall provide and maintain plumbing facilities and
fixtures in compliance with the requirements of this section. A person shall
not rent to another for occupancy or use any structure or portion thereof or
premises which do not comply with such requirements.
   (B)   Required facilities. Every rental dwelling unit shall have its own
plumbing facilities which are in proper operating condition, which can be used
in privacy and which are adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of
human waste. All plumbing facilities shall be supplied and maintained in a
sanitary and safe working condition.
   (C)   Water closet and lavatory.  Every rental dwelling unit shall contain
within its walls a room, separate from habitable rooms, which room affords
privacy and a water closet supplied with cold running water. The lavatory may
be placed in the same room as the water closet or, if located in another room,
the lavatory shall be located in close proximity to the door leading directly
into the room in which such water closet is located. The lavatory shall be
supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (D)   Bathtub or shower. Every rental dwelling unit shall contain a room
which affords privacy to a person in such room and which is equipped with a
bathtub or shower supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (E)   Kitchen sink. Every rental dwelling unit shall contain a kitchen sink
apart from the lavatory required under this section, and such sink shall be
supplied with hot and cold running water.
   (F)   Rooming houses.  At least one water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub
or shower, properly connected to an approved water and sewerage system and in
good working condition, shall be supplied for each four rooms within a rooming
house wherever such facilities are shared. Every lavatory basin and bathtub or
shower shall be supplied with hot and cold water at all times. A kitchen sink
need not be provided for rental dwelling units in a rooming house.
   (G)   Water system.
      (1)   Generally. Every sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower, drinking
fountain, water closet or other facility shall be properly connected to either
a public water system or to an approved private water system. All lavatories,
bathtubs, showers and required sinks shall be supplied with hot and cold
running water.
      (2)   Contamination. The water supply shall be maintained free from
contamination, and all water inlets for plumbing fixtures shall be located
above the overflow rim of the fixture.
      (3)   Supply. The water supply system shall be installed and maintained
to provide at all times a supply of water to plumbing fixtures, devices and
appurtenances in sufficient volume and at pressures adequate to enable them to
function satisfactorily.
      (4)   Water heating facilities. Where hot water is provided, water
heating facilities shall be installed in an approved manner, properly
maintained and properly connected with hot water lines to the fixtures required
to be supplied with the hot water. Water heating facilities shall be capable of
heating water to such a temperature as to permit an adequate amount of water to
be drawn at every required kitchen sink, lavatory basin, bathtub, shower,
laundry facility or other similar unit at a temperature of not less than 110º F
(43.33º C).
   (H)   Sewerage system.
      (1)   Every sink, lavatory, bathtub, shower, drinking fountain, water
closet or other facility shall be properly connected to either a public
sewerage system or to an approved private sewage disposal system.
      (2)   Every plumbing stack, waste and sewer line shall be so installed
and maintained as to function properly and shall be kept free from
obstructions, leaks and defects to prevent structural deterioration or health
hazards. All repairs and installations shall be made in accordance with the
state construction code.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.24  MECHANICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope and responsibility. The owner of a building in which there is a
rental dwelling unit shall provide and maintain such mechanical facilities and
equipment in compliance with the requirements of this section. A person shall
not rent to another for occupancy any premises which do not comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Heating facilities. Every dwelling shall be provided with heating
facilities capable of maintaining a room temperature of 65º F (18.33º C) at a
point three feet (0.91 m) above the floor and three feet (0.91 m) from any
exterior wall.
   (C)   Cooking and heating equipment. All cooking and heating equipment,
components and accessories in every heating, cooking and water heating device
shall be maintained free from leaks and obstructions and shall be kept
functioning properly so as to be free from fire, health and accident hazards.
All installations and repairs shall be made in accordance with the state
construction code or other law or ordinances applicable thereto.
   (D)   Portable cooking equipment.  Portable cooking equipment employing
flame is prohibited, except for approved residential type food trays or salvers
which are heated by a candle or alcohol lamp.
   (E)   Installations.  All mechanical equipment shall be properly installed
and safely maintained in good working condition and shall be capable of
performing the function for which it was designed and intended.
   (F)   Flues. All fuel-burning equipment shall be connected to an approved
chimney, flue or vent, and all required clearances to combustible materials
shall be maintained. All chimneys shall be free of excessive creosote buildup.
   (G)   Safety controls. All safety controls for fuel-burning equipment shall
be maintained in effective operation.
   (H)   Combustion air. A supply of air for the complete combustion of fuel
and for ventilation of the space shall be provided to the fuel-burning
equipment.
   (I)   Fireplaces. A fireplace or other construction or device intended for a
use similar to a fireplace shall be stable, structurally safe and connected to
an approved chimney.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.25  ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Scope and responsibility. The owner of a building in which there is a
rental dwelling unit shall provide and maintain electrical facilities and
equipment in compliance with the requirements of this section. A person shall
not rent to another for occupancy any premises which do not comply with the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Outlets. Every room, except a closet, shall contain at least two
separate and remote outlets, one of which may be a ceiling or wall-type
electric light fixture. In a kitchen, three separate and remote wall-type
electric convenience outlets or two such convenience outlets and one ceiling or
wall-type electric light fixture shall be provided. Every public hall, water
closet compartment, bathroom, laundry room or furnace room shall contain at
least one electric light fixture. In addition to the electric light fixture in
every bathroom and laundry room, there shall be at least one electric outlet.
   (C)   Installations. All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall
be installed and maintained in a safe manner in accordance with all applicable
laws. All electrical equipment shall be of an approved type.
   (D)   Defects. Where it is found, in the opinion of the Housing
Administrator, that the electrical system in a structure constitutes a hazard
to the occupants or to the structure by reason of inadequate service, improper
fusing, insufficient outlets, improper wiring installation, deterioration or
damage, or for similar reasons, the Housing Administrator shall require that
the defects be corrected to eliminate the hazard.
   (E)   Elevators, escalators and dumbwaiters. Accessible elevators,
dumbwaiters and escalators shall be maintained to safely sustain the loads to
which they are subject, to operate properly and to be free of physical and fire
hazards.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.26  FIRE SAFETY.
   (A)   Scope and responsibility. The owner of a rental dwelling unit shall
provide and the renter shall maintain fire safety facilities and equipment in
compliance with the requirements of this section, other ordinances and state
law. No person shall rent to another for occupancy any premises which do not
comply with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Egress. A safe, continuous and unobstructed means of egress shall be
provided from the interior of a structure to the exterior at a street, or to a
yard, court or passageway leading to a public open area at grade.
   (C)   Direct exit. Every dwelling unit or room shall have access directly to
the outside or to a public corridor.
   (D)   Locked doors. All doors in the required means of egress shall be
readily openable from the inside without the use of keys. Exits from dwelling
units shall not lead through other such units or through toilet rooms or
bathrooms.
   (E)   Fire escapes. All required fire escapes shall be provided and
maintained in working condition and shall be structurally sound.
   (F)   Emergency escapes.
      (1)    Windows or doors. Every sleeping room shall have a safe means of
emergency escape to the outside consisting of an emergency escape window or
door.
      (2)   Maintenance. Emergency escape windows and doors shall be maintained
operational and available to occupants of sleeping rooms in residential uses.
      (3)   Security. Bars, grilles, grates or similar devices shall not be
installed in a required emergency escape window except when such devices are
equipped with approved release mechanisms which are openable from the inside
without the use of a key, special knowledge or excessive force.
   (G)   Accumulation and storage.
      (1)   Waste materials. Waste, refuse or other materials shall not be
allowed to accumulate in stairways, passageways, doors, windows, fire escapes
or other means of egress.
      (2)   Flammable and explosive matter. Highly flammable or explosive
matter, such as paints, volatile oils and cleaning fluids, or combustible
refuse, such as waste paper, boxes and rags, shall not be accumulated or stored
on residential rental premises except in reasonable quantities consistent with
normal usage.
      (3)   Flammable liquids. A rental dwelling unit shall not be located
within a structure containing an establishment handling, dispensing or storing
flammable liquids with a flash point of 110º F (43.33º C) or lower, except as
provided for in the state construction code.
      (4)   Generally. Floors, walls, ceilings and other elements and
components, when provided to meet a fire-resistant rating, shall not be altered
so that the respective fire-resistant rating of the enclosure, separation or
construction is diminished.
   (H)   Fire protection systems.
      (1)   Generally. All fire protection systems and equipment shall be
maintained in proper operating condition at all times.
      (2)   Fire alarms. Fire alarms and detecting systems shall be maintained
and shall be suitable for their respective purposes.
      (3)   Fire extinguishers. All portable fire extinguishers shall be
visible, accessible and maintained in an efficient and safe operating
condition.
      (4)   Smoke detectors. Smoke detectors shall be provided as required by
city ordinances.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
Cross-reference:
   Smoke detectors required, see
§§ 93.15 through 93.22
§ 97.27  SANITATION.
   (A)   Cleanliness. Every renter shall keep that part of the structure or
premises thereof which that renter occupies, controls or uses in a clean and
sanitary condition and in accordance with the requirements of this section.
Every owner of rental premises shall maintain, in a clean and sanitary
condition and in accordance with this section, the shared or public areas of
the dwelling and premises thereof, and the rented portion if the occupant fails
to do so.
   (B)   Disposal of rubbish and garbage. Every renter shall dispose of rubbish
and garbage in a clean and sanitary manner by placing it in a suitable covered
container, or if such is not available, by removing all such matter.
   (C)   Garbage and rubbish storage facilities. The renter shall supply
suitable containers and covers for the storage of rubbish and shall be
responsible for the removal of garbage and rubbish.
   (D)   Extermination. If necessary, the owner of any structure shall be
responsible for the extermination of insects, rats or other pests within the
structure prior to renting the structure. The renter of a single-family
dwelling unit shall be responsible for the extermination of any insects, rats
or other pests in the structure or on the premises occurring during the
occupancy.
   (E)   Vermin or rat infestation. Continuing or repeated incidents of rat
infestation shall require the installation of rat and vermin-proof walls by the
owner. The rat and vermin-proof walls shall be installed in accordance with the
state construction code. The renter shall be responsible for the continued rat-
proof condition of the dwelling unit, and if the renter falls to maintain the
rat-proof condition, the cost of extermination shall be the responsibility of
the renter.
   (F)   Insect and rat control. The exterior of the property shall not be
infested by insects, rats, vermin or other pests. Whenever infestation exists,
extermination shall be the immediate responsibility of the owner.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98) 
Penalty, see § 97.99
§ 97.28  ROOMING HOUSES.
   (A)   Application. This chapter is applicable to rooming houses whether or
not owner occupied.
   (B)   Additional requirements. Rooming houses shall meet license
requirements or other requirements of these codified ordinances or other
applicable laws and statutes.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 97.40  ENFORCEMENT BY HOUSING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Housing Administrator shall see that this chapter is enforced. The City
Manager shall appoint the Housing Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
§ 97.41  ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Rules and regulations. The City Manager may, as may be necessary in
the interest of the public safety, health and general welfare, adopt and
promulgate rules and regulations to interpret and implement this chapter.
   (B)   Notice. The Housing Administrator shall issue all necessary notices
and orders to ensure compliance with this chapter.
   (C)   Inspections. The Housing Administrator/Public Safety Officer is
authorized to inspect upon the consent of the person in charge of the area to
be inspected or upon the issuance of a warrant.
   (D)   Obstruction of inspections. No owner, renter, occupant or other person
in charge of a structure or premises subject to this chapter shall refuse,
impede, inhibit, interfere with, restrict or obstruct entry and free access to
any part of a structure or premises where an inspection authorized by this
chapter is sought. The Housing Administrator may seek an order to cease and
desist with such interference from a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Obstruction of repairs. No renter or occupant of any structure or
premises shall refuse access to the owner or operator thereof, at reasonable
times, for the purpose of making inspections, maintenance, repairs or
alterations as necessary to comply with this chapter.
   (F)   Appearance tickets. The Housing Administrator, or his or her
authorized representative, is hereby authorized to issue and serve appearance
tickets with respect to any violation of this chapter pursuant to the civil
infraction ordinance of the city. Appearance tickets shall be in such form as
determined by the City Attorney in conformity with all statutory requirements.
   (G)   Order to vacate. In the event of an emergency and a situation causing
danger to persons or property, the Housing Administrator/Director of Public
Safety may order that the property be vacated after determining, in writing,
that a provision of this chapter has been violated and that a danger and
emergency exist.
   (H)   Alternate responsibility. Notwithstanding other provisions of this
chapter assigning responsibility, a person who is an occupant, renter or owner
and who repeatedly causes violations of this chapter is also responsible and
subject to the penalties herein provided.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
§ 97.42  RENTAL HOUSING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment; terms; meetings; secretary. The Rental Housing Board of
Appeals is hereby established in and for the city, consisting of seven members
of legal age who reside in the city. Pursuant to a resolution of Council, this
Rental Housing Board consists of the Zoning Board of Appeals. If the Zoning
Board of Appeals is not the Rental Housing Board, members shall be appointed by
the City Council and shall serve without compensation. Members shall be
appointed to serve three-year terms, except for the initial appointments of
three members for terms of three years and two members for terms of two years.
Subsequent appointments shall be for three-year terms and members shall be
eligible for reappointment. In the event of a vacancy, interim appointments
shall be made by the City Commission to complete the unexpired term. The Board
shall meet monthly or more frequently at the call of the Chairperson and shall
adopt rules for the conduct of its business, subject to the approval of the
City Commission. The City Clerk or his or her designee shall serve as Secretary
to the Board.
   (B)   Appeals. Any aggrieved party may appeal a decision of the Housing
Administrator to the Board. The Board may interpret this chapter. It also may
grant variances to this chapter if it is demonstrated that undue hardship will
result from the strict application of this chapter. The Board may not modify,
subtract from or add to this chapter, except as may be incidental in its
interpretation and grant of a variance. Decisions of the Board shall be final.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be considered a civil
infraction. Each day of a violation of a section of this chapter shall
constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. passed 10-13-98)
CHAPTER 98:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Street Construction and Repair
   
98.01   Permit required for street cut or excavation
   
98.02   Barricades required
   
98.03   Restoration costs; bond required
   
98.04   Permit required for curb cuts; driveway apron agreement
   
98.05   Permit required for culvert or drainage ditch work
   
98.06   Unsafe driveways and crosswalks to be repaired
   
98.07   Work to meet city standards; revocation or suspension of permit
   
98.08   Permit fees
   
98.09   Refusal of permit; appeal
   
98.10   Additional construction regulations
   
98.11   Construction materials
Street Use Regulations
   
98.25   Mutilating poles prohibited
   
98.26   Height of objects over sidewalk
   
98.27   Driving over sidewalks
   
98.28   Signs and barricades
   
98.29   Handbills and posters
   
98.30   Moving buildings
   
98.31   Obstructions; depositing materials prohibited
   
98.32   Street vacation procedure
Sidewalks
   
98.45   Construction and repair; permit required
   
98.46   Unsafe conditions prohibited
   
98.47   Notice to construct or repair
   
98.48   Snow and ice removal required
Street and Road Numbering
   
98.60   Intent
   
98.61   Definitions
   
98.62   Address number required
   
98.63   Visibility
   
98.64   Violations
   
98.65   Posting of numbers by city; assessment of costs
 
   
98.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Riding bicycles on sidewalks, see
§ 73.07
STREET CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 98.01  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR STREET CUT OR EXCAVATION.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening in or under any street or
public place without first procuring a permit from the Department of Public
Works.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.02  BARRICADES REQUIRED.
   No person making an opening in a street, alley or public place shall fail to
guard the same fully during the period of construction, and no person causing
any such opening to be used, nor the user thereof, shall fail to guard or
barricade the same while in use, so as to protect the safety of the public. No
person using any street opening or causing the same to be used shall fail to
close the opening in accordance with the directions of the Department of Public
Works immediately after use.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.03  RESTORATION COSTS; BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each applicant for a permit to open a street shall pay, in addition to
the permit fee herein required, the estimated cost of restoring the surface of
the street to its proper condition, which cost shall be determined by the
Council, upon recommendation of the City Manager.
   (B)   No permit shall be granted for the doing of any work under this
chapter until a bond or policy of insurance has been filed with the Department
of Public Works, as herein provided. The bond or policy of insurance shall be
in the sum of $1,000, unless a larger bond shall be required by the Council at
the time any permit is granted by it upon appeal. All bonds or policies of
insurance shall be conditioned to pay all damages to the streets of the city or
to hold the city harmless of every other damage of every other nature, whether
to persons or property, for which such city may be held liable by reason of, or
which is occasioned by, the doing of a thing or the exercise of the privilege
for which the permit upon which the bond or policy of insurance was based, was
granted.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.04  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CURB CUTS; DRIVEWAY APRON AGREEMENT.
   (A)   No person shall construct, alter or change any crosswalk, driveway
apron or any opening in or through any curb in any street or public way without
first procuring a permit from the Department of Public Works.
   (B)   No permit to cut any curb shall be issued by the Department of Public
Works unless the applicant shall agree in such application, as a condition of
the issuance of the permit, to install a driveway apron of concrete or other
material of comparable quality within 90 days after completion of the cut.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.05  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CULVERT OR DRAINAGE DITCH WORK.
   No culvert shall be installed without first procuring a permit from the
Department of Public Works. No drainage ditch shall be filled or covered or
otherwise obstructed without first procuring a permit from the Department of
Public Works. If the city, upon the request of the permittee, does the required
work, the costs shall be charged to the permittee.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99)
§ 98.06  UNSAFE DRIVEWAYS AND CROSSWALKS TO BE REPAIRED.
   Whenever any driveway, crosswalk or other paved area between the sidewalk
and the curb is or becomes so defective that it is not reasonably safe or fit
for travel and in the opinion of the Department of Public Works the same should
be immediately repaired, the Department of Public Works shall give the owner or
occupant of the premises adjacent to such driveway, crosswalk or other paved
area notice to repair the same within 30 days, and in default thereof the
Department of Public Works shall have the power to cause the same to be
repaired and shall make a detailed report to the City Manager of the cost and
expense of performing this work, which cost and expense shall be charged to
such owner or occupant in the manner provided by Chapter 33 of this code.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99)
§ 98.07  WORK TO MEET CITY STANDARDS; REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   No work for which a permit is required under this chapter shall be
done by any person except in accordance with plans and specifications approved
by the Department of Public Works, and all work shall be done under the
supervision of the Department of Public Works.
   (B)   All work done pursuant to any permit shall be inspected by the
Department of Public Works and the Department of Public Works may suspend or
revoke any permit so granted where either the workmanship or materials used
does not conform to the plans and specifications approved or required upon
issuance of the permit, or when the terms of any permit or of this chapter are
violated. No person shall perform any work authorized by any permit or cause
any such work to be performed while that permit is suspended or revoked.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.08  PERMIT FEES.
   The fees for permits shall be determined in accordance with the reasonable
costs to the city therefor, including the costs of inspection of the plans and
specifications of the proposed work and actual inspections of the completed
work after the issuance of the desired permit.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99)
§ 98.09  REFUSAL OF PERMIT; APPEAL.
   If the Department of Public Works shall refuse to issue any permit, the
applicant may appeal to the Council which shall grant a hearing thereon and the
decision of the Council shall be final. In granting a permit after such
hearing, the Council may impose such conditions therefor as it may deem
desirable to protect the safety of persons and property during the moving of
any building and the replacement of any utility wires, poles and other street
appurtenances as may be moved or taken down therefor.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99)
§ 98.10  ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTION REGULATIONS.
   The Department of Public Works may make such additional rules and
regulations, subject to the approval of the Council upon recommendation of the
City Manager, pertaining to the making of openings or excavations in streets,
and the building of any vault, stair or areaway in or under the streets, as are
necessary to secure the health and safety of the public and for the protection
of property, and such rules and regulations shall constitute the standards upon
which the permits hereinbefore required shall be issued.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99)
§ 98.11  CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   No person owning, building or repairing any house or other building shall
permit any lumber, brick, plaster, mortar, earth, clay, sand, stone or other
material to remain on the sidewalk after sunset of the day upon which it was
placed there, without permission in writing, from the Director of Public
Safety, subject to any safeguards he may prescribe.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
STREET USE REGULATIONS
§ 98.25  MUTILATING POLES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall hack, cut, mutilate, disfigure or in any manner injure any
telegraph, telephone, electric light, railway or fire alarm pole in any street,
alley, park, lane or public place in the city.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.26  HEIGHT OF OBJECTS OVER SIDEWALK.
   No person shall suspend anything above any sidewalk or within any street
area unless expressly authorized by this code, except an awning or marquee no
part of which is less than seven feet above the sidewalk grade.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.27  DRIVING OVER SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall drive, or cause to be driven, any vehicle or animal on any
sidewalk, curbing or gutter on any street in the city, except at a driveway
constructed for such purpose.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.28  SIGNS AND BARRICADES.
   No unauthorized person shall move, alter, deface, injure or destroy any part
or accessory of any street or alley or any sign or barricade erected or placed
to protect, warn or guide the public.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.29  HANDBILLS AND POSTERS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to scatter or distribute on or
along any public street or municipally owned parking lot or place or cause to
be placed on or in any motor vehicle on any public street or municipally owned
parking lot in the city any commercial literature, advertising material,
commercial handbill, card, sample or other matter for the purpose of
advertising. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the advertising
material of religious, fraternal or charitable organizations.
   (B)   Any person who advertises his goods, wares or merchandise by causing
any advertising material to be scattered or distributed in any manner contrary
to the provisions of this section shall be subject to the penalties provided in
this chapter in the same manner as the person who actually distributes any
advertising material.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.30  MOVING BUILDINGS.
   No person shall remove, or cause to be removed, or aid or assist in removing
any building into, along or across any street, alley or any public space,
without first procuring a permit from the Department of Public Works.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.31  OBSTRUCTIONS; DEPOSITING MATERIALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall obstruct or encumber any street, alley or any public
place with any article or thing whatsoever.
   (B)   No person shall drop, throw, deposit or scatter any earth, ashes,
shavings, sawdust, hay, leaves, refuse, rubbish, straw, chips, stones, bricks,
ice, dirt, manure, filth or any other loose material or articles in any street,
alley or public place, nor shall any person permit such substances, things and
articles to spill, drop or be blown about from any vehicle while hauling same
in any street, alley or public place.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.32  STREET VACATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   When the Council shall deem it advisable to vacate, discontinue or
abolish any street, alley or public ground, or any part thereof, it shall by
resolution so declare, and in the same resolution shall appoint a time, not
less than four weeks thereafter, when it will meet and hear objections thereto.
Notice of such meeting with a copy of the resolution shall be published for not
less than four weeks before the time appointed for such meeting in one of the
newspapers of the city.
   (B)   Objections to such proposed action of the Council may be filed with
the City Clerk in writing, and if any such shall be filed, the street, alley or
public ground, or any part thereof, shall not be vacated or discontinued except
by a concurring vote of two-thirds of the Council.
(Ord. passed 8-24-99)
SIDEWALKS
§ 98.45  CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall construct or repair any sidewalk except in accordance with
the lines, grade, slope and specifications established by the Department of
Public Works and without first procuring a permit from the Department of Public
Works. Permits shall be prominently displayed on the construction site. Permits
shall be subject to all provisions of §§
98.01 through
98.32 with respect to permits issued under this chapter.
(`73 Code, 30.051, § 4.41)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.46  UNSAFE CONDITIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any sidewalk which adjoins property owned by him to
fall into a state of disrepair or be unsafe.
(`73 Code, 30.052, § 4.42)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.47  NOTICE TO CONSTRUCT OR REPAIR.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever the Department of Public Works shall determine that a
sidewalk is unsafe for use, or required to be constructed for the public
safety, the Department of Public Works shall give written notice thereof to the
owner of the abutting premises by mail, addressed to the last known address of
the owner, or if the owner or his address be unknown, by delivering the notice
and leaving same with a person of suitable age and discretion at the premises,
or if such person be not found, by posting such notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises.
      (2)   The notice shall specify the construction of the sidewalk required
and the specifications therefor, or the condition to be repaired and the nature
of the repairs to be made.
   (B)   In the event such owner fails to repair or construct such sidewalk
within 30 days, Department of Public Works shall report same to the City
Manager with the request that the Department of Public Works be authorized to
repair or construct the same. The City Manager may dispense with the notice and
report and request the Council for authority to repair or construct the
sidewalk if, in the City Manager's opinion, the sidewalk condition is unsafe
and dangerous and requires immediate repair to assure public safety and to
prevent the possibility of city liability for personal injury or property
damage.
   (C)   Upon receipt of any such report of the failure of such owner to repair
the sidewalk within the time specified in such notice, or such request for
authority for immediate construction or repair, the Council may determine to
construct or repair same by resolution and order the City Manager/Department of
Public Works to proceed with the required work.
   (D)   The cost of repairs or construction hereunder, if made by the city,
shall be charged against the premises abutting such sidewalk and the owner
thereof in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 33 of this code.
(`73 Code, 30.053, § 4.43)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99)
§ 98.48  SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL REQUIRED.
   (A)   The occupant of any premises, or the owner of any unoccupied premises,
shall be required to keep the sidewalks in front of, or adjacent to, such
premises clear from snow and ice to facilitate pedestrian use in the following
areas:
      Huron Street from Mackinaw Avenue to Locust Street
      Main Street from First Street to the south city limits
      Water Street from State Street to Elm Street
      Mackinaw Avenue from Clinton Street to Main Street
      State Street from Huron Street to “F” Street
      Backus Street from Huron Street to Main Street
      Division Street from Dresser Street to Water Street
      Elm Street from Huron Street to Water Street
      Pine Street from Huron Street to Main Street
      Locust Street from Huron Street to Main Street
   (B)   If the sidewalks in the above-stated areas are not cleared as required
by this section, the city shall clear all uncleared sidewalks and charge the
cost of removal of the snow and ice to the occupants or owners of such
premises, with a minimum cost of $100 per occurrence.
      (1)   Presentation of a written lease to the Director of the Department
of Public Safety prior to any violation of this provision showing
responsibility for such sidewalk maintenance to be with either owner or
occupant shall cause the non-responsible party to be free from liability under
this section.
      (2)   Such costs may be collected as any other debt or may be charged to
the water bill of the occupants or owners of the premises and said charge shall
become a lien upon the premises or upon any other property within the city
owned by the occupant or owner of the premises in the same manner, and with
like effect, as the charges or rentals for water as provided in
Chapter 52 of the code.
(`73 Code, 30.054, § 4.44)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
STREET AND ROAD NUMBERING
§ 98.60  INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter that it provide for the establishment,
control and regulation of street and road numbering within the city and to
provide for penalties for any violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-96)
§ 98.61  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INTERESTED PARTY.  Emergency services, such as police, fire or any other
emergency services, the owner, occupant, Department of Public Safety, public
utilities or any other governmental agency.
   PREMISES.  Any lot or parcel of land owned by any person, firm, corporation
or association, public or private, improved with buildings, whether occupied or
not and to which a street or road number has been assigned.
   STREET OR ROAD NAMES.  Any official name as recognized by governmental
authority and no such named street or road shall be changed without the
approval of the city and/or the Cheboygan County Road Commission in cases of
joint jurisdiction over roads between the city and the County Road Commission.
   STREET NUMBER or ROAD NUMBER.  Any series of numbers assigned by the city or
the entity responsible for the assignment of such numbers from time to time for
the purpose of identification of a particular premises location. All premises
shall be assigned a property identification number by the city or by an entity
designated by the City Council from time to time. The identification numbers
shall be the basis for location on the Geographic Identification System (GIS)
maps and shall be cross-indexed to the owner of the property and the available
telephone numbers. The basic information required for a Central Emergency
Response System (911) is to be provided by the city.
(Ord. passed 7-9-96)
§ 98.62  ADDRESS NUMBER REQUIRED.
   Prior to applying for any building or zoning permit, an owner of any
premises shall apply for and receive an address for those premises. All
premises and/or mailboxes shall bear a distinctive street number in accordance
with and as designated upon the street numbering maps on file in the offices of
the city and with the entity designated by the City Council to assign the
numbers, which maps, by reference, together with any revisions thereof, shall
become a part of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-96)
§ 98.63  VISIBILITY.
   Any owner of any premises shall place upon the front of any building located
on the premises which faces a street or on the street mailbox for such premises
designated numbers, such that:
   (A)   Numbers on mailboxes on the premises shall be displayed in such a
manner as to be plainly visible from road traffic lanes in either direction of
approach. The numbers shall be of a contrasting or reflectorized color to their
background and shall not be less than three inches nor more than 18 inches in
height.
   (B)   Numbers in block or script displayed on building fronts shall be of a
contrasting color to their background and shall not be less than three inches
nor more than 18 inches in height.
   (C)   Where there is no mailbox on the premises or the numbers on the street
front of the premises cannot be read from the street, then any owner of the
premises shall place a post of suitable strength and construction adjacent to
the driveway of the premises.
      (1)   The post shall be located at least ten feet from the traveled
portion of the street and upon such premises.
      (2)   The height of the post shall not be less than five feet above the
level of the adjacent street and the assigned numbers of the premises shall be
placed on both sides of the post so as to be plainly visible from road traffic
lanes in either direction of approach. Such numbers shall be of a contrasting
or reflectorized color to their background.
      (3)   Prior to the placing of any such post(s), the person placing the
same shall call Miss Dig to ensure that the post will be placed in a suitable
area. The city shall not be responsible for any hazard or for damage or
injuries to persons or property caused by the sign placement.
   (D)   Where the mailbox is located on a street other than on the street of
the premises numbered, the mailbox shall show both the number assigned and the
street name of the premises in contrasting or reflectorized color to their
background and shall not be less than three inches nor more than 18 inches in
height.
   (E)   Grouping of mailboxes shall be permitted but the grouping shall be in
sequential order according to the assigned number.
   (F)   Numbers shall be assigned and recorded by the city or the entity
responsible for same at the request of any interested party in accordance with
these regulations.
(Ord. passed 7-9-96) 
Penalty, see § 98.99
§ 98.64  VIOLATIONS.
   Failure to display numbers within 30 days after assignment and recordation,
or in the case of new construction, within 30 days a letter or certificate of
occupancy has been issued shall be considered a violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 7-9-96)
§ 98.65  POSTING OF NUMBERS BY CITY; ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   In addition to the imposition of the penalty set forth in §
98.99 and other legal remedies, the city and such other offices as it may
designate may cause the proper posting of numbers with the cost thereof
assessed against the owner of the premises.
(Ord. passed 7-9-96)
§ 98.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation or association violating the provisions
of §§
98.60 through
98.65 shall be subject to a civil infraction of not more than $100. 
(Ord. passed 7-9-96)
CHAPTER 99:  TREES
Section
   
99.01   Definitions
   
99.02   Authority over trees on public property
   
99.03   Prohibited varieties
   
99.04   Gas pipes and mains to be maintained
   
99.05   Mutilating trees prohibited
   
99.06   Trimming by public utilities
   
99.07   Obstructions prohibited
   
99.08   Excavations
   
99.09   Covering surface near tree
§ 99.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROWTH.  Any or all trees or shrubs unless the context otherwise requires.
   SHRUBS.  Under 15 feet in height may include vines and plants.
   TREES.  Includes shrubs which grow higher than 15 feet.
(`73 Code, 30.101, § 4.91)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99)
§ 99.02  AUTHORITY OVER TREES ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   The Department of Public Works shall have complete charge and control over
the planting, cutting, trimming and removal of trees and other growth upon all
public highways and places and may promulgate and adopt rules and regulations
for the control of same.
(`73 Code, 30.102, § 4.92)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99)
§ 99.03  PROHIBITED VARIETIES.
   No person, except an authorized city employee, shall plant, remove or
destroy any ornamental shade tree or shrub in any public way; or plant any
poplar, box elder, basswood, cotton wood, willow, soft maple, common catalpa,
horse chestnut, or “ailanthus glandulosa” tree anywhere within the city,
without first procuring a permit from the Department of Public Works.
(`73 Code, 30.103, § 4.93)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 99.04  GAS PIPES AND MAINS TO BE MAINTAINED.
   Gas pipes or mains within or beneath any public way shall be so maintained
as to avoid any leakage therefrom. If any leak exists or occurs, it shall be
reported to the owner of such pipe and main and the leak shall be repaired
within 24 hours. The city may repair any leak not stopped within 24 hours and
the owner of the pipe or main causing the leak shall be charged with the cost
of repair and the damage caused thereby.
(`73 Code, 30.104, § 4.94)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 99.05  MUTILATING TREES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cut, mutilate, remove, saw or trim any tree within any
public way in the city to make room for any telegraph, telephone or electric
lines, moving buildings or machinery or other things, or for repairing
sidewalks, without first procuring a permit from the Department of Public
Works. No person shall attach, tack or in any manner fasten to any tree in any
public way any wire, rope, chain, cable, sign, card, board, poster or other
article, nor hitch any animal thereto.
(`73 Code, 30.105, § 4.95)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 99.06  TRIMMING BY PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   No person owning or operating any public utility lines upon, above or below
the surface of any street, shall trim, cut or cause to be trimmed or cut any
tree along any public way or park, without first having submitted to the
Department of Public Works a plan of the work to be done and having procured a
permit for such work. Nothing in this section shall be construed to apply to
the removal, under the direction of the Department of Public Works, of any
stump, roots, tree, shrub, vine, plant or part thereof whenever such removal
shall be found necessary in the construction or repair of any street sidewalk,
sewer, pavement or other public improvement.
(`73 Code, 30.106, § 4.96)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 99.07  OBSTRUCTIONS PROHIBITED.
   The owner or person in charge or control of any lot or parcel of land within
the city upon which any tree, shrub, vine or plant may be standing adjacent to
any public way shall trim or cause to be trimmed, either at the property line
or to a clear height of at least eight feet above the surface of such public
way, all branches thereof which overhang any portion of such public way or
which obstruct or interfere with the passage of light from any street lighting
system, and shall not plant or maintain any thereof so close to any property
line as to obstruct thereby the vision of travelers along the streets. The city
may enter upon any such private premises to do such trimming as it determines
necessary, or to remove such obstructions herein prohibited, upon the failure
of the owner to do so after notice to him in writing. The owner shall, or the
city may, remove from such tree, shrub, plant or vine all dead, decayed,
unsightly, broken or dangerous limbs and branches that overhang or are close to
the public way; and when any such tree, shrub, plant or vine is dead, the owner
shall remove the same or, after notice of such intention to the owner, the city
may do so and charge the cost thereof to such owner.
(`73 Code, 30.107, § 4.97)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 99.08  EXCAVATIONS.
   In any excavation, or the erection, alteration or repair of any building or
structure, or other work, the owner thereof or someone for him shall place or
cause to be placed such guards around all nearby trees, shrubs and plants in
the public way as will effectually prevent injury to them.
(`73 Code, 30.108, § 4.98)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 99.09  COVERING SURFACE NEAR TREE.
   No person shall place or maintain upon the ground in any public way or place
of the city any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other material or article which
may injure or in any way impede the full and free passage of water, air or
fertilizer to the roots of any tree, shrub, vine or plant, without leaving an
open space of ground not less than four feet in diameter around the same.
(`73 Code, 30.109, § 4.99)  (Am. Ord. passed 8-24-99) 
Penalty see § 10.99
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   GENERAL LICENSING
         
APPENDIX:  LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE
      
111.   JUNK DEALERS AND PAWNBROKERS
      
112.   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND POOL ROOMS
      
113.   PRECIOUS METAL AND GEM DEALERS
      
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
      
115.   TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING BUSINESS
      
116.   TAXICABS
      
117.   TOBACCO BUSINESS
      
118.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
      
119.   SIDEWALK CAFES AND OUTDOOR SEATING
CHAPTER 110:  GENERAL LICENSING
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Application of regulations
   
110.03   State provisions
   
110.04   Compliance with city policy
   
110.05   Loud noises and speaking devices
   
110.06   Duty of police to enforce; records
Licensing Provisions
   
110.20   License required
   
110.21   Application for license
   
110.22   Investigation and issuance
   
110.23   Expiration date
   
110.24   Compliance with code required
   
110.25   Payment of fees; exemption
   
110.26   Refusal to issue license; revocation, suspension
   
110.27   Renewal of license
   
110.28   Carrying, display of license
   
110.29   Expired or duplicate license
   
110.30   Licenses nontransferable
   
110.31   Property damage and liability bond; performance bond
 
   
110.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   License Fee Schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this title the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR.  Any individual, whether resident of the city or
not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck, or any other
type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to house or from street to
street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares, and
merchandise, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery, or
for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such
individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such
sale or whether he is collecting advance payments on such sales or not,
provided, that such definition shall include any person who, for himself, or
for another person, firm, or corporation, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any
building, structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room, lodging house,
apartment, shop, or any other place within the city for the sole purpose of
exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   JUNK DEALER.  Any person or entity who is engaged in the business of dealing
in scrap iron, scrap metal, scrap wood, used or salvaged auto parts or any form
of goods commonly considered as junk, or assembles the same at one location for
the purpose of sale without first procuring a license therefor, unless having
already been licensed by the State of Michigan.
   PAWNBROKER.  Any person whose business is to lend money, usually in small
sums, on security of personal property deposited with him or left in pawn (a
bailment of goods to a creditor, as security for some debt or engagement; a
pledge).
   PEDDLER.  Any person, whether a resident of the city or not, traveling by
foot, wagon, automotive vehicle, or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, or from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish, vegetables, fruits, garden
truck, farm products or provisions, offering and exposing the same for sale, or
making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or who without traveling
from place to place, shall sell or offer the same for sale, or making sales and
delivering articles to purchasers, or who without traveling from place to
place, shall sell or offer the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle,
railroad car, or other vehicle or conveyance, and further provided that one who
solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as
part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed a peddler.
   POOL ROOM OPERATOR.  Any person who conducts, maintains or operates any
place open to the public, the business of which is the playing of pool or
billiards.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT, ITINERANT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR.  Any person
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the city
or not, who engages in a temporary business of selling and delivering goods,
wares or merchandise within the city, and who, in furtherance of such purpose,
hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure, motor vehicle, tent,
railroad box car, or boat, public room in hotels lodging houses, apartments,
shops, or any street, alley, or other place within the city, for the exhibition
and sale of such goods, wares or merchandise, either privately or at public
auction. Such definition shall not be construed to include any person who,
while occupying such temporary location, does not sell from stock but exhibits
samples only for the purpose of securing orders for future delivery. The person
so engaged shall not be relieved from complying with the provisions of this
chapter merely by reason of associating temporarily with any local dealer,
trader, merchant or auctioneer, or by conducting such transient business in
connection with, as a part of, or in the name of any local dealer, trader,
merchant or auctioneer.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.02  APPLICATION OF REGULATIONS.
   The provisions of this title shall not be construed to apply to nor regulate
commercial travelers employed by wholesale houses and selling staple articles
to merchants of the city to be retailed by them; nor to persons selling milk;
nor to the delivery of goods sold by business establishments of the city; nor
to sales for local charitable purposes by residents of the city; nor to
permanently employed bonded route salesmen who solicit orders from and
distribute goods to regular customers on established routes.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.03  STATE PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The fact that a license or permit has been granted to any person or
entity by the state to engage in the operation, conduct, maintenance, or
management of any business or premises shall not exempt such person or entity
from the necessity of procuring a license or permit from the city if such
license is required by this code.
   (B)   No license or permit required by this code shall be issued to any
person or entity who or which is required to have a license or permit from the
state until such person shall submit evidence of such state license or permit
and proof that all fees appertaining thereto have been paid.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.04  COMPLIANCE WITH CITY POLICY.
   No person or entity shall be allowed to conduct any business of any kind
whatsoever upon public property without first being in compliance with city
policy as established from time to time by the City Council.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.05  LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.
   No peddler, solicitor, transient merchant or any other person or entity
requiring a license under this title, nor any person in his behalf, shall
unreasonably shout, make any outcry, blow a horn, ring a bell, or use any sound
device, including any loud speaking radio or sound amplifying system upon any
of the streets, alleys, parks or other public places of the city or upon any
private premises in the same city where sound of sufficient volume is emitted
or produced therefrom to be capable of being plainly heard upon the streets,
avenues, alleys, parks, or other public places, for the purpose of attracting
attention to any goods, wares or merchandise which such licensee proposes to
sell.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.06  DUTY OF POLICE TO ENFORCE; RECORDS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to require any
person seen peddling, and who is not known by such officer to be duly licensed,
to produce his peddler's license and to enforce the provisions of this title
against any person found to be violating the same.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the police officers of the city to examine all
places of business and persons in their respective territories subject to the
provisions of this title to determine if this title has been complied with and
to enforce the provisions of this title against any person found to be
violating the same. Any person who signs an application for himself or herself
or on behalf of any other entity, by the filing of a signed application with
the City Clerk, hereby gives his or her consent to such examination of the
business and persons.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to require any
person seen soliciting or canvassing, and who is not known by such officer to
be duly licensed, to produce his solicitor's or canvasser's license and to
enforce the provisions of this title against any person found to be violating
the same.
   (D)   The Chief of Police/Director of Public Safety shall report to the City
Clerk all convictions for violation of this title and the City Clerk shall
maintain a record for each license issued and record the reports of violation
therein.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or entity to engage in the
business of peddler, solicitor, transient merchant, locksmith, refuse
collector, precious metal and gem dealer, junk dealer, closing out sales, pawn
broker or to operate a pool room, bicycles, taxicab business, circus, side
show, menagerie, exhibitions, mechanical amusement devices, carnival, amusement
riding and moving device which includes ferris wheels, merry-go-rounds,
whirligigs, and roller coasters, sexually oriented business, tobacco business,
and tattoo business and body piercing business within the corporate limits of
the city without first obtaining a license therefor as provided herein.
   (B)   The several businesses, activities or things requiring licenses are
set forth below. All fees, hours of operation and other administrative
necessities for the businesses, activities or things listed shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council upon
recommendation of the City Manager.
      (1)   Amusement riding and moving devices which shall include every
device usually found in amusement parks, operated for profit, including but not
limited to: ferris wheels, merry-go-rounds, whirligigs and roller coasters.
Whenever operated by the same management as any show, carnival or circus
otherwise licensed as herein provided, such license shall be deemed to include
and be in lieu of the license fees enumerated under this heading.
      (2)   Bicycles.
      (3)   Circuses, menageries, carnivals, exhibitions and side shows.
      (4)   Closing out sales.
      (5)   Junk dealers. Markings are required on each vehicle: name and
address of licensee in letters at least five inches high.
      (6)   Locksmiths.
      (7)   Pawnbrokers.
      (8)   Peddlers.
      (9)   Solicitors.
      (10)    Transient merchants.
      (11)    Pool and billiard rooms.
      (12)    Precious metal and gem dealers.
      (13)    Refuse collector.
      (14)    Taxicab business.
      (15)    Sexually oriented business.
      (16)    Mechanical amusement devices.
      (17)    Tobacco business.
      (18)    Tattoo business and body piercing business.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.21  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applicants for a license under this title must file with the City Clerk a
sworn application in writing (in duplicate) on a form to be furnished by the
City Clerk, which shall give the following information:
   (A)   Name and description of the applicant;
   (B)   Address (legal and local);
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold and in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or grown
by the applicant, the place or places in the city where the business is
proposed;
   (D)   If employed the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
   (F)   If a vehicle is to be used, a description of the same, together with
license number or other means of identification;
   (G)   The fingerprint(s) and/or thumbprint(s) of applicant.
   (H)   The nature and character of the advertising done or proposed to be
done in order to attract customers.
   (I)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of
the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.22  INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon receipt of such application, the original shall be referred to
the Chief of Police/Director of Public Safety, who shall cause such
investigation of the applicant's business and moral character to be made as he
deems necessary for the protection of the public good.
   (B)   If as a result of such investigation, the applicant's character or
business responsibility is found to be unsatisfactory, the Chief of Police/
Director of Public Safety shall endorse on such application his disapproval and
his reasons for the same, and return the application to the City Clerk, who
shall notify the applicant that his application is disapproved and that no
permit and license will be issued.
   (C)   If as a result of such investigation, the character and business
responsibility of the applicant are found to be satisfactory, the Chief of
Police/Director of Public Safety shall endorse on the application his approval,
execute a permit addressed to the applicant for the carrying on of the business
applied for and return the permit along with the application to the City Clerk,
who shall, upon payment of the prescribed license fee, deliver to the applicant
his permit and issue a license.
   (D)   Such license shall contain:
      (1)   The signature and seal of the issuing officer;
      (2)   The name, address and photograph of the licensee;
      (3)   The class of license issued and the kind of goods to be sold
thereunder;
      (4)   The amount of fee paid;
      (5)   The date of issuance and the length of time the same shall be
operative; and
      (6)   The license number and other identifying description of any vehicle
used in such soliciting or canvassing.
   (E)   The Clerk shall keep a permanent record of all licenses issued.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.23  EXPIRATION DATE.
   The license year shall terminate on May 31 at 12:00 midnight next after the
issuance of such license. In all cases where the provisions of this code permit
the issuance of licenses for periods of less than one year, the expiration date
shall be indicated on the face of the license.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.24  COMPLIANCE WITH CODE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be granted to any applicant therefor until such applicant
has complied with all of the provisions of this chapter and code pertaining to
the business for which application for the license is made, nor shall any
license be granted where the approval of any officer of the city is required
prior to the issuance thereof until such approval is made.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.25  PAYMENT OF FEES; EXEMPTION.
   (A)   No license shall be issued until the fees as set forth in this chapter
or in other chapters of this code shall be paid by the applicant to the City
Clerk.
   (B)   No license fee shall be required from any person or entity exempt from
payment of the fee by state or federal law. All local religious, fraternal,
civic, veteran, or recreational organizations shall be exempt from any fee
required herein.
   (C)   A waiver by any non-local religious, fraternal, civic, veteran, or
recreational organization may be received from the City Manager upon
application in writing. A response by the City Manager shall be made within
three days of receipt of such written application. Such persons or entities
shall comply with all other provisions of this code. The City Clerk shall, in
all such cases, issue to such persons or entities licenses which are clearly
marked as to the exemption and the reason therefor.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.26  REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSE; REVOCATION, SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Licenses requested under this chapter may be refused by the City Clerk
or City Manager and licenses issued may be revoked or suspended by the City
Clerk or City Manager at any time, for any of the following causes:
      (1)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for license;
      (2)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement made in the operation
of a business;
      (3)   Any violation of this code;
      (4)   Conducting a business in an unlawful manner or in such manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
morals, safety or welfare of the public;
      (5)   The failure or inability of an applicant to meet and satisfy the
requirements and provisions of this code.
   (B)   Written notice of suspension or revocation stating the causes therefor
shall be delivered to the licensee personally or mailed to his address stated
in his application for license.
   (C)   Any person or entity whose license is revoked or suspended or any
person or entity whose request for a license is refused shall have the right to
a hearing before the City Manager provided a written request therefor is filed
with the City Clerk within ten days following the delivery or mailing of notice
of revocation or suspension or within ten days following such refusal.
   (D)   The City Council may reverse any refusal to issue a license or any
revocation or suspension of a license, and the City Council may grant or
reinstate any license.
   (E)   No person shall operate any business during any time when his license
or permit therefor has been suspended, revoked or canceled.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.27  RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, an application for renewal of a license
shall be considered in the same manner as an original application.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 110.28  CARRYING, DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No licensee shall fail to carry any license issued in accordance with
the provisions of this code upon his or her person at all times when engaged in
the operation, conduct or maintenance of any business for which the license was
granted and shall display the same upon request of any person; except that
where such business is operated, conducted or maintained at a fixed place or
establishment, said license shall be displayed at all times in some conspicuous
place in his place of business; and he shall produce the same for examination
when applying for a renewal thereof or when requested to do so by any public
safety officer or by an person representing the issuing authority.
   (B)   No licensee shall fail to display conspicuously on each vehicle or
mechanical device or machine required to be licensed by this title such tags or
stickers as are furnished by the City Clerk and required by this title or code.
   (C)   Licenses are required to be exhibited at the request of any person.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.29  EXPIRED OR DUPLICATE LICENSE.
   No person or entity shall display any expired, suspended or revoked license
or any license for which a duplicate has been issued.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.30  LICENSES NONTRANSFERABLE.
   No license or permit issued under the provision of this code shall be
transferable, except as may be specifically authorized by this code, nor shall
such license be displayed at any time by any person or entity other than the
one to whom it was issued.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.31  PROPERTY DAMAGE AND LIABILITY BOND; PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   Before any such license is issued, the applicant therefor shall
furnish, if required by Council resolution and/or policy, a corporate surety
bond in an amount established from time to time by resolution of the City
Council upon recommendation of the City Manager with sufficient surety to be
approved by the City Clerk, which bond shall be conditioned upon the faithful
observance of all laws of the state and provisions of this code during the
license term. Any person aggrieved by any action or conduct of any such
licensee, including any and all damages caused to person or property, shall
have a right of action on the bond for the recovery of damages or to enforce
any lawful right. Such bond shall remain in full force and effect for a period
of 90 days after the expiration or cancellation of any such license or after
the termination of any action upon such bond.
   (B)   Every applicant, not a resident of the city, or who being a resident
of the city represents a firm whose principal place of business is located
outside the State of Michigan, shall, if required by Council resolution and/or
policy, file with the City Clerk a surety bond running to the city in an amount
established from time to time by resolution of the City Council upon
recommendation of City Manager with surety acceptable to and approved by the
City Clerk, conditioned that the applicant shall comply fully with all the
provisions of the City Code and the statutes of the State of Michigan
regulating and concerning the licensed business and guaranteeing to any citizen
of the city that all money paid will be accounted for and applied according to
the representations of the licensee and further guaranteeing to any citizen of
the city doing business with the licensee, that the property purchased will be
delivered according to the representations of the licensee. Action on such bond
may be brought in the name of the city or by the aggrieved person or entity to
the use or benefit of the aggrieved person or entity.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any violation of any section of this title shall be considered a civil
infraction which is not a crime and shall not be punishable by imprisonment or
a penal fine, but which shall bear a civil fine in an amount established by
resolution of Council from time to time upon recommendation of the City
Manager.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
APPENDIX:  LICENSE FEE SCHEDULE
Approved as amended at a special City Council meeting held September 1, 1998
Amusement riding and moving     $100/annual fee (plus bond)
devices
Bicycles                        $5/lifetime registration
Circuses, menageries,           $500/annual fee (not to exceed 2 weeks)
carnivals, exhibitions and side                         (plus bond)
shows
Close-out sales                 $50
Junk dealers                    $100/annual fee (plus bond)
Locksmith and key makers        $25/annual fee - resident (plus bond)
                                $100/annual fee - nonresident (plus bond)
Pawnbrokers                     $200/annual fee (plus bond)
Peddlers                        $100/annual fee - resident (plus bond)
                                $300/annual fee - nonresident (plus bond)
Pool and billiard rooms         $200/annual fee
Public entertainments, not      $100/annual fee - resident (plus bond)
otherwise specified             $300/annual fee - nonresident (plus bond)
Precious metal and gem dealers  $100/annual fee (plus bond)
Refuse collector                $100/annual fee (per vehicle operating on city
                                routes)
Shooting galleries              $100/annual fee
Solicitors                      $100/resident (plus bond)
                                $300/nonresident (plus bond)
Taxicab                         $100/annual fee/per vehicle - resident
                                $300/annual fee/per vehicle - nonresident
Transient merchants             $100/resident (plus $5,000 bond)
                                $300/nonresident (plus $5,000 bond)
All others                      $25/annual fee
 
*Local dealers - no bond required; bond required for non-residents
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
CHAPTER 111:  JUNK DEALERS AND PAWNBROKERS
Section
Junk Dealers
   
111.01   Application requirements
   
111.02   Records required; inspection
   
111.03   Business premises of junk dealers
Pawnbrokers
   
111.15   Records required
JUNK DEALERS
§ 111.01  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the requirements of §
110.21, an applicant for a junk dealer license shall not be granted the same:
   (A)   Except upon resolution of the City Council;
   (B)   Except upon the approval of the Chief of Police/Director of Public
Safety and the Health Officer;
   (C)   For conducting such business on a vacant lot or in a partially
enclosed structure unless such property is enclosed with a properly maintained,
tight, board or other type of fence in accordance with all the specifications
of the City Engineer to protect the health, welfare and safety of the public;
   (D)   If contrary to the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 111.02  RECORDS REQUIRED; INSPECTION.
   As a condition of the issuance and the right to maintain a license, each
licensee shall, on demand, exhibit all goods bought or received and give the
name, residence and description of the person from whom the same was purchased
or received to any officer of the Police Department/Department of Public
Safety. He or she shall keep permanent records in the English language
containing the name, residence and description of all persons from whom
purchases are made and the amount, make, model, and serial number of the item
(s) purchased.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 111.03  BUSINESS PREMISES OF JUNK DEALERS.
   As a condition of the issuance and the right to maintain a license, each
such license granted shall designate the particular place where the business is
to be conducted and no licensee shall engage in the business at any place other
than that so designated. No licensee shall purchase or receive any article:
   (A)   Between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.;
   (B)   On Sunday at any time;
   (C)   From any person intoxicated, or under the age of 17 years, without
written consent of parent or guardian; or
   (D)   From a person known or suspected to be a thief or a receiver of stolen
property.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
PAWNBROKERS
§ 111.15  RECORDS REQUIRED.
   No pawnbroker or agent or employee shall fail to keep a daily record of all
persons with whom he does business and of all property coming into his
possession together with a record of the disposition of each article, nor shall
any pawnbroker fail to report same weekly to the Chief of Police/Director of
Public Safety on forms prescribed by the Chief of Police/Director of Public
Safety. The Chief of Police/Director of Public Safety shall at all times have
access to such daily record.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
CHAPTER 112:  MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES AND POOL ROOMS
Section
Mechanical Amusement Devices
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Fire inspection and regulations
   
112.03   Location
   
112.04   Criminal record
   
112.05   Minimum age
   
112.06   Separate and continuing offense
Pool Rooms
   
112.20   Persons under 17 prohibited
   
112.21   Obstructions to public view
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INCIDENTAL USE.  Usage of devices defined in this chapter shall be excluded
from the regulations of this chapter where the use is incidental to other
business purposes.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT CENTER.  Any business or part of any business which is
devoted to the housing and operation of more than three mechanical amusement
devises.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE.  Any machine containing no automatic pay-off
device, which may, on insertion of a coin or slug, operate, or be operated or
used as a game, contest, or amusement of any description, and which is so
constructed that it may not be converted into an automatic pay-off device for
the return or dish of money, tokens, coins, checks, or merchandise, or which
provides no such pay-off by any means whatsoever; provided that the terms shall
not include any coin-operated device used solely for the playing and amplifying
of music, or for the playing of pool or billiards.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 112.02  FIRE INSPECTION AND REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be issued until such time as the Director of Public Safety
has determined that the proposed location of each coin-operated amusement
device will not interfere with egress from the building in case of fire, and
that all fire regulations have been satisfied.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 112.03  LOCATION.
   No license shall be granted should the location of the above defined center
be closer than 500 feet from any public or private school, place of public
worship or any municipal playground, park or site designated and used for
public purposes.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 112.04  CRIMINAL RECORD.
   No license shall be issued if it is found that any person(s) connected with
the center or any prospective licensee shall be convicted of any Circuit Court
misdemeanor or felony within the past five years. All prospective licensees
shall apply to the Police Department/Department of Public Safety for
certification that a check of their record has revealed no Circuit Court
misdemeanor or felony conviction within the past five years.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 112.05  MINIMUM AGE.
   (A)   At no time shall any person under the age of 14 years be allowed on
the premises of the mechanical amusement centers.
      (1)   It shall be the strict obligation of the licensee(s) to ascertain
the age of any persons on the licensed premises or attempting to enter into the
licensed premises and the licensee shall not allow any person under the age of
14 years to enter into, loiter or occupy the premises.
      (2)   The licensee shall be guilty of the violation of this ordinance if
any person under the age of 14 years is found to be loitering or occupying the
premises of the mechanical amusement center.
   (B)   At no time shall any persons under the age of 14 years enter into,
loiter or occupy the premises of a mechanical amusement center.
   (C)   A violation of this provision shall cause the issued license to be
revoked or suspended.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 112.06  SEPARATE AND CONTINUING OFFENSE.
   Each day that an owner or owners of a mechanical amusement center shall be
in violation of this chapter constitutes a separate offense subject to the
penalties set forth herein.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
POOL ROOMS
§ 112.20  PERSONS UNDER 17 PROHIBITED.
   As a condition of the issuance and the right to maintain a license, no
person who is less than 17 years of age may remain or loiter in or about any
pool or billiard room unless accompanied by a parent or guardian; nor shall the
licensee thereof permit any such minor to remain or loiter therein.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 112.21  OBSTRUCTIONS TO PUBLIC VIEW.
   No licensee shall permit on the licensed premises any obstruction of the
public view by the use of drawn shades or blinds or screens, either permanent
or movable.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
CHAPTER 113:  PRECIOUS METAL AND GEM DEALERS
Section
   
113.01   Adoption of state law; references
   
113.02   Fee
   
113.03   Conflict
§ 113.01  ADOPTION OF STATE LAW; REFERENCES.
   (A)   Public Act 95 of 1981, being M.C.L.A. §§ 445.481 to 445.492, and
otherwise known as the “Precious Metal and Gem Dealer Act” is hereby adopted by
reference as in this section modified, and is made a part of this code the same
as if set forth in full herein.
   (B)   References in the “Precious Metals and Gem Dealer Act” to “local
police agency” shall mean the Police Department/Department of Public Safety and
references in the Act to “city” shall mean the City of Cheboygan.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 113.02  FEE.
   The fee which is required by Public Act 95, § 3(2), of 1981, being M.C.L.A.
§ 445.483(2), shall be established by resolution of the City Council from time
to time upon recommendation by the City Manager.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 113.03  CONFLICT.
   When this title is inconsistent with the “Precious Metal and Gem Dealer
Act,” the Act shall be controlling, or when this chapter provides additional
standards which must be met before the issuance of a certificate of
registration required by said Act, this title shall be controlling.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
CHAPTER 114:  SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS
Section
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License
   
114.03   Application for license
   
114.04   Standards for issuance of license
   
114.05   Fees
   
114.06   Display of license or permit
   
114.07   Renewal of license or permit
   
114.08   Revocation or suspension of license
   
114.09   Physical layout of adult entertainment establishment
   
114.10   Responsibilities of the operator
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT BOOK STORE.  An establishment which has in excess of 50% of its stock-
in-trade for sale or rent, which stock-in-trade consists of books, magazines,
newspapers, videotapes, video discs and motion pictures, which are
characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, or which establishment excludes admission to minors by virtue
of age.
   ADULT BUSINESS.  Includes, but is not limited to, ADULT BOOK STORE, ADULT
VIDEO STORES, ADULT PERSONAL SERVICES BUSINESSES, NUDE MODELING STUDIOS, TATTOO
PARLORS, and ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATERS.
   ADULT CABARET. A café, restaurant or bar where patrons are entertained by
dancers, strippers or male or female impersonators, whether accompanied by
music or not, whose conduct is characterized by an emphasis on specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  Any establishment, or part thereof, used for
presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, as defined, herein, for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business which has a principal activity the sale
of devices which simulate human genitals or devices designed for sexual
stimulation.
   ADULT PERSON SERVICE BUSINESS.  A business having as its principal activity
a person, while nude or while displaying specified anatomical areas, providing
personal services for another person. Such businesses include, but are not
limited to, modeling studios, body painting studios, wrestling studios,
conversations parlors and theatrical performances or entertainment.
   ADULT VIDEO STORE. An establishment which has in excess of 50% of its stock-
in-trade for sale or rental to the public or patrons, video cassettes or video
tapes, having as a dominant theme and emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activity or specified anatomical areas.
   BUTTOCK. Includes the anus and perineum of any person.
   CHURCH.  A building used for regular public worship services and exempt from
taxation under the General Property Tax Act of the state.
    NUDE MODELING STUDIO.  Any building, structure, premises or part thereof
used primarily as a place which offers as its principal activity the providing
of models to display specified anatomical areas for artists and photographers
for a fee.
   PROTECTED USE. A church, school or public park or child daycare facility.
   PUBLIC PARK.  Any park owned and maintained by the city.
   SCHOOL. A public or private school offering education to students enrolled
in prekindergarten, kindergarten, one or more grades of one through twelve, or
post secondary education.
   SEXUAL INTERCOURSE.  Includes fellatio, cunnilingus, anal intercourse and
any other intrusion, however slight, or any part of a person's body, or of any
object into the genital or anal openings of another's body.
   SODOMY.  Sexual bestiality.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS:
      (1)   Less than completely and/or opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitalia and pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; or
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitalia in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES:
      (1)   The stimulation or arousal of human genitalia;
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy; or
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitalia, pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
   TATTOO PARLOR. A business having as its principal activity the application
or placing, by any method, of designs, letters, scrolls, figures, symbols or
other marks upon or under the human skin with ink or any other substance
resulting in the coloration of the skin by the aid of needles or any other
instrument designed to touch or puncture the skin.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
§ 114.02  LICENSE.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no adult business
shall be operated or maintained in the city without first obtaining a license
to operate issued by the city.
   (B)   A license may be issued only for one adult business located at a fixed
and certain place. Any person, partnership, or corporation which desires to
operate more than one adult business must have a license for each.
   (C)   No license or interest in a license may be transferred to any person,
partnership, or corporation.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
§ 114.03  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation desiring to secure a license
shall make application to the City Clerk. The application shall be dated by the
City Clerk. A copy of the application shall be distributed promptly by the City
Clerk to the Cheboygan Department of Public Safety and to the applicant.
   (B)   The application for a license shall be upon a form provided by the
City Clerk. An applicant for a license, which shall include all partners or
limited partners of a partnership applicant, and all officers and directors of
a corporate applicant and all stockholders including more than 5% of the stock
of a corporate applicant, or any other person who is interested directly in the
ownership or operation of the business, shall furnish the following information
under oath:
      (1)   Name and address, including all aliases.
      (2)   Date of birth.
      (3)   Social security number.
      (4)   Michigan vehicle operator's license number.
      (5)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age.
      (6)   All residential addresses of the applicant for the past three
years.
      (7)   The applicant's height, weight, color of eyes and hair.
      (8)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for five
years immediately preceding the date of application.
      (9)   Whether the applicant previously operated in this or any other
county, city or state under an adult entertainment establishment license or
similar business license; whether the applicant has ever had such a license
revoked or suspended, the reason therefor, and the business entity or trade
name under which the applicant operated that was subject to the suspension or
revocation.
      (10)     All criminal statute, whether federal or state, or city
ordinance violation convictions, forfeiture of bond or pleadings of nolo
contendere on all criminal charges, except minor traffic violations.
      (11)    Fingerprints and two portrait photographs at least two inches by
two inches of the applicant.
      (12)     The address of the adult entertainment establishment to be
operated, by the applicant.
      (13)     If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall specify
the name of the corporation, the date and state of incorporation, the name and
address of the registered agent and the name and address of all shareholders
owning more than 5% of the stock in said corporation and all officers and
directors of the corporation.
   (C)   Within 30 days of receiving an application for a license, the City
Clerk shall notify the applicant whether application is granted or denied.
   (D)   Whenever an application is denied, the City Clerk shall advise the
applicant in writing of the reasons for such action. If the applicant requests
a hearing within ten days of receipt of notification of denial, a public
hearing shall be held within 30 days thereafter before the Council, as
hereinafter provided.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give information relevant to
the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to appear
at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding said
application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any
investigation required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for such license and shall be grounds
for denial thereof by the City Clerk.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
§ 114.04  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   To receive a license to operate an adult business, the applicant must
meet the following standards:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual:
         (a)   The applicant shall be at least 18 years of age.
         (b)   The applicant shall have not been convicted of or pleaded nolo
contendere to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution,
obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction within five
years immediately preceding the date of the application.
         (c)   The applicant shall not have been found to have previously
violated this chapter or a substantially similar ordinance within five years
immediately preceding the date of the application.
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation:
         (a)   All officers, directors and stockholders required to be named
under
§ 114.03(B) shall be a least 18 years of age.
         (b)   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
§ 114.03(B) shall have been convicted or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony or
any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of
a sexual nature in any jurisdiction within five years immediately preceding the
date of the application.
         (c)   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under
§ 114.03(B)  shall have been found to have previously violated this chapter or
a substantially similar ordinance within five years immediately preceding the
date of the application.
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture, or any other type
or organization where two  or more persons have a financial interest:
         (a)   All persons having a financial interest in the partnership,
joint venture or other type of organization shall be at least 18 years of age.
         (b)   No person having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been convicted of or pleaded
nolo contendere to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude,
prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction
within five years immediately preceding the date of the application.
         (c)   No person having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been found to have violated
any provision of this chapter or a substantially similar ordinance within five
years immediately preceding the date of the application.
   (B)   No license shall be issued unless the Cheboygan Department of Public
Safety has investigated the applicant's qualifications to be licensed. The
results of that investigation shall be filed in writing with the City Clerk no
later than 21 days after the date of the application.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
§ 114.05  FEES.
   A license fee of $250 shall be submitted with the application for a license.
If the application is denied, one-half of the fee shall be returned. The amount
of this fee may be altered and amended from time to time by resolution of
Council.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
§ 114.06  DISPLAY OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   The license shall be displayed in a conspicuous public place in the adult
entertainment establishment.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05) 
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.07  RENEWAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate at the
expiration of one year from the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked, and
must be renewed before operation is allowed in the following year. Any operator
desiring to renew a license shall make application to the City Clerk. The
application for renewal shall be filed in triplicate with and dated by the City
Clerk. A copy of the application for renewal shall be distributed promptly by
the City Clerk to the Cheboygan Department of Public Safety and to the business
operator. The application for renewal shall be upon a form provided by the City
Clerk and shall contain such information and data, given under oath or
affirmation, as is required for an application for a new license.
   (B)   A license renewal fee of $250 shall be submitted with the application
for renewal. In addition to the renewal fee, a late penalty of $100 shall be
assessed against the applicant who files for a renewal less than 60 days before
the license expires. If the application is denied, one-half of the total fees
collected shall be returned. The renewal fee and penalty may be altered and
amended from time to time by resolution of Council.
   (C)   If the Cheboygan Department of Public Safety is aware of any
information bearing on the operators qualifications, that information shall be
filed in writing with the City Clerk.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
§ 114.08  REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The City Council can revoke or suspend a license or permit for any of
the following reasons:
      (1)   Discovery that false or misleading information or date was given on
any application material facts were omitted from any application.
      (2)   The operator or any employee of the operator has violated any
provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted by the City Council
pursuant to this chapter; provided, however, that in the case of a first
offense by an operator where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the
penalty shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the Council shall find that
the operator had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and
could not be the exercise of due diligence have had such actual or constructive
knowledge.
      (3)   The operator becomes ineligible to obtain a license or permit or
the operator is convicted of, or pleads nolo contendere to any felony or any
crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a
sexual nature.
      (4)   Any cost or fee required to be paid by this chapter is not paid.
      (5)   Any intoxicating liquor or cereal malt beverage is served or
consumed on the premises of the adult entertainment establishment.
      (6)   The operator fails to maintain a special use permit for the site as
required by the zoning ordinance, or fails to comply with conditions of the
special use permit.
   (B)   The Council, before revoking or suspending any license or permit,
shall give the operator at least ten days written notice of the charges against
him, and the opportunity for a public hearing before the City Council, as
hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Before the City Council revokes or suspends a license issued
herein, the City Council shall cause written notice to be sent by certified
mail to the licensee or applicant affected, at the address stated in the
license or application informing such person of the right to a hearing upon
request.
      (2)   If the licensee does not request a hearing within 14 days of the
date the notice was sent, the license may be forthwith revoked or suspended. If
the licensee requests a hearing before the City Council regarding said proposed
revocation or suspension, said hearing shall be held within 21 days after the
date of the written request.
      (3)   Any license issued by the city may be immediately suspended by the
City Manager or duly appointed city official if it is determined that the
licensee has violated or someone at or upon the licensed location has violated
the city ordinance or state law and that continued operation under the license
is contrary to the public health, safety, and welfare. A licensee shall have
the right to a hearing before the City Council on any license suspension by the
City Manager and notice there of shall be given in accordance with divisions
(B)(1) and (2) above.
      (4)   Both the city and the licensee shall be afforded reasonable
opportunity to present evidence on the issue at the hearing. Action taken by
the City Council shall be final and any fees hereunder shall not be refunded to
the applicant or licensee.
   (C)   The transfer of a license or any interest in a license shall
automatically and immediately revoked the license.
   (D)   Any operator whose license is revoked shall not be eligible to receive
a license for one year from the date of revocation. No location or premises for
which a license has been issued shall be used as an adult entertainment
establishment for six months from the date of revocation of the license.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
§ 114.09  PHYSICAL LAYOUT OF ADULT ENTERTAINMENT ESTABLISHMENT.
   Any adult entertainment business having available for customers, patrons or
members, any booth, room or cubicle for the private viewing of any adult
entertainment must comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Construction. Every booth, room or cubicle shall meet with the
following construction requirements:
      (1)   Each booth, room or cubicle shall be separated from adjacent
booths, rooms and cubicles and any non-public areas by a wall.
      (2)   Have at least one side totally open to a public lighted aisle so
that there is an unobstructed view at all times of anyone occupying same.
      (3)   All walls shall be solid and without any openings, extended from
the floor to a height of not less than six feet and be light colored, non-
absorbent, smooth textured and easily cleanable.
      (4)   The floor must be light colored, non-absorbent, smooth textured and
easily cleanable.
      (5)   The lighting level of each booth room or cubicle, when not in use
shall be a minimum of ten foot candles at all times, as measured from the
floor.
   (B)   Occupants.  Only one individual shall occupy a booth, room or cubicle
at anytime. No occupant of same shall engage in any type of sexual activity,
cause any bodily discharge or litter while in the booth. No individual shall
damage or deface any portion of the booth.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
§ 114.10  RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE OPERATOR.
   (A)   The operator shall maintain a register of all employees, showing the
name and aliases used by the employee, home address, age, date of birth, sex,
height, weight, color of hair and eyes, phone numbers, social security numbers
date of employment and termination, and duties of each employee. The above
information on each employee shall be maintained in the register on the
premises for a period of three years following termination.
   (B)   Daily hours of operation of any adult business shall be limited to the
period of time from 8:00 a.m. to 2:00 a.m.
   (C)   The operator shall make the register of employees available
immediately for inspection by police upon demand of a member of the Cheboygan
Department of Public Safety at all reasonable times.
   (D)   No merchandise or pictures of the products or entertainment on the
premises shall be displayed in window areas or any areas where they can be
viewed from a public sidewalk adjacent to the establishment.
   (E)   Any individual viewing booths, entertainment rooms, or similar
cubicles designed or used for individuals to view specified anatomical areas or
to view specified sexual activities shall not be completely enclosed from the
common areas, hallways, or other areas of the adult business.
   (F)   No employee or patron under 18 years of age shall be allowed on the
premises of an adult business.
   (G)   No intoxicating liquor or cereal malt beverage shall be served or
consumed on the premises of an adult business.
   (H)   The operator shall maintain the premises in a clean an sanitary manner
at all times.
   (I)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
if such act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge, or
approval of the operator, or as a result of the operator's negligent failure to
supervise the employee's conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for such
act or omission in the same manner as if the operator committed the act or
cased the omission.
   (J)   Any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
for purposes of determining whether the operator's license shall be revoked,
suspended or renewed.
   (K)   No employee of an adult business shall allow any minor to loiter
around or to frequent an adult entertainment establishment or to allow any
minor to view adult entertainment as defined herein.
   (L)   The operator shall maintain at least ten foot candles of light in the
public portions of the establishment, including aisles, at all times measured
from the floor. However, if a lesser level of illumination in the aisles shall
be necessary to enable a patron to view the adult entertainment in a booth,
room or cubicle adjoining an aisle, a lesser amount of illumination may be
maintained in such aisles, provided, however, at no time shall there be less
than one foot candle of illumination in said aisles, as measured from the
floor.
   (M)   The operator shall insure compliance of the establishment and its
patrons with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05) 
Penalty, see § 114.99
§ 114.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person convicted under this chapter shall be subject to a maximum
penalty of 90 days in jail, or an equal amount of time of community service, or
any combination thereof not exceeding 90 days, plus a $500 fine, plus actual
costs of prosecution, plus mandatory restitution to victims.
   (B)   Continuing violation. In addition to the penalty provided in division
(A) above, any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of the
provisions of this code, or any ordinance, shall be deemed a new and separate
offense for each day that such condition continues to exist.
(Ord. eff. 10-31-05)
CHAPTER 115:  TATTOO AND BODY PIERCING BUSINESS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Restrictions and regulations
§ 115.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BODY PIERCING.  A perforation of human tissue other than an ear for
nonmedical purposes.
   MINOR.  An individual under 18 years of age who is not emancipated under
Public Act 293, § 4, of 1968, being M.C.L.A. § 722.4, as amended.
   PRINCIPAL BUSINESS.  A business is deemed to be a tattoo business and/or
body piercing business if its sales or rental income from its tattoo and/or
body piercing activities comprises at least 1% of its sales volume or if that
portion of its inventory that relates to its tattoo business and/or body
piercing business occupies 1% or more of the floor area or visible inventory
within the establishment.
   TATTOO.  One of the following: (1) an indelible mark made upon the body of
another individual by the insertion of a pigment under the skin; (2) an
indelible design made upon the body of another individual by production of
scars other than by branding.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 115.02  RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Every tattoo or body piercing establishment shall be equipped with
sterilizing equipment prescribed by the public health director or his duly
authorized representatives or as otherwise provided by law or ordinance. The
sterilizing equipment must be maintained in proper sanitary manner and be at
all times in proper working order. No tattooing and/or piercing shall be
performed unless the tattooing and/or piercing equipment and materials have
been sterilized before attempting to tattoo and/or pierce each customer.
   (B)   An individual shall not tattoo or perform body piercing on a minor
unless the individual obtains the prior written informed consent of the minor's
parent or legal guardian. The minor's parent or legal guardian shall execute
the written informed consent in the presence of the individual performing the
tattooing or the body piercing on the minor or in the presence of an employee
or agent of that individual.
   (C)   An individual shall not tattoo or perform body piercing on another
individual if the other individual is under the influence of intoxicating
liquor or a controlled substance.
   (D)   All individuals tattooing or performing body piercing must possess
qualifications either by experience and/or training or otherwise provided by
law.
   (E)   All unreasonable materials used during the administration of tattooing
or body piercing which comes in contact with the individual being tattooed or
body pierced must be disposed of by a licensed medical waste handler in
compliance with state and local laws for disposal.
   (F)   All applicants must provide insurance in a minimum amount of $250,000
in effect for no less than one year or the term of each license.
   (G)   Needles, dyes, inks and other materials or other equipment used in
tattooing or body piercing shall be kept in a clean, sterile, non-toxic
condition and the environment of the premises shall be such as to prevent
transmission of etiologic agents. Violation of this provision is hereby
declared detrimental to health and dangerous to human life and shall be
considered a nuisance.
   (H)   The individual administering tattoos or body piercing must advise the
customer to seek medical attention if the tattoo site or body piercing site
becomes infected, painful or if a fever develops.
   (I)   All individuals administering a tattoo or body piercing must have
smooth, easy-to-clean counter surfaces and they must sterilize re-usable
needles.
   (J)   All individuals administering a tattoo or body piercing also must wear
disposable gloves and give customers information sheets on what to do if the
area being tattooed or pierced becomes infected.
   (K)   All applicants' place of business must be approved by the State Health
Department to assure all state laws are complied with.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
CHAPTER 116:  TAXICABS
Section
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Declaration of convenience and necessity
   
116.03   Council determination; hearing; notice to applicant
   
116.04   Liability insurance required
   
116.05   Refusal to issue license
   
116.06   Transfer of license
   
116.07   Record required
   
116.08   Complaints
   
116.09   Taximeters
   
116.10   Rates of fare
   
116.11   Driver’s license
   
116.12   Regular service required
   
116.13   Inspections
   
116.14   Conduct of drivers
   
116.15   Taxi stands
§ 116.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE FOR HIRE.  A motor vehicle having a seating capacity of seven
passengers or less used for the transportation of persons for hire at rates
computed solely on an hourly basis.
   TAXICAB.  A motor vehicle having a seating capacity of seven passengers or
less and used for the transportation of persons for hire at rates computed on a
mileage basis.
   TAXIMETER.  A mechanical instrument or device by which the charge for hire
is mechanically calculated, upon which said charge shall be indicated by means
of figures.
   TAXI STAND.  Any portion of a street, alley or public place in the city
which has been set apart and designated as herein provided for the use of
taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire; also referred to as a “stand.”
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.02  DECLARATION OF CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   No taxicab license or license for motor vehicle for hire shall hereafter be
issued unless the Council shall, by resolution, declare that the public
convenience and necessity require the proposed service for which application
for license is made. Such declaration of public convenience and necessity shall
not be necessary:
   (A)   For the licensing of the same number of taxicabs or motor vehicles for
hire licensed for operation and operated under the same name and color on the
31st day of December, 1951, or the renewal of the same number of licenses
annually thereafter; or
   (B)   For the renewal of licenses for which the Council shall have, at any
time prior to the date of application for such renewal, made a declaration of
public, convenience and necessity.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.03  COUNCIL DETERMINATION; HEARING; NOTICE TO APPLICANT.
   (A)   In its determination, the Council may take into consideration whether
the demands of the public convenience and necessity require such proposed or
such additional service within the city; the financial responsibility of the
applicant, the number, kind, type of equipment; the schedule of rates proposed
to be charged; the color scheme to be used by the applicant; the increased
traffic congestion and demand for increased parking space on the streets of the
city which may result; whether the safe use of the streets by the public, both
vehicular and pedestrian, will be preserved by the granting of such additional
license; and such other relevant facts as the Council may deem advisable or
necessary.
   (B)   Within 15 days after the filing of an application for license, the
Council shall determine by motion or resolution, whether there shall be
conducted a public hearing relative to the granting or denial of the
application.
   (C)   In the event it shall be determined that there shall be a public
hearing concerning the matter, the Council shall cause a notice thereof to be
published in one of the leading daily newspapers of the city, the cost of which
notice shall be borne by the applicant.
      (1)   Said notice shall set forth the fact that the certain application
has been filed for a taxicab license or license for motor vehicle for hire
service, the name of the applicant, kind of equipment to be used, and all other
information from the application which the Council may deem necessary, and
notifying all holders of existing taxicab licenses or licenses for motor
vehicles for hire that a public hearing will be held at a public place in the
city, to be designated by the Council at a time not less than five days or not
more than 15 days after the date of the determination to have a public hearing.
      (2)   The notice shall be published for three successive days.
   (D)   All holders of existing taxicab licenses or licenses for motor
vehicles for hire shall be entitled to file any complaint or protest. At the
time of the holding of the investigation and hearing with reference to whether
the public convenience and necessity require the operation of such additional
vehicle covered in the application, the Council shall consider all of the
complaints and protests and, in conducting its hearings, shall have the right
to call witnesses.
   (E)   In such hearing, the burden of proof shall be upon the applicant to
establish, by clear, cogent and convincing evidence which shall satisfy the
Council beyond a reasonable doubt, that public convenience and necessity
require such operation of the vehicle for which the application has been made.
   (F)   (1)   If the Council finds upon its investigation or hearing that the
public convenience and necessity justify the operation of the vehicle for which
license is desired, it shall notify applicant of its finding.
      (2)   If the Council then finds that the applicant is the owner and the
bona fide operator of the vehicle for which license is desired and that such
vehicle complies with this code and all the rules and regulations enacted by
the city, license shall thereupon be issued to the said applicant upon the
payment of the prescribed license fee.
      (3)   If the Council finds from such investigation or hearing that the
public convenience and necessity do not justify the operation of the vehicle
for which license is desired, it shall forthwith notify the applicant of such
finding.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.04  LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued hereunder until and unless the applicant deposits
with the City Clerk a prepaid policy or certificate of liability insurance for
each taxicab or motor vehicle for hire for which a license is sought, said
policy of liability insurance to be accepted and approved by the City Manager
and issued by a company authorized to do business in the State of Michigan. The
policy of insurance so deposited shall contain a clause obligating the company
issuing same to give ten days written notice before cancellation thereof to the
City Clerk, and the license for the operation of such vehicle shall expire upon
the lapse or termination of such policy of insurance.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.05  REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSE.
   The Council shall refuse to issue a license when in its opinion there are
licensed a sufficient number of taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire to
adequately serve the public, when the use of the streets by additional vehicles
would interfere with the public use of the streets, congest traffic or endanger
the person or property of pedestrians or others using the streets, or when in
its opinion the applicant does not possess good moral character.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.06  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   The operator of any licensed vehicle may, during the license year, replace
the vehicle with another and shall be entitled to a license therefor at no
additional cost; provided that no licensed vehicle shall be out of service for
more than 30 consecutive days and provided further, that the replaced license
is first surrendered to the City Clerk. Whenever any vehicle licensed hereunder
is sold, the license issued therefor shall first be surrendered to the City
Clerk.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.07  RECORD REQUIRED.
   (A)   The Police Department/Department of Public Safety shall keep a
complete and public record of the issuance of each license and all renewals,
suspensions and revocations thereof, which record shall be kept on file with
the original application for such license.
   (B)   (1)   If a member of any cooperative or voluntary partnership,
association or corporation, the licensee shall state the name of such
affiliation in his application for license and shall notify the Police
Department/Department of Public Safety in writing of any change in his
membership or affiliation within 48 hours.
      (2)   If any licensee becomes a member or affiliate, he shall notify the
Police Department/Department of Public Safety in writing within 48 hours.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.08  COMPLAINTS.
   Any person being aggrieved by reason of the conduct or action of any taxicab
operator, owner or driver may present his complaint to any public safety
office. Such complaint shall be promptly investigated by the Police Department/
Department of Public Safety and the license of such licensee may be suspended
or revoked after investigation.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.09  TAXIMETERS.
   (A)   A taxicab may have affixed thereto a taximeter for the computation of
the charges to be made upon a mileage basis; provided, however, that no
taximeter shall be used for the computation of charges unless it shall first
have been inspected, tested and approved by the Chief of Police/Director of
Public Safety.
   (B)   Such taximeter shall have the case thereof sealed and the motor and
gears thereof intact.
   (C)   Every taximeter shall be so fixed that the amount of the fare to be
determined shall be plainly visible to the passengers thereof and, after
sundown, shall be illuminated.
   (D)   Taximeters shall be inspected at least once in six months by the Chief
of Police/Director of Public Safety, who shall keep a record of all such
inspections and approvals and disapprovals.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.10  RATES OF FARE.
   Each owner of a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire shall maintain on file
with the City Clerk a signed and dated schedule of rates of fare which such
owner intends to charge his patrons. After such schedule has been filed, such
rates of fare may be changed from time to time, but in no case shall any change
become effective until ten days after the new schedule shall have been dated
and filed by the owner with the City Clerk.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.11  DRIVER’S LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person driving a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire shall procure a
license therefor.
   (B)   Each applicant for a driver's license shall:
      (1)   Be of the age of 18 years or older;
      (2)   Be of sound physical condition and good eyesight, and not subject
to epilepsy, vertigo, heart trouble or any other infirmity of body or mind
which might render him unfit for the safe operation of a public vehicle;
      (3)   Be able to read and write the English language;
      (4)   Be clean in dress and person, and not addicted to the use of
intoxicating liquors;
      (5)   Fill out, upon a blank form to be procured from the Chief of
Police/Director of Public Safety, a statement giving his full name, residence,
place of residence for five years previous to moving to his present address,
age, color, height, color of eyes and hair, place of birth, length of time he
has resided in the city, whether a citizen of the United States, place of
previous employment, whether married or single, whether he has ever been
convicted of a felony or misdemeanor and, if convicted, the nature of the crime
and the date and place of such conviction, whether he has previously been
licensed as a driver or chauffeur and, if so, when and where and whether his
license has ever been revoked and for what cause; which statement shall be
signed and sworn to by the applicant and filed with the Chief of Police/
Director of Public Safety as a permanent record.
   (C)   Each applicant for a driver's license shall be examined by the Chief
of Police/Director of Public Safety as to his knowledge of the provisions of
this chapter, the traffic regulations and geography of the city. If the result
of the examination be unsatisfactory, he shall be refused a license. Each such
applicant shall, if required by the Chief of Police/Director of Public Safety,
demonstrate his skill and ability to safely handle a public vehicle by driving
it through a crowded section of the city accompanied by the Chief of Police/
Director of Public Safety.
   (D)   Any person holding a public driver's license shall make application
for the renewal thereof upon forms to be furnished by the City Clerk, entitled
“Application for Renewal of License,” which shall be filled out with the full
name and address of the applicant, together with a statement of the date upon
which his original license was issued and the number thereof, which shall be
immediately referred to the City Manager. Upon the return of the application
with an endorsement thereon by the City Manager that there have been no
complaints or convictions against the applicant during the preceding year, the
City Clerk shall issue a public driver's license upon the payment of the
prescribed fee.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.12  REGULAR SERVICE REQUIRED.
   The licensee shall regularly and daily operate his licensed taxicab or motor
vehicle for hire during each day of the licensed year to the extent reasonably
necessary to meet the public demand for such service. Upon complete abandonment
of service for a period of ten consecutive days by any licensee, the City
Manager may revoke the license upon a hearing after not less than three days'
notice thereof by registered mail to the last known address of the licensee.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 116.13  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   As a condition precedent to the continuance of any license issued
hereunder, each vehicle shall submit to safety inspections as herein provided.
   (B)   The Chief of Police/Director of Public Safety shall inspect or cause
to be inspected all taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire at least once each
month or as often as may be deemed necessary.
   (C)   Reports in writing of all inspections shall be promptly made to the
City Manager and copies thereof, in cases where repairs or adjustments are
found necessary, shall be delivered to the owner of the vehicle or his legal
representative; the owner or his legal representative shall forthwith remove
the affected vehicle from public use and shall not place it in use again until
the Police Department/Department of Public Safety is satisfied that such
vehicle is in good mechanical condition.
   (D)   In case of any violation of this section, the license of the affected
vehicle shall be revoked.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 116.14  CONDUCT OF DRIVERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person operating a taxicab or motor
vehicle for hire to drive his vehicle carefully and in full compliance with all
traffic laws and ordinances and regulations or orders of the City Manager, to
promptly answer all court notices, traffic violation notices or police notices,
and to deal honestly with the public and his employer. Upon violation of any of
the provisions of this division, the City Manager may forthwith suspend the
license of any offending driver and, upon investigation, may revoke the
license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or operating a taxicab or
motor vehicle for hire:
      (1)   To drive any such vehicle while under the influence of liquor or to
drink any intoxicating liquor while transporting passengers;
      (2)   To allow any such vehicle to be used for immoral purposes or to
procure or aid in procuring any woman for immoral purposes;
      (3)   To smoke, swear or act in a boisterous manner while actually
carrying passengers in such vehicle;
      (4)   To charge more than the rates authorized by this chapter or which
may hereafter be fixed by an amendment hereto or resolution of the Council;
      (5)   To fail, neglect or refuse to turn in to the Police Department/
Department of Public Safety, within 24 hours, all lost articles found in such
vehicle, taking a receipt therefor;
      (6)   To drive or park such vehicle in violation of any of the provisions
of this code or of any state law;
      (7)   To use or permit the use of any portion of the public streets,
alleys or other public places as a stand, except for such time as is necessary
to load or unload passengers and except in such portions of the public street,
alleys and other public places as shall have been designated by the Council;
      (8)   To fail to notify the Police Department/Department of Public Safety
immediately after any accident, giving the time and location of the accident,
the name of any person injured, the character of injuries so far as known and,
in case of property damage, the estimated amount of such damage;
      (9)   To allow any person except the driver to occupy the front seat of
any taxicab, except when the back seat is occupied by two or more persons;
      (10)    To solicit passengers for such vehicles upon the streets of the
city, except when sitting upon the driver's seat of such vehicle and parked in
a regularly established stand;
      (11)    To ask or request any person to take passage in such vehicle when
waiting in an established loading point for a bus to take passage on a bus;
      (12)   To use other than dimmed driving lights while traveling or parking
upon the city streets, alleys and other public places;
      (13)    To refuse or neglect when applied to and tender of fare made,
when not already engaged, to convey any person to any place in the city in such
vehicle, by way of the most direct and safe route; provided that no driver
shall be required to take as a passenger any person under the influence of
liquor, nor shall this division be considered to justify his assisting in the
carrying of liquor in violation of any law or this code or the using of such
vehicle for any immoral or illegal purpose;
      (14)    To fail to notify the Chief of Police/Director of Public Safety
of the discharge or withdrawal of a public driver from his place of employment
within 12 hours after such discharge or withdrawal occurs;
      (15)    To fail to mark conspicuously, on both sides of the licensed
vehicle, the name of the company or person owning such vehicle;
      (16)    To fail to have the city taxicab or motor vehicle for hire
license plates affixed to the state license plates on each vehicle.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98) 
Penalty, see § 110.99
§ 116.15  TAXI STANDS.
   (A)   The Council shall designate certain locations as taxicab stands or
stands for motor vehicles for hire.
      (1)   The Council may establish such stands upon the recommendation of
the Chief of Police/Director of Public Safety or the City Manager, or both, or
without such recommendation, but no stand shall be established except with the
approval of the Council.
      (2)   The City Manager shall recommend the number of taxicabs or motor
vehicles for hire that shall be permitted to stand at any of the stands
authorized by the Council. Such recommendation shall not become effective
except with the approval of the Council, and the Council may approve of such
recommendation or may establish regulations respecting the number of cars at
such stands.
      (3)   The Chief of Police/Director of Public Safety shall cause to be
attached to a post or stanchion a metal sign which shall state the number of
taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire which shall be permitted to stand at such
stand.
      (4)   No stand shall be established within five feet of the entrance to
any building or within five feet of any crosswalk. The first five feet
limitation shall be determined by measuring five feet on either side of a point
at the curb, opposite the door or entrance of the building.
      (5)   The City Manager shall recommend, subject to the approval of the
Council, additional stands for night use only.
   (B)   Only taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire in such number as are set
forth on the metal signs, hereinbefore referred to, may remain at such stand
while waiting for employment, and they shall be parked in single file.
      (1)   The taxicab standing at the head of such parked line shall not
refuse to carry any orderly person who offers to hire such taxicab and agrees
to pay the proper rate of fare; provided, however, that the foregoing provision
shall not be construed to prevent any person from selecting the taxicab he may
desire on the stand, whether it be at the head of the line or not.
      (2)   As the taxicabs leave the parked line with passengers, those in the
rear shall move up, and any taxicab seeking space at such stand shall not
approach the same except from the rear thereof and shall move up as closely as
possible to the last car on the parked line.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
CHAPTER 117:  TOBACCO BUSINESS
Section
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Additional application requirements
   
117.03   Restrictions and regulations
§ 117.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRINCIPAL BUSINESS.  A business is deemed to be a tobacco business if its
sales or rental income from its tobacco activities comprises at least 50% of
its sales volume or if that portion of its inventory that relates to its
tobacco business occupies 50% or more of the floor area or visible inventory
within the establishment.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL.  Of a tobacco business means and includes
the sale, lease or sublease of the business, the establishment of a trust, gift
or other similar legal device which transfers the ownership or control of the
business, except for transfer by bequest or other operation of law upon the
death of the person possessing the ownership or control.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 117.02  ADDITIONAL APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Upon application for a tobacco business permit, the application shall
be accompanied by a diagram of the premises.
      (1)   The diagram shall also designate the place at which the permit will
be conspicuously posted, if granted.
      (2)   A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or
architect's blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be
oriented to the north or to some designated street or object and should be
drawn to a designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the
various internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises.
   (B)   An application for a permit must be made on a form provided by the
city.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
§ 117.03  RESTRICTIONS AND REGULATIONS.
   As a condition of the issuance and maintenance of a license, the following
conditions shall be applied:
   (A)   The height, yard, lot area, lot width, building coverage, sign and
parking requirements of a business shall conform to the requirements for the
zone in which it is located and with the standards for special land use
approval contained within the city zoning ordinance;
   (B)   No person shall reside in or permit any person to reside in the
premises of a business;
   (C)   A tobacco business may not be operated within 500 feet of another
tobacco business;
   (D)   (1)   For the purpose of this chapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structure or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a tobacco business is conducted to the nearest property line of the other
premises.
      (2)   For purposes of this division the distance between any two tobacco
businesses shall be made from the closest exterior wall of the structure in
which each business is located.
(Ord. passed 7-28-98)
CHAPTER 118:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES
Section
   
118.01   Purpose
   
118.02   Conflict
   
118.03   Definitions
   
118.04   Permit required
   
118.05   Issuance of permit
   
118.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
118.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
118.08   Route maps
   
118.09   Repair of damage
   
118.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
118.11   Modification of existing fees
   
118.12   Savings clause
   
118.13   Use funds
   
118.14   Annual report
   
118.15   Cable television operators
   
118.16   Existing rights
   
118.17   Compliance
   
118.18   Reservation of police powers
   
118.19   Authorized city officials
   
118.20   Municipal civil infraction
§ 118.01  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002) ("Act") and other
applicable law, and to ensure that the city qualifies for distributions under
the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and complying with the Act.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.02  CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT.   The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002), as amended from time to
time.
      CITY.   The City of Cheboygan.
      CITY COUNCIL.   The City Council of the City of Cheboygan or its
designee.  This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the City Council.
      CITY MANAGER.  The City Manager or his or her designee.
      PERMIT.   A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the act, including without limitation the following:
      AUTHORITY.   The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to Section 3 of the Act.
      MPSC.  The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
"Commission" in the Act.
      PERSON.   An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.   The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway.  PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES.  The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals. 
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES  or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of Title III
of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332
and further defined as "commercial mobile radio service" in 47 CFR 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in Section 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act,
1991 PA 179, M.C.L.A. § 484.2102.  TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include
a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed
commercial mobile radio service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of the
Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, or service
provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.  For the purpose of the
Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required.  Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application.  Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with Section 6(1) of the
Act.  A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with
the City Clerk, one copy with the City Manager and one copy with the City
Attorney.  Applications shall be complete and include all information required
by the Act, including without limitation a route map showing the location of
the provider's existing and proposed facilities in accordance with Section 6(5)
of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information.  If a telecommunications provider claims
that any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, 1976 PA 442, M.C.L.A §§ 15.231 through
15.246, pursuant to Section 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider
shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee.  Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information.  The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant.  The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the City Manager.  If the city and the applicant cannot agree on
the requirement of additional information requested by the city, the city or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in Section 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits.  Pursuant to Section 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under Section 251 of
the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 PA 179, M.C.L.A. § 484.2251 and
authorizations or permits issued by the city to telecommunications providers
prior to the 1995 enactment of Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications
Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers.  Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under
Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 PA 179, M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit in accordance
with the requirements or this chapter. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this section is not
required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D) above.  A
provider under this section shall be given up to an additional 180 days to
submit the permit application if allowed by the authority, as provided in
Section 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.05  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial.  The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager.  Pursuant to Section 15
(3) of the Act, the City Manager shall approve or deny an application for a
permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an
application for a permit under §
118.04(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the city.  Pursuant to
Section 6(6) of the Act, the City Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City
Manager has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the
date on which the application was filed and the date on which permit was
granted or denied.  The City Manager shall not unreasonably deny an application
for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit.  If an application for a permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with Sections 6(1),
6(2) and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions.  Pursuant to Section 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager
may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement.  Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may require that a bond be
posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit.  If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider's access and use.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.06  CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under Chapter 98 of this code,
as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way.  No fee shall be
charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.07  CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to Section 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.08  ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to Section 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
city.  The route maps should be in paper or electronic format unless and until
the MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with Section 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.09  REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to Section 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider
undertaking an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all
damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or
within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-
way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.10  ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
118.04(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the city's public right-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
authority pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.11  MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(1) of the Act, the city
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the authority. In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(4)
of the Act, the city also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers
with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city's
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under Section
8 of the Act.  The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected
by the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of
Section 13(4) of the Act.  To the extent any fees are charged
telecommunications providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act,
of which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby
declared to be contrary to the city's policy and intent, and upon application
by a provider or discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having
been charged in error.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.12  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to Section 13(5) of the Act, if Section 8 of the Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
118.11 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.13  USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant  to Section 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the city from
the authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related
purposes.  In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city
from the authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the
Local Street Fund maintained by the city under Act No. 51 of the Public Acts of
1951.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.14  ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to Section 10(5) of the Act, the City Manager shall file an annual
report with the authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the authority.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.15  CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to Section 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.16  EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein
with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.17  COMPLIANCE.
   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this chapter
is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions hereof
should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose.  The city
shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including but
not limited to the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act, 1976
PA 442, M.C.L.A. § 15.246, as provided in §
118.04(C);
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
118.04(F);
   (C)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
118.04(G);
   (D)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
118.05(A);
   (E)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
118.05(A);
   (F)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
118.05(A);
   (G)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
118.05(B);
   (H)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
118.05(C);
   (I)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with §
118.05(D);
   (J)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
118.06;
   (K)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city's
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
118.11;
   (L)   Submitting an annual report to the authority, in accordance with §
118.14; and
   (M)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
118.15.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.18  RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to Section 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the
city's right to review and approve a telecommunication provider's access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city's authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.19  AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The Director of Department of Public Safety or his or her designee is hereby
designated as the authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction
citations (directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil
infraction violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the
municipal chapter violations bureau) for violations under this chapter as
provided by this code.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
§ 118.20  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to civil infraction fines under
Chapter 34 of this code.  Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
the remedies available to the city in the event of a violation by a person of
this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. passed 12-26-02)
CHAPTER 119:  SIDEWALK CAFES AND OUTDOOR SEATING
Section
   
119.01   Purpose and location
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   Permit
   
119.04   Regulations
   
119.05   Operating
   
119.06   Denial, revocation and suspension; causes enumerated
   
119.07   Hearing demand; review; council
   
119.08   Renewal considered as original
   
119.99   Penalty
§ 119.01  PURPOSE AND LOCATION.
   The sidewalk cafe and outdoor seating regulations, as established in this
chapter, are designed to allow sidewalk cafes or outdoor seating on public
property in locations where they are determined to be appropriate by the City
Manager or designee, and to promote and protect the public health, safety, and
general welfare of the community.  These general goals include, among others,
the following specific purposes:
   (A)   To attract residents and non-residents to downtown.
   (B)   To provide an additional way for restaurants or food establishments to
expand their operation.
   (C)   To promote sidewalk cafes and outdoor seating as useful and properly
planned visual amenities.
   (D)   To provide adequate space for pedestrians on the side walk adjacent to
sidewalk cafes or outdoor seating and to insure access to adjacent commercial
and retail uses.
   (E)   To promote the most desirable use of land and buildings and thereby
protect the city’s tax revenues.
   (F)   To provide for penalties for violations of this chapter.
   (G)   To be located within property zones Central Business (B-2) or located
on Main Street or the Cheboygan River between Mackinaw Avenue and Nelson
Street.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05)
§ 119.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OUTDOOR SEATING.  An outdoor area operated by an existing restaurant or
other food establishment which sells food or beverages for immediate
consumption, located on a public sidewalk,  or other public property, which is
public through dedication or easement or public right-of-way that provides
seating outside of an establishment for patrons and other persons, and contains
readily removable tables, chairs, railings or planters.  This area does not
provide waiter or waitress service or offer alcoholic beverages.  It is
unenclosed by fixed walls and open to the air.
   SIDEWALK CAFE.  An outdoor dining area operated by an existing restaurant or
other food establishment which sells food, beverages, or alcoholic beverages
for immediate consumption, located on a public sidewalk, or other public
property, which is public through dedication or easement or public right-of-way
that provides waiter, waitress service or counter service and contains readily
removable tables, chairs, railings, or planters.  It is otherwise unenclosed by
fixed walls and open to the air, except that it may have table umbrellas or
other non-permanent cover.
   SIDEWALK CAFE OR OUTDOOR SEATING PERMIT.  A permit issued by the City Clerk
based upon approval by the City Manager, which conforms to the procedures and
regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05)
§ 119.03  PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Clerk is authorized to issue a permit to operate a sidewalk
cafe or provide outdoor seating on public property provided that the applicant
has complied with the standards set forth in this chapter and
Chapter 110.  If there are any conflicts between any provision of the chapter
and any other provision on any chapter, the provision(s) contained in this
chapter shall govern.
   (B)   Sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating permit applications for
establishments operating on public sidewalks or public property shall be
reviewed by city staff and approved by the City Manager.  The City Manager
reserves the right to forward a permit application to the City Council for its
review and consideration.  Establishments serving alcohol require approval by
the Michigan Liquor Control Commission (M.L.C.C). No permit shall be issued
until such license or permit, as required by the M.L.C.C. has been approved and
the local approval resolution has been approved by the City Council.
   (C)   Despite anything contained in this code to the contrary, all (if any
is required) permits shall be issued on a calendar year basis and shall expire
on December 31.  Unless another time frame is specified in the permit, or by
the requirements of this chapter, the permit shall allow the operation of a
sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating from May 1 up to and including October 31 of
the calendar year for which the permit is issued.  All permits shall be
reapplied for annually in accord with §
119.08.
   (D)   Any person or establishment granted a permit by the City Manager to
operate a sidewalk cafe or provide outdoor seating on public sidewalks or
public property shall pay to the City Treasurer a fee in the amount as
established by resolution of the City Council.  The City Clerk shall not issue
a permit unless the fees required by this section are paid.
   (E)   Existing establishment signage shall be in compliance with the city
sign ordinances before a permit will be granted.
   (F)   Insurance.
      (1)   Each permit application for a sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating
shall be accompanied by a policy or certificate of insurance, in an amount
acceptable to the city, including workers compensation, naming the city as
additional insured.  Establishments serving alcohol shall also provide liquor
liability policy or certificate of insurance naming the city as an additional
insured.  A company authorized to do business in the state shall issue such
insurance.  Required insurance amounts shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.  The policy or certificate shall contain a
clause requiring the insuring company to give ten days written notice to the
City Manager prior to canceling the policy.
      (2)   The insurance certificate required by this chapter shall be in
effect for any period during which the sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating is in
operation.  Failure to provide a current insurance certificate shall be cause
for denial, suspension, or revocation of the sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating
permit.  No establishment shall operate a sidewalk cafe or provide outdoor
seating without filing proof of proper insurance. Denied, suspended or revoked
permits may be reinstated upon submittal of proof of proper insurance.
   (G)   Site development and application approval.
      (1)   No outdoor service of food and/or beverages in the form of a
sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating shall be established on public property,
except in conformance with a site development plan reviewed by city staff and
approved by the City Manager as required by this chapter.
      (2)   A permit application available from the City Clerk for site
development plan approval shall be submitted to the City Clerk.  The
application shall include, but not be limited to the following:
         (a)   Name of the applicant and business.
         (b)   Address of the business.
         (c)   Address of the applicant.
         (d)   Telephone number of the applicant and business.
         (e)   Name of the property owner if other than applicant.
         (f)   Address of the property owner if other than applicant.
         (g)   Telephone number of the property owner if other than applicant.
         (h)   Name of planner, engineer, architect or agent, if applicable.
         (i)   Proposed dates of occupancy.
         (j)   Proposed hours of occupancy.
         (k)   Proposed number of tables, chairs, railings, posts, table
umbrellas or other items.
         (l)   Proposed color, design, materials, and workmanship of tables,
chairs, railings, posts, table umbrellas or other items.
         (m)   Proposed area of occupancy including square feet and dimensions.
         (n)   Whether alcohol will be served.
         (o)   Copy of certificate of insurance.
         (p)   Whether permit application is a new application or renewal; if
renewal, applicant shall describe any changes from the previous application.
         (q)   Written authorization from the owner of the property shall be
required where the applicant is not the owner of the affected property.
      (3)   The site development plan and the accompanying application shall
show the following:  The applicant’s entire property and adjacent properties on
a location map with streets for a distance of at least 25 feet at a scale
showing detail sufficient for proper review.  The site plan shall be submitted
on a sheet no smaller than 8 1/2 inches by 11 inches and no larger than 11
inches by 17 inches.  Site plans smaller or larger than the sizes prescribed by
this chapter shall not be accepted.  The detailed plan shall show a minimum
spacing of 18 inches between seats when patrons are seated at each proposed
table and a minimum of 24 inches service area to each table.
      (4)   The City Clerk or designee shall distribute copies of the site
development plan and permit application to the City Manager, Chief of Police,
Fire Chief, Code Enforcement Officer, Downtown Development Director and
Director of Public Works for review and comments in relation to compliance with
this chapter and all other city ordinances.
   (H)   Conditions specific to the operation of a business may be incorporated
into the permit as required by city staff or the City Manager.
   (I)   Based upon review comments from city staff, the City Manager may
approve, approve with conditions, refer the application back to the applicant
for modification, deny the application, or refer the application the City
Council.  If approved, the City Manager shall authorize the City Clerk to issue
a sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating permit.
   (J)   If the City Manger or designee denies the application for a sidewalk
cafe or outdoor seating permit, the reason for this determination will be
stated in a letter to the applicant.  The applicant may appeal the decision to
the City Council.
   (K)   In addition to any fees required by this chapter, establishments
applying for any license or permit issued by the M.L.C.C. shall be required to
pay a non-refundable liquor licensing permit fee to the city in an amount as
established by resolution of the City Council.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.04  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   There shall be a minimum of 42 inches, exclusive of the area occupied
by the sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating, designed to allow adequate pedestrian
movement. Cafes or outdoor seating shall only be permitted where it is
determined that the use will not create a hazard, a sight distance obstruction
for motor vehicle operators, nor unduly impede pedestrian traffic. The City
Manager or designee shall determine when a hazardous condition exists in the
public right-of-way.
   (B)   Sidewalk cafes or outdoor seating may only be located adjacent to the
establishment with which they are associated. Sidewalk cafes or outdoor seating
areas must remain clear of litter, food scraps, and soiled dishes at all times.
   (C)   Employees of the establishment shall continuously supervise outdoor
dining areas serving alcoholic beverages.
   (D)   Setting up a barrier such as planters or a railing to physically
separate patrons from pedestrian traffic shall delineate the perimeter of a
sidewalk cafe serving alcoholic beverages. All barriers used for sidewalk cafes
serving liquor shall also conform M.L.C.C. regulations.
   (E)   Furnishings for a sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating shall consist
solely of readily removable railings, posts, tables, chairs, planters, and
table umbrellas. Furnishings may only be attached or secured in a manner
approved by the City Manager or designee. Such anchoring devices, when removed,
shall not create a hazard for pedestrian traffic. Objects, which are part of
the sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating, may be attached or secured to any
building or structure on which the sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating abuts in a
manner approved by the City Manager or designee.
   (F)   No structure or enclosure to accommodate the storage of accumulated
garbage may be erected or placed adjacent to or near the sidewalk cafe or
outdoor seating located on public property. Each establishment shall be
responsible for providing appropriate containers for disposing of garbage or
waste and employees shall not use city trash containers for disposing of
garbage or waste.
   (G)   A sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating shall not interfere with any public
service facility, such as a telephone, mailbox, or bench located on a sidewalk
or public property.
   (H)   Operation of a sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating shall not adversely
impact adjacent or nearby residential, religious, educational, or commercial
properties and shall be in accordance with all applicable codes and
regulations.
   (I)   Tables, chairs, table umbrellas, railings, planters, and any other
objects provided with the sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating shall be of quality
design, materials, and workmanship both to ensure the safety and convenience of
users and to enhance the visual and aesthetic quality of the area. Such
equipment shall be routinely cleaned, painted, or replaced and may be inspected
by the City Manager or designee.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.05  OPERATING.
   (A)   All sidewalk cafes serving alcoholic beverages shall be allowed to
operate during the hours of 10:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m., Monday through
Saturday and Sunday during the hours of 12:00 p.m. (noon) until 10:00 p.m.
Sales and service shall cease by 9:30 p.m. and all areas shall be vacated by
10:00 p.m.
   (B)   All alcoholic beverages to be served at a sidewalk cafe shall be
prepared within the existing restaurant, and alcoholic beverages shall only be
served to patrons seated at tables. The consumption of alcoholic beverages at a
sidewalk cafe within the confines of the sidewalk cafe area shall not be
construed as a violation of any ordinance controlling open containers in a
public area. The operator of the sidewalk cafe shall take all necessary action
to procure the appropriate license or permit from the M.L.C.C. to serve
alcoholic beverages in the sidewalk cafe and shall comply with all other laws
and regulations concerning the serving of alcoholic beverages in the state.
   (C)   All food to be served at a sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating shall be
prepared within the existing establishment unless approved by the City Council
as part of a special event application request.
   (D)   The restaurant shall not serve food or beverages to a patron at a
sidewalk cafe unless that patron is seated at a table.
   (E)   The sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating permit issued in an accordance
with this chapter shall be prominently displayed within the existing
establishment along with other required permits and licenses.
   (F)   During the off-season, chairs, railings, posts, planters, table
umbrellas, and other items shall be removed and shall not be stored outside. It
shall be the responsibility of the establishment to secure adequate storage of
these items.
   (G)   The maintenance of a sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating area shall be
the responsibility of the establishment including but not limited to, surface
treatment and cleaning, litter control, sweeping, and snow and ice removal. The
sidewalk and public property shall be kept neat and clean at all times and free
from any substance that may cause damage to the sidewalk or public property or
cause pedestrian injury.
   (H)   Advertising on table umbrellas or railings is prohibited.
   (I)   An increase in lighting is prohibited, unless otherwise required
through the review process.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.06  DENIAL, REVOCATION AND SUSPENSION; CAUSES ENUMERATED.
   The issuance of permits applied for under this chapter or any other
ordinance of the city may be denied by the City Manager, and permits issued may
be revoked or suspended by the City Manager at any time, for any of the
following causes:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement made in the permit
application.
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation or any false statement made in the operation
of the sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating.
   (C)   Any violation of this chapter or any other ordinance of the city.
   (D)   Any violation received during the previous permit period.
   (E)   Conducting a business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of peace or to constitute a menace to the health, morals,
safety or welfare of the public.
   (F)   Failure or inability of an applicant to meet and satisfy the
requirements and provisions of this chapter and every other ordinance of the
city.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05)
 Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.07  HEARING DEMAND; REVIEW; COUNCIL.
   Any person whose permit is revoked or suspended, or any person whose
application for a permit is denied, shall have the right to a hearing before
the City Council, provided a written request therefor is filed with the City
Clerk within ten days following the delivery or mailing of the notice of
revocation or suspension, or within ten days following the denial of the permit
application. No person shall operate any sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating
during any time when the permit therefor has been suspended, revoked, or
canceled.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05)
 Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.08  RENEWAL CONSIDERED AS ORIGINAL.
   Unless otherwise provided in this chapter, an application for renewal of a
sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating permit shall be considered in the same manner
as an original application.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05) 
Penalty, see § 119.99
§ 119.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who operates a sidewalk cafe or outdoor seating on public
sidewalks or public property, without a permit, or who shall violate any of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, punishable by a civil fine of not more than $500 and the costs of
prosecution.
   (B)   The City Council may establish the amount of a civil fine for a
municipal civil infraction that may be paid at the city violations bureau for
violations of this chapter, except that all violations alleging operating
without a permit and other violations in excess of three in any calendar year
may be handled by the district court.
   (C)   The city may suspend or revoke any permit issued, or deny the issuance
of a permit as provided in §
119.06 regardless of whether the operator has been cited, paid a civil fine, or
been found responsible for a violation of this chapter pursuant to this
section.
(Ord. passed 4-12-05)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
Disorderly Persons
   
130.01   Definition
   
130.02   Prohibited acts constituting misdemeanors
   
130.03   Prohibited acts constituting civil infractions
Minors
   
130.15   Curfew hours
   
130.16   Aiding or abetting violation
   
130.17   Juveniles in taverns; employees; food establishments
 
   
130.99   Penalty
DISORDERLY PERSONS
§ 130.01  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public, and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
(Ord. passed 9-29-98)
§ 130.02  PROHIBITED ACTS CONSTITUTING MISDEMEANORS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Be drunk in any public place or under the influence of any narcotic
drug in any public place if, when drunk or under the influence of a narcotic
drug, the person is endangering the well-being of himself or herself or other
persons;
   (B)   Be in a state of intoxication in any public place in a manner that
causes a public disturbance;
   (C)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral, or obscene conduct in any
public place; use any indecent or immoral language to, or in the presence, or
hearing of any other person, or manifest any indecent or immoral behavior in
the city in the presence, view or hearing of any other person;
   (D)   Urinate or defecate in any public place or upon any property open to
the public or upon the property of another person;
   (E)   Engage in any disturbance, fight, or quarrel in a public place or
encourage such activity; disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous
or vulgar conduct or conduct himself or herself in any manner to disturb a
meeting of municipal or public officials or allow any place, public or private,
occupied or controlled by him or her to be a resort of noisy, boisterous or
disorderly conduct;
   (F)   Recklessly endanger the life, health or well-being of any person;
   (G)   Obstruct, resist, hinder, fail to obey the lawful order of, or oppose
any member of the Department of Public Safety or any peace officer in the
discharge of his duties as such, or to flee on foot from any member of the
Department of Public Safety when said officer is lawfully discharging his
duties;
   (H)   Prowl about or linger in any alley or street or prowl about or linger
on any private premises of another person without authority or the permission
of the owner of such premises;
   (I)   Summon or cause to be summoned as a joke or prank or otherwise without
any good reason therefor, by telephone or otherwise, the Department of Public
Safety or any public or private ambulance to go to any address where the
service called for is not needed;
   (J)   Obtain or attempt to obtain goods or money by fraud, trick or under
false pretenses;
   (K)   Use or possess any non-prescriptive drug paraphernalia.
   (L)   Knowingly harbor or hide a wanted fugitive from a police officer/
member of the Department of Public Safety.
   (M)   Provide false information to a police officer.
(Ord. passed 9-29-98; Am. Ord. passed 4-11-06) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.03  PROHIBITED ACTS CONSTITUTING CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Intentionally smell or inhale the fumes of any substance releasing
toxic vapors for the purpose of causing a condition of euphoria, excitement,
exhilaration, stupefication, or dulled senses; or to possess, buy or use any
such substance for the purpose of violating, aiding or abetting another to
violate this section;
   (B)   Be under the influence in any public place of any drug, any other
exhilarating or stupefying substance, or any combination of substances
mentioned herein;
   (C)   Discharge, throw, propel or shoot any firearm, air rifle, air pistol,
bow and arrow or other objects in a manner to cause harm or destruction to
persons or property in the city or hunt any animals in the city. However,
firearms, air rifles, air pistols and bows and arrows may be discharged at a
duly established range, the operation of which has been approved by the City
Council;
   (D)   Fire, discharge, display or possess any fireworks except of the type
permitted by state law;
   (E)   Wilfully and/or maliciously destroy, alter, rearrange, or move public
or private property without the consent of the owner thereof;
   (F)   After being warned to remove himself/herself from the premises
normally open to the public, or to stay off said premises by the owner or a
duly appointed agent of the owner, which could include an officer of the
Department of Public Safety, either remain on the premises or go upon the
premises contrary to the warning;
   (G)   Intentionally obstruct vehicular or foot traffic on any street,
sidewalk or place by collecting in groups thereon, for any purposes or obstruct
movement of foot or vehicular traffic by placing objects on the street or
sidewalk;
   (H)   Sit or place himself/herself upon vehicles, walls, fences, signs, or
other structures along a public right-of-way or a parking lot open to public
use;
   (I)   Enter or be found in a public park after closing hours;
   (J)   Smoke cigarettes, cigars or pipes in any municipal building when signs
have been posted in conspicuous places therein that smoking is prohibited;
   (K)   Attach himself or herself to a moving automobile while the same is
traveling on a public street;
   (L)   Drink intoxicating beverages on any public street, sidewalk or any
public place unless such use is permitted by City Council or Michigan Liquor
Control Commission;
   (M)   Possess or consume intoxicating beverages if such person is under the
age of 21 years.A police officer who has reasonable cause to believe a person
less than 21 years of age has consumed alcoholic liquor may require the person
to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis. A legal presumption shall
be made by the court that the person less than 21 years of age has consumed or
possessed alcoholic liquor if a preliminary chemical breath analysis or other
acceptable blood alcohol test indicates the person's blood contained .02% or
more by weight of alcohol. A person less than 21 years of age who refuses to
submit to a preliminary chemical breath test analysis as required in this
subsection is responsible for a civil infraction;
   (N)   Swim in the Cheboygan River where prohibited by signs or any area of
the river north of the lock and dam;
   (O)   Deposit refuse in a dumpster or other receptacle on public property or
private property without permission;
   (P)   Place advertising on or inside of vehicles parked on any street, alley
or public way.
(Ord. passed 9-29-98) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
MINORS
§ 130.15  CURFEW HOURS.
   (A)   The city has determined that a curfew for minors will be in the
interest of the public health, safety and general welfare and will protect the
welfare of minors by:
      (1)   Reducing the likelihood that minors will be the victims of criminal
acts during the curfew hours;
      (2)   Reducing the likelihood that minors will become involved in
criminal acts or exposed to narcotics trafficking during the curfew hours; and
      (3)   Aiding parents or guardians in carrying out their responsibilities
to exercise reasonable supervision of minors entrusted to their care.
   (B)   To accomplish the purposes set forth in division (A) above, no minor
shall loiter, idle or congregate in or on any public street, highway, alley or
park:
      (1)   Between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., if the minor is
under the age of 12 years.
      (2)   Between the hours of 12:00 midnight and 6:00 a.m., immediately
following, if the minor is under the age of 16.
   (C)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor; or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or who has been married or who has had disabilities of
minority removed in accordance with state law.
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.16  AIDING OR ABETTING VIOLATION.
   Any person of the age of 16 years or over assisting, aiding, abetting,
allowing, permitting or encouraging any minor under the age of 16 years to
violate the provisions of §
130.15 shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
(`73 Code, 20.113, § 9.113)  (Ord. eff. 1-1-73) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.17  JUVENILES IN TAVERNS; EMPLOYEES; FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No minor person under the age of 18 years shall enter in, frequent or
remain in any tavern, saloon, barroom or other place within the corporate
limits of the city where spiritous or other intoxicating liquors are sold,
given away or furnished for consumption upon the premises, and no proprietor,
keeper, manager or other person shall permit any such child to enter in,
frequent or remain in any such place or shall encourage or induce any such
minor child to enter in, frequent or remain therein. 
(`73 Code, 20.114, § 9.114)
   (B)   Division (A) above of this section shall not be construed to prevent
the lawful employment of any minor child pursuant to the provisions of the laws
of the State of Michigan now, or which may hereafter become effective. 
(`73 Code, 20.115, § 9.115)
   (C)   Division (A) above shall not be construed to include, within its
purview, any restaurant, hotel, or place of amusement, the principal business
of which consists of furnishing food, lodging or legitimate forms of amusement
and wherein the service of spiritous or intoxicating liquor is incidental
thereto. 
(`73 Code, 20.116, § 9.116)  (Ord. eff. 1-1-73) 
Penalty, see § 130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of §
130.02 shall be a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and/
or 93 days in jail.
   (B)   A violation of any provision of §
130.03 shall be a civil infraction.
(Ord. passed 9-29-98)
   (C)   Any minor child or other person willfully violating the provisions of
§
130.17(A) shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 or
by imprisonment in the County Jail not to exceed 90 days or both such fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court. 
(`73 Code, 20.117, § 9.117)  (Ord. eff. 1-1-73)
   (D)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
(Am. Ord. eff. 4-11-06)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   MOBILE HOMES AND PREMANUFACTURED BUILDINGS
      
152.   SIGNS
      
153.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
154.   ZONING
      
155.   HISTORIC RESOURCES
      
156.   STORMWATER FLOW CONTROL
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
150.01   Building code adopted; additions, insertions and changes
   
150.02   International Property Maintenance Code adopted; additions, insertions
and changes
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Address number required prior to applying for building permit, see
§ 98.62
   Moving buildings, see
§ 98.30
§ 150.01  BUILDING CODE ADOPTED; ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   The city hereby adopts the most current edition of the Michigan
Building Code Rules, and hereby makes said rules a part of this code the same
as if set forth in full herein. Copies of the code are available for purchase
at the Construction Code Department of the County of Cheboygan.
   (B)   The following sections of the 1993 Edition of the BOCA National
Building Code, and the corresponding sections of any succeeding edition of the
National Building Code or the International Building Code, are hereby revised
as follows:
      (1)   Section 101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the
Building Code of the City of Cheboygan, hereinafter referred to as “this code.”
      (2)   Section 112.3.1 Fee Schedule. A fee for each plan examination,
building permit and inspection shall be paid as established from time to time
by resolution of the City Council upon recommendation of the City Manager.
      (3)   Section 3408.2 Applicability.
         (a)   Structures existing prior to the date that this amendment
becomes effective in which there is work involving additions, alterations or
changes of occupancy shall be made to conform to the requirements of this
section or the provisions of Sections 3403.0 through 3407.0.
         (b)   The provisions in Sections 3408.2.1 through 3408.2.5 shall apply
to existing occupancies that will continue to be, or are proposed to be, in Use
Groups A, B, E, F, M, R and S. These provisions shall not apply to buildings
with occupancies in Use Group H or I.
(Ord. passed 12-8-98)
§ 150.02  INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE ADOPTED; ADDITIONS,
INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   (A)   A certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk of the City of Cheboygan, being marked and designated as the
International Property Maintenance Code, 2003 edition, as published by the
International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Cheboygan, in the State of Michigan, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City of Cheboygan are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
section, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in division (B) below.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1. Insert: City of Cheboygan.
      Section 103.5. Insert: Fees.  The fees for activities and services
performed by the department in carrying out its responsibilities under this
code shall be established by City Council from time to time upon recommendation
of the City Manager, who shall insure that all rates are commensurate with
those rates otherwise charged by the office administering this code and for
other building codes in Cheboygan County.
      Section 106.4. Insert: Violation penalties. Any person who shall violated
a provision of this code, or fail to comply therewith, or with any of the
requirements thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or by fine of not more than $500, or both. Each day that
a violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      Section 304.14. Insert: April 1st to November 15th.
      Section 602.3. Insert: October 1st to May 15th.
      Section 602.4. Insert: October 1st to May 15th.
(Ord. eff. 12-17-06; Am. Ord. eff. 7-30-07)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate a provision of the code adopted in §
150.01 or shall fail to comply with any of the requirements thereof or who
shall erect, construct, alter or repair a building or structure in violation of
an approved plan or directive of the code official, or of a permit or
certificate issued under the provisions of the code, shall be guilty of a civil
infraction.
(Ord. passed 12-8-98)
CHAPTER 151:  MOBILE HOMES AND PREMANUFACTURED BUILDINGS
Section
   
151.01   Definitions
   
151.02   Mobile home dwellings and premanufactured buildings
   
151.03   Mobile home requirements
   
151.04   Premanufactured commercial and residential building requirements
   
151.05   Certificate requirements
   
151.06   Temporary residential occupancy of mobile homes
   
151.07   Temporary construction occupancy of mobile homes
   
151.08   Use of mobile homes in connection with special events
§ 151.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL BUILDING.  A structure used for commercial purposes.
   MOBILE HOME.  A movable or portable dwelling constructed to be towed on its
own chassis and designed for permanent year-round living as a single family
dwelling. Provided, however, that the term “mobile home” shall not include
motor homes, campers, recreational vehicles (whether licensed or not as motor
vehicles) or other transportable structures designed for temporary use and
which are not designed primarily for permanent residence and connection to
sanitary sewage, electrical power and potable water utilities.
   PREMANUFACTURED BUILDING.  A building or portion thereof which has been
premanufactured or prefabricated and is used primarily for commercial and/or
residential purposes.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING.  A structure or building designed and used for
complete living accommodations of a single family.
(`73 Code, 35.021, § 6.1)  (Ord. eff. 2-14-83)
§ 151.02  MOBILE HOME DWELLINGS AND PREMANUFACTURED BUILDINGS.
   No person shall use, occupy or permit the use or occupancy of a mobile home
or premanufactured building as a dwelling within any district within the city
not designated as a mobile home park, or zoned as a mobile home residential
district, unless:
   (A)   A permit for the placement thereof has been obtained from the Zoning
Officer. All applications for the permit shall be accompanied by a non-
refundable fee which shall be established by Council from time to time which
shall be used to defray the cost of inspection as provided in this chapter;
and,
   (B)   The mobile home or premanufactured building, the placement thereof,
and the premises upon which it shall be located shall meet all requirements of
the city zoning ordinance relating to uses, size of premises, floor area,
setback, side lot and real lot requirements specified for the particular zoning
district in which the premises is situated; and,
   (C)   The mobile home or premanufactured building shall be connected to
potable water and sanitary sewage disposal facilities approved by the health
agency having jurisdiction. If public water and sanitary sewage disposal
facilities are available to the premises, the mobile home or premanufactured
building shall be connected thereto; and,
   (D)   A mobile home or premanufactured building shall be installed pursuant
to the manufacturer's setup instructions and shall have a wall of the same
perimeter dimensions of the mobile home or premanufactured building and
constructed of such materials and type as required in the applicable building
code for single-family dwellings and mobile homes shall be secured to the
premises by an anchoring system or device compatible with those required by the
Michigan Mobile Home Commission. All construction required herein shall be
commenced only after a building permit has been obtained in accordance with the
building code applicable within the city; and,
   (E)   Construction of, and all plumbing, electrical apparatus, and
insulation within and connected to, the mobile home shall be of a type and
quality conforming to the current United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development, Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards (24 CFR 3280), as
from time to time amended; and,
   (F)   Construction of, and all plumbing and electrical apparatus, and
insulation within and connected to, a premanufactured building shall be of a
type and quality which conforms to building code which is in effect in the city
at the time of construction; and,
   (G)   The mobile homes shall meet or exceed all roof snow load applicable to
the area, and strength requirements imposed by the said United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards, and all premanufactured buildings shall meet or exceed all snow load
and strength requirements imposed by the Building Code which is in effect in
the city at the time of construction.
(`73 Code, 35.022, § 6.2)  (Ord. eff. 2-14-83)
§ 151.03  MOBILE HOME REQUIREMENTS.
   The foregoing requirements in §
151.02 notwithstanding, the placement and use of mobile homes in any
residential district within the city shall be aesthetically compatible with
single-family dwellings in the district, and as a minimum the mobile homes
shall:
   (A)   Be so placed and situated so that the wheels shall be removed and the
underside or chassis of the mobile home shall be completely enclosed and firmly
connected to the foundation; and,
   (B)   Shall be placed upon the property in such a way that its appearance
shall be compatible with single-family dwellings constructed on-site within the
district.
      (1)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined in
the first instance by the Zoning Officer upon review of the plans submitted for
a particular dwelling, subject to appeal by any aggrieved party to the Zoning
Board of Appeals within a period of 15 days from the receipt of notice of the
Zoning Officer's decision.
      (2)   Any determination of compatibility shall be based upon the
standards of the character, design and appearance of other residential
dwellings located outside of mobile home parks and mobile home residential
districts within 2,000 feet of the subject dwelling where such area is
developed with dwellings to the extent of not less than 20% of the lots
situated within said area; or, where the area is not so developed, by the
character, design and appearance of other residential dwellings located outside
of mobile home parks and mobile home residential districts throughout the city.
The foregoing shall not be construed to prohibit innovative design concepts
involving such matters as solar energy, view, unique land contour, or relief
from the common or standard designed home.
   (C)   Not contain additions or rooms or other areas which are not
constructed with at least similar quality workmanship as the original
structure, including permanent attachment to the principal structure and
construction of a foundation as required herein.
(`73 Code, 35.023, § 6.3)  (Ord. eff. 2-14-83)
§ 151.04  PREMANUFACTURED COMMERCIAL AND RESIDENTIAL BUILDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The foregoing requirements in §
151.02 notwithstanding, the placement and use of a premanufactured building in
any residential or commercial district within the city shall be aesthetically
compatible with other single family dwellings or commercial buildings in the
district, and as a minimum the premanufactured building shall be placed upon
the property in such a way that its appearance shall be compatible with other
single family dwellings or commercial buildings constructed on-site within the
districts.
   (B)   (1)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined
in the first instance by the Zoning Officer upon review of the plans submitted
for a particular dwelling, subject to an appeal by an aggrieved party to the
Zoning Board of Appeals within a period of 15 days from the receipt of notice
of the Zoning Officer's decision.
      (2)   Any determination of compatibility shall be based upon the
standards of the character, design and appearance of other single-family
buildings or commercial buildings located outside of mobile home parks and
mobile home residential districts within 2,000 feet of subject building where
such area is developed with single-family dwellings or where such area is
developed with single-family dwellings or commercial buildings to the extent of
not less than 20% of the lots situated within the area; or, where the area is
not so developed, by the character, design and appearance of other single-
family dwellings or commercial buildings located outside of mobile home parks
and mobile home residential districts throughout the city. The foregoing shall
not be construed to prohibit innovative design concepts involving such matters
as solar energy, view, unique land contour, or relief from the common or
standard designed single-family dwellings or commercial buildings.
   (C)   The commercial building shall have no additions or rooms or other
areas which are not constructed with at least similar quality workmanship as
the original structure, including permanent attachment to the principal
structure.
(`73 Code, 35.024, § 6.4)  (Ord. eff. 2-14-83)
§ 151.05  CERTIFICATE REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall occupy any mobile home or premanufactured building as a
dwelling or commercial building within the city until a certificate of approval
shall be issued by the Zoning Officer, which permit shall indicate satisfactory
compliance with all requirements of the zoning ordinance and building code.
(`73 Code, 35.025, § 6.5)  (Ord. eff. 2-14-83) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 151.06  TEMPORARY RESIDENTIAL OCCUPANCY OF MOBILE HOMES.
   Temporary occupancy of a mobile home shall be permitted for a period not to
exceed 15 calendar days provided that:
   (A)   The trailer is located on property which is zoned or used as R1-A
(single-family residential) or R1-B (single-family residential) or R-M
(multiple-family residential district);
   (B)   The trailer is located in such a way as not to be any closer to the
front of the lot than the front most part of the house;
   (C)   The trailer not be occupied for sleeping purposes by a greater number
of people that it was designed to accommodate;
   (D)   No person shall spill or drain any waste water or liquid upon the
ground or any paved area, or into any stream or tributary.
(`73 Code, 35.026, § 6.6)  (Ord. eff. 2-14-83) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 151.07  TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION OCCUPANCY OF MOBILE HOMES.
   Temporary occupancy of any mobile home or trailer for purposes connected
with construction activities shall be permitted provided that:
   (A)   The mobile home or trailer be located in such a manner to be on the
actual construction site or as close as possible as to be practical;
   (B)   The mobile home or trailer be located in such a manner so as to not
hinder or obstruct the normal or safe flow of vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
   (C)   The owner or person in contact of the mobile home or trailer obtain
permission in writing to do so from the Zoning Officer 48 hours prior to the
proposed location of the trailer. All permits shall be issued for no longer
than 60 calendar days, unless in the estimation of the Zoning Officer the
construction shall be of such a substantial duration that would involve a
practical difficulty in renewal. In such cases specific time limit shall be
determined by the Zoning Officer and so stated on the permit;
   (D)   The mobile home or trailer not be utilized for sleeping purposes;
   (E)   The mobile home or trailer be removed immediately upon completion of
construction activities;
   (F)   In no case shall any trailer or mobile home or similar self propelled
vehicle be located pursuant to this section until a valid permit is secured
from the city or evidence of permits from other issuing authorities are
presented to the Zoning Officer. The only exception to this shall be in the
case of subcontractors or allied users who are involved with the permitted
construction.
(`73 Code, 35.027, § 6.7)  (Ord. eff. 2-14-83) 
Penalty see § 10.99
§ 151.08  USE OF MOBILE HOMES IN CONNECTION WITH SPECIAL EVENTS.
   The City Council may allow usage of mobile homes or trailers in connection
with special events provided that: permission is requested in writing to the
Zoning Officer setting forth the type of event, its duration, and its location.
Permission to be requested at least three weeks in advance of the proposed
event, by the individual or his agent.
(`73 Code, 35.028, § 6.8)  (Ord. eff. 2-14-83)
CHAPTER 152:  SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.01   Short title
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Permits
   
152.04   No vested rights
Sign Regulations
   
152.15   Provisions applicable to all signs
   
152.16   Approved materials for trim
   
152.17   Ground signs
   
152.18   Roof signs
   
152.19   Wall signs
   
152.20   Projecting signs
   
152.21   Illuminated signs
   
152.22   Temporary signs
   
152.23   Combination signs
   
152.24   Marquees and marquee signs
   
152.25   Pylon, pole and banjo signs
   
152.26   Signs requiring Zoning Board of Appeals review
   
152.27   Nonconforming signs
   
152.28   Unsafe signs
   
152.29   Sign removal
   
152.30   Use district requirements
Administration and Enforcement
   
152.40   Violations deemed public nuisance
   
152.41   Appeals
 
   
152.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Sign Ordinance of the
City of Cheboygan.”
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPROVED COMBUSTIBLE MATERIAL.  Wood, or materials not more combustible than
wood, and approved combustible plastics.
   APPROVED COMBUSTIBLE PLASTICS.  Only those plastics which when tested meet
industrial standards for flammability of plastics.
   COMBINATION SIGN.  Any sign which combines the characteristics of two or
more types of sign including roof projecting and ground projecting signs.
   DISPLAY SURFACE.  The entire area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of a sign. However, such perimeter shall not
include any structural elements lying outside the limits of such sign and not
forming an integral part of the display.
   FACING.  The surface of the sign upon, against, or through which the message
of the sign is exhibited.
   FRONT FEET.  The distance along a roadway measured in feet rounded to the
nearest foot, as verified by the records in the City Assessor’s office, or
amount of store front when common property is involved with two or more
commercial businesses.
   GROUND SIGN and BILLBOARDS.  A sign which is supported by one or more poles,
uprights, or braces in or upon the signs as defined in this chapter.
   ILLUMINATED.  Any sign which has characters, letters, figures, designs,
faces, backgrounds, or outlines illuminated by incandescent or fluorescent
lamps or luminous tubes as part of the sign proper, these light sources being
external or internal.
   JOINT IDENTIFICATION (ID) SIGN.   A sign that serves as a common
identification for two or more businesses on the same parcel or property.  Such
sign shall contain or serve as general identification only for such
developments such as shopping center and the like.
   MARQUEE.  A fixed shelter used only as a roof and extending over a building
line which is entirely supported by the building to which it is attached.
   MARQUEE SIGN.  A sign which is attached to a marquee.
   NAME PLATE.  A one-sided sign or a two-sided sign designating the owner or
occupant of the premises.
   PROJECTING SIGN.  A sign other than a wall sign suspended from or supported
by a building or structure or steel column and projecting out therefrom.
Projection means distance by which a sign extends over public property or
beyond the property line.
   PYLON, POLE SIGN, or BANJO SIGN.  A sign supported by or suspended from a
free standing column or columns of structural steel, pipe or poles.
   ROOF SIGN.  A sign erected upon or above a roof or parapet of a building.
   SIGN.  Any outdoor advertising that is a structure or that is attached to or
painted on a building or that is leaned against a structure or displayed on a
premises. Sign shall mean and include every sign, billboard, ground sign, wall
sign, roof sign, illuminated sign, projecting sign, temporary sign, pylon or
pole sign, marquee, awning, canopy, and street clock, and shall include any
announcement, declaration, demonstration, display illustration or insignia used
to advertise or promote the interests of any person when the same is placed out
of doors in view of the general public.
      (1)   ACCESSORY SIGN.  A sign which is accessory to the principal use of
the premises.
      (2)   NON-ACCESSORY SIGN.  A sign which is not accessory to the principal
use of the premises.
   SKELETON PARAPET SIGN.  Individual letters mounted on a wall.
   STRUCTURE.  The supports, uprights, bracing and framework for the sign or
outdoor display.
   STRUCTURAL TRIM.  The moulding, battens, capping, nailing strips, latticing,
platforms and letters, figures, characters or representations in cut-out or
irregular form which are attached to the sign structure.
   TEMPORARY SIGN.  A sign of cloth or other combustible material, with or
without a frame which is usually attached to the outside of a building on a
wall or store front for a limited period of time.
   WALL SIGN.  A sign attached to, or erected against, the wall of a building
or structure with the exposed face of the sign in a plane approximately
parallel to the plane of the wall.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. eff. 6-5-04)
§ 152.03  PERMITS.
   (A)   No sign shall be erected, installed, replaced or reconstructed on any
lot, parcel, or structure, unless or until a permit has been issued by the city
for such sign.
   (B)   Application for a sign permit shall be submitted to the city on
appropriate forms supplied by the city. The application shall contain the
following information:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of applicant;
      (2)   Written permission of property owner, if other than an on-premises
sign;
      (3)   Type of sign or sign structure, as defined in this chapter;
      (4)   Sketch showing sign size, height, type of support (if applicable)
and zone district in which sign is located, location of sign on property
including front and side yard setback distances and any other information
required herein;
      (5)   Street address of the property upon which the sign is proposed to
be located;
      (6)   The name of the sign contractor, who shall erect the sign and/or
sign structure.
   (C)   The following signs shall not require permits:
      (1)   Residential signs that include the name of the resident or
residence and the address, when such sign surface area is less than two square
feet in display area, per side;
      (2)   Real estate sign that is placed upon a property advertising that
particular property for sale, rent or lease;
      (3) Political signs and temporary non-illuminated signs advertising
sales, bazaars, etc., for a period not to exceed 30 days.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
§ 152.04  NO VESTED RIGHT.
   Nothing in this chapter should be interpreted or construed to give rise to
any permanent vested rights in the continuation of any particular sign, and it
is hereby declared to be subject to subsequent amendment, change or
modification as may be necessary for the preservation of public health, safety
and welfare.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
SIGN REGULATIONS
§ 152.15  PROVISIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL SIGNS.
   The following provisions shall apply to all signs in the city:
   (A)   Signs over a right-of-way. Any sign which overhangs a dedicated public
right-of-way shall require the approval of the governmental unit having
jurisdiction over that right-of-way and shall comply with all local provisions
as well.
   (B)   Sign maintenance. All signs shall be maintained in a clearly legible
condition and shall be kept in good repair. Wall-mounted signs, projecting
signs and nameplates shall be thoroughly secured to the building by metal
anchors, bolts, supports, rods or braces. Any permanent sign which is
determined structurally or electrically unsafe by the City Manager shall be
removed or repaired within ten days of notification of the hazard at owner's
expense. A temporary sign found by the City Manager to be in an unsafe
condition must be removed by the owner within three days after notice to do so.
   (C)   Abandoned signs. Any business sign or sign structure now or hereafter
existing which no longer advertises a bona fide business conducted or product
sold, or an abandoned sign, shall be removed, at the expense of the property
owner within 90 days after the cessation of business.
   (D)   Signs constituting a traffic hazard. No sign shall be located so as to
obstruct or impair driver vision. A sign shall not obstruct the view or
effectiveness of any official traffic sign, traffic signal or traffic marking.
Signs which by reason of their location, shape, size or color can be confused
with an official traffic sign, signal, or marking shall not be permitted.
   (E)   Illumination of signs. Illumination of signs shall be limited to the
face of the sign and not supporting structures or devices such as poles, posts,
etc. Exterior lighting of signs shall be shielded and directed to the signs so
as not to glare or, be hazardous to traffic.
   (F)   Alterations. A sign which was erected before the adoption of these
requirements shall not be rebuilt or relocated without conforming to the
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Installation. A sign shall not be erected, constructed or maintained
so as to obstruct any fire escape, window, door or other opening; or so as to
prevent free passage from one part of a roof to any other part thereof. A sign
shall not be attached in any form, shape or manner to a fire escape, or shall
not be placed as to interfere with an opening which is required for legal
ventilation.
   (H)   Permit fees. A permit shall be required for every sign structure
regulated by this chapter. Every applicant, before being granted a permit
hereunder shall pay the proper fee in effect at the time of application. The
fee for such permit shall be as established by resolution of City Council from
time to time.
   (I)   Conditions. The following conditions shall apply to all signs erected
or located in the city:
      (1)   All signs shall conform to all codes and ordinances of the city and
shall be approved by the City Manager, and a permit issued.
      (2)   No sign except those established and maintained by the city,
county, state or federal governments, shall be located in, project into, or
overhang a public right-of-way or dedicated public easement except as set forth
in §
152.20.
      (3)   No sign otherwise permitted shall project above or beyond the
maximum height limitation of the zoning use district in which located, except
that for a planned commercial or industrial development involving five acres or
more under one ownership, the Zoning Board of Appeals may modify the height
limitation. The Board shall, however, respect all yards and setbacks in
modifying height requirement.
      (4)   All directional signs required for the purpose of orientation, when
established by the city, county, state or federal government, shall be
permitted.
      (5)   Accessory signs shall be permitted in any use district.
      (6)   Non-accessory signs shall be permitted which satisfy either of the
following:
         (a)   In an Industrial District.
         (b)   Which advertise a financial institution’s providing of financing
for a public institution infrastructure project at the project site with total
signage not exceeding 25 square feet and displayed only during the duration of
the project.
      (7)   No sign in any use district, if illuminated, shall be of flashing
or intermittent type.
      (8)   No sign shall be located within, project into or overhang the
triangular area formed at the intersection of street right-of-way lines at a
distance along each line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
      (9)   A sign used for advertising land or buildings for rent, lease and/
or for sale shall be permitted when located on land or building intended to be
rented, leased and/or sold.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88; Am. Ord. eff. 7-2-07) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.16  APPROVED MATERIALS FOR TRIM.
   Non-structural trim may be made of metal or wood or approved combustible
plastics or any combination thereof. Facing, letters, and decorations of all
types of signs may be made of metal or approved combustible plastics. Facings,
letters and decorations or signs other than electric signs may be made of wood.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
§ 152.17  GROUND SIGNS.
   (A)   Ground signs or billboards may be constructed of combustible materials
if approved by the City Manager. Also, the letters, figures, characters or
representation in cut out, or irregular form, decorations and structural trim
of ground signs may be made of approved combustible materials if approved by
the City Manager.
   (B)   In case of all ground signs hereafter erected, replaced or
reconstructed, none shall be set with its bottom less than 1½ feet above ground
at its lowest point which space shall not be closed in any manner while the
ground sign stands, nor shall any such ground sign approach nearer than six
feet to any building or to the side line of any lot, nor nearer than two feet
to any other ground sign. A ground sign being erected perpendicular to the
sidewalk line shall be set back three feet from said sidewalk line; and where a
ground sign is being erected at any other angle (less than 90º) to the sidewalk
line, then it shall be set back at least three feet.
   (C)   Where buildings are hereafter built near or adjacent to a ground sign,
such ground sign shall be so moved or cut off as to leave a space of not less
than six feet between the building and the sign.
   (D)   Ground signs may be erected flat against the wall of a building
provided they do not exceed the height and size requirements as described in §
152.26(E) and are securely fastened to the walls of the building and do not
obstruct any window, exit or fire escape.
   (E)   Every such ground sign shall be safely and securely constructed,
anchored, fastened end located in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter, and shall be subject to the approval of the City Manager.
   (F)   The person operating or maintaining or in charge, possession or
control of any ground signs within the city shall maintain the same at all
times in as clean a condition as possible, removing all loose or torn material
from the boards and removing all paper, paste and other waste material from the
grounds around the boards and the grounds shall be maintained clean and free
from noxious weeds. The framework shall be neatly painted.
   (G)   Letters, figures, characters or representation in cut out or irregular
form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to or superimposed upon any sign
shall be safely and securely built, or attached to the sign structure.
   (H)   No ground sign shall be erected so as to obstruct free access to any
building on the premises.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.18  ROOF SIGNS.
   (A)   Roof signs, including the uprights, supports and braces thereof, shall
be constructed of noncombustible materials; however, facings, letter, figures,
decorations and structural trim thereof may be made of approved combustible
materials. All roof signs shall be secured by or bear upon masonry-bearing
walls, columns, girders or roof joists.
   (B)   Roof signs shall be securely attached, braced or constructed.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.19  WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Construction. Wall signs and facings, letters, figures, decorations
and structural trim thereof may be made of approved combustible materials
approved by the City Manager.
   (B)   Supports and attachments. Wall signs shall be securely fastened to a
masonry wall by means of anchors, bolts, expansion screws or similar
connectors. A wall sign which is attached to a wall of wood may be anchored
with wood blocks used in connection with screws and nails. A wall sign shall
not be entirely supported by an unbraced parapet wall.
   (C)   Location. No wall sign shall extend more than 24 inches beyond the
building and shall be attached to a wall at a height of not less than seven
feet above the grade line or not less than 15 feet, six inches, above the grade
line of any alley, and shall not extend more than three feet above the parapet
wall or roof level.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.20  PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Extension. No sign of any kind or character shall extend over any
public sidewalk or into any public street, avenue or alley, within 18 inches of
the curb line. No sign shall be less than ten feet, at the lowest point, above
the sidewalk over which itis installed, and if hung over an alley, the lowest
edge shall be at least 15 feet, six inches, above the grade of such alley, at
property line. All signs extending more than 36 inches into and over any
street, alley or public place shall be securely fastened to a building with
steel or iron hinges, or sockets so arranged as to permit the sign being bolted
back horizontally upon the building to which it is fastened.
   (B)   Electric signs. All illuminated projecting signs shall be constructed
of noncombustible material. All sides of the sign shall not exceed 50 square
feet in area, except by special permission of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Weight of signs.  No projecting signs of any class hereinbefore
referred to, mentioned or described shall have a greater weight than 600
pounds, except vertical signs, the weight of which shall not exceed 1,000
pounds. The weight shall be marked on all signs in plain figures. The Zoning
Board of Appeals may grant permission for the installation of signs greater in
weight than herein prescribed; provided, however, that such signs shall in all
other respects conform to the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Fastenings or supports.
      (1)   All signs referred to in this section attached to or placed on any
building shall be thoroughly secured thereto by iron or metal anchors, bolts,
supports, chains, stranded cables or braces. No staples shall be used for
securing any projecting sign to a building. The chain or cable used for main
supports shall have a proof-tested tensile strength of at least five times the
weight to be supported, and all supporting materials shall be rust-proofed.
      (2)   Signs weighing less than 150 pounds shall have one main support in
the form of a bolt through the building wall or roof, where possible, and
anchored by washer plate of at least 24 inches of surface and  inch thickness
unless the supporting chain or cable is located at any angle greater than 45
degrees, in which case approved expansion bolts may be used.
      (3)   Signs weighing at least 150 pounds and not more than 350 pounds
shall have one main support in the form of a bolt through the building wall or
roof where possible, and anchored by a washer plate of at least 24 square
inches of surface and inch thickness. If not possible, two main supports of
angle iron or approved expansion bolts may be used.
      (4)   Signs weighing 350 pounds or more shall have two main supports in
the form of bolts through the building wall or roof, anchored by washer plates
of at least 24 square inches. If not possible, two main supports of two
approved expansion bolts may be used.
      (5)   All expansion bolts used for anchoring sign guys shall be at least 
inches in diameter and, on brick or stone wall, set in at least 2½ inches. All
expansion bolts used for anchoring main supports where impossible to insert the
bolt through the wall or roof, shall be at least ½ inch in diameter and shall
enter the wall at least four inches.
      (6)   Turn-buckles of suitable size shall be provided for all the side
guys and one of the supporting cables or chains where more than one is used.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.21  ILLUMINATED SIGNS.
   (A)   Illuminated signs shall be constructed of noncombustible materials;
however, facings, letters, figures, decorations and structural trim may be made
of approved combustible plastics.
   (B)   Illuminated signs produced in quantity (other than signs custom built
for specific locations) shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
then applicable in the industry.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.22  TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Duration of permits. Permits for temporary signs shall authorize the
erection of the signs and their maintenance for a period not over 30 days.
   (B)   Construction.
      (1)   Temporary signs shall not exceed 50 square feet in area.
      (2)   Frames may be of wood. Panels may be of approved wall board. Cloth
or plastic panels or pennants shall be treated so as to be flame retardant.
   (C)   Erection.
      (1)   Temporary signs shall be attached to the wall of the building with
wire or steel cables and no strings, ropes or wood slats for anchorage or,
support purposes shall be permitted.
      (2)   No temporary sign shall be erected so as to prevent free ingress to
or egress from any door, window, fire escape or ventilating equipment, nor
shall any sign be attached to any stand pipe or fire escape.
      (3)   No temporary sign shall extend over or into any street, alley,
sidewalk or other public thoroughfare a distance greater than 24 inches from
the wall upon which it is erected, and shall not be placed or projected over
any wall opening.
   (D)   Advertising permitted. The advertising contained on any temporary sign
shall pertain only to the business conducted on or within the premises on which
such sign is erected or maintained. The provision shall not apply to signs of a
civic, political or religious nature.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.23  COMBINATION SIGNS.
   Each portion of a combination sign shall be subject to the regulations for
that type of sign.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.24  MARQUEES AND MARQUEE SIGNS.
   (A)   Construction of marquees.
      (1)   Marquees shall be constructed of noncombustible materials and shall
not project within 18 inches of the curb line. No portion of any marquee shall
be less than nine feet above the level of the sidewalk or other public
thoroughfare.
      (2)   The roofs of all marquees shall be properly guttered and connected
by downspouts to a storm water sewer so that water will not drip or flow onto
public property.
      (3)   All applicable building permits shall be secured.
   (B)   Marquee signs.
      (1)   Marquee signs shall be constructed of noncombustible materials;
however, the facings, letters, figures and decorations thereof may be, made of
approved combustible plastics.
      (2)   Marquee signs may be attached to the sides and front of a marquee,
and such signs may extend the entire length and width of the marquee. Such
marquee signs may also be attached to, or hung from a marquee. When hung from a
marquee shall be at least nine feet at their lowest level above the sidewalk
level and, further, no such sign shall extend beyond the line of such marquee.
   (C)   Projecting signs. Projecting signs installed over marquees shall not
be supported by the marquee.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.25  PYLON, POLE AND BANJO SIGNS.
   (A)   Construction.  Pylon, pole and banjo signs shall be constructed of
noncombustible materials; however, facings, letters, figures, decorations and
structural trim thereof may be made of approved combustible materials.
   (B)   Erection.
      (1)   Pylon, pole and banjo signs may not project within 18 inches of the
curb line.
      (2)   Supports for pylon or pole signs shall be located only on private
property.
      (3)   Pylon or pole signs shall be set in concrete footings of sufficient
size and weight to prevent overturning the sign.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.26  SIGNS REQUIRING ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS REVIEW.
   The following on-premises signs may be erected, altered, or relocated
subject to review by the city Zoning Board of Appeals in accordance with the
requirements of §
152.41 of this chapter.
   (A)   On-premises freestanding (tripod, portable and sandwich) signs
identifying a business or service are only permitted where the building has a
front yard setback of at least ten feet and shall be limited to one such sign
per lot in the front yard area of the lot. Placement and setback of such signs
shall be determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals according to standards in §
152.41 of this chapter.
   (B)   Freestanding signs identifying a multi-family residential complex or a
home occupation in any district shall be restricted to a maximum area of nine
square feet and a maximum height of six feet.
   (C)   In the case of home occupations in a residential district, the lot in
use shall be limited to either one projecting name-plate as provided in §
152.30 or to one nonilluminated freestanding sign as restricted in this
section.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may waive restrictions regarding size,
height, and other such limitations for permitted freestanding signs identifying
five or more business or service establishments in a shopping center or
complex. Whenever granting such waivers the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
establish size, height, location and other restrictions based upon the
standards in §
152.41 of this chapter.
   (E)   Joint identification (ID) signs restricted to a maximum area of 150
square feet and a minimum area of 50 square feet based on .5 square feet
allowable for each front foot of property.
   (F)   The area and height of all other freestanding signs identifying a
business or service are restricted according to the following schedule:
 
District         Maximum  Maximum Sign Area in sq. ft. (all sides)
                 Height
R-1A,  R-MH, R-2Six feet Six feet
P-1, R-M, W-M,   Twelve   Twenty-four feet
L-1              feet
                 Twelve   Parcels containing 50 front feet or less - 50 sq. ft. maximum
B-1, O-1         feet     Parcels containing over 50 front feet -    1 sq. ft. for each front foot with a
                          maximum of 150 sq. ft.
                 Eighteen Parcels containing 50 front feet or less - 50 sq. ft. maximum
B-2, T-1         feet     Parcels containing over 50 front feet - 1 sq. ft. for each front foot with a
                          maximum of 150 sq. ft.
                 Eighteen Parcels containing 50 front feet or less - 50 sq. ft. maximum
B-3              feet     Parcels containing over 50 front feet - 1 sq. ft. for each front foot with a
                          maximum of 250 sq. ft.
B-4              Eighteen Fifteen percent of first floor wall area with a maximum wall height of 20 feet
                 feet     allowed, if actual wall height exceeds 20 feet
 
(Ord. passed 6-14-88; Am. Ord. passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. eff. 6-5-04) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.27  NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit most legal nonconforming
signs until they are removed but not to encourage their survival unless the
City Council has otherwise provided; and where the City Council has so
otherwise provided, the remaining provisions of this section shall not apply.
      (1)   It is recognized that there exists within the city signs which were
lawful before this chapter was passed or amended which would be prohibited,
regulated, or restricted under the terms of this chapter or future amendments.
Such signs are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with signs permitted
within the city. It is further the intent of this chapter that nonconformities
shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended.
      (2)   A nonconforming sign shall not be extended or enlarged after
passage of this chapter.
   (B)   No nonconforming sign:
      (1)   Shall have the face or faces changed when such sign is of a type of
construction which requires a complete change of face after the effective date
of this chapter;
      (2)   Shall be structurally altered so as to prolong the life of the sign
or so as to change the shape, size, type or design of the sign. Nonconformities
shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended;
      (3)   Shall be re-established or utilized after the activity, business or
usage to which it relates has been discontinued for 90 days or longer; and
      (4)   If destroyed by any means, shall be reconstructed as it existed
previous to the destruction. It shall be reconstructed only in conformity with
the provision of this chapter. Likewise, should any sign be moved for any
reason for any distance whatever, it shall thereafter conform to this chapter.
   (C)   The following types of signs shall be removed within 30 days of the
effective date of this chapter:
      (1)   Tripod, sandwich board and portable signs;
      (2)   Temporary signs which do not conform to §
152.22 of this chapter;
   (D)   No person shall be required to remove a sign which was erected in
compliance with this chapter if the sign becomes nonconforming due to a change
occurring after the effective date of this chapter in the location of
buildings, streets or other signs which change is beyond the control of the
owner of the sign and the premises on which it is located.
   (E)   If the owner of a sign or the premises on which a sign is located
changes the location of the building, property line or sign, or changes the use
of a building so that any sign on the premises is rendered nonconforming, such
sign shall be made to conform to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.28  UNSAFE SIGNS.
   When any sign or advertising device is found by the City Manager to be in
such condition as to make it immediately dangerous, he is hereby authorized and
empowered to abate such nuisance by taking action as in his judgment shall be
necessary to protect the public and property, including the authority to take
down and remove such signs without notice to the owner thereof.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
§ 152.29  SIGN REMOVAL.
   No nonconforming sign or signs pertaining to the use of the premises on
which it is located shall be continued after that use has abandoned or
otherwise vacated the premises; it being the intent herein, that all such signs
and their supporting structure(s) are to be removed from the premises at the
time the premise is abandoned or otherwise vacated, except that one temporary
sign in the form of a window sign not exceeding 25% in total display area
identifying the relocated use, and a real estate sign advertising the premises
for sale, lease or rent shall be permitted.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88) 
Penalty, see § 152.99
§ 152.30  USE DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   In addition to the provisions of §
152.15 above, the following requirements shall apply to signs in the various
use districts as follows:
Use Districts Signs Permitted and Requirements
Use Districts      Signs Permitted and Requirements
                   For each dwelling unit, name-plates not exceeding six square feet in area,
“R” Districts  indicating name of occupant are allowed including those signs advertising home
                   occupation as defined in §
                   154.002 of this code.
                  For structures other than dwelling units, one identification sign not exceeding
                   ten square feet, total area, is allowed.
                   For rental and/or management offices in a multiple housing development, one
                   identification sign not exceeding six square feet, total area, is allowed.
(“R” Districts In “R-M” Districts, ground or wall signs not exceeding 18 square feet, total
cont'd)            area, indicating the name of multiple housing projects shall be permitted
                   provided that no ground sign shall be located closer than 100 feet to any
                   property line in any adjacent single family district.
T-1, B-1, B-3, B-  Accessory ground signs, provided they shall not be located closer than 100 feet
4, W-M, and P-     to any property line of any adjacent residential district and provided that they
1 Districts        not be larger than 50 square feet, are allowed.
O-1 Districts      For each office unit occupying a building, one wall sign is allowed.
                  For each office building, one wall sign and/or one ground sign indicating the
                   name of the building, business or firm.
L-1 Districts      Accessory ground signs provided they shall not be located closer than 200 feet
                   to any property line of any adjacent residential district are allowed.
                  Wall signs, provided they shall not project above or beyond the highest point of
                   the roof or parapet of a building are allowed.
                   Non-accessory ground signs not exceeding 300 square feet in area, shall be
                  permitted but shall not be located closer than 200 feet to any public right-of-
                   way line and provided further that there shall be not less than 1,000 feet
                   between non-accessory signs located on the same side of a right-of-way.
 
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.40  VIOLATIONS DEEMED PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   Any sign which is erected, altered,converted, or which is begun or changed
subsequent to the time of passage of this chapter and in violation of any
provisions thereof, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se, and may
be abated by order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
§ 152.41  APPEALS.
   (A)   Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall serve as
the “Board of Sign Appeals.”
   (B)   Meetings. All sign appeals shall be considered at the ordered meeting
of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Powers.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the following powers in
regard to sign appeals:
         (a)   The Board shall have power to hear and decide appeals where it
is alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement,
decision, interpretation or determination made by the City Manager or any other
administrative official, in connection with the enforcement of this chapter.
         (b)   The Board shall have power to authorize a variance from the
strict application of this chapter, where such application will result in
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships to the person owning or having
the beneficial use of the property or sign for which a variance is sought.
         (c)   The Board shall have the power to hear and decide on special
approval or waiver situations on which this chapter specifically authorizes the
Board to pass. Any variance, special approval or waiver shall be subject to
such conditions as the Board may require to preserve and promote the purpose of
this chapter.
      (2)   Prior to the granting of an appeal or of a variance by the Board,
the City Manager shall be given a reasonable opportunity to study the appeal or
request for variances and to make recommendation thereon to the Board. The
concurring vote of four members shall be necessary to reverse or modify any
order, requirement, decision or determination of the City Manager, or any other
administrative official, or to grant any variance from the strict application
of this chapter.
   (D)   Application of the variance power. A variance may be allowed by the
Board only in cases involving practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships
when the evidence in the official record of the appeal supports all the
following affirmative findings:
      (1)   That the alleged hardships or practical difficulties, or both, are
peculiar to the property of the person requesting the variance and result from
conditions which do not exist generally throughout the city;
      (2)   Because of special conditions applicable to the sign, building or
property in question, the provisions of this section, if strictly applied,
would result in unnecessary hardship; and,
      (3)   The granting of an exception would not be contrary to the public
health, safety and welfare; and,
      (4)   The granting of an exception would result in substantial justice to
the property owner, the owners of the property in the area and the general
public.
   (E)   Appeals procedure.
      (1)   Appeals shall be commenced by a person filing a notice of appeal
with the City Manager, on a form to be supplied by the City Manager,
accompanied by an appeal fee in an amount as set by the Council from time to
time. The notice of appeal shall be signed. It shall also specify the
requirements from which a variance is sought and the nature and extent of such
variance.
      (2)   The Board shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of appeals
and, in the case of variance requests, shall give due notice thereof to all the
owners of record of real property within 300 feet of the premises in question,
such notice to be delivered by mail addressed to the respective owners at the
address given in the last assessment roll.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
§ 152.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $500 and the cost of prosecution or, in
default of the payment thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county
jail for a period not to exceed 90 days for each offense, or both. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or when a violation
occurs or continues.
(Ord. passed 6-14-88)
CHAPTER 153:  SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Conveyance of platted land
   
153.02   Subdivision of land
   
153.03   Dedication of land
   
153.04   Definition
Preliminary Information
   
153.15   Preliminary and topographical maps; map content and scale
   
153.16   Supplementary information
   
153.17   Approval
   
153.18   Survey
   
153.19   Expiration of approval
Final Map
   
153.30   Compliance with state law
   
153.31   Street names
   
153.32   Hearing
   
153.33   Action by Commission
   
153.34   Approval to be certified on map
   
153.35   Effect on city plan
   
153.36   Land use restrictions
Specifications for Plats
   
153.50   Major street plan; adjoining street system
   
153.51   Easements
   
153.52   Streets and alley widths
   
153.53   Street and alley intersections
   
153.54   Curve radii
   
153.55   Blocks
   
153.56   Lots
   
153.57   Topography
   
153.58   Cul de sac streets
   
153.59   Railroads
   
153.60   Waterfront subdivision
Required Improvements
   
153.70   Improvements to meet city plans and be under city supervision
   
153.71   Minimum standards
   
153.72   Acceptance of plat before completion of improvements
Administration and Enforcement
   
153.85   Appeal or suspension of rules
   
153.86   Enforcement
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01  CONVEYANCE OF PLATTED LAND.
   No person shall sell or convey any lot in any plat by reference thereto
until such plat has been duly recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds
of Cheboygan County.
(`73 Code, 17.011, § 5.231) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.02  SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   No person shall hereafter subdivide any land without:
   (A)   Submitting to the City Planning Commission a preliminary map with
supplementary information before commencing the necessary surveys;
   (B)   Submitting to the City Clerk five final plats thereof which final
plats shall thereafter be approved by the City Planning Commission, the City
Council, the County Plat Board, and the Auditor General of the State of
Michigan;
   (C)   Paying to the City Clerk the sum of $4 plus $10 for each acre of land
or fraction thereof included within the plat boundaries which sum shall include
all expenses required for inspection of lands, meetings of the Planning
Commission and City Council and fees required by Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended, provided that the amount paid
the City Clerk shall in no case exceed $40 for each plat.
   (D)   Complying with all applicable provisions of Public Act 288 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(`73 Code, 17.012, § 5.232)
§ 153.03  DEDICATION OF LAND.
   Before any lands are accepted by the City Council for use as streets,
alleys, parks, or for other public use, the City Planning Commission shall
study the location and situation of the lands for conformance with the Master
Plan and shall make recommendations to the City Council for their disposition.
(`73 Code, 17.013, § 5.233)
§ 153.04  DEFINITION.
   The term SUBDIVIDE as used herein shall have the same meaning as defined in
Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, and
amendments.
(`73 Code, 17.014, § 5.234)
PRELIMINARY INFORMATION
§ 153.15  PRELIMINARY AND TOPOGRAPHICAL MAPS; MAP CONTENT AND SCALE.
   (A)   Preliminary map. The preliminary map required by §
153.02 shall be submitted in duplicate and shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name or title under which it is proposed to record the
subdivision;
      (2)   The name and address of all owners of record or subdividers;
      (3)   The location, width, approximate grade and radius of curvature of
proposed and existing streets, alleys, highways and ways included in the plat
together with similar fact regarding the adjacent property;
      (4)   The location of all existing features affecting the subdivision,
such as railroads, buildings, wooded areas, easements, ditches, watercourses,
etc.;
      (5)   The location and size of the nearest available public sewers,
watermains, and power lines, existing or planned;
      (6)   The location, size, and grade of the sewers with which it is
proposed to serve the area or the location and description of other proposed
means of sewage disposal; and
      (7)   The approximate dimensions of lots, approximate radii of curves,
and the approximate location of all setback lines.
(`73 Code, 17.021, § 5.241)
   (B)   Topographical map.  When in the opinion of the City Planning
Commission a topographical map of the area is required, the subdivider shall
furnish such map with contour intervals of not more than five feet. 
(`73 Code, 17.022, § 5.242)
   (C)   Map content, scale. Maps shall be drawn to clearly show all
information, including dates and cardinal points. The scale shall not be more
than 100 feet to the inch except that maps required to show the location of
nearest available public sewers or watermains may be drawn to a scale of 400
feet to the inch. 
(`73 Code, 17.023, § 5.243)
§ 153.16  SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION.
   The following supplementary information shall be filed with the preliminary
map:
   (A)   Sufficient legal description to define the boundaries of the proposed
subdivision;
   (B)   A written statement or a zoning map indicating the proposed use of the
various parcels;
   (C)   A description of the improvements to be made;
   (D)   Tree planting plans, if any planting is contemplated.
(`73 Code, 17.024, § 5.244)
§ 153.17  APPROVAL.
   At the first regular meeting after receipt of the preliminary data the City
Planning Commission shall cause such studies to be made as it may deem
necessary to examine the proposed data for compliance with this code, with the
Master Plan, and with sound engineering practice. Thereafter, and within not
more than 30 days from the first regular meeting after data was presented, the
City Planning Commission shall present the preliminary data to the City
Council, together with its recommendations. The City Council shall approve or
disapprove the data and the recommendations of the City Planning Commission and
shall notify the subdivider of its action.
(`73 Code, 17.025, § 5.245)
§ 153.18  SURVEY.
   After receipt of approval of the preliminary data by the City Council, the
subdivider shall cause an accurate survey to be made in accordance with the
preliminary map and any recommended alterations; except that where the map is
exclusively a reversion to acreage such survey shall not be required.
(`73 Code, 17.026, § 5.246)
§ 153.19  EXPIRATION OF APPROVAL.
   Approval of the preliminary data by the City Council shall expire at the end
of one year from the date of such approval and the subdivider shall be required
to make a new application for approval before proceeding with the final plat,
if he has not had said plat recorded within one year from approval date.
(`73 Code, 17.027, § 5.247)
FINAL MAP
§ 153.30  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   The final map shall be prepared and submitted in accordance with the
requirements of Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, and amendments thereto and with such additional requirements as may be
provided herein.
(`73 Code, 17.031, § 5.248)
§ 153.31  STREET NAMES.
   Approval of street names shall be secured from the City Planning Commission
before inscribing them on the map.
(`73 Code, 17.032, § 5.249) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.32  HEARING.
   Any plat submitted to the City Planning Commission shall contain the name
and address of a person to whom notice of a hearing shall be sent and no plat
shall be acted on by the Planning Commission without affording a hearing
thereon. Notice shall be sent to the person at the address by registered mail
of the time and place of such hearing not less than five days before the date
fixed therefor. Similar notice shall be mailed to the owners of land
immediately adjoining the platted land, as their names and addresses appear
upon the latest city tax record. The notices required by this section may be
waived in writing.
(`73 Code, 17.033, § 5.250)
§ 153.33  ACTION BY COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall examine the map for compliance with the
preliminary map and required changes thereof and shall approve, modify, or
disapprove the plat within 30 days after the submission thereof to it, provided
that the applicant for the Planning Commission's approval may waive this
requirement and consent to an extension to such period.
(`73 Code, 17.034, § 5.251)
§ 153.34  APPROVAL TO BE CERTIFIED ON MAP.
   Approval of the City Planning Commission shall be certified on the map by
the Secretary pursuant to authorization by the City Planning Commission and no
plat shall be approved by the City Council without the prior approval of the
City Planning Commission.
(`73 Code, 17.035, § 5.252)
§ 153.35  EFFECT ON CITY PLAN.
   Every plat approved by the Planning Commission shall, by virtue of such
approval, be deemed to be an amendment of or an addition to, or a detail of the
City Plan and a part thereof.
(`73 Code, 17.036, § 5.253)
§ 153.36  LAND USE RESTRICTIONS.
   The Planning Commission may agree with the applicant upon use, height, area,
bulk requirements, or restrictions governing building and premises, within the
subdivision, provided such requirements or restrictions do not authorize the
violation of
Chapter 154 (Zoning) of this code. Such requirements or restrictions shall be
stated upon the plat prior to the approval and recording thereof and shall have
the same force of law and be enforced in the same manner and with the same
sanctions and penalties and subject to the same power of amendment or repeal as
though set out as a part of
Chapter 154 (Zoning).
(`73 Code, 17.037, § 5.254)
SPECIFICATIONS FOR PLATS
§ 153.50  MAJOR STREET PLAN; ADJOINING STREET SYSTEM.
   (A)   The subdivision of land or the dedication of land for streets,
highways, alleys, parks, or other public use, shall conform to the major street
plan and Master Plan as approved by the Planning Commission. 
(`73 Code, 17.041, § 5.261)
   (B)   New subdivisions shall make provisions for the continuation of
principal existing streets in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions, insofar as
they may be necessary for public requirements. In general, such streets shall
be of a width as great as that of the streets so continued or projected. The
center lines of such streets shall continue with the center lines of existing
streets. In general, the streets shall extend to the boundary of the
subdivision to provide proper access to adjoining property and provide for
proper connection with the highway system for contiguous and adjacent land. 
(`73 Code, 17.043, § 5.263)
§ 153.51  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Where alleys are not required, easements not less than 7½ feet in
width may be provided on the rear of all lots.
   (B)   A variable easement adjusted to the needs of public necessity shall be
provided as may be required along water fronts.
(`73 Code, 17.044, § 5.264)
§ 153.52  STREETS AND ALLEY WIDTHS.
   (A)   Width of major streets shall conform to the widths established by the
major street plan.
   (B)   Widths of local streets shall, in general, be not less than 66 feet.
   (C)   The street or alley lying along the boundary of a subdivision may be
dedicated one-half of the required width if it is practical to require the
dedication of the other one-half when the adjoining property is subdivided.
Such portion of a street shall be distinctly designated upon the plat as being
a portion only of a street and not in full width thereof.
   (D)   Whenever there exists a dedicated and recorded one-half street or
alley on an adjoining plat, the other one-half must be dedicated on the
proposed plat to make the street or alley complete.
(`73 Code, 17.045, § 5.265)
§ 153.53  STREET AND ALLEY INTERSECTIONS.
   Intersections of streets shall be at an angle of 90 degrees or as close to
such an angle as practicable, but in no case less than 30 degrees. Termination
of streets at intersections shall be clearly defined.
(`73 Code, 17.046, § 5.266)
§ 153.54  CURVE RADII.
   (A)   Center line radii of major streets shall, in general, be not less than
500 feet, but may be reduced to 200 feet in hilly areas.
   (B)   Center line radii of local streets shall not be less than 100 feet.
   (C)   Reverse or compound curves on all streets shall be separated by a
tangent of not less than 50 feet, unless the Planning Commission deems this
restriction impractical.
(`73 Code, 17.047, § 5.267)
§ 153.55  BLOCKS.
   (A)   Streets shall be platted a sufficient distance apart to allow for a
block width containing two tiers of lots with an alley or easement between.
   (B)   No block shall be longer than 900 feet between street lines unless the
Planning Commission deems this restriction impractical.
   (C)   Where blocks are longer than 600 feet between street lines, there
shall be provided public walkways and utility easements at the approximate
center of the block. The Planning Commission may waive or vary this requirement
where necessary.
(`73 Code, 17.048, § 5.268) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.56  LOTS.
   (A)   All lots shall face upon a public street.
   (B)   The side lines of lots shall be approximately radial to the street
upon which the lot faces.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided in
Chapter 154 (Zoning) of this code, all residential lots shall have a mean width
of not less than 60 feet at the building line.
   (D)   Each residential lot shall contain an area of not less than 6,000
square feet.
   (E)   Lots fronting on major streets shall have a depth of not less than 100
feet.
   (F)   Lots must not be cut by a city boundary line. City boundary lines may
be lot lines or center lines of streets or alleys.
   (G)   Lots shall be numbered in numerical order commencing with the numeral
“1” with no omissions or duplications.
   (H)   Corner lots shall be of sufficient width to allow conformance with
building lines as established in
Chapter 154 (Zoning).
(`73 Code, 17.049, § 5.269) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.57  TOPOGRAPHY.
   In general, streets shall conform closely to the natural contour of the land
and with appropriate regard for watercourses and other topographical features.
(`73 Code, 17.050, § 5.270) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.58  CUL DE SAC STREETS.
   (A)   Where dead end streets are approved by reason of topography or for
other reasons, the center line radius of the cul de sac at the end of such
streets shall be not less than 40 feet.
   (B)   The maximum length of such streets shall be 400 feet, unless the
Planning Commission deems it appropriate to waive this requirement.
(`73 Code, 17.051, § 5.271) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.59  RAILROADS.
   Where subdivisions are adjacent to a railroad, a parallel street shall
border the railroad and serve as an interceptor street for minor streets.
Between the street and the railroad, there shall be a strip of land of a width
not less than the depth of one lot which may be desirably used in residence
districts as a park but may be used for business or industrial purposes in
appropriate districts if required.
(`73 Code, 17.052, § 5.272) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.60  WATER FRONT SUBDIVISION.
   In any new subdivision of land bounded by the Straits of Mackinac or the
Cheboygan River, there may be dedicated to public use certain areas of land
which extend to the water front and which shall be agreed upon between the
subdivider and the City Planning Commission.
(`73 Code, 17.042, § 5.262)
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS
§ 153.70  IMPROVEMENTS TO MEET CITY PLANS AND BE UNDER CITY SUPERVISION.
   All improvements required herein shall be in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the City Council and subject to supervision and
inspection by the Council.
(`73 Code, 17.061, § 5.275) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.71  MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The following minimum standards of improvements will be required as a
condition precedent to approval of the plat by the Planning Commission or the
City Council.
   (A)   All clearing and grubbing of streets and alleys shall be completed.
   (B)   Grading of streets and alleys shall be completed. Grading shall
include satisfactory protection of slopes from erosion.
   (C)   Installation of a complete storm sewer system will be required.
   (D)   All streets shall be surfaced to a width of not less than 22 feet with
material not inferior to asphalt conforming to city specifications for
residential streets.
   (E)   Installation of sanitary sewers shall be completed if a usable trunk
sewer is located within 500 feet of any boundary of the subdivision.
   (F)   If trunk sewers are not available, any required facilities for the
disposal of sewage must conform to existing specifications on file in the City
Engineer's Office.
   (G)   Water lines must be installed to service every lot where mains are
available to the subdivision.
(`73 Code, 17.062, § 5.276) 
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 153.72  ACCEPTANCE OF PLAT BEFORE COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   In the event that the improvements required herein have not been completed
at the time the final map is presented to the City Council for acceptance, such
map shall not be accepted unless the subdivider, prior to or simultaneously
with the presentation thereof, shall have complied with and performed the
following requirements:
   (A)   The subdivider shall file with the City Clerk detailed plans and
specifications bearing the approval of the City Council for all of the
improvements not already completed, together with a detailed estimate made or
approved by the City Manager of the cost of such improvements and an estimate
of the time reasonably necessary to complete them;
   (B)   The subdivider shall enter into a contract with the City of Cheboygan
to make, install and complete all the improvements and shall insure completion
of the same by filing a cash bond, a faithful performance bond issued by a
surety company acceptable to the city, in favor of the city or an irrevocable
letter of credit from a bank located in the State of Michigan, in a sum equal
to the estimated cost of the improvements.
(`73 Code, 17.063, § 5.277)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 153.85  APPEAL OR SUSPENSION OF RULES.
   A suspension of any requirement of this chapter may be granted by the City
Council in a particular case upon the recommendation of the City Planning
Commission. Application for such suspension must show that there are special
circumstances or conditions affecting the property in question; also that such
suspension is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a substantial
property right of the applicant. Also that such suspension, if granted, will
not be materially detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to other
property in the territory.
(`73 Code, 17.015, § 5.235)
§ 153.86  ENFORCEMENT.
   In addition to the penalties provided for violation of this code, any person
selling or conveying any lot in any plat by reference thereto before being
recorded, shall pay the sum of $50 for each lot sold.
(`73 Code, 17.016, § 5.236)
CHAPTER 154:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Construction of language
   
154.002   Definitions
   
154.003   Conflicting regulations
   
154.004   Scope
   
154.005   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
Zoning Districts and Map
   
154.015   Districts designated; terminology
   
154.016   Boundaries
   
154.017   Zoning of vacated and annexed areas
   
154.018   District requirements
Planned Projects
   
154.030   Planned Unit Development
   
154.031   (Reserved)
   
154.032   Final approval
Adult and Sexually Oriented Businesses
   
154.034   Intent
   
154.035   Legislative findings
   
154.036   Conformance with the City of Cheboygan special use provisions
   
154.037   Site plan review standards
   
154.038   Allowable locations
   
154.039   Definitions
   
154.040   Unlawful acts
   
154.041   Violations, penalties and inspections
   
154.042   Severability
Site Plan Review and Approval
   
154.045   Procedure established; purpose
   
154.046   Submission requirements
   
154.047   Review by Planning Commission; authority of City Council
   
154.048   Site change
   
154.049   Phased construction
District Regulations
   
154.060   R-1A and R-1B One-Family Residential Districts
   
154.061   R-MH Mobile Home Residential District
   
154.062   Residence R-2 Two-Family Residential Districts
   
154.063   R-M Multiple-Family Residential Districts
   
154.064   T-1 Tourist Service Districts
   
154.065   B-1 Local Business Districts
   
154.066   B-2 Central Business District
   
154.067   B-3 General Business Districts
   
154.068   B-4 General Commercial Districts
   
154.069   O-1 Office Building Districts
   
154.070   W-M Waterfront-Marina Districts
   
154.071   I-1 Light Industrial Districts
   
154.072   I-2 Heavy Industrial Districts
   
154.073   P-1 Vehicular Parking District
Schedule of Regulations
   
154.085   Schedule limiting height, bulk, density and area by zoning district
   
154.086   Subdivision open space plan
General Requirements
   
154.100   Nonconforming lots, uses and structures
   
154.101   Accessory buildings
   
154.102   Off-street parking requirements
   
154.103   Table of parking space requirements
   
154.104   Special assessment for parking; waiver
   
154.105   Off-street parking space layout, standards, construction and
maintenance
   
154.106   Off-street loading and unloading
   
154.107   Uses not otherwise included within a specified use district
   
154.108   Performance standards
   
154.109   Greenbelts and plant materials
   
154.110   Obscuring walls
   
154.111   Residential entranceway
   
154.112   Corner clearance
   
154.113   Use restriction
   
154.114   Exterior lighting
General Exceptions
   
154.125   Application of provisions
   
154.126   Essential services
   
154.127   Voting place
   
154.128   Height limit
   
154.129   Lot area
   
154.130   Lots adjoining alleys
   
154.131   Yard regulations
   
154.132   Multiple-dwelling side yard
   
154.133   Projection into yards
   
154.134   Fences and walls
   
154.135   Lot coverage
   
154.136   Trailer or boat storage
   
154.137   Access through yards
   
154.138   Terrace
Administration and Enforcement
   
154.150   Enforcement by Building Inspector; duties
   
154.151   Plot plan
   
154.152   Permits
   
154.153   Certificates
   
154.154   Final inspections
   
154.155   Fees
   
154.156   Zoning Commission
   
154.157   Planning Commission approval
   
154.158   Board of Appeals
   
154.159   Changes and amendments
   
154.160   Validity; effective date
 
   
154.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001  CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The following rules of construction apply to the text of this chapter.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (D)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves two or more items, conditions, provisions, or events connected by the
conjunction “and,” “or,” “either . . . or,” the conjunction shall be
interpreted as follows:
      (1)   “And” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions, or
events may apply singly or in any combination.
      (3)   “Either . . . or” indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
(`73 Code, 15.011, § 5.1)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Terms not herein
defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A subordinate building, the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of the main building or to the use of the land.
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use subordinate to the main use of a lot or parcel and
used for purposes clearly incidental to those of the main use.
   AGGRIEVED PARTIES. Those parties whose application for a zoning compliance
permit has been denied and those owners or occupants of property within 300
feet of the property who can demonstrate a material and substantial detrimental
impact to their property as a direct result of a decision of the Zoning
Administrator.
   AGRICULTURE. Farms and general farming, including horticulture,
floriculture, dairying, livestock, and poultry raising, farm forestry, and
other similar enterprises, or uses, but not farms opened as piggeries, or for
the disposal of garbage, sewage, rubbish, offal or rendering plants, or for the
slaughtering of animals except such animals as have been raised on the premises
or have been maintained on the premises for a least a period of one year
immediately prior thereto and for the use and consumption of persons residing
on the premises.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition, or modification in construction or type
of occupancy, any change in the structural members of a building, such as walls
or partitions, columns, beams or girders, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as “altered” or “reconstructed.”
   APARTMENT. A dwelling unit in a multiple dwelling building as defined
herein:
      (1)   EFFICIENCYAPARTMENT.  A dwelling unit consisting of not more than
one room in addition to kitchen and necessary sanitary facilities.
      (2)   ONE BEDROOM UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of not more than two
rooms in addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities.
      (3)   TWO BEDROOM UNIT.  A dwelling unit consisting of not more than
three rooms in addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities.
      (4)   THREE BEDROOM UNIT.  A dwelling unit consisting of not more than
four rooms in addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR STATION. A place where, along with the sale of engine
fuels, the following services may be carried out: general repair, engine
rebuilding, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service,
such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair, painting and
undercoating.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline (stored only in
underground tanks) kerosene or motor oil and lubricants or grease (for
operation of motor vehicles) are retailed directly to the public on the
premises, including sale of minor accessories and services for automobiles.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade
but so located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor
is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling. A
basement shall not be counted as a story.
   BOARD. The Zoning Board of Appeals.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof, and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels, or
property of any kind. This shall include tents, awnings or vehicles situated on
private property and used for the purposes of a building. BUILDING includes any
part thereof.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established grade
to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck line of
mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip, and gambrel roofs. Where a building is located on sloping terrain, the
height may be measured from the average ground level of the grade at the
building wall.
   BUILDING LINE. A line formed by the face of the building, and for the
purposes of this chapter, a minimum building line is the same as a front
setback line.
   BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the lot on which it is situated.
   CLUB. An organization of persons for special purposes or for the
promulgation of sports, arts, sciences, literature, politics, or the like, but
not operated for profit.
   COUNCIL. The duly elected legislative body of the City of Cheboygan.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the city within which certain regulations and
requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this
chapter.
   DRIVE-INRESTAURANT. A business establishment for the serving of food and/or
beverage so developed that its retail or service character is substantially
dependent on providing a drive-way approach or parking spaces for motor
vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather than within a
building or structure or to permit patron self-service and return to motor
vehicle.
   DWELLING.  Includes the word “residence.”
   DWELLINGUNIT. A building, or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by one
(1) family for residential purposes and having cooking facilities.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, designed for
occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other.
      (1)   APARTMENT HOUSE.  A building containing three or more dwelling
units arranged either side by side or one above the other.
      (2)   CONDOMINIUM. The ownership of apartments and the space enclosed by
the description together thereof with an ownership of the interest of the
common elements as described in Public Act 59, §§ 3 to 6, of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 559.103 to 559.106, as amended.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families, living independently of each other, such as a duplex dwelling unit.
   ERECTED.  Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon, or any
physical operation on the premises which are required for the construction.
Excavation, fill, drainage, and the like, shall be considered a part of
erection.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal departments of underground, surface, or overhead
gas, electrical, steam, fuel or water transmission or distribution system,
collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including towers, poles,
wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm and police
call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants and similar equipment in connection
therewith, but not including buildings, which are necessary for the furnishing
of adequate service by such utilities or municipal departments for the general
health, safety, or welfare.
   EXCAVATION. Any breaking of ground, except common household gardening and
ground care.
   EXCEPTION. A use permitted only after review of an application by the Board
of Appeals or Planning Commission other than the Administrative Official
(Building Inspector), such review being necessary because the provisions of
this chapter covering conditions, precedent or subsequent, are not precise
enough to cover all applications without interpretation, and such review is
required by this chapter.
   FAMILY. One or two persons or parents, with their direct lineal descendants
or adopted children or foster children (and including the domestic employees
thereof) together with not more than two persons not so related, living
together in the whole or part of a dwelling comprising a single housekeeping
unit. Every additional group of two or fewer persons living in such
housekeeping unit shall be considered a separate family for the purpose of this
chapter.
   FLOORAREA. For the purposes of computing the minimum allowable floor area in
a residential dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal areas of each story of
the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls. The floor
area measurement is exclusive of areas of basements, unfinished attics,
attached garages, breezeways, and enclosed and unenclosed porches.
   FLOORAREA, USABLE. (For the purposes of computing parking) is that area used
for or intended to be used for the sale of merchandise or services or for use
to serve patrons, clients, or customers. Such floor area which is used or
intended to be used principally for the storage or processing of merchandise,
or for utilities shall be excluded from the computation of FLOOR AREA, USABLE.
Measurement of floor area shall be the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the
several floors of the building, measured from the interior faces of the
exterior walls. For the purposes of computing parking for those uses not
enclosed within a building, the area used for the sale of merchandise, display
of merchandise, and/or area used to serve patrons or clients shall be measured
to determine necessary parking spaces.
   GRADE. A ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of the building. The building grade shall be
the level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished
grade is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the grade shall be
determined by averaging the elevation of the ground of each face of the
building.
   HOMEOCCUPATION. An occupation that is traditionally or customarily carried
on in the home, provided:
      (1)   That such occupation is incidental to the residential use to the
extent that not more than 25% of the usable floor area of the principal
building, and/or 70% of an accessory building, shall be occupied by such
occupations;
      (2)   That no article or service is stored outside, or offered for sale
outside on the premises;
      (3)   That such occupation shall not require internal or external
alterations of construction features, or the presence of heavy equipment or
heavy machinery, not customary in residential areas;
      (4)   That there be not more than one employee other than members of the
resident family;
      (5)   That for each such dwelling unit, there be allowed, flat against
the wall, one non-illuminated name sign not exceeding six square feet in area,
indicating the name and/or type of home occupation;
      (6)   That such home occupation not be allowed in a multiple-family
dwelling;
      (7)   That the required minimum number of off-street parking spaces
specified herein for comparable occupational uses be provided;
      (8)   That no parking or storage of commercial vehicles be allowed
outside on the premises except those of three ton manufacturers nominal gross
vehicle weight or smaller;
      (9)   No such home occupation shall be noxious or offensive by reason of
nighttime operations, emission of noise, vibration, smoke, dust or other
particulate matter, odorous matter, radioactive matter, heat, humidity, glare,
refuse or other objectionable emissions nor otherwise constitute a public
nuisance.
      (10)    HOME OCCUPATIONS shall include, in general, personal services
such as the professions of a doctor, dentist, osteopath, chiropractor,
chiropodist, optometrist, author, architect, engineer, surveyor, lawyer,
accountant, tax preparer, woodcarver, artist, carpenter, painter, electrician,
plumber, and the occupations of dressmaker or beautician; and,
      (11)    The following shall not be deemed to be HOME OCCUPATIONS:
automotive repair shops, clinics, hospitals, barber shops, tearooms, flea
markets, tourist homes, animal hospitals, kennels, millinery shops, amusement
hall, martial arts schools and child day care nurseries, among others.
   JUNKYARDS. An open area where waste, used or second-hand materials are
bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled, or handled
including but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires, and bottles. A junk yard includes automobile wrecking yards and includes
any area of more than 200 square feet for storage, keeping or abandonment of
junk but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which more than three dogs, cats, or other
household pets are either permanently or temporarily boarded. Kennel shall also
include any lot or premises where household pets are bred or sold.
   LAND USE PLAN. A plan that is a representation of the preferred future of
how the city would grow, and includes recommendations on development goals,
objectives and policies.
   LOADING SPACE.  An off-street space on the same lot with a building or group
of buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading and
unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or intended to be occupied, by a main
building or a group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for
the principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such open spaces as
are required under the provisions of this chapter. A lot may or may not be
specifically designated for such on public road. LOT includes the words “plot”
or “parcel.”
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot where the interior angle of two adjacent sides at the
intersection of two streets is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a
curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot for the purposes of
this chapter if the arc is of less radius than 150 feet and the tangents to the
curve, at the two points where the lot lines meet the curve or the straight
street line extended form an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE. That part or per cent of the lot occupied by buildings,
including accessory buildings.
   LOT-DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any interior lot having frontages on two more or less
parallel streets a distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
double frontage lots, all sides of said lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and front yards shall be provided as required.
   LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein:
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, the lot line
separating said lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot, or double
frontage lot, is that line separating said lot from that street which is
designated as the front street in the plat and the request for a building
permit.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot lines other than the front lot lines or rear
lot lines. A side lot line separating a lot from a street is a side street lot
line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is an interior
side lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
recorded plat on file with the County Register of Deeds, at the time of
adoption of the 1967 Zoning Ordinance (7-11-67), or in common use by municipal
or county officials, and which actually exists as so shown, or any part of such
parcel held in a recorded ownership separate from that of the remainder
thereof.
   LOT WIDTH. The straight line distance between the side lot lines measured at
the two points where the minimum building line, or setback, intersects the side
lot lines.
   MAINBUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot
upon which it is situated.
   MAIN USE. The principal use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exists.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.  An arterial street which is intended to serve as a
large volume trafficway for both the immediate city area and the region beyond,
and may be designated as a major thoroughfare, parkway, freeway, expressway, or
equivalent term to identify those streets comprising the basic structure of the
street plan. Any street with right-of-way width, existing or proposed, of 120
feet or greater shall be considered a major thoroughfare.
   MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive plan including graphic and written proposals
indicating the general location for streets, parks, schools, public buildings
and all physical development of the municipality, and includes any unit or part
of such plan, and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof. Such plan or
part thereof may or may not be adopted by the Planning Commission and/or City
Council.
   MATERIAL IMPACT. One which is objectively manifested and readily observable.
   MAY.  Is permissive.
   MEZZANINE. An intermediate or fractional story between the floor and ceiling
of a main story occupying not more than one-third of the floor area of such
main story.
   MOBILE HOME. A factory-assembled structure or structures equipped with the
necessary service connections and made so as to be readily movable as a unit or
units on its (or their) own running gear and designated to be used as a
dwelling unit (or units) without a permanent foundation, designed and built in
accordance with the National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Manufactured
Housing Standards and the most recent edition of the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) standards.
   MOTEL. A series of attached, semi-detached or detached rental units
containing bedroom, bathroom and closet space. Units shall provide for
overnight lodging and are offered to the public for compensation, and shall
cater primarily to the public traveling by motor vehicle.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof, lawfully existing at
the effective date of this code, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter relative to height, bulk, area, or
yards for the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date of this code, or amendments thereto, and that does not conform
to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIAL. A space, building or structure, or combination
there of, for the storage of live trees, shrubs, or plants offered for retail
sale on the premises including products used for gardening or landscaping. The
definition of nursery within the meaning of this chapter does not include any
space, building or structure used for the sale of fruits, vegetables or
Christmas trees.
   OCCUPIED. Includes arranged, designed, built, altered, converted to, rented
or leased, or intended to be occupied.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT.  A facility other than for single-family dwellings
providing vehicular parking spaces along with adequate drives and aisles, for
maneuvering, so as to provide access for entrance and exit of the parking for
more than three vehicles.
   OPEN FRONT STORE.  A business establishment other than a restaurant, bank,
automobile service or repair station, so developed that service to the patron
may be extended beyond the walls of the building, not requiring the patron to
enter the building.
   PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width, the area shall be
exclusive of drives, aisles or entrances giving access therein, and shall be
fully accessible for the storage or parking of permitted vehicles.
   PLANNED PROJECT. A comprehensive plan including graphic and written
proposals indicating the placement and interrelationship of the buildings and
uses within a site plan in accordance with §§
154.030 through
154.032 of this chapter.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the city.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department, board
or commission duly authorized to furnish under federal, state or municipal
regulations to the public, gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal,
communication, telegraph, transportation or water.
   SETBACK. The distance required to obtain the front, side or rear yard open
space provisions of this chapter.
   SHALL.  Is always mandatory and not discretionary.
   STABLE, PRIVATE.  A stable for the keeping of horses for the noncommercial
use of the residents of the principal use and shall not include the keeping of
horses for others or for boarding.
   STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable other than a private stable.
   STORY. That part of a building, except a mezzanine as defined herein;
included between the surface of one floor and the surface of the next floor, or
if there is no floor above, then the ceiling next above. A story thus defined
shall not be counted as a story when more than 50%, by cubic content, is below
the height level of the adjoining ground.
   STORY, HALF. An uppermost story lying under a sloping roof, the usable floor
area of which, at a height of four feet above the floor does not exceed two-
thirds of the floor area in the story directly below, and the height above at
least 200 square feet of floor space is seven feet six inches.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground. Includes any part thereof.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPACT. One which, by its nature and degree, directly affects
the lawful uses to which the property may be put.
   TEMPORARY USE OR BUILDING. A use or building permitted by the Board of
Appeals to exist during periods of construction of the main building or use, or
for special events.
   TRAILER COACH. Any vehicle designed, used, or so constructed as to permit
its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such, and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for one or more persons.
   TRAILER COURT. Any plot of ground upon which six or more trailer coaches
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located.
   USE.  The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or
intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
   USED FOR.  Includes “arranged for,” “designed for,” “intended for,”
“maintained for,” or “occupied for.”
   VARIANCE.  A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter granted
when strict enforcement of this chapter would cause undue hardship owing to
circumstances unique to the individual property on which the variance is
granted. The crucial points of variance are (1) undue hardship, (2) unique
circumstances, and (3) applying to property. A variance is not justified unless
all three elements are present in the case.
   VETERINARY CLINIC.  A place where animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment with use as a kennel limited to short-time boarding which is
incidental to the medical use.
   YARD. The open spaces on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this
chapter, and as defined herein:
      (1)   FRONT YARD.  An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the nearest line of the main building.
      (2)   REAR YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and
the nearest line of the main building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD.  An open space between a main building and the side lot
line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is the
horizontal distance from the nearest point of the side lot line to the nearest
point of the main building.
(`73 Code, 15.011, § 5.1 - 15.018, § 5.8)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed
1973; Am. Ord. eff. 11-19-75; Am. Ord. eff. 5-3-82; Am. Ord. eff. 4-19-07; Am.
Ord. eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.003  CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Whenever any provision of this chapter imposes more stringent requirements,
regulations, restrictions or limitations than are imposed or required by the
provisions of any other law or ordinance, then the provisions of this chapter
shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other law or ordinance impose more
stringent requirements than are imposed or required by this chapter, then the
provisions of such law or ordinance shall govern.
(`73 Code, 15.311, § 5.108)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.004  SCOPE.
   No building or structure, or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed or altered and maintained, and no new use or change shall be made
or maintained of any building, structure or land, or part thereof, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(`73 Code, 15.312, § 5.109)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.005  INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comfort, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is not
intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any other code
provision, rules, regulations or permits adopted or issued, and not in conflict
with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be adopted or issued
pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises and likewise not
in conflict with this chapter, nor is it intended by this chapter to interfere
with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or other agreements between
parties, provided, however, that where this chapter imposes a greater
restriction upon the use of or requires larger open spaces or larger lot areas
than are imposed or required by such code provision or agreements, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(`73 Code, 15.388, § 5.152)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 154.015  DISTRICTS DESIGNATED; TERMINOLOGY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the City of Cheboygan is hereby
divided into the following districts:
 
R-1A   One-Family Residential District  B-3    General Business District
R-1B   One-Family Residential District  B-4    General Commercial District
R-MH   Mobile Home Residential District O-1    Office Building District
R-2   Two Family Residential District   W-M    Waterfront-Marina District
R-M   Multiple-Family Residential DistriI-1    Light Industrial District
T-1   Tourist Service District          I-2    Heavy Industrial District
B-1    Local Business District          P-1    Vehicular Parking District
B-2    Central Business District
 
(`73 Code, 15.031, § 5.11)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord.
eff. 11-19-75; Am. Ord. eff. 5-3-82; Am. Ord. eff. 1-31-83)
   (B)   Any reference herein to a C-1 Zoning District shall actually mean a B-
1 District; a C-2 District shall mean a B-2 District; a C-3 District shall mean
a B-3; any reference herein to an M-1 Zoning District shall mean I-1 District;
and, any reference to an M-2 District shall mean an I-2 District.
(`73 Code, 15.031, § 5.11A)  (Am. Ord. eff. 4-1-85)
§ 154.016  BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the zoning districts are hereby established as shown on
the zoning map which accompanies this chapter and which map with all notations,
references and other information shown thereon shall be as much a part of this
chapter as if fully described herein.
   (A)   Unless shown otherwise, the boundaries of the districts are lot lines,
the centerlines of streets, alleys, roads, railroads, or such lines extended,
and the limits of the city. Where district boundaries are shown as coinciding
with street, alley or road right-of-way lines, the boundary shall be the
centerline of such right-of-way.
   (B)   Where, due to the scale, lack of detail, or illegibility of the zoning
map accompanying this chapter, there is an uncertainty, contradiction, or
conflict as to the intended location of any district boundaries shown thereon,
interpretation concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall
be determined upon written application to, or upon its own motion, by the Board
of Appeals.
(`73 Code, 15.032, § 5.12)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.017  ZONING OF VACATED AND ANNEXED AREAS.
   (A)   Whenever any street, alley or other public way within the city shall
be vacated, such street, alley or other public way or portion thereof shall
automatically be classified in the same zone district as the property to which
it attaches. 
(`73 Code, 15.033, § 5.13)
   (B)   Any area annexed to the city shall immediately upon such annexation be
automatically classified as an R-1B District until a zoning map for said area
has been adopted by the City Council. The Planning Commission shall recommend
appropriate zoning for such area within three months after the matter is
referred to the Planning Commission by the City Council. 
(`73 Code, 15.034, § 5.14)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.018  DISTRICT REQUIREMENTS.
   All buildings and uses in any district shall be subject to the provisions of
§§
154.100 through
154.114, General Requirements and §§
154.125 through
154.138, General Exceptions.
(`73 Code, 15.035, § 5.15)
PLANNED PROJECTS
§ 154.030  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Established. A district known as the Planned Unit Development
District, also referred to as the PUD District, is established.
   (B)   Purpose. The purpose of the planned unit development is to permit
flexibility in the regulation of land development, encourage innovation in land
use and variety in design, layout, and type of structures constructed, achieve
economy in the use of land, natural resources, energy, and the provision of
public services and utilities, encourage useful open space, and provide better
housing, employment, and shopping opportunities.
   (C)   Principal permitted uses. Principal permitted uses within the Planned
Unit Development District shall be all uses, accessory uses and mixture of uses
as currently regulated under the zoning ordinances of the City of Cheboygan for
One-Family Residential Districts (R-1), Two-Family Residential Districts (R-2),
Multi-Family Residential Districts (R-M), Local Business Districts (B-1),
Tourist Service Districts (T-1) and other uses of similar and no more
objectionable character as determined by the City Council after recommendation,
pro or con, of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Site plan submission. All owners or holders of a lawful option or
authorized agents shall file with the Zoning Administrator a proposed site plan
and detailed descriptions of structures to be erected in conformance with the
provisions of the City of Cheboygan site plan review ordinance, being §
154.045.
   (E)   Approval standards. Based upon the standards set forth in this
division (E), the Planning Commission may recommend denial, approval or
approval with conditions, and the City Council may deny, approve or approve
with conditions a proposed planned unit development. In making such a decision,
the Planning Commission and the City Council shall rely upon the following
standards:
      (1)   The uses proposed within the planned unit development will have a
beneficial effect, in terms of public health, safety, welfare or convenience,
on present and future potential land uses. The uses shall not adversely affect,
in a material manner, the public utility and circulation system, surrounding
properties or the environment.
      (2)   Off-street parking within the planned unit development shall be
sufficient to meet the minimum parking required by §§
154.102 through
154.105; however, if it is deemed necessary in order to achieve the purposes
set forth in division (B) of this section, the City Council may require more or
less parking than that required by such sections.
      (3)   All streets and parking areas within the planned unit development
shall meet the minimum requirements set forth in city ordinances, unless
modified by the City Council to achieve the purposes set forth in division (B)
of this section.
      (4)   Landscaping or screening shall be provided, if necessary, within
the planned unit development in order to ensure that the proposed uses will be
adequately buffered from one another and from surrounding public and private
property.
      (5)   Effort shall be made to ensure the preservation of natural and
architectural features, trees, hedge rows, wood lots and the integrity of the
land within the planned unit development.
      (6)   The site for the planned unit development shall have adequate
lateral support so as to ensure that there will be no erosion of soil or other
material.
      (7)   Public water, sewer, and electrical facilities shall be available
within the planned unit development or shall be provided by the developer as
part of the site development.
      (8)   The proposed density, setbacks and heights of the planned unit
development shall be no different than the density, setbacks and heights which
would be required for each of the components uses of the development. However,
if it is deemed necessary in order to achieve the purposes set forth in
division (B) of this section, the City Council may require greater or lesser
density, setbacks or heights within such planned unit development than those
required by this section.
      (9)   Traffic and accessory conditions regulations shall be as follows:
         (a)   Safe, convenient, uncongested and well-defined vehicular and
pedestrian circulation within and to the Planned Unit Development District
shall be provided.
         (b)   Drives and streets shall not be laid out so as to encourage
outside traffic to traverse the planned unit development, or to create
unnecessary fragmentation of the development into small blocks.
         (c)   No material impediment to the visibility of automotive traffic,
cyclists or pedestrians shall be created or maintained.
      (10)   All buildings shall conform to the city code and ordinances.
      (11)   The area of the planned unit development must be a minimum of one
acre.
      (12)   The planned unit development shall comply with current ordinances
and regulations relative to storm water flow.
   (F)   Procedural requirements. Before submitting an application, the
applicant shall meet with the Zoning/Planning Director of the City of Cheboygan
to review the proposed project, the City of Cheboygan Code of Ordinances, and
the city plan. Upon receipt of a planned unit development application and site
plan pursuant to division (D), the Zoning Administrator shall transmit the
application and plan to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall
review the plan at its next regularly scheduled meeting. The Planning
Commission may elect to postpone a decision of the plan until its next
scheduled meeting if the owner or authorized agent fails to be present or the
plan is determined to be incomplete. Should the Planning Commission postpone a
decision due to a determination that the plan is incomplete, the Planning
Commission shall make a recommendation to the City Council relative to the plan
at their next regularly scheduled meeting. If the Planning Commission makes a
report of the site plan and application, such report shall be taken into
consideration by the City Council in determining whether the proposed planned
unit development shall be authorized. The City Council shall hold a public
hearing in the same manner and give notice of the hearing as follows:
      (1)   Publish notice of the request in a newspaper of general circulation
in the local unit of government.
      (2)   Notice shall also be sent by mail or personal delivery to the
owners of property for which approval is being considered. Notice shall also be
sent to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the
property and to the occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the property
regardless of whether the property or occupant is located in the zoning
jurisdiction.
      (3)   The notice shall be given not less than 15 days before the date the
application will be considered for approval. If the name of the occupant is not
known, the term “occupant” may be used in making notification. The notice shall
do all of the following:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the request;
         (b)   Indicate the property that is the subject of the request. The
notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses within the
property. Street addresses do not need to be created and listed if no such
address currently exist within the property. If there are no street addresses,
other means of identification may be used;
         (c)   State when and where the request will be considered; and
         (d)   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (G)   Rezoning of parcel. Approval of the planned unit development by the
City Council shall rezone the property to a planned unit development zoning
classification for the uses as shown on the planned unit development
application and site plan.
   (H)   Time for completion of development. Within 18 months of the approval
of an application and site plan for a proposed planned unit development, or for
a phase of such development, all proposed buildings, parking  spaces,
landscaping, usable open spaces and amenities included in the site plan shall
be started or the Planned Unit Development District will revert to its previous
zoning. Work shall be continued in a reasonably diligent manner and completed
within three years of the approval by the City Council. Such 18-month and
three-year periods may be extended if applied for by the applicant and granted
by the City Council in writing following a public notice and public hearing.
Failure on the part of the owner to secure the applicable written extension
shall result in a stoppage of all construction.
   (I)   Consequences of approval. After approval of a planned unit
development, the parcel to which it pertains shall be developed and used in its
entirety only as authorized and described in the resolution approving the
planned unit development.
   (J)   Changes. Minor changes to a previously approved planned unit
development site plan may be approved without the necessity of action by the
Planning Commission or the City Council if the Zoning Administrator certifies
in writing that the proposed revision does not alter the basic design, nor any
specified conditions of the site plan as approved by the City Council. Any
changes or alterations, other than minor changes as set forth in this division
(J), may be made only by following the same procedures as required for the
adoption of a planned unit development in the first instance.
(`73 Code, 15.040, § 5.16)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. eff. 6-15-82; Am. Ord.
eff. 4-19-07; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08; Am. Ord. eff. 7-3-08)
Statutory reference:
   Planned unit development, see M.C.L.A. § 125.3503
§ 154.031  (RESERVED).
§ 154.032  FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Application. Any person may file an application with the Planning
Commission for final approval of a planned project. Preliminary approval is not
required prior to application for final approval and is optional with the
petitioner. Application for final approval shall contain at least the
following:
      (1)   A legal description of the property under consideration.
      (2)   A fully dimensioned map of the land.
      (3)   A site plan showing the location of all existing and proposed
principal and accessory buildings and structures, parking lots, buffer strips,
driveways, curb cuts, open areas, sidewalks, outside rubbish containers,
fences, and the like.
      (4)   Architectural sketches, at an appropriate scale showing exterior
elevations of principal and accessory buildings and structures, interior room
arrangements, and proposed uses. If several buildings of the same design are to
be utilized, the above sketches may be provided only for the typical principal
or accessory building or structure.
      (5)   A key indicating the square footage and percent of the site devoted
to buildings, parking and access drives, public streets and open space.
      (6)   A landscape plan showing the location, type, and size at
installation of all proposed landscape materials, existing landscaping and
trees to be retained on the site, and all proposed fences, walls, berms and
similar treatment.
      (7)   The location and site of all existing and proposed public
utilities.
      (8)   A statement listing and fully explaining the specific modifications
of the provisions of this subchapter which are desired.
      (9)   Payment of a non-refundable fee as provided in the current zoning
fees (not required if submitted with preliminary approval application), in an
amount established by resolution of City Council from time to time upon
recommendation of the City Manager.
   (B)   Planning Commission action.
      (1)   If a public hearing has not been held on the project as a condition
of preliminary approval, the Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing on
the final approval application. If a public hearing has been held on the
preliminary approval application, a second hearing for final approval is not
required; however, the Planning Commission may, at its discretion, hold another
public hearing for final approval. Notice of the hearing shall be published in
the local newspaper at least ten days prior to the date of hearing and all
property owners within 500 feet of the area shall be notified by mail.
      (2)   After holding a public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
recommend to the City Council approval, conditional approval, or rejection of
the planned project and shall set forth its reasons and conditions in writing.
   (C)   City Council action.  Upon receipt of a report and recommendation from
the Planning Commission, the City Council shall approve, conditionally approve
or reject the planned project.
   (D)   Standards. In reviewing a planned project, the Planning Commission and
City Council shall consider the following standards:
      (1)   The proposed use or uses shall be of such location, size, and
character as to be in harmony with the appropriate and orderly development of
the zoning district in which situated and shall not be detrimental to the
orderly development of adjacent zoning districts.
      (2)   The location and size of the proposed use or uses, the nature and
intensity of the principal use and all accessory uses, the site layout and its
relation to streets giving access to it, shall be such that traffic to and from
the use or uses, and the assembly of persons in connection therewith, will not
be hazardous or inconvenient to the neighborhood nor conflict with the normal
traffic of the neighborhood. In applying this standard, the Commission shall
consider, among other things: convenient routes for pedestrian traffic,
particularly of children; the relationship of the proposed project to main
traffic thoroughfares and to street and road intersections; and the general
character and intensity of the existing and potential development of the
neighborhood. In addition, where appropriate, the Commission shall determine
that noise, vibration, odor, light, glare, heat, electromagnetic or radioactive
radiation, or other external effects, from any source whatsoever which is
connected with the proposed use, will not have a detrimental effect upon
neighboring properties or the neighborhood in general.
      (3)   The location and height of buildings, the location and nature and
height of walls and fences, and the nature and extent of landscaping of the
site shall be such that they will not hinder or discourage the proper
development and use of adjacent land and buildings nor impair the value
thereof.
      (4)   The standards of density and open space in the proposed planned
project are at least equal to those required by this chapter in the zoning
district in which the proposed project is to be located.
      (5)   There shall be a relatively small proportion of uses within the
proposed project which are not permitted uses in the zoning district in which
the proposed project is to be located.
   (E)   Length of approval.  The approval of a planned project by the City
Council shall allow the Building Official to issue a zoning compliance permit
in conformity with the application as approved. This permit shall specify with
particularity the exact modifications to the provisions of this chapter which
have been approved as well as the conditions set forth by the City Council in
its approval of the application. The holder of this zoning compliance permit
may then proceed with his project in conformity with the permit. No deviations
from the conditions of the permit shall be allowed except those which shall be
in conformity with the basic provisions of this chapter as they apply to the
zoning district in which said project is located.
      (1)   The length of approval shall be two years from date of Council
approval. An extension may be applied for in writing by the applicant prior to
the expiration date and may be extended for periods of up to two years by the
City Council.
      (2)   An approved planned project is not affected by a transfer in land
ownership.
(`73 Code, 15.042, § 5.18)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. eff. 6-15-82)
ADULT AND SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 154.034  INTENT.
   This subchapter is an amendment to
Chapter 154 of the City of Cheboygan Zoning Ordinance to provide for the
regulation, control and prohibition of certain undesirable adult businesses,
sexually oriented businesses, and adult entertainment establishments, near
certain zoned districts which allow the following primary or secondary uses;
residential, recreational, religious, educational, and other business interests
where alcoholic beverages are sold.
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
§ 154.035  LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Council and the Planning Commission have determined
that sexually oriented businesses, and activities are recognized as having a
deleterious effect upon adjacent areas, causing increased crime rates, blight,
a general chilling effect upon other businesses and occupants, a negative
disruption in residential and commercial development, decreasing land values of
adjacent and nearby properties.
      (2)   These findings have been substantiated by numerous land use studies
which have been upheld by the United States Supreme Court. Recent Supreme Court
cases have concluded that, "municipalities have a substantial interest in
protecting and preserving the quality of life for its community against the
adverse secondary effects of sexually oriented businesses," regardless of the
size of the community  (Young v. American Mini Theaters, Inc. (1976)), and
Renton v. Playtime Theater, Inc. (1986)).
      (3)   The harmful secondary effects the Court identified include:
         (a)   Increased crime.
         (b)   Decreased property values of both residential and commercial
properties.
         (c)   Blight which causes people and businesses to flee the community.
   (B)    The City Council and the Planning Commission have concluded that they
have the right, the duty, and the permission to protect citizens from these
harmful effects of sexually oriented businesses, including but not limited to:
      (1)   Adult arcades.
      (2)   Adult book, novelty (sexual paraphernalia), or video stores.
      (3)   Adult cabarets, night clubs, gentlemen's clubs, go-go clubs, strip
bars.
      (4)   Adult motels or hotels.
      (5)   Adult motion picture theaters or adult theaters.
      (6)   Escort services or agencies.
      (7)   Adult massage parlors.
   (C)   It is not the intent, nor are there legislative findings which support
the city, from prohibiting sexually oriented businesses from locating within
the boundaries of the city based on the protections of free speech in the First
Amendment of the United States Constitution. If a sexually oriented business is
engaged in legal speech related activities, one must be allowed even if it
falls within the prohibitions listed in §
154.040.
   (D)   If no commercially zoned land is suitable for locating a legal
sexually oriented business in the city because of prohibitions in §
154.040, the city shall re-zone a vacant parcel to alleviate the prohibitions,
if such land is vacant and available.
   (E)   In the event any sexually oriented business in the city discontinues
operation for a period of more than six months (181 days), the right to operate
the business shall terminate.
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
§ 154.036  CONFORMANCE WITH THE CITY OF CHEBOYGAN SPECIAL USE PROVISIONS.
   Any and all businesses which fit the definition of a sexually oriented
business require a special use permit, regardless of zone, through the review
process of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
§ 154.037  SITE PLAN REVIEW STANDARDS.
   (A)   Signage.  Must conform to the following regulations, in addition to
the city sign ordinance,
Chapter 152 of this code. No words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes,
drawings or pictorial representations of sexual paraphernalia, specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   (B)   Junk, garbage, rubbish, and general blight. The exterior grounds of
any sexually oriented business must not be in violation of the regulations
contained in the city nuisance ordinance,
Chapter 95 of this code.
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
§ 154.038  ALLOWABLE LOCATIONS.
   Sexually oriented businesses may only locate in the following zones: General
Business (B-3).
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
§ 154.039  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT.  Anyone who has attained the age of 18 years of age, or older.
   ADULT BOOK STORE.  Any use or combined use which has a display containing
books, magazines, periodicals, slides, pictures, cassettes, computer disks, or
other printed or recorded material which has a significant portion of its
content, or exhibit matter including sexual paraphernalia, or actions
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities, or specified
anatomical areas, or an establishment with a substantial segment or section
devoted to the sale or display of such material.
   ADULT CABARET.  Any nightclub, theater or other establishment which features
live performances by topless and/or bottomless dancers, including but not
limited to "go-go" dancers, exotic dancers, strippers, or similar entertainers,
where a significant portion of such performances show, depict, or describe
specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR.  Any place where for any form of consideration or
gratuity, massage, alcohol rub, administration of oils or lotions, electric or
magnetic treatment or any other treatment or manipulation of the human body
which occurs as part of, or in connection with specified sexual activities, or
where any person providing such treatment, manipulation or service related
thereto exposes specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTEL/HOTEL.  A motel or hotel wherein matter including sexual
paraphernalia, actions or other displays are presented which contains a
significant portion depicting, describing, or relating to specified sexual
activities, or specified anatomical areas.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  Any enclosed building or structure with
a capacity of less than 50 persons used for presenting material which has a
significant portion of any motion picture or other display depicting or
relating to specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical areas, for
observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is permitted or
invited wherein coin or slug operated or electronically or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image
producing devices are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per
machine at any one time, and where a significant portion of images so displayed
depict, describe, or relate to specified sexual activities, or specified
anatomical areas.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  Any enclosed building or structure with a
capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting material which has a
significant portion of any motion picture or other display depicting or
relating to specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical areas, for
observation by patrons therein.
   AGGREGATE PORTIONS.  The combined total of items of sexual paraphernalia
and/or items promoting specified sexual activities and/or specified anatomical
areas on display for sale, rent or lease, or promoting the sale, rent or lease
of such items, when compared to salable items which are not defined by this
subchapter amendment as sexual in nature.
   CHURCH.  Any building used for regular public worship services and is exempt
from taxation under the General Property Tax Act of the State of Michigan.
   DAY CARE CENTER.  Any business whose primary concern is watching, protecting
and education of children prior to an age where they may enroll in a community
school.
   DISPLAY.  The presentation of any sexual paraphernalia, single motion or
still picture, dance or exhibition, live act, or collection of visual materials
such as books, films, slides, periodicals, pictures, computer generated images,
video cassettes, computer disks or any other printed or recorded matter which
is open to view or available to the general adult population whether free or
otherwise.
   PROTECTED ZONES.  Includes (R-1), (R-1A and R-1B) One-Family Residential;
(R-MH) Mobile Home Residential; (R-2) Two-Family Residential, (RM) Multiple-
Family Residential; (T-1) Tourist Service; (O-1) Office; (W-M) Waterfront
Marine.
   PUBLIC PARK.  Any park owned and maintained by the City of Cheboygan.
   SCHOOL.  Any building regularly used for educating children under the age of
18 and is exempt from taxation under the General Property Tax Act of the State
of Michigan.
   SEXUAL PARAPHERNALIA.  Any item, instrument, or device for sale, rent or
lease which has as its principal use the sexual stimulation of human genitals,
breasts, or buttocks for specified sexual activity.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  Any use of land, whether vacant or combined
with structures or vehicles thereon by which said property is devoted to
displaying for sale, rent, or lease; or exhibiting for entertainment; a
significant portion of items which include matter including sexual
paraphernalia, or action depicting, describing or presenting specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas.
   SIGNIFICANT PORTION.
      (1)   Any one or more portions of the display having continuous duration
in excess of five minutes; and/or
      (2)   The aggregate portions of the display having a duration equal to
10% or more of the display as measured by either number of publicly displayed
items and/or 10% of available public floor space.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. 
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human male and female
genitals, pubic regions, buttocks and female breasts below a point immediately
above the top of the areola.
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. 
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, fellatio,
cunnilingus, or intrusion, however slight, of any part of a person's body, or
of any foreign object, into the genital or anal openings of another's body.
      (3)   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic regions,
buttocks, or female breasts.
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
§ 154.040  UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any of the following
single businesses, or combinations of the following businesses, within 1,000
feet of any protected zone.
      (1)   Adult arcades.
      (2)   Adult book, novelty (sexual paraphernalia), or video stores.
      (3)   Adult cabarets, night clubs, gentlemen's clubs, go-go clubs, strip
bars.
      (4)   Adult motels or hotels.
      (5)   Adult motion picture theaters or adult theaters.
      (6)   Escort services or agencies.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any of the following
single businesses, or combinations of the following businesses, within 1,500
feet of a church, school, day-care center, or public park in any protected or
non-protected zone.
      (1)   Adult arcades.
      (2)   Adult book, novelty (sexual paraphernalia), or video stores.
      (3)   Adult cabarets, night clubs, gentlemen's clubs, go-go clubs, strip
bars.
      (4)   Adult motels or hotels.
      (5)   Adult motion picture theaters or adult theaters.
      (6)   Escort services or agencies.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any activity in which the participants have
less than completely and opaquely covered genitals, pubic regions, buttocks,
and female breasts within any protected zone or any church, school, day-care
center, or public park.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to operate an adult massage parlor, nude model
studio or sexual encounter center anywhere in the city.
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
§ 154.041  VIOLATIONS, PENALTIES AND INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Violations of this subchapter and the enforcement thereof are
regulated through §
154.999.
   (B)   The City Manager or designated member of the Department of Public
Safety shall be allowed to enter any sexually oriented business during hours of
operation for the purposes of inspection to confirm compliance with this
chapter, without prior notification.
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
§ 154.042  SEVERABILITY.
   Should any portion of this subchapter be declared invalid by a court of law
in the State of Michigan, or the United States of America, the subchapter as a
whole and all remaining amendments shall be considered valid and in full force
and effect.
(Ord. eff. 4-30-06)
SITE PLAN REVIEW AND APPROVAL
§ 154.045  PROCEDURE ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE.
   (A)   A site plan review procedure is hereby established for the city. The
purpose of a site plan review is to determine compliance with the provisions
set forth herein and to promote the orderly development of the city, the
stability of land values and investments in the general welfare, and to help
prevent impairment or depreciation of land values and development by the
erection of structures or additions or alterations thereto without proper
attention to siting and appearance.
   (B)   The following provisions in this subchapter shall apply to any
application for zoning compliance, with the exception of one-family development
as set forth in §
154.060 and two-family development as set forth in §
154.062.
   (C)   Approved plans shall regulate the development on the premises, unless
modified in the same manner as the plans were originally approved. The approval
of a site plan is a condition precedent to any allowed use within any zoning
district except those set forth in §
154.060(B).
(Ord. passed 5-11-99; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-05)
§ 154.046  SUBMISSION REQUIREMENTS.
   All site plans as required by this subchapter shall be submitted to the city
in 24 copies. The Zoning Administrator shall adhere to the following procedures
in the review of the site plan:
   (A)   For variance requests, the site plan shall be reviewed by the Zoning
Board of Appeals with a decision made by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   For rezoning requests, the site plan shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission with action from the City Council.
   (C)   All other site plan reviews shall use the following procedures:
      (1)   Upon receipt of the proposed site plan and complete site plan
review application, the Zoning Administrator shall route such plan to the
Department of Public Works, Department of Public Safety, Engineering
Department, and the Water and Wastewater Departments for review and comment,
and shall thereupon prepare and forward a written recommendation to the
Planning Commission to approve, deny or modify the proposed site plan. If
modifications are recommended, the owner or his or her representative shall be
notified in advance of the Planning Commission meeting so that adjustments can
be made prior to such meeting.  Fourteen copies of the proposed site plan shall
be submitted for staff review no less than 14 days prior to the first Planning
Commission meeting to consider the same.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the site plan at its next
regularly scheduled meeting. The Planning Commission may elect to postpone a
decision on the site plan until its next regularly scheduled meeting if the
owner or authorized representative fails to be present or the site plan is
determined to be incomplete or had not been submitted as required in division
(C)(1) above.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall recommend, recommend with specified
changes and/or conditions, or recommend disapproval of the applicant's request,
to the City Council using the standards described in this subchapter to the
City Council.
   (D)   The following information shall accompany all plans submitted for
review:
      (1)   A legal description of the property under consideration;
      (2) A map indicating the gross land area of the development, the present
zoning classification thereof and the zoning classification and land use of the
area surrounding the proposed development, including the location of structures
and other improvements;
      (3)   The names and addresses of the property owner, architect, planner,
designer, or engineer responsible for the preparation of the site plan;
      (4) Drawings or sketches of the exterior and elevations, and/or
perspective drawings of the building or structures under consideration;
      (5)   Payment of a non-refundable fee in an amount established by
resolution of the City Council from time to time upon recommendation of the
City Manager.
   (E)   The following information shall be included on the site plan:
      (1)   A scale of not less than 1" = 40', If the subject property is less
than three acres, and 1" = 100', if it is three acres or more;
      (2)   Date, north point and scale;
      (3)   The dimensions of all lot and property lines, showing the
relationship of the subject property to abutting properties;
      (4)   The siting of all structures on the subject property;
      (5)   The location of each proposed structure in the development area,
the use or uses to be contained therein, the number of stories, gross building
areas, distances between structures and lot lines, setback lines, and
approximate location of vehicular entrances and loading points;
      (6)   The location of all existing and proposed drives and parking areas
with the number of parking and/or load spaces provided and compliance with ADA
requirements;
      (7)   All pedestrian walks, malls and open areas;
      (8)   Location and height of all walls, fences and screen planting,
including a general plan for the landscaping of the development and the method
by which landscaping is to be accomplished and be maintained;
      (9)   The location of all abutting streets;
      (10)    Types of surfacing, such as paving, turning or gravel to be used
at the various locations;
      (11)    A grading plan with topographic elevations of the area, showing a
method of storm drainage in conformance with the Cheboygan County Soil and
Sedimentation Ordinance;
      (12)    Site and location of proposed sewer and water lines and
connections;
      (13)    The number of proposed units (for multiple family developments);
      (14)    Significant environmental features such as wetlands, shoreline,
streams, wood lots, existing trees and vegetation; and
      (15)    Information as may be required by the Planning Commission, City
Council, and/or Zoning Administrator to assist in the consideration of the
proposed development.
   (F)   The location and design of driveways for vehicles entering or leaving
the site shall be established under the following standards:
      (1)   Driveways shall not conflict with or create undue congestion or
hazard along existing streets or with sidewalks;
      (2)   Commercial driveways shall be curbed and paved with a width not
exceeding 30 feet and a radius of not less than 25 feet with an intersection
angle at the street of 90 degrees.  The Planning Commission may approve a
variance to this standard based on a finding that special circumstances exist
that merit the variance;
      (3)   A buffer area shall be established adjacent to and on both sides of
all driveways between the right-of-way line and the pavement edge to provide a
physical barrier between traffic and activity on private property, thereby
providing an unobscured vision area and preventing potentially hazardous
movement of vehicles from and to the street. Where vehicle parking encroaches
upon the buffer area and/or an established sidewalk, the Planning Commission
shall require the establishment of a guardrail, guard posts, curb or
equivalent;
      (4)   All driveways shall be at least 60 feet from the point of curvature
of any intersecting street radius unless the property line dimensions do not
provide for such distance, in which case the driveway encroachment shall be
located as far from the curvature point as is possible;
      (5)   The applicant shall hold the city harmless against any and all
claims for damages arising from his/her negligence or his/her contractor's
negligence in operations regarding the driveway and the Planning Commission may
require a certificate of general liability insurance to insure claims for
damage or personal property;
      (6)   The driveway shall be designed and constructed so as not to alter
or adversely affect the drainage and the stability of the street or its
subgrade. The driveway shall, also, conform to the slope of the street between
the edge of the pavement and the edge of the shoulder.
   (G)   In order that building, open space and landscaping will be in harmony
with other structures and improvements in the area, and to assure that no
undesirable health, safety, noise and traffic conditions will result from the
development, the Planning Commission shall determine whether the site plan
meets the following criteria, unless the Planning Commission determines that
one or more of such criteria are inapplicable:
      (1)   The vehicular transportation system shall provide for circulation
throughout the site and for efficient ingress and egress to all parts of the
site by fire and safety equipment;
      (2)   Pedestrian sidewalks shall be constructed in locations parallel to
public streets and in other areas as deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission for separation of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, or as may be
required under city ordinance;
      (3)   The site plan shall comply with the district requirements for
minimum floor space, height of building, lot size, yard space, density and all
other requirements as set forth in this chapter, unless otherwise provided;
      (4)   The requirements for fencing, walks, and other protective barriers
shall be complied with as provided in the zoning ordinance of the city and as
deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission;
      (5)   The site plan shall provide for adequate storage space for the use
therein;
      (6)   Reasonable security measures shall be provided as deemed necessary
by the Director of Public Safely for resident protection in all multiple family
residential developments;
      (7)   Fire protection measures shall be provided as deemed necessary by
the Director of Public Safety in conformance with all applicable laws of the
State of Michigan for the protection of residents and/or occupants of the
structures;
      (8)   The site plan shall comply with all parking requirements based on
proposed use as established by city ordinance.
(Ord. passed 5-11-99; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-05; Am. Ord. eff. 4-19-07)
§ 154.047  REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION; AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   The site plan shall be reviewed by the Planning Commission and other
appropriate bodies as heretofore designated with a recommendation for its
approval or disapproval by the City Council with any conditions the Planning
Commission or other appropriate bodies feel should be imposed.
   (B)   The City Council shall have the function and power to approve or
disapprove the site plan subject to compliance with such modifications and
conditions as may be deemed necessary to carry out the purpose of these
regulations and other ordinances or resolutions of the city.  Ten copies of the
site plan shall be provided to the city five days prior to the City Council
meeting scheduled for consideration of the site plan.
   (C)   The City Council shall have the function and power to request
additional professional review from the City Attorney, Engineering Consultant
and/or Planning Consultant, and the permittee shall be responsible for any and
all charges incurred therefor.
   (D)   Conditions or changes stipulated by the Planning Commission shall be
recorded in the minutes of the meeting and made available to the applicant in
writing. Three copies of an approved site plan, with or without changes, shall
contain the signatures of the Chairman of the Planning Commission, the Clerk,
Zoning Administrator, and the applicant. A signed copy shall be retained by the
Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator, and the applicant.
   (E)   An approved site plan shall also prescribe the period of time within
which the improvements specified on the improved site plan are required to be
completed.  The period will begin from the date of issuance of the zoning
compliance permit.
(Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 154.048  SITE CHANGE.
   Any structure, use, or field change added subsequent to the initial site
plan approval must be approved by the City Council after recommendation from
the Planning Commission. Incidental and minor variations of the approved site
plan with the written approval of the Zoning Administrator shall not invalidate
prior site plan approval.
(Ord. passed 5-11-99)
§ 154.049  PHASED CONSTRUCTION.
   Where phases or staged construction is contemplated for the development of a
project, the site plan submitted must show the inter-relationship of the
proposed project to the future stages, including the following:
   (A)   Relationship and identification of future structures, roadways,
drainage, water, and sewer to the extent known;
   (B)   Pedestrian and vehicular circulation;
   (C)   Time schedule for completion of the various phases of the proposed
construction;
   (D)   Temporary facilities or construction of same as required to facilitate
the stated development.
(Ord. passed 5-11-99)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 154.060  R-1A AND R-1B ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The R-1A and R-1B One-Family Residential Districts are
designed to be the most restrictive of the residential districts. The intent is
to provide for an environment of medium-density, one-family dwelling units
along with certain residentially related facilities which serve the residents
in the districts.  (`73 Code, 15.051, § 5.19)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In a One-Family Residential District (R-1A
and R-1B) no building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected
except for one or more of the following specified uses, unless otherwise
provided in this chapter:
      (1)   One-family detached dwellings;
      (2)   Summer homes and/or vacation cottages or cabins provided occupancy
is limited to six months in any calendar year;
      (3)   Agriculture on those parcels of land separately owned outside the
boundaries of either a proprietary or supervisor's plat, having an area of not
less than five acres, all subject to the health and sanitation provisions of
the city;
      (4)   Cemeteries which lawfully occupied land at the time of adoption of
the 1967 Zoning Ordinance;
      (5)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year;
      (6)   Accessory buildings, provided that they shall be located as
required in §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements”;
      (7)   Name plates and signs as provided in §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements”;
      (8)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements.”
(`73 Code, 15.052, § 5.20)
   (C)   Uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following uses shall
be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed for each use and
subject further to the review and recommendation, pro or con, of the Planning
Commission and approval of the City Council:
      (1)   Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto, subject
to the following conditions:
         (a)   The principal structures on the site shall be set back from
abutting properties zoned for residential use not less than 25 feet. Buildings
of greater than the maximum height allowed in §
154.085, “Schedule of Regulations,” may be allowed provided front, side and
rear yards are increased above the 25-foot minimum requirements by one foot for
each foot of building that exceeds the maximum height allowed;
         (b)   Wherever the off-street parking lot is adjacent to land zoned
for residential purposes, a continuous and obscuring masonry wall four feet six
inches in height or a heavily planted greenbelt ten feet in width, shall be
provided along the sides of the parking area adjacent to the residentially
zoned land. The wall or greenbelt shall be further subject to the provisions of
§§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements”;
      (2)   Public, parochial and other private elementary, intermediate
schools and/or high schools offering courses in general education, not operated
for profit;
      (3)   Municipal and governmental buildings and uses;
      (4)   Utility and public service buildings and uses (without storage
yards) when operating requirements necessitate the locating of said buildings
within the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity;
      (5)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers (not
including dormitories) provided that for each child so cared for, there shall
be provided and maintained a minimum of 150 square feet of outdoor play area.
Such play space shall have a total minimum area of not less than 5,000 square
feet and shall be screened from any adjoining lot in any Residential District;
      (6)   Private noncommercial recreational areas, institutional or
community recreation centers; nonprofit swimming pool, all subject to the
following restrictions:
         (a)   Any use permitted herein shall be developed only on acreage of
at least one acre in area;
         (b)   The proposed site for any of the uses permitted herein shall
have one property line abutting a major thoroughfare, and the site shall be so
planned as to provide ingress and egress directly onto said major thoroughfare;
         (c)   Front, side, and rear yards shall be at least 80 feet wide
except when abutting a nonresidential district, and shall be landscaped in
trees, shrubs, and grass. All such landscaping and planting shall be maintained
in a healthy growing condition neat and orderly in appearance;
         (d)   Buildings erected on the premises shall not exceed one story in
height except where due to topography a lower level shall be permitted when
said lower level is entirely below the grade of the major thoroughfare abutting
the parcel in question;
         (e)   All lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from all Residential Districts;
         (f)   Off-street parking shall be provided so as to accommodate at
least one-half of the member families and/or individual members. By-laws of the
organization shall be provided in order to establish the membership involved
for computing parking requirements. For a use permitted herein and not
requiring formal membership, off-street parking requirements shall be
determined by the Planning Commission on the basic usage;
         (g)   Wherever the off-street parking lot is adjacent to land zoned
for any residential purposes a continuous obscuring masonry wall four feet six
inches in height or a heavily planted greenbelt ten feet in width, shall be
provided along the sides of the parking area adjacent to the residentially
zoned land. The wall or greenbelt shall further be subject to the provisions of
§§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements”;
         (h)   All parking areas shall be surfaced as required in §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements”;
         (i)   Whenever a swimming pool is involved, said pool area shall be
provided with a protective fence six feet in height and entry shall be provided
by means of a controlled gate or turnstile;
         (j)   Where storm sewers are nonexistent or capacity is not ample,
adequate on site take-off facilities shall be provided and shall be reviewed
and approved by the City Engineer as being adequate;
      (7)   Golf courses, which may or may not be operated for profit, subject
to the following conditions:
         (a)   The site shall be so located as to provide all ingress and
egress directly onto or from a major thoroughfare, either existing or proposed;
         (b)   The site plan shall be laid out to achieve a relationship
between the major thoroughfare and any proposed service roads, entrances,
driveways, and parking areas which will encourage pedestrian and vehicular
traffic safety;
         (c)   Development features including the principal and accessory
buildings and structures shall be so located and related as to minimize the
possibilities of any adverse effects upon adjacent property. This shall mean
that all principal or accessory buildings shall be not less than 200 feet from
any property line of abutting residentially zoned lands; provided that where
topographic conditions are such that buildings would be screened from view, the
Planning Commission may modify this requirement;
         (d)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces to be provided
shall be six spaces per hole plus one space per employee plus spaces as
required under §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements,” for each accessory use, such as a restaurant
or bar;
         (e)   Whenever a swimming pool is to be provided, said pool shall be
provided with a protective fence six feet in height, and entry shall be by
means of a controlled gate;
      (8)   Colleges, universities and other such institutions of higher
learning, public and private, offering courses in general, technical, or
religious education and not operated for profit, all subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   Any use permitted herein shall be developed only on sites of at
least 40 acres in area, and shall not be permitted on any portion of a recorded
subdivision plat without the review and approval of the Board of Appeals;
         (b)   All ingress to and egress from said site shall be directly onto
a major thoroughfare either existing or proposed;
         (c)   No building other than a structure for residential purposes
shall be closer than 80 feet to any property line when the property line is
adjacent to any Residential District.
      (9)   Public riding and/or boarding stables may be permitted in
Residential Districts on special permit issued by the Board of Appeals
(renewable each year after review by the Board of Appeals) subject to the
following minimum conditions and any other reasonable condition which the Board
of Appeals may impose:
         (a)   Public riding and/or boarding stables may be permitted on
unsubdivided parcels of not less than 20 acres;
         (b)   Stables, paddock areas for instruction or paddock areas for the
confinement of horses near stables shall be at least 300 feet from any property
line;
         (c)   Bridle paths, and all other riding areas shall be confined to
the site of continuous acreage;
         (d)   Off-street parking shall be provided on the site in the ratio of
one space per horse to be stabled on the site;
         (e)   Lighting for exterior illumination shall be directed away from
and shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts;
         (f)   A plot plan drawn to scale, designating all of the above areas
shall be submitted to the Board of Appeals.
      (10)     Private stable, as an accessory use, for not more than one horse
on a lot where the lot is not less than two acres in area and provided further,
that for each additional horse stabled thereon one acre of land shall be
provided. All confinement areas and/or stables shall in all instances, be
located in the rear yard. In no instance shall a horse be confined nearer than
75 feet to any property line. No horse shall be allowed to run at large.
      (11)    Plant material nurseries and greenhouses subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   The minimum site size shall be five acres and so located as to
provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from a major thoroughfare;
         (b)   Front, side, and rear yards shall be at least 50 feet wide
except when abutting a non-residential district;
         (c)   A continuous and obscuring masonry wall six feet in height or a
heavily planted greenbelt ten feet wide shall be provided along all property
lines abutting any residential district, except for those portions of said
property lines which are included within a required front yard.
      (12)    Funeral homes and mortuaries.
      (13)    Publicly owned and operated libraries, parks, parkways and
recreational facilities.
(`73 Code, 15.053, § 5.21)
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. See §§
154.085 and
154.086 limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot
permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted, and providing minimum
yard setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.054, § 5.22)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. passed 12-13-05; Am. Ord.
eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.061  R-MH MOBILE HOME RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent.  The R-MH - Mobile Home Residential District is designed to
provide for the placement of mobile homes, as defined in §
154.002, provided they meet the requirements as set forth in the definition and
as further set forth in the following sections. 
(`73 Code, 15.055, § 5.23)
   (B)   Principal permitted uses.  In the R-MH - Mobile Home Residential
District no building or land, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
shall be erected or used except for one or more of the following specified
purposes:
      (1)   All uses permitted and as regulated in the R-lA and R-1B One-Family
Residential District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings;
      (3)   Mobile homes as defined in §
154.002 provided in addition, they meet the following requirements:
         (a)   Minimum square footage of living area - 600 sq. ft. without any
additions or expansions of original unit;
         (b)   The mobile home must comply with all requirements of R-lA
District as set forth in §
154.085 Schedule Limiting Height, Bulk, Density, and Area by Zoning District.
Provided however, that in no case shall the front line of the structure be any
closer to the front of the lot than the established front line of other R-lA
dwellings on the same side of the street as the mobile home;
         (c)   Each separate dwelling shall provide a patio of approved
materials and dimensions which shall be a minimum of 120 sq. ft. Patio shall be
located in such a manner as to be contiguous with the main entrance door to the
structure but in no case shall any part of the patio be any closer to the front
lot line than front most part of the structure.
         (d)   Each separate dwelling shall provide a minimum of 100 sq. ft. of
storage space. Storage space requirements may be met in the following manner:
            1.   A separate accessory building which shall be located in such a
way as to conform to minimum set back requirements.
            2.   Basement space which shall conform to the provisions of the
definitions as set forth in §
154.002; in no case, however, shall any material be stored or placed under any
portion of a mobile home which is located on a slab.
            3.   Accessory building which is generally used for a garage may
use that space which is in excess of that space used for parking requirements.
Parking requirements are hereby defined as 165 sq. ft. per car.
         (e)   Any additions to the main structure shall conform to all
provisions of the Uniform Building Code, published by the International Code
Council, and adopted by the State of Michigan in Public Act 230, § 4, of 1972,
being M.C.L.A. § 125.1504, provided however, that in no case shall the
existence of any additional structure lessen the provisions or standards as set
forth in the mobile home code of the State of Michigan, Public Act 96, § 5, of
1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2305, M.A.C. R.125.1101 et seq.
(`73 Code, 15.056, § 5.24)
   (C)   Permits and permit fees. In the R-MH - Mobile Home Residential
District no building shall be erected, placed on the land, or occupied unless
and until the following permits have been obtained from the Building Department
in the city:
      (1)   The person or persons desiring to place a mobile home in R-MH -
Mobile Home Residential District shall first apply to the City Building
Department for a building or placement permit on a form provided for by the
Building Department which will include in the building permit a site plan
showing the placement of the mobile home as it affects the proposed building
site.
      (2)   Prior to the occupancy of said mobile home after it has been placed
on the proposed building site, the party or parties desiring to occupy said
mobile home on the proposed building site shall first obtain an occupancy
certificate from the Building Department for the city which shall be provided
at no charge to the party or parties desiring to occupy the mobile home, on the
land site; provided that no occupancy certificate shall be issued until it is
determined by the Building Department, after an inspection, that all
requirements as set forth in this ordinance have been complied with.
(`73 Code, 15.057, § 5.25)
   (D)   Zoning map. The zoning map of the city shall be amended from time to
time to provide proper designations of R-MH - Mobile Home Residential
Districts. 
(`73 Code, 15.058, § 5.26)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. eff. 11-19-75; Am. Ord. eff.
1-31-83)
§ 154.062  RESIDENCE R-2 TWO-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. This District is intended to provide an area primarily for
single- and two-family developments. It should be used as a buffer district
along major streets or between single-family and apartment districts. 
(`73 Code, 15.060, § 5.27)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. Within any Residence R-2 District, no
building, structure, or premises shall be hereafter erected, converted or
altered externally, in whole or in part, unless otherwise provided in this
chapter, for any other than one or more of the following specified uses:
permitted principal uses and buildings:
      (1)   All uses permitted and as regulated in R-1A One-Family Residential
District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings.
(`73 Code, 15.061, § 5.28)
   (C)   Area and bulk requirements. Within any Residence R-2 District, no
building, structure or premises shall be hereafter erected converted or altered
externally, in whole or in part, unless otherwise provided in this chapter,
unless in compliance with all of the following regulations and §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations”:
      (1)   Maximum height - 28 ft.
      (2)   Minimum lot area:
         (a)   One-family dwelling - 7,200 square feet
         (b)   Two-family dwelling - 9,000 square feet
         (c)   Other uses - 12,000 square feet
      (3)   Minimum yards:
         (a)   Front - 30 feet
         (b)   Side - 10 feet, least sum of width of both yards - 20 feet
         (c)   Rear - 25 feet
         (d)   Corner lot - least width from street side lot line - 20 feet
      (4)   Minimum lot width:
         (a)   70 feet - two-family dwelling, other uses
         (b)   60 feet - one-family dwelling
      (5)   Parking space - Off-street parking shall be provided in accordance
with §§
154.100 through
154.114 of this chapter .
(`73 Code, 15.062, § 5.29)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord.
eff. 5-3-82)
§ 154.063  R-M MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The R-M Multiple-Family Residential Districts are designed to
provide sites for multiple-family dwelling structures which will generally
serve as zones of transition between the business or industrial districts and
lower density single-family districts. The Multiple-Family District is further
provided to serve the limited needs for the apartment type of unit in an
otherwise single-family residential community. 
(`73 Code, 15.071, § 5.26)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In the R-M Multiple-Family Residential
Districts no building or land, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
shall be erected or used except for one or more of the following specified
purposes and shall be permitted subject to the review and approval of the site
plan by the Planning Commission. Such review of the site plan is required in
order to minimize the possibility of adverse effects upon adjacent property;
and furthermore to insure proper relationships between the development features
as they relate to: traffic safety, service roads, driveways, parking areas;
accessory buildings and uses; open space.
      (1)   All uses permitted and as regulated in the R-1A One-Family
Residential Districts.
      (2)   Two-family dwellings.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings provided such dwellings shall be serviced
by public sewer and water systems.
      (4)   General hospitals, except those for criminals and those solely for
the treatment of persons who are mentally ill or have contagious disease, not
to exceed four stories, when the following conditions are met:
         (a)   All such hospitals shall be developed only on sites consisting
of at least five acres in area.
         (b)   The proposed site shall have at least one property line abutting
a major thoroughfare and all ingress and egress for the site shall be directly
from the major thoroughfare.
         (c)   The minimum distance of any main or accessory building from
bounding lot lines or streets shall be at least 100 feet for front, rear, and
side yards for all two story structures. For every story above two the minimum
yard distance shall be increased by not less than ten feet.
         (d)   Ambulance and delivery areas shall be obscured from all
residential view with a continuous and obscuring masonry wall six feet in
height and the wall shall be further subject to the requirements of §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements.”
      (5)   Housing for the elderly, not to exceed a height of two stories,
when the following conditions are met:
         (a)   All housing for the elderly shall be provided as a planned
development and may provide for the following:
            1.   Cottage type dwellings and/or apartment type dwelling units.
            2.   Common services containing, but not limited to: central dining
rooms, recreational rooms, central lounge, and workshops.
         (b)   All dwellings shall consist of at least 350 square feet of floor
area per unit (not including kitchen and sanitary facilities.)
         (c)   Total coverage of all buildings (including dwelling units and
related service buildings) shall not exceed 25% of the total site exclusive of
any dedicated public right-of-way.
      (6)   Convalescent homes, not to exceed a height of two stories, when the
following conditions are met:
         (a)   The site shall be so developed as to create a land-to-building
ratio on the lot or parcel whereby for each one bed in the convalescent home
there shall be provided not less than 1,500 square feet of open space. The
1,500 square feet of land area per bed shall provide for landscape setting,
off-street parking, service drives, loading space, yard requirements, and space
required for accessory uses. The 1,500 square foot requirement is over and
above the building coverage area.
         (b)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet from any property line.
      (7)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above uses.
(`73 Code, 15.072, § 5.27) 
   (C)   Area and bulk requirements. See §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, maximum density permitted, and
providing minimum yard setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.073, § 5.28)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.064  T-1 TOURIST SERVICE DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The T-1 Tourist Service Districts as herein established are
designed to accommodate those activities necessary to service tourist needs
including retail activities; tourist accommodations, commercial amusements,
parks, and public uses of primary interest to tourists. 
(`73 Code, 15.091, § 5.31)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In a Tourist Service District the following
specified uses shall be permitted.
      (1)   Tourist residence facilities including rooming houses, tourist
cabins, motels and hotels.
      (2)   Restaurants, taverns and bars with gifts and souvenirs sales in
conjunction.
      (3)   Grocery stores up to 3,000 square feet - no outdoor markets or
roadside stands.
      (4)   Private clubs and lodge halls.
      (5)   Boat sales and trailer sales and service facilities.
      (6)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above permitted uses.
      (7)   Other uses of a character similar to the above uses, subject to
recommendation, pro or con, of the Planning Commission and City Council
approval.
      (8)   All uses permitted and as regulated in One-Family Residential
Districts.
(`73 Code, 15.092, § 5.32)
   (C)   Uses subject to special conditions. The following uses shall be
permitted subject to the conditions herein imposed for each use.
      (1)   Publicly owned buildings, utility and public service facilities and
uses (without storage yards) when operating requirements necessitate the
locating of the facilities within the district in order to serve the immediate
vicinity.
      (2)   Business in the character of a drive-in restaurant.
         (a)   A setback of at least 60 feet from the right-of-way line of any
existing street must be maintained.
         (b)   Ingress and egress points shall be located at least 60 feet from
the intersection of any two streets.
         (c)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential
districts.
         (d)   A four foot six inch wall or obscuring fence shall be provided
where abutting or adjacent to a residential use or district. The height of the
wall shall be measured from the surface of the abutting residential district or
use.
      (3)   Commercially used outdoor recreational space for children's
amusement parks, carnivals, miniature golf courses, and rebound tumbling
(trampoline) facilities subject to the following:
         (a)   Children's amusement park must be fenced on all sides with a
four foot six inch wall or fence.
         (b)   Rebound tumbling facilities shall be fenced on all sides used
for trampoline activity. The fence shall be no less than six feet high. Pits
shall not exceed four feet in depth, shall be drained at all times and
completely filled with earth to grade when the use is discontinued. All
manufacturer's specifications for spacing, safety and construction shall be
complied with; and in all cases trampolines shall be equipped with protective
padding.
         (c)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential
districts.
         (d)   No loud speaker or public address system shall be used.
         (e)   Adequate parking shall be provided off the road right-of-way and
shall be fenced with a four foot six inch wall or obscuring fence where
adjacent to the recreational facility.
      (4)   Automobile service station for sale of gasoline, oil, and minor
accessories only, and where no repair work is done, other than incidental
service, but not including steam cleaning or undercoating, vehicle body repair,
painting, tire recapping, engine rebuilding, auto dismantling, upholstering,
auto glass work, and such other activities whose external effects could
adversely extend beyond the property line.
         (a)   The curb cuts for ingress and egress to a service station shall
not be permitted at such locations that will tend to create traffic hazards in
the streets immediately adjacent thereto. Entrances shall be no less than 25
feet from a street intersection (measured from the road right-of-way) or from
adjacent residential districts.
         (b)   The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet, with a minimum
lot frontage of 100 feet, and so arranged that ample space is available for
motor vehicles which are required to wait.
         (c)   Lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
         (d)   A four foot, six inch obscuring masonry wall shall be provided
on those sides abutting districts zoned for residential use.
(`73 Code, 15.093, § 5.33)
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. See §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings
and the maximum density permitted. 
(`73 Code, 15.094, § 5.34)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.065  B-1 LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The B-1 Local Business Districts, as herein established, are
intended to permit those uses as are necessary to satisfy the basic day-to-day
shopping and/or service needs of persons residing in nearby residential areas. 
(`73 Code, 15.111, § 5.38)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In a B-1 Local Business District, no
building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one
or more of the following uses, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   Generally recognized retail business such as but not limited to:
groceries, meats, dairy products, baked goods or other foods, drugs, dry goods,
clothing and notions, or hardware.
      (2)   Personal service establishment which performs services, on the
premises such as but not limited to: repair shops (watch, radio, television,
shoe, etc.) tailor shops, beauty shops or barber shops, photographic studios,
and self-service laundry and/or dry cleaning establishments.
      (3)   Business establishments which perform services on the premises such
as but not limited to: banks, loan companies, insurance offices, and real
estate offices.
      (4)   Professional services including the following: medical clinics, and
offices of doctors, dentists, osteopaths and similar or allied professions.
      (5)   Government office buildings, including post office.
      (6)   Other uses similar to the above uses, subject to recommendation,
pro or con, of the Planning Commission and approval of the City Council.
      (7)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above
permitted uses, subject to recommendation, pro or con, of the Planning
Commission and approval of the City Council.
(`73 Code, 15.112, § 5.39)
   (C)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods produced on the
premises shall be sold at retail on premises where produced.
      (2)   All business, servicing, or processing except for off-street
parking or loading, shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building.
(`73 Code, 15.113, § 5.40)
   (D)   Uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following uses shall
also be permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed for each use:
      (1)   Automobile service station for sale of gasoline, oil, and minor
accessories only, and where no repair work is done, other than incidental
service, but not including steam cleaning or undercoating, vehicle body repair,
painting, tire recapping, engine work, auto dismantling, upholstering, auto
glass work, and such other activities whose external effects could adversely
extend beyond the property line.
         (a)   The curb cuts for ingress and egress to a service station shall
not be permitted at such locations that will tend to create traffic hazards in
the streets immediately adjacent thereto. Entrances shall be no less than 25
feet from a street intersection (measured from the road right-of-way) or from
adjacent residential districts.
         (b)   The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet, with a minimum
lot frontage of 100 feet, and so arranged that ample space is available for
motor vehicles which are required to wait.
         (c)   Lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
         (d)   A four foot, six inch obscuring masonry wall shall be provided
on those sites abutting districts zoned for residential use.
      (2)   Publicly owned buildings, public utility buildings, telephone
exchange buildings; electric transformer stations and sub-stations; gas
regulator stations with service yards, but without storage yards, water and
sewer pumping stations.
(`73 Code, 15.114, § 5.41)
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements. See §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, and providing minimum yard
setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.115, § 5.42)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.066  B-2 CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The B-2 Central Business District is designed to provide for
office buildings and the great variety of large retail stores and related
activities which occupy the prime retail frontage by serving the comparison,
convenience and service needs of the entire municipal area as well as a
substantial area of the adjacent and surrounding residential developments
beyond the limits of the municipality. The district regulations are designed to
promote convenient pedestrian shopping and the stability of retail development
by encouraging a continuous retail frontage and by prohibiting automotive
related services and non-retail uses which tend to break up such continuity. 
(`73 Code, 15.131, § 5.46)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In a B-2 Central Business District, no
building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one
or more of the following specified uses, unless otherwise provided in this
chapter.
      (1)   Any generally recognized retail business such as, but not limited
to: foods, drugs, liquor, furniture, clothing, dry goods, notions, or hardware.
      (2)   Any personal service establishment which performs services on the
premises such as, but not limited to: repair shops, (watches, radio,
television, shoe and etc.) tailor shops, beauty parlors, barber shops, interior
decorators, photographers and dry cleaners.
      (3)   Restaurants and taverns where the patrons are served while seated
within the building occupied by such establishment, and wherein said
establishment does not extend as an integral part of, or accessory thereto, any
service of a drive-in or open-front store.
      (4)   Theaters when completely enclosed.
      (5)   Offices and office buildings of an executive, administrative or
professional nature.
      (6)   Banks, including bank drive-in facilities.
      (7)   Municipal buildings and post offices.
      (8)   Offices and showrooms of plumbers, electricians, decorator or
similar trades, in connection with which not more than 25% of the floor area of
the building or part of the building occupied by the establishment is used for
making, assembling, remodeling, repairing, altering, finishing, or refinishing
its products or merchandise, and provided that the ground floor premises facing
upon and visible from any abutting street shall be used only for entrances,
offices, or display. All storage of materials of any kind shall be within the
confines of the building or part thereof occupied by the establishment.
      (9)   Business schools, or private schools operated for profit. Examples
of private schools permitted herein include, but are not limited to, the
following: dance studios, music and voice schools, and art studios.
      (10)    Newspaper offices and printing plants.
      (11)    Storage facilities when incident to and physically connected with
any principal use permitted, provided that such facility be within the confines
of the building or part thereof occupied by the establishment.
      (12)    Automobile display or sales room including incidental servicing
and minor repair providing that no portion of a building used for such
servicing or minor repair shall have any opening other than stationary windows
within 50 feet of a principal entrance of any adjacent CBD establishment nor
shall have any vehicular access from the front entrance side of any CBD
District.
      (13)    Other uses similar to the above uses, subject to recommendation,
pro or con, of the Planning Commission and approval of the City Council.
      (14)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above
permitted uses, subject to recommendation, pro or con, of the Planning
Commission and approval of the City Council.
(`73 Code, 15.132, § 5.47)
   (C)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods provided on the
premises shall be sold at retail on the premises where produced.
      (2)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street
parking, loading, shall be conducted within completely enclosed buildings.
   (D)   Uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following uses shall
be permitted subject to the review and approval of the Planning Commission and
subject further to the conditions hereinafter imposed for each use.
      (1)   Dwelling units shall not be located below the second story of any
building otherwise occupied for B-2 use or those similar to the uses described:
         (a)   The Planning Commission may impose any conditions, restrictions
and safeguards as may be deemed necessary in the interest of public health,
safety and welfare;
         (b)   Off-street parking shall be provided in the ratio of one space
per dwelling unit.
(`73 Code, 15.134, § 5.49)
      (2)   Outdoor seating at restaurants or taverns.
         (a)   Outdoor seating must be an extended and integral part and
accessory thereto of a restaurant or tavern where patrons are also served while
seated within the building.
         (b)   Outdoor seating for restaurants or taverns serving alcoholic
beverages shall be allowed to operate during the hours of 10:00 a.m. until 1:00
a.m. Monday through Saturday and during the hours of 12:00 p.m. until 10:00
p.m. on Sunday.
         (c)   Restaurants or taverns shall not serve food or beverages to a
patron at outdoor seating unless the patron is seated at a table;
         (d)   Advertising on tables, umbrellas or railings is prohibited.
         (e)   Ingress and egress to the outdoor seating area shall be accessed
only from the restaurant or tavern with which it is accessory thereto and
provide for a barrier of a quality, design, material and workmanship which
ensures safety and convenience of users and the public.
         (f)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent properties.
         (g)   The Planning Commission may impose any conditions, restrictions,
and safeguards as may be deemed necessary in the interest of public health,
safety and welfare.
   (E)   Area, bulk and yard setback requirements. See §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, and providing minimum yard
setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.135, § 5.50)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. passed 4-12-05; Am. Ord. eff.
6-6-08)
§ 154.067  B-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The B-3 General Business Districts are designed to furnish
areas served typically by the Central Business District with a variety of
automotive services and goods incompatible with the uses in such Central
Business District, and not permitted therein. The General Business Districts
are characterized by more diversified business types and are often located so
as to serve passer-by traffic.
(`73 Code, 15.151, § 5.54)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In a General Business District, no land or
building shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one or more
of the following uses, unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (1)   All uses permitted in B-2 Districts as principal uses permitted,
and uses permitted subject to special conditions, except as hereinafter
modified;
      (2)   Bus passenger stations;
      (3)   New and used car sales showrooms and garages;
      (4)   Governmental offices or other governmental uses; public utility
offices, exchanges, transformer stations, pump stations, and service yards but
not including outdoor storage;
      (5)   Florists and greenhouses;
      (6)   Private clubs or lodge halls, fraternal organizations;
      (7)   Pool or billiard parlor or club;
      (8)   Bowling alleys;
      (9)   Mortuary establishments;
      (10)    Restaurant, or other places serving food or beverage, except
those having the character of a drive-in;
      (11)    Theaters, assembly halls, or similar places of assembly when
conducted completely within enclosed buildings;
      (12)    Other uses similar to the above uses subject to recommendation,
pro or con, of the Planning Commission and approval of the City Council;
      (13)    Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
(`73 Code, 15.152, § 5.55)
   (C)   Uses permitted subject to special conditions. Under such conditions as
the Planning Commission, after hearing, finds the use as not being injurious to
the B-3 District and environs, and not contrary to the spirit and purpose of
this chapter and subject further to the conditions hereinafter imposed for each
use, the following uses may be permitted:
      (1)   Outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of new or used automobiles,
or house trailers, subject to the following:
         (a)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential
districts;
         (b)   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area shall be at least
60 feet from the intersection of any two streets measured from the road right-
of-way;
         (c)   A four foot, six inch obscuring masonry wall or a heavily
planted greenbelt ten feet wide shall be provided when abutting districts are
zoned for residential use;
         (d)   No major repair or major refinishing shall be done on the lot
except in enclosed buildings provided for this purpose;
         (e)   All vehicles must be operable.
      (2)   Motel, subject to the following:
         (a)   Provided that it can be demonstrated that all points of ingress
and egress do not conflict with adjacent business uses and are directly on to a
major thoroughfare;
         (b)   A four foot, six inch obscuring masonry wall or a heavily
planted greenbelt ten feet wide shall be provided where abutting districts are
zoned for residential use;
         (c)   Each unit shall contain not less than 200 square feet of floor
area;
         (d)   No kitchen or cooking facilities are to be provided, with the
exception of units for the use of the manager or caretaker.
      (3)   Business in the character of a drive-in or open front store subject
to the following:
         (a)   A setback of at least 60 feet from the right-of-way line of any
existing or proposed street shall be maintained;
         (b)   Ingress and egress points shall be located at least 60 feet from
the intersection of any two streets measured from the road right-of-way;
         (c)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential
districts;
         (d)   A four foot, six inch completely obscuring masonry wall shall be
provided where abutting districts are zoned for residential use.
      (4)   Commercially used outdoor recreational space for children's
amusement parks, miniature golf courses, subject to the following:
         (a)   Children's amusement park must be fenced on all sides with a
four- foot wall or fence;
         (b)   Adequate parking shall be provided off the road right-of-way and
shall be separated from the use with a four-foot wall or fence where the
parking area is adjacent to the use;
         (c)   A four foot, six inch completely obscuring masonry wall shall be
provided where abutting districts are zoned for residential use.
      (5)   Veterinary hospitals or clinics, provided all activities are
conducted within a totally enclosed main building and provided further that no
abutting property be zoned in the residential classification.
      (6)   Automobile service stations subject to the conditions imposed by §
154.065(D)(1).
      (7)   Automobile car wash subject to the following:
         (a)   All buildings shall have a front yard set back of not less than
20 feet;
         (b)   All washing facilities shall be within a completely enclosed
building;
         (c)   Vacuuming and drying areas may be located outside the building
but shall not be in the required front yard and shall not be closer than 25
feet from any residential district;
         (d)   All cars required to wait for access to the facilities shall be
provided space off the street right-of-way and parking shall be provided in
accord with §§
154.102 and
154.103 of this chapter;
         (e)   Ingress and egress points shall be located at least 60 feet from
the intersection of any two streets;
         (f)   All off-street parking and waiting areas shall be hard-surfaced
and dust free;
         (g)   All lighting shall be shielded and directed away from adjacent
residential districts;
         (h)   A four foot, six inch completely obscuring masonry wall shall be
provided where abutting a residential district.
(`73 Code, 15.153, § 5.56)
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. See §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, and providing minimum yard
setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.154, § 5.57)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.068  B-4 GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The B-4 General Commercial Districts are designed to
accommodate those businesses which by their nature require large land areas and
which generate automobile or truck traffic rather than pedestrians. 
(`73 Code, 15.171, § 5.58(1))
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In B-4 Commercial Districts, no land or
building shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one or more
of the following uses, unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (1)   New and used car showrooms and garages;
      (2)   Governmental offices and other governmental uses; public utility
exchange, transformer stations, pump stations, and service yards but not
including outdoor storage;
      (3)   Florists and greenhouses;
      (4)   Private clubs, lodge halls and fraternal organizations;
      (5)   Pool and billiard parlors;
      (6)   Bowling alleys;
      (7)   Restaurants, or other places serving food or beverages, except
those having the character of a drive-in;
      (8)   Theaters, assembly halls or similar places of assembly when
conducted entirely within enclosed buildings;
      (9)   Tourist resident facilities including tourist cabins, motels and
hotels;
      (10)    Boat sales and trailer sales and service facilities;
      (11)    Gift and/or souvenir shops when operated in conjunction with one
or more of the above uses and in the same building therewith;
      (12)    Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above permitted uses;
      (13)    Other uses of a character similar to the above uses, subject to
recommendation, pro or con, of the Planning Commission and City Council
approval.
(`73 Code, 15.172, § 5.58(2))
   (C)   Uses subject to special conditions. The following uses will be
permitted subject to the conditions herein imposed for each use, in the B-
4 District:
      (1)   Wholesale warehousing, including showrooms, with the approval of
the Planning Commission and City Council, provided that delivery and shipping
operation be restricted to the hours between 7:00 a.m. and 9:00 p.m. and that
outside storage be screened from the adjacent properties and the public
thoroughfares by an obscuring metal fence or masonry wall at least six feet in
height;
      (2)   Business in the character of a drive-in restaurant;
      (3)   Commercially used outdoor recreational space for children's
amusement parks, carnivals, miniature golf courses, and rebound tumbling
(trampoline) facilities;
      (4)   Outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of new or used automobiles
or house trailers;
      (5)   Veterinary hospitals or clinics;
      (6)   Automobile service station for sale of gasoline, oil and minor
accessories only and where no repair work is done other than incidental
service;
      (7)   Automobile car wash.
(`73 Code, 15.173, §§ 5.58(3), 5.33(2), 5.33(3), 5.56(1), 5.56(5), 5.41(1),
5.56(7))
   (D)   Area, bulk and yard setback requirements.  All buildings and uses
shall conform with the requirements of the T-1 Tourist Service District as
delineated in §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot required by land use, and providing minimum yard
setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.174, § 5.58(4))
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.069  O-1 OFFICE BUILDING DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The O-1 Office Building Districts are designed to accommodate
various types of office uses which deal mainly in services and certain basic
personal services intended to serve the O-1 Districts. These O-1 Districts
typically serve as a transition between major thoroughfares and/or commercial
districts and residential districts. 
(`73 Code, 15.191, § 5.61)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In the O-1 Office Building Districts no
building or land shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one
or more of the following uses, unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Office buildings for occupations such as: executive,
administrative, professional, accounting, writing, clerical, stenographic,
drafting, and sales;
      (2)   Medical and dental offices, including clinics;
      (3)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, and similar
establishments;
      (4)   Publicly owned buildings, exchanges, and public utility offices,
but not including storage yards, transformer stations, sub-stations, or gas
regulator stations;
      (5)   All uses permitted and as regulated in One-Family Residential
Districts;
      (6)   Other uses similar to the above uses, subject to recommendation,
pro or con, of the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council;
      (7)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
(`73 Code, 15.192, § 5.62)
   (C)   Uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following uses shall
be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed and subject further
to the review and approval of the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Any accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized
by this section such as, but not limited to: a pharmacy or apothecary shop;
stores limited to corrective garments or bandages; or optical companies;
      (2)   Personal service establishments which perform personal services, on
the premises, including tailor shops, laundry and dry cleaning establishments,
watch repair and shoe repair, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Such personal service shall be intended to serve the convenience
needs of persons working in the O-1 District;
         (b)   No assembly work or assembling of any kind shall be carried out
on the premises.
(`73 Code, 15.193, § 5.63)
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   No interior display shall be visible from the exterior of the
building, and the total area devoted to display, including both the objects
displayed and the floor space set aside for persons observing the displayed
objects, shall not exceed 25% of the usable floor area of either the first or
second story, or the basement.
      (2)   Planned developments involving three acres or more shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The outdoor storage of goods and materials shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Warehousing or indoor storage of goods or materials, beyond that
normally incident to the above permitted uses, shall be prohibited.
(`73 Code, 15.194, § 5.64)
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements. See §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, and providing minimum yard
setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.195, § 5.65)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. eff.
6-6-08)
§ 154.070  W-M WATERFRONT-MARINA DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The W-M Waterfront-Marina Districts are designed to
accommodate recreational boating along with activities and services related to
harbor and waterway improvements, thereby facilitating navigation and providing
safe and economical waterfront, recreational development. 
(`73 Code, 15.211, § 5.69)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In a Waterfront-Marina District, no building
or land shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one or more
of the following uses, unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Municipal or private development of either the berthing,
protection, or servicing of recreational boats, yachts, cruisers, inboards,
outboards and sailboats;
      (2)   Commissary facilities for the provision of food, beverages, and the
like to be stored aboard boats;
      (3)   Municipal or private beaches and recreation areas;
      (4)   Retail business which supply commodities for persons using the
facilities of the district such as: sale of boats, engines and accessories,
fishing equipment and other similar items;
      (5)   Restaurant, lounge or club;
      (6)   Hotels or other such facilities to provide temporary homeport
accommodations;
      (7)   Accessory uses and uses customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses;
      (8)   All uses permitted and as regulated in One-Family Residential
Districts;
      (9)   Other uses of a character similar to the above uses, subject to
recommendation, pro or con, of the Planning Commission and City Council
approval.
(`73 Code, 15.212, § 5.70)
   (C)   Uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following uses shall
also be permitted subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed for each use:
      (1)   Engine and hull repair shops when conducted within a completely
enclosed building, or completely obscured from view beyond the property
boundaries with a continuous masonry wall, six feet in height or a heavily
planted greenbelt ten feet in width;
      (2)   Boat fuel stations when at least 200 feet distant from any abutting
residential district.
(`73 Code, 15.213, § 5.71)
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All dredging, construction, and/or development shall be subject to
the requirements of all subject codes and ordinances of the city and shall be
approved by the City Engineer.
      (2)   All site plans shall be subject to the review and approval of the
Planning Commission with respect to area and bulk requirements, parking plan,
and points of ingress and egress.
(`73 Code, 15.214, § 5.72)
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements.  See §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting height and bulk of buildings, and
the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, and providing minimum setback
requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.215, § 5.73)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. passed 7-13-99; Am. Ord. eff.
3-5-09) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.071  I-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The I-1 Light Industrial Districts are designed so as to
primarily accommodate wholesale and warehouse activities, and industrial
operations whose external physical effects are restricted to the area of the
district and in no manner affect in a detrimental way any of the surrounding
districts. The I-1 District is so structured as to permit, along with any
specified uses, the manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging,
assembly, and/or treatment of finished or semifinished products from previously
prepared material. It is the intent of this section that the processing of raw
material for shipment in bulk form to be used in an industrial operation at
another location, not be permitted. 
(`73 Code, 15.231, § 5.76)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In the I-1 Districts no building, structure,
or premises, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be erected,
altered, or used except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any of the following uses when the manufacturing, compounding, or
processing is conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building. That
portion of the land used for open storage facilities for materials or equipment
used in the manufacturing, compounding, or processing shall be totally obscured
by a masonry wall not less than six feet in height, on those sides abutting any
residential district, and on any front yards abutting a public thoroughfare. In
I-1 Districts the extent of such wall may be determined by the Planning
Commission on the basis of usage.
         (a)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment
of such products as: Bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals,
toiletries, food products, hardware and cutlery, tool, die, gauge and machine
shops.
         (b)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling, or treatment of
articles or merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone,
canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fibre, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, sheet
metal (excluding large stampings such as automobile fenders or bodies), shell,
textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood (excluding saw and planing mills) and yarns.
         (c)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar
ceramic products using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only
electrically.
         (d)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties, and metal
or rubber stamps, or other small molded rubber products.
         (e)   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, electronic
instruments and devices, radios and phonographs.
         (f)   Laboratories - experimental, film, or testing.
         (g)   Manufacture and repair of electric or neon signs, light sheet
metal products, including heating and ventilating equipment, cornices, eaves
and the like.
         (h)   Warehouse and wholesale establishments and truck terminal
facilities.
         (i)   Central dry cleaning plants or laundries.
         (j)   All public utilities, including buildings, necessary structures,
storage yards and other related uses.
      (2)   Trade and industrial schools.
      (3)   Any use charged with the principal functions of basic research,
design, and pilot or experimental product development.
      (4)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
      (5)   Non-accessory, free standing ground signs.
      (6)   Other uses which, in the determination of the City Council, after
recommendation, pro or con, of the Planning Commission, are of a similar and no
more objectionable character than the above principal uses permitted.
(`73 Code, 15.232, § 5.77)
   (C)   Uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following uses shall
be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter imposed for each use and
subject further to the review and approval of the Planning Commission.
      (1)   Restaurants or other places serving food or beverage (except those
having the character of a drive-in), automobile service stations, newsstands
and tobacco shops, which in the opinion of the Planning Commission are intended
to serve the convenience needs of persons working in the I-1 District, subject
to the regulations applicable to such uses.
      (2)   Automobile repair station, automobile or other machinery assembly
plants, painting and varnishing shops, undercoating shops.
      (3)   Storage facilities for building materials, sand, gravel, stone,
lumber, open storage or construction contractor's equipment and supplies,
provided such is enclosed within a building or within an obscuring masonry wall
on those sides abutting any residential district and on any front yard abutting
a public thoroughfare. In I-1 Districts the extent of such wall may be
determined by the Planning Commission on the basis of usage. Such wall shall be
not less than six feet in height and may, depending upon land usage, be
required to be eight feet in height and shall be subject further to the
requirements of §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements.”
      (4)   Metal plating, buffing and polishing, subject to appropriate
measures to control the type of process to prevent noxious results and/or
nuisances.
      (5)   Other uses of a similar and no more objectionable character, and
which will not be injurious or have an adverse effect on adjacent areas and
may, therefore, be permitted subject to such conditions, restrictions and
safeguards as may be deemed necessary in the interest of public health, safety
and welfare.
(`73 Code, 15.233, § 5.78)
   (D)   Required conditions. Any use established in the I-1 District after the
effective date of the 1967 Zoning Ordinance shall be operated so as to comply
with the performance standards set forth hereinafter in §§
154.100 through
154.114 , “General Requirements.” 
(`73 Code, 15.234, § 5.79)
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements. See §§
154.085 and
154.086, “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, and providing minimum yard
setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.235, § 5.80)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.072  I-2 HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The I-2 Heavy Industrial Districts are designed primarily for
manufacturing, assembling, and fabrication activities including large scale or
specialized industrial operations, whose external effects will be felt to some
degree by surrounding districts. The I-2 District is so structured as to permit
the manufacturing, processing, and compounding of semi-finished or finished
products from raw materials as well as from previously prepared materials. 
(`73 Code, 15.251, § 5.84)
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In the I-2 Districts no buildings, structure
or premises, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be erected,
altered, or used, except for one or more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any first use permitted in an I-1 District;
      (2)   Heating and electric power generating plants, and all necessary
uses related thereto;
      (3)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair,
or storage of materials, goods, or products which shall conform with the
performance standards as set forth in §§
154.100 through
154.114 “General Requirements,” except such uses specifically excluded from the
city by ordinance, and which shall not be injurious or offensive to the
occupants of adjacent premises by means of the emission or creation of noise,
vibration, smoke, dust or particulate matter, toxic and noxious materials,
odors, fire or explosive hazards, or glare or heat;
      (4)   Junk yards, provided such are entirely enclosed within a building
or within an eight-foot obscuring masonry wall of sufficient strength to serve
as a retaining wall, and provided further that the junk yard is not nearer than
250 feet to the perimeter of the I-2 District wherein it is located. There
shall be no outdoor burning on the site and all industrial processes involving
the use of equipment for cutting, compressing or packaging shall be conducted
within a completely enclosed building. There shall be no stocking of any
material above the height of the wall, except that movable equipment used on
the site may exceed the wall height;
      (5)   Any of the following uses provided that they are located not less
than 750 feet distant from any Residential District and not less than 250 feet
distant from any other district:
         (a)   Blast furnace, steel furnace, forging plant, stamping plant,
blooming or rolling mill;
         (b)   Manufacture of corrosive acid or alkali, cement, lime, gypsum or
plaster of Paris;
         (c)   Petroleum or other flammable liquids, production, refining, or
storage;
         (d)   Smelting of copper, iron or zinc ore.
      (6)   Other uses, which in the determination of the City Council, after
recommendation, pro or con, of the Planning Commission are of a similar
character to the above permitted uses, subject further to such conditions,
restrictions and safeguards as may be deemed necessary by the Commission in the
interest of public health, safety and welfare;
      (7)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incidental to any of the
above permitted uses.
(`73 Code, 15.252, § 5.85)
   (C)   Area and bulk requirements.  See §§
154.085 and
154.086, “Schedule of Regulations,” limiting the height and bulk of buildings,
the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, and providing minimum yard
setback requirements. 
(`73 Code, 15.253, § 5.86)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.073  P-1 VEHICULAR PARKING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The P-1 Vehicular Parking Districts are intended to permit the
establishment of areas to be used solely for off-street parking of private
passenger vehicles as a use incidental to a principal use. This district will
generally be provided by petition of request to serve a use district which has
not adequately provided for off-street parking. The following regulations shall
apply in all P-1 Vehicular Parking Districts and shall be subject further to
the requirements of §§
154.100 through
154.114 , “General Requirements.” 
(`73 Code, 15.271, § 5.91)
   (B)   Uses permitted. Premises in such districts shall be used only for an
off-street vehicular parking area and shall be developed and maintained subject
to such regulations as are hereinafter provided. 
(`73 Code, 15.272, § 5.92)
   (C)   Limitation of use.
      (1)   The parking area shall be accessory to and for use in connection
with one or more business or industrial establishments, or in connection with
one or more professional or institutional office buildings and institutions.
      (2)   Parking area shall be used solely for parking of private passenger
vehicles, for periods of less than one day.
      (3)   No commercial repair work or service of any kind or sale or display
thereof, shall be conducted in such parking area.
      (4)   No signs of any kind, other than signs designating entrances,
exits, and conditions of use, shall be maintained on such parking area.
      (5)   No building other than those for shelter of attendants shall be
erected upon premises and they shall not exceed 15 feet in height.
      (6)   Such parking lots shall be contiguous to an R-M, T-1, B-1, B-2, B-
3, O-1, W-M, I-1 or I-2 District, and in all cases shall be adjacent successive
lots from the above mentioned use districts. There may be a private driveway or
public street or public alley between the above stated districts and the P-
1 District.
(`73 Code, 15.273, § 5.93)
   (D)   Entrance and exit.
      (1)   Adequate entrance and exit for vehicles to premises used as a
parking area shall be provided and shall be by means of streets or alleys
adjacent to or extending through R-M, B-1, T-1, B-2, B-3, O-1, W-M, I-1 or I-
2 Districts, or by means of private roadways extending through such districts.
All such roadways shall be surfaced in a manner at least equivalent with that
which is hereinafter provided for the parking area.
      (2)   Each entrance and exit to and from such parking lot shall be at
least 20 feet distant from any adjacent property located in any residential
district.
(`73 Code, 15.274, § 5.94)
   (E)   Minimum distances and setbacks.
      (1)   Side yards.  Where the P-1 District is contiguous to side lot lines
of premises within a residentially zoned district, the required wall shall be
located on the property line.
      (2)   Front yards.  Where the P-1 District is contiguous to a
residentially zoned district which has a common frontage on the same block with
residential structures, or wherein no residential structures have been yet
erected, there shall be a setback equal to the required residential setback for
the residential district, or a minimum of 25 feet, or whichever is the greater.
The required wall shall be located on this minimum setback line.
(`73 Code, 15.275, § 5.95)
   (F)   Screening and landscaping.
      (1)   The parking area shall be provided with a continuous and completely
obscuring masonry wall, four feet, six inches in height measured from the
surface of the parking area. This wall shall be provided on all sides where the
next zoning district is designated as a residential district. Whenever such
wall is required, all land between said wall and the boundaries of the P-
1 District shall be kept free from refuse and debris and shall be landscaped
with deciduous shrubs, evergreen material and ornamental trees, and shall
conform with the requirements of §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements.” The ground area shall be planted and kept in
lawn. All such landscaping and planting shall be maintained in a healthy
growing condition, neat and orderly in appearance.
      (2)   All planting plans shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
for approval as to suitability of planting material and arrangement thereof, in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and in accordance
with §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements,” of this chapter.
(`73 Code, 15.276, § 5.96)
   (G)   Surface of parking area. The entire parking area, including parking
spaces and maneuvering lanes, required under this section, shall have asphaltic
or concrete surfacing in accordance with specifications approved by the City
Engineer. Such facilities shall be so drained so as to dispose of all surface
water accumulated in the parking area. The parking area shall be surfaced
within one year of occupancy of the use it is to serve if it is for a new use,
and within six months of the effective date of rezoning for P-1 Vehicular
Parking use if the parking area is to serve an existing use or uses. 
(`73 Code, 15.277, § 5.97)
   (H)   Lighting.  Where lighting facilities are provided they shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from all residential districts. 
(`73 Code, 15.278, § 5.98)
   (I)   Approval and modifications.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals, upon application by the property owner of the
parking area, may modify the yard and wall requirements where, in unusual
circumstances, no good purpose would be served by compliance with the
requirements of this section.
      (2)   In all cases where a wall extends to an alley which is a means of
ingress and egress to a parking area, it shall be permissible to end the wall
not more than ten feet from such alley line in order to permit a wider means of
access to the parking area.
(`73 Code, 15.279, § 5.99)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS
§ 154.085  SCHEDULE LIMITING HEIGHT, BULK, DENSITY AND AREA BY ZONING
DISTRICTS.
         Minimum                                                              Maximum
         Size of    Maximum Height  Minimum Yard     Minimum  Floor Area Per Percentage
         Lot per    of Structures   Setback (Per Lot Unit                     of Lot
         Dwelling                   In Feet)                                  Area
         Unit                                                                 Coverage
         Area Width                       Sides
Zoning   in   In    *center*In In   Front       Rear * center *Sq. Ft.        B y All
District Sq.  Ft.   Stories    Feet                                           Buildings
         Ft.
            Minimum Size                                                                      Maximum
            of Lot per   Maximum Height  Minimum Yard Setback (Per   Minimum  Floor Area Per Percentage
            Dwelling     of Structures   Lot In Feet)                Unit                     of Lot
            Unit                                                                              Area
                                                                                              Coverage
Zoning      Area   Width *center*In In         Sides                                          B y All
District    in Sq. In    Stories    Feet Front One     Two     Rear  * center *Sq. Ft.        Buildings
            Ft.    Ft.                         (Least) (Total)
R-1A One-   7,200,                       25,   10,
Family      Note a 60    2          25   Note  Note c  20      35    800                      35%
Residential                              b
R-1B One-                                25,   10,
Family      12,000 100   2          25   Note  Note c  20      35    1200                     35%
Residential                              b
R-MH Mobile                              25,   10,
Home        7,200  60    2          25   Note  Note c  20      35    600                      35%
Residential                              b
R-2 Two-                                 30,   10,
Family      9,000  70    2          28   Note  Note c  20      25    800                      35%
Residential                              b
R-                                       25,                   30,   1BR - 500
M Multiple  Note d       2          25   Notes 10,     20,     Note  2BR - 700                35%
Family                                   b, e  Note e  Note c  e     3BR - 900
Residential                                                          4BR- 1,100
T-1 Tourist              2,         30,  30,   Notes   Notes   20,
Service                  Note f     Note Notes g, h    g, h    Notes
                                    f    b, g                  g, i
B-1 Local                           30,  30,   Notes   Notes   20,
Business                 2, Note f  Note Notes g, h    g, h    Notes
                                    f    b, g                  g, i
B-2 Central              Note l     Note       Note h  Note h  Note
Business                            l                          i
B-3 General                         30,  30,   Notes   Notes   20
Business                 2, Note f  Note Notes g, h    g, h    Notes
                                    f    b, g                  g, i
B-                       2,         30,  30,   Notes   Notes   20,
4 District               Note f     ote  Notes g, h    g, h    Notes 4BR - 1,100
                                    f    b, g                  g, h
O-1 Office               2,         30,  30,   Notes   Notes   20,
Building                 Note f     Note Notes g, h    g, h    Notes
                                    f    b, g                  g, h
W-                                  30,  30,                   20,
M                        2,         Note Notes Notes   Notes   Note
Waterfront               Note f     f    b, g  g, h    g, h    g
Marina
I-1 Light                           40,  40,   20,     40,     Notes
Industrial                          Note Notes Note j  Note j  g, j,
                                    f    b, g                  k
I-2 Heavy                           60,  60,   20,     40,     Notes
Industrial                          Note Notes Note j  Note j  g, j,
                                    f    b, g                  k
 
NOTES:
   a.   See §
154.086, Subdivision open space plan, regarding exceptions to lot area and
density controls.
   b.   Where the front yards of two or more principal structures in any block
in existence at the time of passage of the 1967 Zoning Ordinance, within the
district zoned and on the same side of the street, are less than the minimum
front yard indicated above, then any building subsequently erected on that side
of the street shall not be less than, but need not be greater than the average
depth of the front yards of said two or more structures.
   c.   In the case of a rear yard abutting a side yard, or when a side yard is
adjacent to a front yard across a common separating street, the side yard
abutting a street shall not be less than the minimum front yard of the district
in which located. In the case of a common rear yard relationship, the side yard
abutting upon a street shall not be less than ten feet.
   d.   In an R-M Multiple-Family District the total number of rooms of 80
square feet or more (not including kitchen, dining and sanitary facilities)
shall not be more than the area of the parcel, in square feet, divided by
1,200. All units shall have at least one living room and one bedroom, except
that not more than 10% of the units may be of an efficiency apartment type.
      In an R-M District, for the purpose of computing the permitted number of
dwelling units per acre the following assignments shall control:
         Efficiency - 1 room
         One Bedroom - 2 rooms bedroom units and including a “den”
         Two Bedrooms - 3 rooms “library” or other extra room shall count
         Three Bedrooms - 4 rooms such other extra room
         Four Bedrooms - 5 rooms purpose of computing density.
      In an R-M District, the area used for computing density shall be the
total site area exclusive of any dedicated public right-of-way of either
interior or bounding roads.
   e.   In an R-M District front, side, or rear yards need not refer to spacing
between buildings for a planned development for two or more buildings on the
same parcel. In such cases of two or more buildings on a single parcel the
minimum distance between any two buildings on the parcel shall be regulated as
follows:
         Building Relationship            Minimum Distance Between Buildings1
         Front to Front2                  60 feet
         Front to Rear2                     80 feet
         Front to Side2                     50 feet
         Rear to Rear3                     50 feet
         Rear to Side3                     30 feet
         Side to Side3                     20 feet
         Corner to Corner3                  15 feet
         Corner to Front, Side or Rear2            40 feet
   1 Distance between any two buildings shall be measured horizontally from the
nearest point of one building to the nearest point of the other building.
   2 Parking may be located between buildings providing the area to be used for
parking is in addition to the required minimum distance between buildings. In
no instance shall there be less than 15 feet of yard space between the parking
area and the multiple family building.
   3 Parking may be permitted to occupy the minimum distance between buildings
provided that there shall be not less than ten feet of yard space between the
parking area and the multiple family building.
The “front” and “rear” of the multiple family building shall be considered to
be the faces along the longest dimensions of the building. The “front” of the
building shall be considered to be the direction faced by the living rooms of
the dwelling units in the building; the “rear” of the building shall be
considered to be the direction faced by the kitchen and/or service entrance of
the dwelling units in said building; and the “sides” of the building shall be
considered to be the face along the narrowest dimensions of the building.
In order to preserve the general open character of the district, multiple
family buildings shall be limited to 180 feet in length.
   f.   Planned developments involving five acres or more under one ownership
shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Appeals, after public hearing,
regarding modifications with respect to height regulations. In approving an
increase in structure height, the Board of Appeals shall require that all yards
be increased above the minimum requirement by one foot for each foot of
building that exceeds the maximum height limitation.
   g.   Parking may be permitted in required yard space after approval of the
parking plan layout and points of access by the Planning Commission.
   h.   No side yards are required along the interior side lot lines of the
District, except as otherwise specified in the Building Code, provided that if
walls of structures facing such interior side lot lines contained windows, or
other openings, side yards of not less than ten feet shall be provided.
      On a corner lot which borders on a residential district, there shall be
provided setback of 20 feet on the side adjacent to the residential street. On
any other side yard abutting a residential district there shall be provided a
setback of ten feet in width.
   i.   Off-street loading space shall be provided in the rear yard in the
ratio of at least ten square feet per front foot of building and shall be
provided in addition to any required off-street parking area; except that in O-
1 Districts loading space shall be provided in a ratio of five square feet per
front foot of building. Off-street loading space shall further meet the
requirements of §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements.” Where an alley exists or is provided at the
rear of the buildings the rear yard setback and loading requirements may be
computed from the centerline of said alley. Off-street loading space may be
located within the required rear yard.
   j.   No buildings or structure shall be located closer than 50 feet to the
outer perimeter (property line) of such district when said property line abuts
any residential district. A completely obscuring masonry wall not less than six
feet in height or a 20 foot wide greenbelt planted in accord with the minimum
requirements as provided in §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements” shall be provided when side or rear yards are
abutting land zoned for residential use.
      Required side yard may be used for off-street parking or loading and
unloading provided that in such instances the Planning Commission shall review
and approve the proposed parking and site plan to determine that sufficient
access to the rear of the building is provided for fire fighting or other
emergency type equipment.
   k.   Off-street loading space shall be provided in accord with the
requirements of §§
154.100 through
154.114, “General Requirements” and shall be provided in addition to any
required off-street parking area.
   l.   There shall be no specific height limitation in a B-2 District;
provided, however, that prior to the issuance of a building permit for any
structure over 30 feet in height, the Board of Appeals shall make a finding
that such excessive height will not be detrimental to the light, air or privacy
of any structure or use currently existing or approved for construction. In
approving a height in excess of 30 feet the Board of Appeals shall follow the
standards set forth below.
      1.   All enlargements or new construction shall respect the established
building line.
      2.   In the B-2 District, the maximum floor area for a building shall not
exceed a floor area to lot area ratio of 2:1.
      3.   For each square foot of plaza provided on a lot, the total floor
area may be increased by three square feet. The plaza area referred to shall be
an open area along a street, no less than five feet deep.
(`73 Code, 15.291, § 5.103; 15.292, § 5.104)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord.
passed 1973; Am. Ord. eff. 5-3-82; Am. Ord. eff. 1-31-83)
§ 154.086  SUBDIVISION OPEN SPACE PLAN.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to permit one-family, residential
subdivisions to be planned as a comprehensive unit and to allow therefor
certain modifications to the standards as outlined in the Schedule of
Regulations to be made in R-1A One-Family Residential Districts when the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The lot area in all R-1A One-Family Residential Districts may be
reduced to an average of 6,000 square feet per lot provided that the population
density shall be no greater than if the land area to be subdivided were
developed in the minimum square foot lot areas as required under R-1A
Districts. In accomplishing the lot reduction, no lot width shall be reduced by
more than ten feet. All calculations shall be predicated upon these One-Family
Districts having the following number of dwelling units per acre (including
roads): R-1A equal 4.5 dwelling units per acre.
         (a)   Lot depths may be reduced to not less than 100 feet when such
lots border on land dedicated to the common use of the subdivision.
         (b)   Minimum yard setbacks as indicated in this subchapter shall be
provided except where rear lot lines border on land dedicated to the common use
of the subdivision, such rear yards may be reduced to 25 feet.
      (2)   For each square foot of land gained under the provision of division
(A)(1) of this section, within a residential subdivision, through the reduction
of lot size below the minimum requirements as outlined in the Schedule of
Regulations in §
154.085, equal amounts of land shall be dedicated to the common use of the lot
owners in the subdivision or to the city in the manner approved by the Planning
Commission.
         (a)   The area to be dedicated for the common use of the subdivision
shall in no instance be less than two acres and shall be in a location and
shape approved by the Planning Commission. A parcel divided by a stream shall
be considered one parcel. The land area necessary to meet the minimum
requirements of this section shall not include bodies of water, swamps or land
with excessive grades making it unsuitable for recreation. All land dedicated
shall be so graded and developed as to have natural drainage.
         (b)   Access shall be provided to areas dedicated for the common use
of the subdivision for those lots not bordering on such dedicated areas by
means of streets or pedestrian access-ways.
   (B)   In approving the application of the Subdivision Open Space Plan, the
Planning Commission shall consider the following objectives:
      (1)   To provide a more desirable living environment by preserving the
natural character of open fields, stands of trees, brooks, hills and similar
natural assets;
      (2)   To encourage developers to use a more creative approach in the
development of residential areas;
      (3)   To encourage a more efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of open
area while recognizing a reduction in development costs and by allowing the
developer to bypass natural obstacles on the site.
      (4)   To encourage the provision of open space within reasonable distance
to all lot development of the subdivision and to further encourage the
development of recreational facilities.
   (C)   Under this Subdivision Open Space Plan approach, the developer or
subdivider shall dedicate the total park area (see division (A)(2)) at the time
of filing of the final plat on all or any portion of the plat.
   (D)   Application for approval of a Subdivision Open Space Plan shall be
submitted at the time of submission of the preliminary plat as required by the
Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 to
560.293.
(`73 Code, 15.293, § 5.105)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 154.100  NONCONFORMING LOTS, USES AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to permit legal nonconforming
lots, structures, or uses to continue until they are removed but not to
encourage their survival unless the Council has otherwise provided; and where
the Council has so otherwise provided, the remaining provisions of this section
shall not apply.
      (1)   It is recognized that there exist within the districts established
by this chapter and subsequent amendments certain lots, structures, and uses of
land and structures that were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended
and that would be prohibited, regulated, or restricted under the terms of this
chapter or future amendments.
      (2)   Such uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the intent of this
chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended,
nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the same district.
      (3)   A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or
a nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after passage of this code by attachment on a building or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises or by the addition
of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district
involved.
      (4)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter, and upon which actual building
construction has been diligently carried on. Actual construction is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position
and fastened in a permanent manner except that where demolition or removal of
an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding,
such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided
that work shall be diligently carried on until completion of the building
involved.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; providing that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area or width or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which such lot is located. Yard requirement variances may be
obtained through approval of the Board of Appeals.
      (2)   If two or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots
with continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of
passage of the 1967 Zoning Ordinance or amendment of said ordinance or this
chapter, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the requirements for lot
width and area as established by this chapter, the lands involved shall be
considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this chapter, and no
portion of said parcel shall be used or occupied which does not meet lot width
and area requirements established by this chapter, nor shall any division of
the parcel be made which leaves remaining any lot with width or area below the
requirements stated in this chapter.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses of land. Where, at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this chapter as enacted or amended such use may
be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 30 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
   (D)   Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built
under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards, or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, such structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following:
      (1)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity. (For example, existing residences on lots of a
width less than required herein may add a rear porch provided that other
requirements of yard space and land coverage are met.)
      (2)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of
more than 60% of its replacement cost, exclusive of the foundation at the time
of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located.
   (E)   Nonconforming uses of structures and land. If a lawful use of a
structure, or of structure and land in combination, exists at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, that would not be allowed in the
district under the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
chapter in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use, and which
existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
      (3)   In any “T,” “B,” “O,” “W-M” or “I” District if no structural
alterations are made, any nonconforming use of structure or structure and
premises, may be changed to another nonconforming use of the same or a more
restricted classification provided that the Board of Appeals, either by general
rule or by making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed
use is equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the
existing nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board of Appeals may
require appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with the purpose and
intent of this chapter. Where nonconforming use of structure, land or structure
and land in combination is hereafter changed to a more restrictive
classification, it shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted
classification.
      (4)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which
a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
      (5)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or ceases to exist for six consecutive months
or for 18 months during any three-year period, the structure, or structure and
premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformance
with the regulations of the district in which it is located. Structures
occupied by seasonal uses shall be excepted from this provision.
      (6)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
   (F)   Repairs and maintenance. On any building devoted in whole or in part
to any nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive
months on ordinary repairs, or on repairs or replacement of nonbearing walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing to an extent not exceeding 50% of the assessed
value of the building, provided that the cubic content of the building as it
existed at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter shall not be
increased. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
   (G)   Uses permitted subject to special conditions not nonconforming uses.
Any use for which special conditions are required as provided in this chapter
shall not be deemed a nonconforming use, but shall without further action be
deemed a nonconforming use in such district.
   (H)   Change of tenancy or ownership. There may be a change of tenancy,
ownership or management of any existing nonconforming uses of land, structures
and premises provided there is no change in the nature or character of such
nonconforming uses.
(`73 Code, 15.313, § 5.110)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.101  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this
chapter applicable to the main building.
   (B)   In any R District, accessory buildings shall not be erected in any
required yard, except a rear yard.
   (C)   In any R District, an accessory building not exceeding one story or 14
feet in height may occupy not more than 25% of a required rear yard, provided
that in no instance shall the accessory building exceed the ground floor area
of the main building.
   (D)   In an R District no detached accessory building shall be located
closer than ten feet to any main building nor shall it be located closer than
three feet to any side or rear lot line. In those instances where the rear lot
line is coterminous with an alley right-of-way, the accessory building shall
not be closer than one foot to such rear lot line. In no instance shall an
accessory building be located within a dedicated easement right-of-way.
   (E)   No detached accessory building in an R-1A, R-1B, R-M, A-1, B-1, O-1 or
P-1 District shall exceed one story or 14 feet in height. Accessory buildings
in all other districts may be constructed to equal the permitted maximum height
of structures in the districts, subject to Board of Appeals review and
approval.
   (F)   When an accessory building is located on a corner lot, the exterior
side lot line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line of
the lot to its rear, said building shall not project beyond the front yard line
required on the lot in the rear of such corner lot. When an accessory building
is located on a corner lot, the side lot line of the lot to its rear, the
building shall not project beyond the side yard line of the lot in the rear of
such corner lot. An accessory building shall in no case be located nearer than
ten feet to a street right-of-way.
   (G)   When an accessory building in any Residence, Business or Office
District is intended for other than the storage of private motor vehicles, the
accessory use shall be subject to the approval of the Board of Appeals.
(`73 Code, 15.314, § 5.111)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.102  OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be provided in all districts at the time of erection or
enlargement of any main building or structure, automobile off-street parking
space with adequate access to all spaces. The number of off-street parking
spaces, in conjunction with all land or building uses shall be provided, prior
to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy as hereinafter prescribed.
   (B)   Off-street parking may be located within any non-required yard and
within the rear yard setback unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Off-street parking for other than residential use shall be either on
the same lot or within 300 feet of the building it is intended to serve,
measured from the nearest point of the building to the nearest point of the
off-street parking lot. Ownership shall be shown of all lots or parcels
intended for use as parking by applicant.
   (D)   Residential off-street parking spaces shall consist of a parking
strip, parking bay, driveway, garage, or combination thereof and shall be
located on the premises they are intended to serve, and subject to the
provisions of §
154.101.
   (E)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall not be
changed to any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided
elsewhere.
   (F)   Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this code in
connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be
reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building
or new use.
   (G)   Two or more buildings or uses may collectively provide the required
off-street parking in which case the required number of parking spaces shall
not be less than the sum of the requirements for the several individual uses
computed separately.
   (H)   In the instance of dual function of off-street parking spaces where
operating hours of buildings do not overlap, the Board of Appeals may grant an
exception.
   (I)   The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, trucks, or the
repair of vehicles is prohibited.
   (J)   For those uses not specifically mentioned, the requirements for off-
street parking facilities shall be in accord with a use which the Planning
Commission considers is similar in type.
   (K)   When units or measurements determining the number of required parking
spaces result in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up to and
including ½ shall be disregarded and fractions over ½ shall require one parking
space.
   (L)   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces required,
the definition of Usable Floor Area in §
154.002 shall govern.
(`73 Code, 15.315, § 5.112)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.103  TABLE OF PARKING SPACE REQUIREMENTS.
USE NUMBER OF MINIMUM PARKING SPACES PER UNIT OF MEASURE
USE                                                                    NUMBER OF MINIMUM PARKING SPACES PER UNIT OF MEASURE
Residential
Residential, One-Family and Two-Family                                 One for each dwelling unit
Residential, Multiple-Family                                           Two for each dwelling unit
Housing for the Elderly                                                One for each two units, and one for each employee. Should units revert to
                                                                       general occupancy, then two spaces per unit shall be provided
Trailer Court                                                          One for each trailer site and one for each employee of the trailer court
Institutional
Churches or temples                                                    One for each three seats or six feet of pews in the main unit of worship
Hospitals                                                              One for each one bed
Homes for the aged and convalescent homes                              One for each four beds
Elementary and Junior high schools                                     One for each one teacher, employee or administrator, in addition to the
                                                                       requirements of auditorium
                                                                       One for each one teacher, employee, or administrator and one for each ten
Senior high schools                                                    students, in addition to the requirements of auditorium and stadium, if
                                                                       provided
Private clubs or lodge halls                                           One for each three persons allowed within the maximum occupancy load as
                                                                       established by local, county or state fire, building or health codes
Private golf clubs, swimming pool clubs, tennis clubs, or other        One for each two member families or individuals
similar uses.
Golf courses open to the general public, except miniature or “par-3" Six for each one golf hole and one for each one employee
courses
Stadium, sports arena or similar place of outdoor assembly             One for each three seats plus one for each two employees
Business and Commercial
Planned commercial or shopping center located in any B District        One for each 100 square feet of usable floor area
                                                                       One for each one employee. In addition, reservoir parking spaces equal in
                                                                       number to five times the maximum capacity of the auto wash for automobiles
                                                                       awaiting entrance to the auto wash shall be provided. Maximum capacity of the
Auto wash (not self-service)                                           auto wash for the purpose of determining the required reservoir parking shall
                                                                       mean the greatest number possible of automobiles undergoing some phase of
                                                                       washing to the same time, which shall be determined by dividing the length in
                                                                       feet of each wash line by 20.
Self-service auto wash (coin operated)                                 Five for each stall not including space provided in the stall
Beauty parlor or barber shop                                           Three spaces for each of the first two beauty or barber shop chairs, and 1½
                                                                       spaces for each additional chair
Bowling alleys                                                         Five for each one bowling lane
Dance halls, pool or billiard parlors, roller skating rinks,           One for each three persons allowed within the maximum occupancy load as
exhibition halls, and assembly halls, without fixed seats              established by local, county and state fire, building or health codes
Establishments for sale and consumption on the premises of beverages,  One for each 100 square feet of usable floor space
food, or refreshments
Furniture and appliance, household equipment, repair shops, showroom   One for each 800 square feet of usable floor area (For that floor area used in
of a plumber, decorator, electrician, or similar trade, shoe repair    processing, one additional space shall be provided for each two persons
and other similar uses                                                 employed therein)
Automobile service stations                                            Two for each lubrication stall, rack, or pit, and one for each gasoline pump
Laundromats and coin operated dry cleaners                             One for each two machines
Miniature or “par-3" golf courses                                    Three for each one hole plus one for each one employee
Motel, hotel, or other commercial lodging establishments               One for each one occupancy unit plus one for each one employee
Motor vehicle sales and service establishments                         One for each 200 square feet of usable floor space of sales room and one for
                                                                       each one auto service stall in the service room
Retail stores except as otherwise specified herein                     One for each 100 square feet of usable floor space
Offices
Banks                                                                  One for each 100 square feet of usable floor space
Business offices or professional offices except as indicated in the    One for each 200 square feet of usable floor space
following item
Professional offices of doctors, dentists or similar professions       One for each 100 square feet of usable floor area in waiting rooms, and one for
                                                                       each examining room, dental chair or similar use area
Industrial
                                                                       Five, plus one for every 1½ employees in the largest working shift; or one for
Industrial or research establishments                                  every 550 square feet of usable floor space; or whichever is determined to be
                                                                       the greater. Space on site shall also be provided for all construction workers
                                                                       during periods of plant construction
Wholesale establishments                                               Five plus one for every one employee in the largest working shift; or one for
                                                                       every 1,700 square feet of usable floor space, whichever is greater
 
(`73 Code, 15.316, § 5.113)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.104  SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR PARKING; WAIVER.
   Whenever any property is developed in such a manner as to necessitate the
continuation of existing parking facilities or the development of new parking
facilities as required by this section, the requirements of this section will
be waived if the property involved has been included in a Special Assessment
District established to provide for the acquisition, development and
maintenance of public off-street parking facilities.
(`73 Code, 15.317, § 5.114)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.105  OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE LAYOUT, STANDARDS, CONSTRUCTION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   Whenever the off-street parking requirements in §§
154.102 and
154.103 above require the building of an off-street parking facility, or where
P-1 vehicular parking districts (§
154.073) are provided, such off-street parking lots shall be laid out,
constructed and maintained in accordance with the following standards and
regulations:
   (A)   No parking lot shall be constructed unless and until a permit therefor
is issued by the Building Inspector. Applications for a permit shall be
submitted in such form as may be determined by the Building Inspector and shall
be accompanied with two sets of plans for the development and construction of
the parking lot showing that the provisions of this section will be fully
complied with.
   (B)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accord with the following minimum requirements:
 
Parking Pattern    Maneuvering Lane Parking Space Length Parking Space Width
                   Width
0 deg. (parallel   12 ft.           8 ft.                23 ft.
parking)
30 deg. to 53 deg. 12 ft.           8 ft. 6 in.          20 ft.
54 deg. to 74 deg. 15 ft.           8 ft. 6 in.          20 ft.
75 deg. to 90 deg. 20 ft.           9 ft.                20 ft.
 
 
                          Total Length of One Tier   Total Width of One Tier of
Parking Pattern           of Spaces Plus Maneuvering Spaces Plus Maneuvering
                          Lane                       Lane
0 deg. (parallel parking) 20 ft.                     28 ft.
30 deg. to 53 deg.        32 ft.                     52 ft.
54 deg. to 74 deg.        36 ft. 6 in.               58 ft.
75 deg. to 90 deg.        40 ft.                     60 ft.
 
   (C)   All spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of maneuvering
lanes. Backing directly onto a street shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of clearly
limited and defined drives shall be provided for all vehicles. Ingress and
egress to a parking lot in an area zoned for other than single-family
residential use shall not be across land zoned for single-family residential
use.
   (E)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one-way traffic movement,
except that the 90 deg. pattern may permit two-way movement.
   (F)   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot located
in an area zoned for other than residential use shall be at least 20 feet
distant from adjacent property located in any residential district.
   (G)   The off-street parking area shall be provided with a continuous and
obscuring masonry wall not less than four feet, six inches in height measured
from the surface of the parking area on all sides where the next zoning
district is designated as a residential district. When a front yard setback is
required, all land between said wall and the front property line or street
right-of-way line shall be kept free from refuse and debris and shall be
landscaped with deciduous shrubs, evergreen material and ornamental trees. The
ground area shall be planted and kept in lawn. All such landscaping and
planting shall be maintained in a healthy, growing condition neat and orderly
in appearance.
   (H)   The entire parking area including parking spaces and maneuvering
lanes, required under this section, shall be provided with a durable and
dustless surface and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water in accord with the requirements and subject to the review and
approval of the City Engineer.
   (I)   All lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
so installed as to be confined within and directed onto the parking area only.
   (J)   In all cases where a wall extends to an alley which is a means of
ingress and egress to an off-street parking area, it shall be permissible to
end the wall not more than ten feet from such alley line in order to permit a
wider means of access to the parking area.
   (K)   The Board of Appeals, upon application by the property owner of the
off-street parking area, may modify the yard or wall requirements where, in
unusual circumstances, no good purpose would be served by compliance with the
requirements of this section.
(`73 Code, 15.318, § 5.115)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.106  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   On the same premises with every building, structure, or part thereof,
involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot, adequate space for standing,
loading, and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of
dedicated rights-of-way.
   (B)   Such space shall be provided for as follows:
      (1)   All spaces shall be provided as required in §§
154.085 and
154.086 “Schedule of Regulations” note after minimum rear yards, except as
hereinafter provided for I Districts.
      (2)   All spaces shall be laid out in the dimension of at least 10 x 50
feet, or 500 square feet in area, with a clearance of at least 14 feet in
height. Loading dock approaches shall be provided with a permanent, durable and
dustless surface. All space in I Districts shall be provided in the following
ratio of space to floor area:
 
Gross
Floor
Area    Loading and Unloading Space Required  in Terms of Square Feet of Usable Floor
(In     Area
Square
Feet)
0 -     None
1,400
1,401 - One space
20,000
20,001  One space plus one space for each 20,000 square feet in excess of 20,001
-       square feet
100,000
100,001
and     Five spaces
over
 
(`73 Code, 15.319, § 5.116)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.107  USES NOT OTHERWISE INCLUDED WITHIN A SPECIFIED USE DISTRICT.
   Because the uses hereinafter referred to possess unique characteristics
making it impractical to include them in a specific use district
classification, they may be permitted by the City Council under the conditions
specified, and after public hearing. These uses require special consideration
since they service an area larger than the city and require sizeable land use
areas, creating problems of control with reference to abutting use districts.
Reference to those uses falling specifically within the intent of this section
is as follows:
   (A)   Soil excavation and filling. The removal of topsoil, subsoil, gravel,
sand, rock, aggregates, earth and other similar materials and the depositing
and dumping of sand, gravel, earth, rock, stone, concrete, minerals, and other
similar materials shall be subject to the following:
      (1)   The City Council shall first seek the findings and recommendations,
pro or con, of the Planning Commission clearly demonstrating that the removal,
depositing or dumping of the above materials will not permanently impair the
intended land use potential of the property in question.
      (2)   The City Council may issue a permit only after a proper notice
shall have been made and only after a public hearing shall have been held and
upon finding that such excavation or filling will not impair the uses of
abutting property as zoned nor create a nuisance to abutting property or the
neighborhood.
      (3)   The City Council may establish standards, operating requirements,
applications and review procedures, bonds and other such conditions,
restrictions, and safeguards as may be deemed necessary in the interest of the
public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Outdoor theaters. Because outdoor theaters possess the unique
characteristic of being used only after darkness and since they develop a
concentration of vehicular traffic in terms of ingress and egress from their
parking area, they shall be permitted within an I Industrial District and only
when the site in question is surrounded by an I District. Outdoor theaters
shall further be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The proposed internal design shall receive approval from the
Building Inspector and the City Engineer as to adequacy of drainage, lighting,
screening and other technical aspects.
      (2)   Outdoor theaters shall abut directly upon a major thoroughfare and
points of ingress and egress shall be available to the outdoor theater only
from said major thoroughfares and shall not be available from any residential
street.
      (3)   All vehicles, waiting or standing to enter the facility, shall be
provided off-street waiting space. No vehicle shall be permitted to wait or
stand within a dedicated right-of-way.
      (4)   The area shall be laid out so as to prevent the movie screen from
being viewed from residential areas or adjacent major thoroughfares. All
lighting used to illuminate the area shall be so installed as to be confined
within, and directed onto, the premises of the outdoor theater site.
      (5)   The proposed outdoor theater shall be subject further to the review
and approval of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Television and radio towers. Television and radio towers and their
attendant facilities shall be permitted in any P District, subject further to
the following conditions:
      (1)   The use shall be located centrally on a continuous parcel having a
dimension at least equal to the height of the tower measured from the base of
said tower to all points on each property line.
      (2)   The proposed site plan shall receive approval from the City
Engineer as to adequacy of drainage, lighting, general safety, and other
technical aspects.
      (3)   The proposed use shall be subject further to the review and
approval of the Planning Commission.
   (D)   Trailer courts. Trailer courts shall only be permitted within an R-
M Multiple Family Residential District. Trailer courts shall further be subject
to the following requirements and conditions:
      (1)   The trailer court shall provide a 50-foot greenbelt on all sides
abutting a One-Family Residential District and shall further provide for a 20-
foot greenbelt between itself and any other abutting district. The greenbelt
shall be located within the trailer court site and shall provide a continuous
year around obscuring screen.
      (2)   An open area shall be provided on each trailer coach lot, to insure
privacy, and adequate natural light and ventilation to each trailer and to
provide sufficient area for outdoor uses essential to the trailer coach. All
lots shall contain a minimum area of at least 3,000 square feet. All such
trailer lot areas shall be computed exclusive of service drives, facilities and
recreation space.
      (3)   The sum of the yards at the entry side and non-entry side of a
trailer coach stand shall be not less than 20 feet provided, however, there
shall be a side yard of not less than 15 feet at the entry side of the trailer
coach stand and a side yard of not less than five feet at the non-entry side of
the trailer coach stand. There shall be a rear yard of not less than five feet
at the rear end of the stand and a front yard of not less than ten feet at the
front end of the trailer coach stand. For irregularly shaped side yards, the
sum is determined as the sum of the average width of each side yard provided
that the required minimums above are maintained at all points in the side yard.
      (4)   No trailer coach shall be located closer than 50 feet to the right-
of-way line of a public thoroughfare, or to the trailer court property line.
      (5)   The trailer court shall have access only to a major thoroughfare by
directly abutting thereon and shall not have access available from any
residential street.
      (6)   Prior to public hearings on the proposed trailer court,
notification shall be given by the applicant by registered mail, return receipt
requested, of the proposal for the trailer court and the date, time and place
of public hearing to all owners of property located within 1,000 feet of the
proposed trailer court.
      (7)   All trailer court developments shall further comply with Public Act
243 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1035 to 125.1043, as amended and any codes
or ordinances of the city.
      (8)   No building or structure hereafter erected or altered in a trailer
court shall exceed one story or 14 feet.
      (9)   The proposed trailer court shall be subject further to the review
and approval of the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Airports and related uses. Airports, landing fields and platforms,
hangers, masts and other facilities for the operation of aircraft, shall be
permitted in I Industrial Districts, and shall be subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The plans for such facility shall be given approval by the Federal
Aviation Administration prior to submittal to the Board of Appeals for review
and action.
      (2)   The area of the clear zone (see FAA definition) shall be provided
for within the land area under airport ownership.
      (3)   To enable the Board of Appeals to determine that the above
conditions have been satisfactorily complied with, all applications for such
uses shall submit detailed site plans showing the location of the site, clear
zones and proof of ownership of the land designated as the clear zone.
      (4)   The proposed airport or related use shall be subject further to the
review and approval of the Planning Commission.
(`73 Code, 15.320, § 5.117)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord.
eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.108  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   No use otherwise allowed shall be permitted within any district which
does not conform to the following standards of use, occupancy, and operations,
which are standards hereby established as the minimum requirements to be
maintained within the area.
   (B)   Smoke.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit
the emission of any smoke from any source whatever to a density greater than
that density described as No. 1 of the Ringlemann Chart, provided that the
following exceptions shall be permitted: Smoke, the shade or appearance of
which is equal to but no darker than No. 2 of the Ringlemann Chart for a period
or periods, aggregating four minutes in any 30 minutes.
      (2)   For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringlemann
Chart, which is hereby made part of this chapter, shall be the standard.
   (C)   Dust, dirt and fly ash.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be
operated, maintain or cause to be maintained, any process for any purpose, or
furnace or combustion device for the burning of coal or other natural or
synthetic fuels, without maintaining and operating, while using said process or
furnace or combustion device, recognized and approved equipment, means, method,
device or contrivance to reduce the quantity of gasborne or airborne solids or
fumes emitted into the open air, which is operated in conjunction with said
process, furnace, or combustion device so that the quantity of gasborne or
airborne solids shall not exceed 0.20 grains per cubic foot of the carrying
medium at a temperature of 500º F.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining the adequacy of such devices these
conditions are to be conformed to when the percentage of excess air in the
stack does not exceed 50% at full load. The foregoing requirement shall be
measured by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers (A.S.M.E.) Test Code
for dust-separating apparatus. All other forms of dust, dirt and fly ash shall
be completely eliminated insofar as escape or emission into the open air is
concerned. The Building Inspector may require such additional data as is deemed
necessary to show that adequate and approved provisions for the prevention and
elimination of dust, dirt and fly ash have been made.
   (D)   Glare and radioactive materials. Glare from any process (such as or
similar to arc welding, or acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful ultra-
violet rays shall be performed in such a manner as not to create a public
nuisance or hazard along lot lines. Radioactive materials and wastes, and
including electro-magnetic radiation such as x-ray machine operation, shall not
be emitted to exceed quantities established as safe by the U.S. Bureau of
Standards, when measured at the property line.
   (E)   Fire and explosive hazards. The storage and handling of flammable
liquids, liquefied petroleum gases and explosives shall comply with the state
rules and regulations as established by Public Act 207 of 1941, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 29.1 to 29.34, as amended.
   (F)   Noise. Objectionable sounds, including those of an intermittent
nature, shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (G)   Odors and fumes. Creation of offensive odors and fumes shall be
prohibited.
   (H)   Wastes. No waste shall be discharged in the public sewer systems
which, in the determination of the City Engineer, is dangerous to the public
health and safety.
(`73 Code, 15.321, § 5.118)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.109  GREENBELTS AND PLANT MATERIALS.
   (A)   Whenever in this chapter a greenbelt or planting is required, it shall
be planted within six months from the date of issuance of a certificate of
occupancy and shall thereafter be reasonably maintained with permanent plant
materials to provide a screen to abutting properties. Suitable materials equal
in characteristics to the plant materials listed with the spacing as required
shall be provided.
   (B)   Plant material spacing.
      (1)   Plant materials shall not be placed closer than four feet from the
fence line or property line.
      (2)   Where plant materials are placed in two or more rows planting shall
be staggered in rows.
      (3)   Evergreen trees shall be planted not more than 30 feet on centers.
      (4)   Narrow evergreens shall be planted not more than six feet on
centers.
      (5)   Deciduous trees shall be planted not more than 30 feet on centers.
      (6)   Tree-like shrubs shall be planted not more than ten feet on
centers.
      (7)   Large deciduous shrubs shall be planted not more than four feet on
centers.
   (C)   Suggested plant materials.
 
Plant Materials                     Minimum Size
Evergreen
   Juniper
   Hemlock
   Fir                           Five feet in height
   Pine
   Spruce
   Douglas-Fir
Narrow Evergreens
   Column Hinoki Cypress
   Blue Columnar Chinese Juniper
   Pyramidal Red-Cedar           Three feet in height
   Swiss Stone Pine
   Pyramidal White Pine
   Irish Yew
   Douglas Arbor-Vitae
Tree Like Shrubs
   Flowering Crab
   Russian Olive
   Mountain-Ash
   Dogwood                       Four feet in height
   Redbud
   Rose of Sharon
   Hornbeam
   Hawthorn
   Magnolia
Large Deciduous Shrubs
   Honeysuckle
   Viburnum
   Mock-Orange
   Forsythia
   Lilac
   Ninebark                      Six feet in height
   Cotoneaster
   Hazelnut
   Euonymus
   Privet
   Buckthorn
   Sumac
Large Deciduous Trees
   Oaks
   Hard Maples
   Hackberry
   Plane tree (Sycamore)
   Birch                         Eight feet in height
   Beech
   Ginkgo
   Honey locust
   Sweet-Gum
   Hop Hornbeam
   Linden
 
   (D)   Trees not permitted.
      (1)   Box Elder.
      (2)   Soft Maple (Red-Silver)
      (3)   Elm
      (4)   Poplar
      (5)   Willow
      (6)   Horse Chestnut (nut bearing)
      (7)   Tree of Heaven
      (8)   Catalpa.
(`73 Code, 15.322, § 5.119)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.110  OBSCURING WALLS.
   (A)   For those use districts and uses listed below there shall be provided
and maintained on those sides abutting or adjacent to a Residential District an
obscuring wall as required below.
 
Use                                              Minimum Wall Height Required
P-1 Vehicular Parking District                   4'6" high wall
Off-street parking area (other than P-
1 Districts and not including single-family      4'6" high wall
dwellings)
T-1, B-1, B-2, W-M, or O-1 Districts             4'6" high wall
                                                 4'6" - 8' high wall. See §§
I Districts - open storage area, loading or      154.071(B) and (C),
unloading areas, service areas                   154.072(B) and
                                                 154.085, note j
Hospital ambulance and delivery areas            6' high wall
Utility buildings, stations, and/or substations,
except that in cases where all equipment is
contained within a building or structure
constructed so as to be similar in appearance to 6' high wall
the residential building in the surrounding
area, the Board of Appeals may waive the wall
requirement
 
   (B)   Required walls shall be located on the lot line except where utilities
interfere and except in instances where this chapter requires conformance with
front yard setbacks. Required walls may, upon approval of the Board of Appeals,
be located on the opposite side of an alley right-of-way from a nonresidential
zone that abuts a residential zone when mutually agreeable to affected property
owners. The continuity of the required wall on a given block will be a major
consideration of the Board of Appeals in reviewing such request.
   (C)   Such walls shall have no openings for vehicular traffic or other
purposes, except as otherwise provided in this chapter and except such openings
as may be approved by the Building Inspector. All walls herein required shall
be constructed of materials approved by the Building Inspector, to be durable,
weather resistant, rust proof and easily maintained; and wood or wood products
shall be specifically excluded. Masonry walls shall be erected on a concrete
foundation which shall have a minimum depth of 42 inches below a grade approved
by the Building Inspector and shall not be less than four inches wider than the
wall to be erected.
   (D)   The Board of Appeals may waive or modify the foregoing requirements
where cause can be shown that no good purpose would be served, provided that in
no instance shall a required wall be permitted to be less than four feet, six
inches in height. In consideration of requests to waive wall requirements
between nonresidential and Residential Districts, the Board shall refer the
request to the Planning Commission for a recommendation. In some cases as the
Planning Commission determines the Residential District to be a future
nonresidential area, the Board may temporarily waive wall requirements for an
initial period not to exceed 12 months. Granting of subsequent waivers shall be
permitted, provided that the Planning Commission shall make recommendation as
hereinbefore described, for each subsequent waiver prior to the granting of
such waiver by the Board.
(`73 Code, 15.324, § 5.121)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.111  RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCEWAY.
   In all R Districts, so-called entranceway structures, including but not
limited to walls, columns and gates, marking entrances to single-family
subdivisions or multiple housing projects may be permitted and may be located
in a required yard, except as provided in §
154.112, provided that such entranceway structures shall comply to all codes
and ordinances of the city, be approved by the Building Inspector and a permit
issued.
(`73 Code, 15.325, § 5.122)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.112  CORNER CLEARANCE.
   No fence, wall shrubbery, sign or other obstruction to vision above a height
of 30 inches from the established street grades shall be permitted within the
triangular area formed at the intersection of any street right-of-way lines by
a straight line drawn between the right-of-way lines at a distance along each
line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
(`73 Code, 15.326, § 5.123)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.113  USE RESTRICTION.
   No portion of a lot or parcel once used in complying with the provisions of
this chapter for yards, lot area per family, density as for a development in
the multiple-family district, or percentage of lot occupancy, in connection
with an existing or proposed building or structure, shall again be used as part
of the lot or parcel required in connection with any other building or
structure existing or intended to exist at the same time.
(`73 Code, 15.327, § 5.124)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.114  EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   All lighting for parking areas or for the external illumination of buildings
or grounds or for the illumination of signs shall be directed away from and
shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts and shall also be so
arranged as not to adversely affect driver visibility on adjacent
thoroughfares.
(`73 Code, 15.328, § 5.125)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS
§ 154.125  APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The regulations in this chapter shall be subject to the interpretations and
exceptions as to area, height and use contained in this subchapter.
(`73 Code, 15.351, § 5.128)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.126  ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by law and
other ordinances of the city; it being the intention hereof to exempt such
essential services from the application of this chapter.
(`73 Code, 15.352, § 5.129)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.127  VOTING PLACE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to interfere
with the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with a
municipal or other public election.
(`73 Code, 15.353, § 5.130)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.128  HEIGHT LIMIT.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to farm buildings,
chimneys, church spires, flag poles, public monuments or wireless transmission
towers; provided however that the Board of Appeals may specify a height limit
for any such structure when such structure required authorization as a use
permitted on special approval or under §
154.107.
(`73 Code, 15.354, § 5.131)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.129  LOT AREA.
   Any lot existing and of record at the time the 1967 Zoning Ordinance became
effective may be used for any principal use, other than uses permitted on
special approval for which special lot area requirements are specified in this
chapter, permitted in the district in which such lot is located whether or not
such lot complies with the lot area requirements of this chapter; provided that
all requirements other than lot area requirements prescribed in this chapter
are complied with and provided that not more than one dwelling unit shall
occupy any lot except in conformance with the provisions of this chapter for
required lot area for each dwelling unit.
(`73 Code, 15.355, § 5.132)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.130  LOTS ADJOINING ALLEYS.
   In calculating the area of a lot that adjoins an alley or lane, for the
purpose of applying lot area requirements of this chapter, one-half of the
width of such alley abutting the lot shall be considered as part of such lot.
(`73 Code, 15.356, § 5.133)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.131  YARD REGULATIONS.
   When yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied with, as in the case of
a planned development in the Multiple-Family District, or where their
application cannot be determined on lots existing and of record at the time the
1967 Zoning Ordinance became effective, and on lots of peculiar shape,
topography, or due to architectural or site arrangement, such regulations may
be modified or determined by the Board of Appeals.
(`73 Code, 15.357, § 5.134)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.132  MULTIPLE-DWELLING SIDE YARD.
   For the purpose of side yard regulations, a two-family, a terrace, a row
house, or a multiple-dwelling shall be considered as one building occupying one
lot.
(`73 Code, 15.358, § 5.135)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.133  PROJECTION INTO YARDS.
   Architectural features, not including vertical projections, may extend or
project into a required side yard not more than three inches for each one foot
of width of such side yard; and may extend or project into a required front
yard or rear yard not more than three feet. Architectural features shall not
include those details which are normally demountable.
(`73 Code, 15.359, § 5.136)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.134  FENCES AND WALLS.
   Fences and walls may occupy a required rear or side yard.
(`73 Code, 15.360, § 5.137)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.135  LOT COVERAGE.
   Structures four feet in height or less shall not be considered in computing
maximum percent of lot coverage.
(`73 Code, 15.361, § 5.138)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.136  TRAILER OR BOAT STORAGE.
   The parking of a trailer coach or boat not owned by a resident of the city
for periods exceeding 24 hours on lands not approved for trailer courts or boat
storage shall be expressly prohibited, except that the Building Inspector may
extend temporary permits allowing the parking of such trailer coach or boat in
a non-required yard on private property, not to exceed a period of two weeks.
All trailer coaches or boats owned by residents of the city and stored on their
individual lots shall not be stored within any required front or side yard and
shall further respect the requirements applicable to §
154.101, insofar as distances from principal structures, lot lines, and
easements are concerned. All trailer coaches parked or stored, shall not be
connected to sanitary facilities and shall not be occupied.
(`73 Code, 15.362, § 5.139)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973) 
Penalty, see § 154.999
§ 154.137  ACCESS THROUGH YARDS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, access drives may be placed in the required
front or side yards so as to provide access to rear yards and/or accessory or
attached structures. These drives shall not be considered as structural
violations in front and side yards. Further, any walk, terrace or other
pavement serving the like function, and not in excess of nine inches above the
grade upon which placed, shall for the purpose of this chapter not be
considered to be a structure, and shall be permitted in any required yard.
(`73 Code, 15.363, § 5.140)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.138  TERRACE.
   An open unenclosed paved terrace may project into a front yard for a
distance not exceeding ten feet, but this shall not include or permit fixed
canopies.
(`73 Code, 15.364, § 5.141)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 154.150  ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING INSPECTOR; DUTIES.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by
the Zoning Administrator or by such deputies of his or her department as the
Zoning Administrator may delegate to enforce the provisions of this chapter. 
(`73 Code, 15.381, § 5.145)
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to grant zoning
compliance permits, to make inspections of buildings or premises necessary to
carry out his or her duties in the enforcement of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful for the Zoning Administrator to approve any plans or issue any permits
for any excavation or construction until he or she has inspected such plan in
detail and found them to conform with this chapter.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator and/or such other officers or departments as
shall be designated by the Council, shall record in duplicate, one copy of
which shall be filed with the City Clerk, all nonconforming uses of land
existing at the effective date of the 1967 Zoning Ordinance for the purpose of
carrying out the provisions of §
154.100.
   (D)   Under no circumstances is the Zoning Administrator permitted to make
changes in this chapter nor to vary the terms of this chapter in carrying out
his or her duties as Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Zoning permit - revocation.
      (1)   Where conditions of the granting of a zoning permit have not been
or are not being complied with, the Zoning Administrator may, following a
hearing thereon, revoke or modify such zoning permit, except in those
situations set forth in §§
154.030(C),
154.060(C),
154.064(B)(7),
154.065(B)(6) and (7),
154.066(B)(13) and (14),
154.067(B)(12),
154.068(B)(13),
154.069(B)(6),
154.070(C)(9),
154.071(B)(6), and
154.072(B)(6), where the City Council may, following a hearing thereon, review
or modify such format, and any such modification must be in accord with those
sections and M.C.L. 125.3504.  Ten days’ written notice of such hearing shall
be given to the permittee prior to the hearing.
      (2)   Appeals from such revocation or modification may be taken in the
same manner as provided in §
154.159(C).
(`73 Code, 15.382, § 5.146)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord.
passed 1-10-06; Am. Ord. eff. 4-19-07; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.151  PLOT PLAN.
   The Zoning Administrator shall require that all applications for zoning
compliance shall be accompanied by plans and specifications including a plot
plan, drawn to scale, showing the following:
   (A)   The actual shape, location, dimensions of the lot.
   (B)   The shape, size, and location of all buildings or other structures to
be erected, altered or moved and of any building or other structures already on
the lot.
   (C)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all such structures
upon it including, in residential areas, the number of dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate.
   (D)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be
essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed.
(`73 Code, 15.383, § 5.147)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973Am. Ord.
eff. 4-19-07)
§ 154.152  PERMITS.
   The following shall apply in the issuance of any permit:
   (A)   Permits not to be issued. No building permits shall be issued for the
erection, alteration or use of any building or structure or part thereof, or
for the use of any land, which is not in accordance with all provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Permits for new use of land. No land heretofore vacant shall hereafter
be used, or an existing use of land hereafter changed to a use of a different
class or type unless a certificate of occupancy is first obtained for the new
or different use.
   (C)   Permits for new use of building. No building or structure, or part
thereof, shall be changed to or occupied by, a use of a different class or type
unless a building permit is first obtained for the new or different use.
   (D)   Permits required. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
hereafter erected, altered, moved, or repaired unless a building permit shall
have been first issued for such work. The terms “altered” and “repaired” shall
include any changes in structural parts, stairways, types of construction,
type, class or kind of occupancy, light or ventilation, means of egress and
ingress, or other changes affecting or regulated by Chapter 150 (Building
Code), Housing Law of Michigan, Public Act 167 of 1917, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.410 to 125.543, or this chapter, except for minor repairs or changes not
involving any of the aforesaid features.
(`73 Code, 15.384, § 5.148)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
Cross-reference:
   Address numbers required prior to applying for building or zoning permit,
see
§ 98.62
§ 154.153  CERTIFICATES.
   No land, building, or part thereof, shall be occupied by or for any use
until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued for such new use. The
following shall apply in the issuance of any certificate:
   (A)   Certificate not to be issued. No certificates of occupancy pursuant to
the Building Code of the city shall be issued for any building, structure or
part thereof or for the use of any land, which is not in accordance with all
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy. No building or structure, or parts thereof,
which is hereafter erected or altered, shall be occupied or used, or the same
caused to be done, unless and until a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued for such building or structure.
   (C)   Certificates including zoning. Certificates of occupancy as required
by the Building Code for new buildings or structures, or parts thereof, or for
alterations to, or changes of, use of existing buildings or structures, shall
also constitute certificates of occupancy as required by this chapter.
   (D)   Certificates for existing buildings. Certificates of occupancy shall
be issued for existing buildings, structures, or parts thereof, or existing
uses of land if, after inspection, it is found that such buildings, structures,
or parts thereof, or such use of land are in conformity with the provisions of
this chapter. Certificates of occupancy may be issued for business buildings in
T-1, B-1, B-2, B-3, and O-1 zones existing at the effective date of the 1967
Zoning Ordinance which change occupancy and which do not provide sufficient
parking as required under §§
154.102 and
154.103, provided there is no decrease in the number of spaces existing at the
effective date of the 1967 Ordinance.
   (E)   Temporary certificates. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy for a portion of a building or
structure in process of erection or alteration, provided that such temporary
certificate shall not be effective for a period of time in excess of six
months, and provided further that such portion of the building, structure or
premises is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Records of certificates. A record of all certificates issued shall be
kept on file in the office of the Building Inspector and copies shall be
furnished upon request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the property involved.
   (G)   Certificates for dwelling accessory buildings. Buildings accessory to
dwellings shall not require separate certificates of occupancy but may be
included in the certificate of occupancy for the dwelling when shown on the
plot plan and when completed at the same time as such dwelling.
   (H)   Application for certificates. Application for certificates of
occupancy shall be made in writing to the Building Inspector on forms furnished
by the city, and such certificates shall be issued within ten days after
receipt of such application if it is found that the building or structure, or
part thereof, or the use of land is in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. If such certificate is refused for cause, the applicant therefor shall
be notified of such refusal and cause thereof, within the aforesaid ten-day
period.
(`73 Code, 15.385, § 5.149)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.154  FINAL INSPECTIONS.
   The holder of every building permit for the construction, erection,
alteration, repair, or moving of any building, structure, or part thereof,
shall notify the Building Inspector immediately upon the completion of the work
authorized by such permit for a final inspection.
(`73 Code, 15.386, § 5.150)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.155  FEES.
   Fees for inspection and the issuance of permits or certificates or copies
thereof required or issued under the provisions of this chapter, may be
collected by the Building Inspector in advance of issuance. The amount of such
fees shall be established by resolution of the City Council and shall cover the
cost of inspection and the supervision resulting from enforcement of this
chapter.
(`73 Code, 15.387, § 5.151)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.156  ZONING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning Commission is hereby designated as the Commission
specified in Public Act 207, § 4, of 1921, being M.C.L.A. § 125.584, and shall
perform the duties of said Commission as provided in the statute in connection
with the amendment of this chapter.
(`73 Code, 15.389, § 5.153)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.157  PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   (A)   In cases where the City Planning Commission is empowered to approve
certain use of premises under the provisions of this chapter the applicant
shall furnish such surveys, plans or other information as may be reasonably
required by the Commission for the proper consideration of the matter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall investigate the circumstances of each
such case and shall notify such parties who may, in its opinion, be affected
thereby of the time and place of any hearing which may be held relative thereto
as required under its rules of procedure.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may impose such conditions or limitations in
granting approval as may in its judgment be necessary to fulfill the spirit and
purpose of this chapter.
   (D)   Any approval given by the Planning Commission, under which premises
are not used or work is not started within six months or when such work or use
has been abandoned for a period of six months, shall lapse and cease to be in
effect.
(`73 Code, 15.390, § 5.154)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.158  BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation and membership. There is hereby established a Zoning Board of
Appeals, which shall perform its duties and exercise its powers as provided in
Public Act 210, 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3107 et seq., as amended, and in
such a way that the objectives of this chapter shall be observed, public safety
secured, and substantial justice done.
      (1)   The Board shall consist of five members appointed by the City
Council, one of whom shall be a member of the City Planning Commission with
appointment coinciding with Planning Commission term, and one of whom shall be
a member of the City Council with appointment coinciding with City Council
term.
      (2)   The City Council may appoint two alternate members serving the same
term as regular members to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (3)   Appointments shall be for a period of one, two and three years,
respectively, so as nearly as may be to provide for appointment of an equal
number each year, thereafter each member to hold office for the full three-year
term.
      (4)   Each member of the Board of Appeals shall have been a resident of
the city for at least one year prior to the date of his or her appointment, and
shall be a qualified and registered elector of the city on such day and
throughout his or her tenure of office.
      (5)   Appointed members may be removed for misfeasance, malfeasance or
nonfeasance by the City Council only after consideration of written charges and
a public hearing.
      (6)   Any appointive vacancies in the Board of Appeals shall be filled by
the City Council for the remainder of the unexpired term.
      (7)   The Board of Appeals shall annually elect its own Chairman, Vice-
Chairman, and Secretary.
      (8)   The compensation of the appointed members for the Board of Appeals
shall be fixed by the City Council. 
(`73 Code, 15.411, § 5.161)
   (B)   Meetings.
      (1)   All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of
the Chairman and at such times as such Board may determine. All hearings
conducted by the Board shall be open to the public.
      (2)   The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings showing the vote of
each member upon each question, or if absent; or failing to vote, indicating
such fact; and shall also keep records of its hearings and other official
action.
      (3)   Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct
of its business.
      (4)   The Board shall have the power to subpoena and require the
attendance of witnesses, administer oaths, compel testimony and the production
of books, maps, papers, files and other evidence pertinent to the matters
before it. 
(`73 Code, 15.412, § 5.162)
   (C)   Appeal and variance procedure and standards.
      (1)   Appeals to the Appeals Board.
         (a)   A demand for a zoning appeal that is received by the Zoning
Board of Appeals can be filed by:
            1.   Aggrieved parties.
            2.   An officer, department, board, or bureau of the State or local
unit of government (City of Cheboygan).
         (b)   The Appeals Board shall have the authority to hear appeals
concerning:
            1.   All questions that arise in the administration of the zoning
ordinance, including interpretation of the zoning map.
            2.   All administrative orders, requirements, decisions or
determinations made by an administrative official or body charged with
enforcement of the zoning ordinance.
            3.   All decisions of the Zoning Administrator.
            4.   All decisions of the Planning Commission concerning uses
subject to special conditions.
         (c)   Upon receipt of a demand for appeal, the Administrator will
review the demand for appeal to ensure it is complete and the fee is paid.
            1.   If the application is not complete, the administrator will
return the application to the applicant with a letter that specifies the
additional material required.
            2.   If the application is complete, the Administrator and Chairman
of the Appeals Board shall establish a date to hold a hearing on the appeal.
         (d)   The appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed, unless the body or officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Zoning Board of Appeals that by reason of facts stated in the certificate,
a stay would in the opinion of the body or officer cause imminent peril of life
or property, in which case proceedings may be stayed by a restraining order
issued by the Zoning Board of Appeals or a circuit court.
         (e)   The notices shall be given not less than 15 days before the date
of the hearing on an appeal.
            1.   Notices shall be sent to:
               A.   The individual demanding the appeal.
               B.   The owner (or other owners) of the property, if different.
               C.   The owners of all real property within 300 feet of the
boundary for the property for which the approval has been requested, as shown
by the latest assessment roll, regardless of whether the owner and property is
located in the zoning jurisdiction or not.
               D.   Occupants of any structures within 300 feet of the zoning
jurisdiction or not.
               E.   The general public by publication in a newspaper which
circulates in the county.
               F.   Members of the Appeals Board.
            2.   The notice shall include:
               A.   The nature of the appeal being requested.
               B.   The property/ies for which the appeal or variance has been
made.
               C.   A listing of all existing street addresses within the
property/ies which is/are subject of the appeal. (Street addresses do not need
to be created and listed if no such addresses currently exist. If there are no
street addresses another means of identification may be used.)
               D.   The location where the demand for appeal can be viewed and
copied prior to the date of the zoning amendment hearing.
               E.   The date, time and location of when the hearing before the
Appeals Board will take place.
               F.   The address to which written comments should be directed
prior to the hearing;
               G.   For members of the Zoning Board of Appeals only, a copy of
the demand for appeal, the entire record of the case, the staff report, and
subdocuments in the record.
         (f)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hold a hearing on the demand
for appeal.
            1.   Representation at hearing. Upon the hearing, any party or
parties may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
            2.   Standards for variance decisions by the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
               A.   In consideration of all appeals and all proposed variations
to this chapter, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall, before making any
variations from the chapter in a specific case, first determine that the
proposed variations will not impair an adequate supply of light and air to
adjacent property, or unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets,
or increase the danger of fire or endanger the public safety, or unreasonably
diminish or impair established property values within the surrounding area, or
in any other respect impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals or
welfare of the inhabitants of the city.
               B.   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall base its decision on
variances from the strict requirements of this section so that the spirit of
this section is observed, public safety secured, and substantial justice done
based on the following standards:
                  i.   For dimensional variances: A dimensional variance may be
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals only in cases where the applicant
demonstrates in the official record of the public hearing that practical
difficulty exists by showing all of the following:
                     a.   That the need for the requested variance is due to
unique circumstances or physical conditions of the property involved, such as
narrowness, shallowness, shape, water, or topography and is not due to the
applicant’s personal or economic difficulty.
                     b.   That the need for the requested variance is not the
result of actions of the property owner or previous property owners (self-
created).
                     c.   That strict compliance with regulations governing
area, setback, frontage, height, bulk, density or other dimensional
requirements will unreasonably prevent the property owner from using the
property for a permitted purpose, or will render conformity with those
regulations unnecessarily burdensome.
                     d.   That the requested variance is the minimum variance
necessary to do substantial justice to the applicant as well as to other
property owners in the district.
                     e.   That the requested variance will not cause an adverse
impact on surrounding property, property values, or the use and enjoyment of
property in the neighborhood or zoning district.
                  ii.   For use variances: A use variance may be granted by the
Zoning Board of Appeals only in cases where the applicant demonstrates in the
official record of the public hearing that undue hardship exists by showing all
of the following:
                     a.   The building, structure, or land cannot be reasonably
used for any of the uses permitted by right or by special use permit in the
zoning district in which it is located.
                     b.   That the need for the requested variance is due to
unique circumstances or physical conditions of the property involved, such as
narrowness, shallowness, shape, water, or topography and is not due to the
applicant’s person or economic hardship.
                     c.   That the proposed use will not alter the essential
character of the neighborhood.
                     d.   That the need for the requested variance is not the
result of actions of the property owner or previous property owners (self-
created).
         (g)   If the demand for appeal is for a variance, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall either grant, grant with conditions, or deny the application. The
Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination and may issue or direct the
issuance of a permit. A majority vote of the membership of the Zoning Board of
Appeals is necessary to grant a dimensional variance and rule on an
interpretation of the ordinance. A two-thirds majority vote of the membership
of the Zoning Board of Appeals is necessary to grant a use variance. The
decision shall be in writing and reflect the reasons for the decision.
            1.   At a minimum, the record of the decision shall include:
               A.   Formal determination of the facts;
               B.   The conclusions derived from the facts (reasons for the
decision).
               C.   The decision.
            2.   Within eight days of the decision the record of decision shall
be certified and a copy delivered by first class mail to the person demanding
the appeal, the Administrator, and other parties.
         (h)   Any person having an interest affected by the decision shall
have a right to appeal to the circuit court within 30 days of the certified
decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals, as provided by law.
(Ord. eff. 4-19-07; Ord. eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.159  CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   The City Council may, from time to time, on their own action or on
recommendation from the City Planning Commission, or on petition amend,
supplement or change the district boundaries or the regulations herein,
provided, however, that a public hearing shall be held before any such
amendment shall be passed, and provided further, the notice requirements set
forth in division (B) shall be adhered to and a hearing be granted to any
person interested at the time and place specified. Upon presentation to the
Planning Commission of a petition for amendment of this chapter by an owner of
real estate to be affected, such petition shall be accompanied by a fee to be
paid to the City Treasurer. The amount of the fee shall be set by resolution of
the City Council and shall be used to defray the expense of publishing required
notices and other expenses incurred by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Zoning amendments.
      (1)   Notice requirement for hearing(s).
         (a)   The notices shall be given not less than 15 days before the date
of the hearing on a proposed zoning amendment and notices shall be sent to:
            1.   The applicant.
            2.   The owner (or other owners) of the property, if different.
            3.   If the zoning amendment is for less than 11 adjacent
properties, the owners of all real property within 300 feet of the boundary for
the property for which the approval has been requested, as shown by the latest
assessment roll, regardless of whether the owner and property is located in the
zoning jurisdiction or not.
            4.   If the zoning amendment is for less than 11 adjacent
properties, occupants of any structures within 300 feet of the boundary for the
property for which the approval has been requested, regardless of whether the
owner and property is located in the zoning jurisdiction or not.
            5.   The general public by publication in a newspaper which
circulates in the City of Cheboygan.
            6.   Members of the Planning Commission, or legislative body and
Planning Commission if the hearing is being held by the legislative body.
         (b)   The notice shall include:
            1.   The nature of the zoning amendment being requested.
            2.   The property/ies for which the zoning amendment has been made.
            3.   If the zoning amendment is for less than 11 adjacent
properties, also a listing of all existing street addresses within the
property/ies which is/are subject to the zoning amendment. (Street addresses do
not need to be created and listed if no such address currently exist. If there
are no street addresses another means of identification may be used.)
            4.   The location where the application documents can be viewed and
copied prior to the date of the zoning amendment hearing.
            5.   The date, time and location of when the hearing on the zoning
amendment will take place.
            6.   The address to which written comments should be directed prior
to the hearing on the zoning amendment.
            7.   For members of the Planning Commission only, a copy of the
request for the zoning amendment, the draft of the zoning amendment, and
supporting documents in the record.
   (C)   If the owners of 20% or more of the frontage of property proposed to
be altered or the owners of 20% or more of the frontage of property abutting
the area proposed to be altered, or either of such groups shall file a written
protest at or before the time of the hearing in this section provided, then
three-quarters vote of the entire membership of the City Council shall be
required to adopt such amendment.
   (D)   If a parcel of land is owned by the entireties, by joint tenants, by
tenants in common or by legal and equitable owners, then one of such owners may
sign the protest for the parcel so owned. The term ABUTTING PROPERTY as used in
this section shall mean the property immediately adjoining the area proposed to
be changed either in the rear or at the side thereof and also the frontage
directly opposite the frontage proposed to be changed. The term FRONTAGE as
used herein shall mean frontage on the street provided, however, that a corner
lot shall not be considered to have frontage on both streets, but only on the
street where the lot has a smaller number of feet frontage. In determining
abutting property, there shall be included all the property in a common
ownership used as a single unit.
   (E)   In reviewing an application for the rezoning of land, whether the
application be made with or without an offer of conditions or, in considering
any rezoning on the initiative of Council or the Planning Commission, factors
that shall be considered by the Planning Commission and the City Council
include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Whether the reasoning is consistent with the policies and uses
proposed for that area in the city’s Master Plan and/or the city’s Land Use
Plan;
      (2)   Whether all of the uses allowed under the proposed rezoning would
be compatible with other zones and uses in the surrounding areas;
      (3)   Whether any public services and facilities would be significantly
adversely impacted by a development or use allowed under the requested
rezoning; and
      (4)   Whether the uses allowed under the proposed rezoning would be
equally or better suited to the area that uses allowed under the current zoning
of the land.
(`73 Code, 15.391, § 5.155)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973; Am. Ord.
passed 8-23-05; Am. Ord. eff. 4-19-07; Am. Ord. eff. 6-6-08)
§ 154.160  VALIDITY; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   This chapter and the various parts, sections, and clauses thereof are
hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section or
clause is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid, it is hereby provided that the
remainder of the chapter shall not be affected thereby. 
(`73 Code, 15.392, § 5.156)
   (B)   The 1967 Zoning Ordinance was declared necessary for the preservation
of the peace, health, safety and welfare of the people of the city and ordered
to be effective on August 1, 1967. 
(`73 Code, 15.418, § 5.168)
(Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
§ 154.999  PENALTY.
   Any person, persons, firm or corporation, or anyone acting in behalf of said
person, persons or firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
chapter shall upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$100 and the cost of prosecution or, in default of the payment thereof, by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both
such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the court. Each day that a
violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate offense. The
imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender from compliance with
the requirements of this chapter.
(`73 Code, 15.393, § 5.157)  (Ord. eff. 8-1-67; Am. Ord. passed 1973)
CHAPTER 155:  HISTORIC RESOURCES
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   Historic Resources Commission
   
155.04   Powers and duties of the Commission
   
155.05   Work affecting historic resources and procedures thereof; orders to
restore
   
155.06   Grants and gifts; benefit programs
   
155.07   Filing of certificates of appropriateness, notices to proceed, orders
to restore and denials of application; binding decision, appeal; uniform
administration of act
   
155.08   Construction of chapter
   
155.09   Historic Resources Commission; decisions; appeal; exceptions
   
155.10   Procedure for designating, modifying, or eliminating historic
resources; resolutions
 
   
155.99   Penalty
§ 155.01  PURPOSE.
   Historic preservation is declared to be a public purpose, and it is hereby
determined to be in the best interest of our city to review and suggest
improvements to plans for the construction, addition, alteration, repair,
moving, excavation, and demolition of historic resources.  The purpose of this
chapter shall be to do the following:
   (A)   Safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving historic resources in
the city that reflect elements of its history, architecture, archaeology,
engineering, and culture.
   (B)   Stabilize and improve property values in the areas where historic
resources are located by suggesting better alternatives to proposed renovation
plans.
   (C)   Foster civic beauty throughout the entire city.
   (D)   Strengthen the city economy.
   (E)   Promote the use of historic resources for the education, pleasure, and
welfare of the citizens of the city and the state.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION .  Work that changes the detail of a resource but does not change
its basic size or shape.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS .  The written approval of an application for
work that is appropriate and that does not adversely affect a historic
resource.
   COMMISSION .  The Historic Resources Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION .  The act of adding an addition to an existing structure or
the erection of a new principal structure or accessory on a lot or property.
   COUNCIL .  The City Council of Cheboygan.
   DEMOLITION .  The razing or destruction, whether entirely or in part, of a
historic resource.
   DENIAL .  The written rejection of an application for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a historic resource.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION .  The identification, evaluation, establishment, and
protection of resources significant in history, architecture, archaeology,
engineering, or culture.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE .  A publicly or privately owned building, structure,
site, object, feature, or open space that is significant in the history,
architecture, archaeology, engineering, or culture of the city and has been so
designated by the procedure set forth within this chapter.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED .  The written permission to proceed with work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a historic resource, pursuant to a
finding under this chapter.
   OPEN SPACE .  Undeveloped land, a naturally landscaped area, or a formal or
manmade landscaped area that provides a connective link or a buffer between
other resources.
   ORDER TO RESTORE .  An order to restore the historic resource to the
condition the historic resource was in before the work was done or to modify so
that it qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE .  Keeping a historic resource unimpaired and in good
condition through ongoing minor intervention, undertaken from time to time, in
its exterior condition.  ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not change the external
appearance of the historic resource except through the elimination of the usual
and expected effects of weathering.  ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not constitute
work for purposes of this chapter.
   REPAIR .  Restore a decayed or damaged historic resource to a good or sound
condition by any process.  A repair that changes the external appearance of a
historic resource constitutes work for purposes of this chapter.
   RESOURCES .  One or more publicly or privately owned historic, or non-
historic buildings, structures, sites, objects, features, or open spaces
located within the city.
   WORK .  Construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation, or
demolition.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.03  HISTORIC RESOURCES COMMISSION.
   (A)   Creation.  To execute the purpose of this chapter, the Cheboygan
Historic Resources Commission is created.
   (B)   Membership and terms.  The Commission consists of seven members who
are residents of the city.  The term of office is three years and the terms
shall be staggered.  The Mayor, subject to the approval of the Council, shall
make appointments.  Of the members first appointed, two shall be appointed for
one year, two shall be appointed for two years, and three shall be appointed
for three  years.  A member shall hold office until a successor is appointed. 
A member may be reappointed. Terms shall expire on March 31st.  The Mayor,
subject to Council approval within 60 days of the vacancy, shall fill a vacancy
for the unexpired term.  Members of the Commission serve without compensation,
and shall be removable for cause by the Council.
   (C)   Qualifications.  A majority of the members shall have demonstrated
interest, competence, or knowledge of historic preservation.
   (D)   Rules.
      (1)   The Commission shall elect from its membership a Chair, Vice-Chair
and Secretary at the first meeting each year.  The Chair shall preside over the
Commission and have the right to vote.  The Vice-Chair shall preside in the
absence of the Chair.  The Secretary, or his or her delegate, shall keep an
accurate record of the proceedings of the Commission.
      (2)   The Commission shall meet at the call of the Chair, Secretary or
two members of the Commission.
      (3)   A majority of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of its business. The Commission shall adopt rules for the
transaction of its business that shall provide for the time and place of
holding meetings.  All meetings of the Commission shall be public, and any
person shall be entitled to appear and be heard on any matter being considered
by the Commission.
      (4)   The Commission shall keep a record, which shall be open to the
public for view, of its resolutions, proceedings, and actions.  The concurring
affirmative vote of four members shall constitute approval of plans before it
for review, or for the adoption of any resolution, motion or other action of
the Commission.  The Commission shall submit an annual report of its activities
to the Council.
      (5)   No member of the Commission shall vote on any matter that may
directly affect the property, income, or business interest of that member.
   (E)   Staff.  The Commission may be provided with reasonable staff
assistance, upon the request of the Commission.  The Commission may delegate to
the staff such responsibility and authority as it determines will be
appropriate to carry out routine activities.  The Commission also may utilize
the services of volunteer consultants and paid consultants, within the limits
of available funding.
   (F)   Budget.  There may be appropriated in the city's annual budget a sum
of money for historic preservation for or in connection with:
      (1)   The preparation of surveys.
      (2)   The preservation of historic resources.
      (3)   The acquisition by purchase or condemnation of property(s),
structure(s), easement(s) or other rights.  The Commission shall make
recommendations to the Council concerning such acquisitions.
      (4)   Staff support.
      (5)   Training for all staff and public officials responsible for the
implementation of this chapter, especially to provide technical knowledge of
the principles, practicality and cost of historic preservation.
      (6)   Programs of assistance to property owners, including but not
limited to education, consultation, research assistance and assistance in
locating contractors offering unique services required in historic preservation
work.
      (7)   Programs to recognize property owners' historic preservation
achievements, including but not limited to the award of certificates or plaques
for display by property owners.
      (8)   Other activities taken in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.04  POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall have the following powers:
   (A)   To adopt its own procedural rules.
   (B)   To conduct an ongoing survey to identify properties, structures, and
areas that exemplify the cultural, social, spiritual, economic, political,
educational, engineering or architectural history of the city; and to review
voluntary owner initiated designation requests.
   (C)   To keep a register of all designated historic resources including all
information required for each designation.
   (D)   To determine an appropriate system of markers, and to confer
recognition upon the owners of historic resources and/or resources by means of
certificates, plaques, or markers.
   (E)   To nominate historic resources to the state and national register of
historic places, and to review and comment on any nominations submitted to the
state or national registers.
   (F)   To advise and assist owners of property on physical and financial
aspects of preservation and the acceptable options open to their use.
   (G)   To inform and educate the citizens of the city concerning the historic
and architectural heritage of the city by publishing appropriate maps,
newsletters, brochures, and pamphlets, and by holding programs and seminars.
   (H)   To review applications for work affecting designated historic
resources and issue a certificate of appropriateness, or deny one after the
owner declines an economically feasible plan proposed by the Commission.
   (I)   To develop specific guidelines for work relating to historic
resources, including documentation requirements.
   (J)   To administer on behalf of the city any property or full or partial
interest in real property, including easements, deemed by the Council to have
historic significance, that the city may have or accept as a gift or otherwise,
upon authorization and approval by the Council.
   (K)   To accept and administer on behalf of the city such gifts, grants, and
money as may be appropriate for the purpose of this chapter.  Such funds may be
administered in accordance with the ordinances of the city, but a separate
accounting shall be made of them and a copy of such accounting given to the
Commission at least annually.
   (L)   To call upon available staff members as well as other experts for
technical advice.
   (M)   To testify before the Council, all boards and commissions on any
matter affecting historically and architecturally significant property,
structures, and areas.
   (N)   To investigate and recommend incentive programs to encourage historic
preservation.
   (O)   To review all city licensed or funded physical development projects
affecting historic resources, or which may have demonstrable effects on
historic resources.
   (P)   To oversee periodic inspections of all designated historic resources
for violations of this chapter, and to request that the City Manager require
the correction of the violations.
   (Q)   To develop a preservation component in the Master Plan and to
recommend it to the Planning Commission and to the Council.
   (R)   To periodically review the Zoning Ordinance and to recommend to the
Planning Commission and Council any amendments appropriate for the protection
and continued use of historic resources.
   (S)   To undertake any other action or activity necessary or appropriate to
the implementation of its powers, duties or to implementation of the purpose of
this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.05  WORK AFFECTING HISTORIC RESOURCES AND PROCEDURES THEREOF; ORDERS TO
RESTORE.
   (A)   A certificate of appropriateness shall be obtained before any work
affecting the exterior appearance of a historic resource is performed.  The
person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization, institution,
or agency of government proposing to do that work shall file an application for
a certificate of appropriateness with City Manager.  If the City Manager
receives the application, the application shall be immediately referred
together with all required supporting materials that make the application
complete to the Commission.  A certificate of appropriateness shall not be
issued and proposed work shall not proceed until the Commission has acted on
the application by reviewing the plans and suggesting changes.  The city may
charge a fee to process an application, and the amount of the fee shall be
established by resolution of the Council.
   (B)   In reviewing applications for certificates of appropriateness, the
Commission shall follow applicable local, state and federal standards and
guidelines for rehabilitating historic buildings.  The Commission shall also
consider all of the following:
      (1)   The historic or architectural value and significance of the
historic resource.
      (2)   The relationship of any architectural features of the historic
resource to the rest of the resource; however, color shall not be a
consideration.
      (3)   The general compatibility of the design, arrangement, texture, and
materials proposed to be used.
      (4)   Other factors, such as aesthetic value, that the Commission finds
relevant.
      (5)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, the
Commission shall not deny an application based solely on the content of the
material proposed to be used on the exterior of a historic resource.  Vinyl,
concrete board, and other materials that simulate wood or other original
materials shall be acceptable assuming they meet the other standards and
guidelines set forth in this chapter.
   (C)   The Commission shall review and act upon only exterior features of a
historic resource and shall not review and act upon interior arrangements
unless interior work will cause visible change to the exterior of the historic
resource.  The Commission shall not disapprove an application due to
considerations not prescribed in division (B) above.
   (D)   If an application is for work that will adversely affect the exterior
of a historic resource, and the Commission determines that the alteration or
loss of that historic resource will adversely affect the public purpose of the
city, the Commission shall attempt to establish with the owner of the historic
resource an economically feasible plan for preservation of the historic
resource.
   (E)   Work relating to a historic resource, which might otherwise be
prohibited, shall be permitted through the issuance of a notice to proceed by
the Commission if any of the following conditions prevail and if the proposed
work can be demonstrated by a finding of the Commission to be necessary to
substantially improve or correct any of the following conditions:
      (1)   The historic resource constitutes a hazard to the safety of the
public or to the structure's occupants.
      (2)   The historic resource is a deterrent to a major improvement that
will be of substantial benefit to the community and the applicant proposing the
work has obtained all necessary planning and zoning approvals, financing, and
environmental clearances.
      (3)   Retaining the historic resource will cause undue financial hardship
to the owner and all feasible alternatives to eliminate the financial hardship
have been attempted and exhausted by the owner.
      (4)   Retaining the historic resource is not in the interest of the
majority of the community.
   (F)   The Commission may delegate the issuance of certificates of
appropriateness for specified minor classes of work to the City Manager, or to
another delegated authority.  The Commission shall provide to the delegated
authority specific written standards for issuing certificates of
appropriateness under this division.  On at least an annual basis, the
Commission shall review the certificates of appropriateness, if any, issued for
work by the City Manager, or another authority to determine whether or not the
delegated responsibilities should be continued.
   (G)   When work has been done upon a historic resource without a certificate
of appropriateness, or notice to proceed and the Commission finds that the work
does not qualify for a certificate of appropriateness or notice to proceed, the
Commission may issue an order to restore the historic resource to the condition
the historic resource was in before the work was done or to modify so that it
qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness.  If the owner does not comply
with the restoration or modification order within a reasonable time, the
Commission may recommend to the Council that the Council terminate the historic
resource designation of that particular historic resource.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.06  GRANTS AND GIFTS; BENEFIT PROGRAMS.
   The Council may accept state or federal grants for historic preservation
purposes, may participate in state and federal programs that benefit historic
preservation, and may accept public or private gifts for historic preservation
purposes.  The Council may make the Historic Resources Commission its duly
appointed agent to accept and administer grants, gifts, and program
responsibilities.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.07  FILING OF CERTIFICATES OF APPROPRIATENESS, NOTICES TO PROCEED, ORDERS
TO RESTORE AND DENIALS OF APPLICATION; BINDING DECISION; APPEAL; UNIFORM
ADMINISTRATION OF ACT.
   The Commission shall file certificates of appropriateness, notices to
proceed, orders to restore and denials of applications with the City Manager or
other delegated authority.  A certificate of appropriateness nor a notice to
proceed shall not be issued until the Commission has acted as prescribed by
this chapter.  If an application is denied, the decision shall be binding on
the City Manager or other authority.  A denial shall be accompanied with a
written explanation by the Commission of the reasons for denial and, if
appropriate, a notice that an application may be resubmitted for Commission
review when suggested changes have been made.  The denial shall also include
notification of the applicant's rights of appeal to the City Council and to the
circuit court.  The failure of the Commission to act within 60 calendar days
after the date a complete application is filed with the Commission, unless an
extension is agreed upon in writing by the applicant and the Commission, shall
be considered to constitute approval of the application.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.08  CONSTRUCTION OF CHAPTER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent ordinary maintenance
or repair of a historic resource, or to prevent work on any resource under a
permit issued by the City Manager or other duly delegated authority before the
chapter was enacted.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.09  HISTORIC RESOURCES COMMISSION; DECISIONS; APPEAL; EXCEPTIONS.
   Any citizen or duly organized historic preservation organization in the
city, as well as historic resource property owners, jointly or severally
aggrieved by a decision of the Historic Resources Commission may appeal the
decision to the City Council and thereafter to the circuit court in accordance
with applicable state law.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.10  PROCEDURES FOR DESIGNATING, MODIFYING, OR ELIMINATING HISTORIC
RESOURCES; RESOLUTIONS.
   (A)   The Commission may at any time after the adoption of this chapter
designate resources as historic resources but only upon application by the
owner of the resource.  The Commission may establish rules and criteria which
must be observed by an owner applying to have a resource designated a historic
resource.  In any case the Commission, in determining whether a resource shall
be designated a historic resource, shall consider the following:
      (1)   The historic or architectural value and significance of the
resource.
      (2)   The relationship of any architectural features of the resource to
the rest of the resource.
      (3)   Other factors, such as aesthetic value, that the Commission finds
relevant.
      (4)   The resource could be anywhere in the city.
   (B)   Once a resource is designated a historic resource the City Manager
shall assure a record of the designation is made by recording an appropriate
document with the Cheboygan County Register of Deeds; any subsequent
elimination shall also be recorded.
   (C)   An owner may terminate the historic resource designation, or three
members of the Commission may submit a request to the Commission to have a
historic resource's designation terminated.  The Commission, in determining
such a request, shall consider:
      (1)   Whether retaining the historic resource designation will cause
undue financial hardship to the owner and all feasible alternatives to
eliminate the financial hardship have been attempted and exhausted by the
owner.
      (2)   Retaining the historic resource is not in the interest of the
majority of the community.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
§ 155.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of this chapter by any person, corporation, partnership
or any other legal entity shall be considered cause for the loss of the
historic designation for that particular resource.
   (B)   The Commission may request of the City Council any appropriate action
or proceeding to enjoin, correct, or abate any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 3-12-02)
CHAPTER 156:  STORMWATER FLOW CONTROL
Section
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purpose; objectives
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Permits
   
156.05   Other permits; approval of other government agencies
   
156.06   Stormwater flow control plan
   
156.07   General standards for approval of stormwater flow control plans
   
156.08   Off-site stormwater flow control
   
156.09   Compliance assurances
   
156.10   Inspections
   
156.11   Cease and desist orders; emergency actions
   
156.12   Appeals
   
156.13   Severability
 
   
156.98   Enforcement
   
156.99   Penalty
§ 156.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the City of Cheboygan Stormwater
Flow Control Chapter.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07)
§ 156.02  PURPOSE; OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this chapter is to prevent pollution,
impairment, or destruction of the soil and water natural resources by
evaluating and addressing the stormwater generated from new development and/or
reconstruction of existing development in the City of Cheboygan.
   (B)   Objectives. Specific objectives of this chapter include the following:
      (1)   To control stormwater runoff/flow resulting from earth changes
proposed within the City of Cheboygan, both during and after construction.
      (2)   To assure that property owners address the stormwater generated
originating from their property so that surface water and groundwater quality
is protected and flooding potential reduced.
      (3)   To preserve and use the natural drainage system for receiving and
conveying stormwater flow and to minimize the need to construct enclosed,
below-grade storm drain systems.
      (4)   To preserve natural infiltration and the recharge of groundwater,
and to maintain subsurface flows which replenish lakes, streams and wetlands.
      (5)   To assure that stormwater flow control systems are incorporated
into site planning at an early stage in the planning and design process.
      (6)   To prevent unnecessary stripping of vegetation and loss of soils,
especially adjacent to lakes, streams, watercourses and wetlands.
      (7)   To eliminate the need for costly maintenance and repairs to roads,
embankments, ditches, streams, lakes, wetlands and stormwater flow control
facilities which are the result of inadequate stormwater flow control.
      (8)   To reduce long-term expenses and remedial projects which are caused
by uncontrolled stormwater flow.
      (9)   To encourage the design and construction of stormwater flow control
systems which serve multiple purposes, including but not limited to flood
prevention, water quality protection, wildlife habitat preservation, education,
recreation and wetlands protection.
      (10)   To reduce the detrimental impacts of stormwater flows on
downstream communities.
      (11)   To allow for off-site stormwater flow control facilities and
measures if proposals meet the requirements of this chapter.
      (12)   To assure that all stormwater flow control facilities will be
properly designed, constructed and maintained.
      (13)   To provide for enforcement of this chapter and penalties for
violations.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07)
§ 156.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCELERATED SOIL EROSION. The increased movement of soils that occurs as a
result of human activities and development.
   AUTHORIZED PUBLIC AGENCY. A state, local, or county agency designated
pursuant to sedimentation control requirements with regard to earth changes
undertaken by that agency.
   CHANNEL. The portion of a natural stream which conveys normal flows of
water, or a ditch or channel excavated for the flow of water.
   DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT. The installation or construction of impervious
surfaces on a development site that require, pursuant to state law or local
ordinance, the city’s approval of a site plan, plat, site condominium, special
land use, planned unit development, rezoning of land, land division approval,
private road approval or other approvals required for the development of land
or the erection of buildings or structures; provided, however, that for
purposes of this chapter, DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT shall not include the actual
construction of, or an addition, extension or modification to, an individual
single-family or a two-family detached dwelling or a mobile home. (§
154.060(B)(1), (2) and (3); §
154.061(B)(2) and §
154.062(B)(2) of this Code of Ordinances.)
   DEVELOPER. Any person proposing or implementing the development of land.
   ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The public agency designated to enforce permit
requirements under this chapter.
   EARTH CHANGE. A human-made change in the natural cover or topography of
land, including cut and fill activities. This includes any grading, stripping,
clearing, stumping, excavating, filling, stockpiling, or any combination
thereof, including the land in its excavated or filled condition. The term
EARTH CHANGE, as used in this chapter, shall not apply to the practice of
plowing and tilling soil for the purpose of crop production.
   FLOOD. An overflow of surface water onto lands not normally covered by
water.
   IMPOUNDMENT.  A body of water which is created by constructing an
impermeable barrier which either prevents or restricts water flow out of the
impoundment area.
   INTERMITTENT STREAM. Any stream that can be identified as an intermittent
stream on U.S.G.S. topographic maps, county soil surveys or other reliable
source.
   LAKE. A man-made or natural body of open water which is five acres or more
in size.
   LANDSCAPING. The adjournment of land, such as planting of flowers, shrubs
and trees, and similar activities accomplished in a method not to disturb
existing vegetative cover.
   NORMAL MAINTENANCE. Landscaping, repairs, road leveling and/or grading,
minor excavation or filling to maintain existing condition at a developed site,
or other activities determined by the enforcement agency to be exempt from
permit requirements, provided that such activities do not violate standards in
this chapter.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, company, organization or legal entity of any kind, including
governmental agencies.
   POND. A permanent or temporary body of open water which is more than one
acre in size and less than five acres in size.
   PROTECTED WETLAND. A wetland which meets the criteria of Section 2 of Part
303 of 1994 PA 451.
   SITE RESTORATION. Returning a disturbed site to a condition that
approximates its original slope and original use, with full vegetative cover
and sediment remediation.
   STORMWATER FLOW.  Waters from rains falling within a tributary drainage
basin, flowing over the surface of the ground or collected in channels,
watercourses, or conduits, measured in gallons per minute.
   STORMWATER FLOW CONTROL FACILITIES AND MEASURES. Any facility, structure,
channel, area, or vegetative cover, or measure which serves to control
stormwater flow in accordance with the purposes and standards of this chapter.
   STREAM. A river, stream, or creek which may be serving as a drain, having
definite banks, a scoured bed and visible evidence of a continued flow or
continued occurrence of water.
   SURFACE WATER. Any body of water and the associated sediments which has a
top surface that is exposed to the atmosphere and which is not solely for
wastewater conveyance, treatment or control. SURFACE WATER may be any of the
following:
      (1)   Any Great Lake or its connecting waters.
      (2)   Any inland lake or pond.
      (3)   A river or stream, including intermittent streams.
      (4)   An impoundment.
      (5)   An open drain.
      (6)   A wetland.
   VEGETATIVE COVER. Grasses, shrubs, trees and other vegetation which hold and
stabilize soils.
   WETLAND. Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support and that under normal circumstances does support
wetland vegetation or aquatic life and is commonly referred to as a bog, swamp
or marsh. A WETLAND will contain predominance, not just an occurrence, of
wetland vegetation, aquatic life or hydric soil as defined by Part 303 of 1994
PA 451.
   WETLAND VEGETATION. Plants, including but not limited to trees shrubs and
herbaceous plants, that exhibit adaptations to allow, under normal conditions,
germination or propagation and to allow growth with at least their root systems
in water or saturated hydric soil.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07; Am. Ord. eff. 12-15-08)
§ 156.04  PERMITS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction.
      (1)   The Zoning Office shall be the enforcement agency for regulated
earth changes proposed within the boundaries of the City of Cheboygan, except
for earth changes undertaken by state, county and local agencies, designated as
authorized public agencies under Section 9110 of Part 91 of 1991 PA 451.
      (2)   An authorized public agency is exempt from this chapter but shall
notify the enforcement agency of any proposed earth change which is more
extensive than normal maintenance.
      (3)   When earth changes are proposed on sites which are partially under
the jurisdiction of two or more local or county enforcing agencies, application
review and permit issuance will be completed by the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality.
      (4)   The Enforcement Agency may consult with the City Attorney, City
Engineer, the Natural Resources Conservation Office, and any other agency or
person on any matter related to the enforcement agency’s duties under this
chapter.
   (B)   Regulated earth changes. Earth changes requiring a stormwater flow
control permit include the following:
      (1)   Industrial and commercial use development sites, regardless of
size, location or environmental sensitivity.
      (2)   All subdivision and condominium developments as defined by Section
102 of 1967 PA 288, as amended, regardless of size, location or environmental
sensitivity.
      (3)   This chapter shall apply to all categories of development with
earth changes of one half (1/2) acre or more except §
154.060(B)(1), (2) and (3); §
154.061(B)(2) and §
154.062(B)(2) of this Code of Ordinances.
   (C)   Permit application submission.
      (1)   Copies of permit application form shall be made available by the
enforcement agency.
      (2)   All applications for stormwater flow control permits shall include
one copy of the proposed soil erosion sedimentation plan and permit per the
Cheboygan County Ordinance and three copies of the stormwater flow control
plan, unless more copies are requested by the enforcement agency, and be
accompanied by the appropriate fees as determined by the City Council.
      (3)   Permit applications shall be submitted to the enforcement agency.
      (4)   Application for a permit shall be made and permit approval must be
obtained prior to the initiation of any work activity. Any unauthorized work
shall be considered a violation of this chapter regardless of any later actions
taken toward compliance. Soil test borings, vegetative cutting for land
surveys, percolation tests, and normal maintenance shall not be considered a
start of work under this chapter.
      (5)   The application review period begins upon receipt of a completed
application and must be acted upon within 30 days by the enforcement agency.
   (D)   Permit action.
      (1)   If the enforcement agency and/or the City Engineer determines that
the proposed stormwater flow control plan complies with the standards in this
chapter and any other applicable state and federal laws and regulations which
it enforces, a permit shall be issued specifying the work approved.  No work
shall begin until a site plan is approved pursuant to Sections
154.045 through
154.049 of this Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   If the enforcement agency and/or the City Engineer determines that
the proposed stormwater flow control plan does not comply with the standards in
this chapter, the permit request shall be modified or denied. As a condition to
any permit, the enforcement agency may require the applicant to provide any
modified or alternative location, design or method which it determines to be
reasonably necessary to comply with the standards of this chapter.
      (3)   The enforcement agency shall furnish the applicant or other
interested person with a statement in writing of the reasons for a permit
denial.
   (E)   Permit expiration or revocation.
      (1)   Permits shall terminate automatically if activity has not commenced
by the expiration date. The permit holder may be granted an extension if the
enforcement agency believes that there are valid reasons to support an
extension.
      (2)   A permit issued by the enforcement agency under this chapter may be
revoked or suspended for any of the following reasons:
         (a)   A violation of a condition of the permit.
         (b)   Obtaining a permit by misrepresentation or failure to fully
disclose relevant facts in the application or stormwater flow control plan.
         (c)   A change in a condition that requires a temporary or permanent
change in the activity.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07; Am. Ord. eff. 12-15-08) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.05  OTHER PERMITS; APPROVAL OF OTHER GOVERNMENT AGENCIES.
   The issuance of a permit under this chapter does not relieve a property
owner of the need to obtain other permits or approvals from federal, state,
county and local agencies including soil erosion and sedimentation control
under the applicable County Ordinance.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.06  STORMWATER FLOW CONTROL PLAN.
   (A)   Criteria. A stormwater flow control plan shall be prepared for any
earth change subject to permit requirements. The plan shall be designed to
effectively reduce accelerated soil erosion and sedimentation during
construction and after construction is completed.
   (B)   Contents. The plan submitted pursuant to this section shall include
the following:
      (1)   A map or maps at a scale of not more than 100 feet to the inch or
as otherwise determined by the enforcement agency, including a legal
description and site location drawing which includes the proximity of any
proposed earth change to lakes or streams, or both; predominant land features;
and contour intervals or sufficient spot elevations to determine existing and
proposed ground slope.
      (2)   A soils survey or written description of the soil types of the
exposed land area subject to the proposed earth change.
      (3)   A description and the location of the physical limits of each
proposed earth change.
      (4)   Location of all lakes, streams and protected wetlands partially or
completely contained within the boundaries of the site or within 500 feet of
the site boundary.
      (5)   A description and the location of all existing and proposed on-site
stormwater management facilities and measures.
      (6)   The timing and sequence of each proposed earth change.
      (7)   Stormwater flow calculations utilizing the rational method or the
U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation Service method approved by the
enforcement agency.
      (8)   A program for the continued maintenance of all permanent stormwater
flow control facilities and measures as listed in §
156.09, if applicable.
      (9)   In the event there are severe development limitations in regards to
the existing site characteristics, the enforcement agency may require that a
residential or high erosion risk plan be prepared by a licensed professional
civil engineer.
      (10)   Other information which the enforcement agency requires to review
the impact of the proposed earth change in relationship to the standards and
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.07  GENERAL STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF STORMWATER FLOW CONTROL PLANS.
   (A)   Waters. All earth changes subject to review under this chapter shall
be designed, constructed and maintained to provide for control of stormwater
flow waters and to protect water quality.
   (B)   Factors. Measures required for stormwater flow control shall take into
consideration adverse effects on natural features; proximity of the site to
lakes, streams, and protected wetlands; adverse effects on endangered plant and
animal species, including their habitat or other sensitive environmental
features; extent of impervious surfaces; potential for soil erosion and
flooding; and the size of the site.
   (C)   Facilities. Stormwater flow control facilities shall be designed to
provide for non-erosive velocities of stormwater flow.
   (D)   Drainage. Alterations to natural drainage patterns shall not create
downstream flooding.
   (E)   Watershed plan. When a proposed earth change is located in an area
where a watershed plan has been approved by the City Council, the standards for
stormwater detention and retention volumes, discharge rates, and stormwater
flow control facility locations specified in the approved watershed plan shall
be deemed to meet the requirements of this chapter.
   (F)   Guidelines. Stormwater flow control plans shall conform to the
following guidelines:
      (1)   Stormwater flow control.
         (a)   Stormwater flow control facilities may include, but are not
limited to: retention basins, retention ponds, wet basins, porous pavement with
sediment diversion berms, grassed swales with sediment diversion berms, grassed
swales with check dams, filter strips, direct connection to existing stormwater
drainage systems, and other facilities.
         (b)   Stormwater control facilities shall be planned and designed to
reproduce the predevelopment hydrology of the site to the maximum extent
possible.
         (c)   Infiltration trenches, perforated pipe and infiltration basins
may be utilized provided that: (i) sediment is removed from stormwater flow
before flow reaches the infiltration facility, and (ii) adequate provisions for
facility maintenance have been made.
         (d)   Infiltration basins and infiltration trenches shall be lined
with a vegetative cover designed to slow the flow of the stormwater and to trap
pollutants. Sediment traps or sediment basins shall be provided for the purpose
of collecting sediment before stormwater reaches the infiltration basin or
trench. Infiltration facilities shall be designed to distribute stormwater flow
volume evenly over the floor of the basin or trench and to prevent ponding or
standing water.
         (e)   Drainage wells, commonly known as dry wells, shall be
discouraged as a stormwater control method. If the use of stormwater retention
or detention basins, either on-site or off-site is not feasible, the
installation of drainage wells may be allowed. All drainage wells must provide
the following: (i) catch basins, sediment basins, silt traps, or vegetative
filter strips to remove sediment from stormwater flowing to the drainage well;
(ii) an approved overflow system which will adequately protect the environment
and/or existing stormwater drainage system downstream from the point of
overflow discharge; and (iii) adequate provisions for maintenance.
         (f)   Detention basins shall be designed as extended detention basins
to detain stormwater on the site for an adequate period of time, dependent upon
soil type, to allow for maximum settling and removal of suspended solids and
other pollutants. Vegetation shall be installed and maintained in the basin to
help absorb pollutants.
         (g)   At a minimum, detention, retention and infiltration basins shall
have the storage capacity to hold the increase in stormwater flow volume
generated by the earth change. The required volume shall be calculated by
comparing the undeveloped conditions from a two-year, 24-hour frequency storm
event at 2.2 inches per 24 hours to the developed condition for a 25-year, 24-
hour frequency storm event at 3.3 inches per 24 hours. The rational method or
the U.S.D.A. Natural Resources Conservation Service method shall be used to
determine flow volume.
         (h)   For off-site discharge of stormwater flow, the rate of discharge
shall be determined by the capacity of the receiving drainage system.
Calculations, prepared by a licensed professional civil engineer, shall be
provided to:
            1.   Demonstrate the flow capacity of the stormwater drainage
system to its point of final discharge to a river or lake.
            2.   Demonstrate the volume of stormwater flow being carried by the
stormwater drainage system at the existing state of development, using the 25-
year, 24-hour frequency storm event, prior to adding the proposed development
stormwater flow.
            3.   Demonstrate whether or not the stormwater drainage system has
adequate capacity to receive the proposed development stormwater flow.
         (i)   For proposed developments where parking lots, drive lanes,
loading/unloading facilities, and the like, exceed five acres in size, the
stormwater flow system for the site shall incorporate soil and sediment
collection and oil and gas separation facilities prior to discharge into the
stormwater drainage system.
         (j)   Retention and detention basins shall have an emergency overflow
system. The overflow system shall be designed to accommodate flow from the 100-
year storm event at 4.4 inches per 24 hours.
         (k)   Side slopes of any stormwater retention or detention basin shall
be no greater than 3:1 (horizontal to vertical) so as to prevent soil erosion
and allow for basin maintenance.
         (l)   Stormwater basins with pools of water shall have one or more of
the following safety features:
            1.   Safety ledges at the basin perimeter which are at least ten
feet wide;
            2.   Aquatic vegetation surrounding the basin which discourages
wading; or
            3.   Fencing to prevent unauthorized access to the basin.
         (m)   Stormwater control facilities that discharge to a stream, lake
or wetland shall have an adequately designed discharge system to prevent
scouring, flooding or pollution on-site or downstream.
         (n)   Stormwater retention/detention basins shall not be located in
wetlands unless approved by the Department of Environmental Quality.
         (o)   A ten-foot undeveloped buffer area shall be provided around the
perimeter of all detention, retention and infiltration basins, which are one-
half acre or more in size.
         (p)    Stormwater detention basins which impound five acres or more
and have a head of six  feet or more shall meet dam construction permit
requirements in Part 315 of Act 451 of 1994, as amended, as administered by the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
         (q)   Stormwater retention, detention and infiltration basins shall be
maintained by the property owner unless assurance of proper maintenance can be
provided through a government agency program. A maintenance plan shall be
submitted for approval that as a minimum include, but not be limited to:
removal of accumulated sediment, periodic structural repairs, reseeding of
replacement of vegetative cover and regular clipping.
      (2)   Stormwater conveyance facilities and receiving waters.
         (a)   Unless otherwise approved, stormwater flow shall be safely
conveyed through swales, vegetated buffer strips, enclosed conduits, or other
approved conveyances so as to control flow velocity and off-site damage, to
remove pollutants, to allow suspended sediments to settle, and to encourage
infiltration.
         (b)   If storm sewers are proposed, the applicant shall design the
drainage system to mitigate any harmful impact on water quality by using
structural devices or other methods to prevent accelerated soil erosion and by
locating discharges to maximize stormwater flow control and minimize impact to
the receiving drainage system.
         (c)   No direct or indirect discharge of stormwater to receiving
bodies of water, including lakes, streams or wetlands shall be allowed unless
sediment and/or greases and/or other physical objects are trapped prior to
discharge and stormwater flows are limited to non-erosive velocities.
         (d)   Lakes and streams, together with their adjacent banks shall not
be dredged, cleared of vegetation, deepened, widened, straightened, stabilized
or otherwise altered without all applicable local and state permits. Approval
from the Department of Environmental Quality is required for proposed
alterations of lakes and streams below the ordinary high water mark. Approval
from the County Soil Erosion Control Officer is required for proposed
alterations of lakes and streams above the ordinary high water mark.
         (e)   Construction of floor drains, storm drains, drainage wells,
septic systems or other conduits by which stormwater or washwater containing
oil, grease, toxic chemicals or other hazardous substances may be discharged
are prohibited.  This does not include occasional and non-deliberate fluid
release from vehicles in parking lots.
      (3)   Engineering design guidelines. Guidelines for soil erosion and
sediment control and stormwater flow management facilities shall follow the
Best Management Practices of the State of Michigan, Department of Management
and Budget, Office of Design and Construction Soil Erosion and Sedimentation
Control Plan under Part 91, PA 451, 1994, as amended.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07; Am. Ord. eff. 12-15-08) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.08  OFF-SITE STORMWATER FLOW CONTROL.
   (A)   Use of off-site stormwater flow control.  The use of off-site
stormwater flow facilities and measures may be proposed. In such cases, the
applicant shall submit documentation as outlined in §
156.07(F)(1)(h).
   (B)   Shared off-site stormwater flow control facilities. Upon approval of
the enforcement agency, off-site stormwater flow control areas may be shared
between two or more property owners or developments. Documentation, including
stormwater flow calculations by a licensed professional civil engineer shall be
submitted to demonstrate adequacy of the shared facilities to handle combined
flows.
   (C)   Applicable standards. General standards specified in §
156.07 of this chapter shall be used in reviewing proposed stormwater flow
control plans for off-site stormwater flow control facilities and measures.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.09  COMPLIANCE ASSURANCES.
   (A)   Performance guarantees. Letters of credit, if used as a performance
guarantee, shall extend for a minimum of one year with the option of renewal.
Letters of credit will be returned to the applicant when the site is certified
by the licensed professional who designed the site plan and the site is
completely stabilized to meet the requirements set forth in this chapter.
Enforcement of a letter of credit shall be in accord with its terms and
M.C.L.A. § 440.5106.
   (B)   Construction certification by licensed professional. For any site that
requires a professional site plan, a certification letter shall be submitted
after stormwater flow control facilities have been installed to affirm that
construction has been completed in accordance with the stormwater flow control
plan, unless otherwise specified by the enforcement agency. This certification
letter shall be prepared by a licensed professional civil engineer. In the
event there are changes during the course of construction, the enforcement
agency may require drawings for final approval of the site work.
   (C)   Certificate of compliance. Upon receipt and approval of the
certification letter, the enforcement agency shall issue a certificate of
compliance to the property owner.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.10  INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   When. Authorized representatives of the enforcement agency may enter
at reasonable times upon any property to conduct on-site inspections. Such
inspections may take place before, during and after any earth change activity
for which a permit has been issued. Inspections may be subject to an
appropriate fee as determined by the City Council.
   (B)   Conditions. Upon inspection, if existing site conditions are found not
to be as defined in the permit or approved stormwater flow plan, the permit
will be suspended. No earth change shall be undertaken, or continued, until
site conditions are brought in conformity with the plan, at which time the
permit suspension will be removed.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.11  CEASE AND DESIST ORDERS; EMERGENCY ACTIONS.
   (A)   Order. In order to assure compliance with permit requirements and the
provisions of this chapter, or to protect public health, safety and welfare,
the enforcement agency may issue a cease and desist order to prevent or
minimize accelerated stormwater flow, or other conditions posing imminent and
substantial danger to public health, safety, welfare or natural resources.
   (B)   Action. In order to protect public safety or water resources,
including lakes, streams, protected wetlands and other receiving bodies of
water, the enforcement agency may initiate emergency action to abate imminent
and substantial danger and risk, pursuant to this chapter.
   (C)   Activities. When issued, the cease and desist order shall require all
specified earth change activities to be stopped. A copy of the cease and desist
order shall immediately be submitted to other state and local agencies with
regulatory jurisdiction.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.12  APPEALS.
   (A)   Procedure. Any person aggrieved by the action of the enforcement
agency related to this chapter may appeal. Appeals must be:
      (1)   In writing and specify the grounds upon which the appeal is made.
      (2)   Accompanied by the appropriate fee as determined by the City
Council upon recommendation of the City Manager.
      (3)   Filed with the Chairperson of the Stormwater Board of Appeals or
his or her appointee within 30 days after the contested action, and a copy
provided to the enforcement agency.
   (B)   Report. Upon receiving a copy of an appeal, the enforcement agency
shall prepare a written summary report of all actions related to the contested
action. The report shall be provided to the Stormwater Board of Appeals and to
the appellant at least five days prior to the appeal hearing.
   (C)   Hearings.
      (1)   Time. The Chairperson of the Stormwater Board of Appeals or his or
her appointee shall fix a reasonable time for the appeal hearing.
      (2)   Notice. At least 14 days prior to the appeal hearing, the
Chairperson of the Stormwater Board of Appeals or his or her appointee shall
provide written notice of the appeal hearing date, time and location to the
appellant, the member of the Stormwater Board of Appeals, the enforcement
agency, the city’s Department of Public Works and property owners within 300
feet.
   (D)   Stormwater Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Members shall be: Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals;
Chairperson of the Planning Commission; one member of the City Council; City
Engineer; Department of Public Works Superintendent; and the City Manager (ex-
officio).
      (2)   By majority decision, the Stormwater Board of Appeals can reverse,
modify or affirm in whole or in part the contested action. In making its
decision, the Stormwater Board of Appeals has all of the powers of the
enforcement agency.
      (3)   The decision of the Stormwater Board of Appeals is the final relief
provided by this chapter.
      (4)   The decision of the Stormwater Board of Appeals shall be in
accordance with the purposes and objectives of this chapter and shall not
create a hazard to the public health or to the environment.
   (E)   Other remedies. Notwithstanding that an aggrieved person has a right
to appeal pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, that person is not
precluded from pursuing any other remedy provided by law.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07)
§ 156.13  SEVERABILITY.
   In the event any section, clause, provision or portion of this chapter is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07)
§ 156.98  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Soil erosion sediment and stormwater flow control measures or
facilities may be constructed or maintained by the enforcement agency or a
hired consultant or contractor, at the property owner’s expense, if the
necessary provisions for correction of a violation are not successfully
implemented within ten calendar days after the notice of violation is mailed.
   (B)   The enforcement agency shall not expend more than $500 for the cost of
work, materials or labor without prior notice to the property owner. If more
than $500 is to be expended under this section, the work shall not begin until
20 days after the notice of violation has been mailed.
   (C)   All expenses incurred by the enforcement agency to construct and
maintain measures and facilities to bring a site into compliance with this
chapter shall be reimbursed by the property owner. These expenses incurred by
the city shall be a lien on the premises which shall be enforceable in
accordance with Act No. 94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as amended from time to
time. The city shall have a lien on the property for the expenses incurred. The
lien shall have priority over all liens and encumbrances filed or recorded
after the date of such expenditure. Any such charges which are delinquent for
six months or more may be certified annually to the City Treasurer who shall
enter the lien on the next tax roll against the premises and the costs shall be
collected and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided for in
the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll and the enforcement of a lien
for taxes. In addition to any other lawful enforcement methods, the city shall
have all remedies authorized by Act No. 94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as
amended, and any other remedies available under applicable law.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07) 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who owns land subject to this chapter must implement and
maintain stormwater flow control measures in conformance with this chapter
within ten days after a notice of violation has been given.
   (B)   Each violation, and every day upon which each violation occurs or
continues to occur, constitutes a separate offense under this chapter.
   (C)   A person who fails to comply with this chapter and who, after notice,
refuses to implement and maintain stormwater flow control measures and
facilities in conformance with this chapter shall be subject to a civil
infraction fine as established by City Council plus the cost of enforcement.
   (D)   Penalties for initiating earth change activities without a permit.
      (1)   Any earth change done without a required permit or in violation of
a permit or permit condition is a violation of this chapter, and is subject to
the penalties in this chapter.
      (2)   The enforcement agency will determine in writing by certified mail
whether any earth change done without a required permit or in violation of a
permit or permit condition requires site restoration and the applicable
provision hereunder.
(Ord. eff. 9-6-07)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Date Passed Description
Eff. 1-1-73 Tahquemenon Cable Vision franchise ordinance
9-14-93     Cable TV rates regulation ordinance
            
 
TABLE II: PAYMENT IN LIEU OF TAXES
 
Date Passed Description
            Payment for public services in lieu of taxes for proposed multiple-
8-24-99     family dwelling project for persons low income, known as Lighthouse
            Village
            Payment for public services in lieu of taxes for proposed multiple-
3-14-2000   family dwelling project for persons of low income, known as
            Lighthouse Village
            
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to 1973 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
References to M.C.L.A. Code section
References to M.C.L.A. Code section
15.231 - 15.246        118.04
15.246                 118.17
28.601 - 28.616        31.03,
                       31.07
29.1 - 29.34           93.01,
                       154.108
117.3(K)               70.01
123.162                51.67
123.162 - 123.167      51.67
123.165                51.67
125.1035 - 125.1043    154.107
125.1501 et seq.       97.04
125.1502a              52.29
125.1504               54.061
125.1651 et seq.       32.35
                       32.31,
125.1651 - 125.1680    32.39,
                       32.40
125.1655               32.37
125.1657               32.36
125.1667               32.40
125.2305               54.061
125.31 - 125.45        32.15,
                       32.18
125.3107 et seq.       154.158
125.3503               154.030
125.3504               151.150
125.410 - 125.543      154.152
125.584                154.156
125.651 et seq.        32.55,
                       32.57
131.1 - 139.3          32.39
141.101 - 141.139      32.39
211.2 - 211.157        114.01
231.321 - 231.332      32.39
257.1 - 257.923        70.02,
                       94.02
257.803(a)             94.02
324.82103 - 324.82105  71.02
440.5106               156.09
445.481 - 445.492      113.01
445.483(2)             113.02
484.2102               118.03
484.2251               118.04
559.103 - 559.106      154.002
                       153.02,
560.101 - 560.293      153.04,
                       153.30,
                       154.086
600.101 et seq.        34.02
600.8395               70.01
600.8396               34.02,
                       34.03
600.8705               34.06,
                       34.09
600.8709               34.06
722.4                  115.01
764.9c                 94.02
 
REFERENCES TO 1973 CODE
1973 Code section New code section
1973 Code section  New code section
12.102, § 1.2     10.18
12.104, § 1.4     10.02
12.105, § 1.5     10.01
12.106, § 1.6     10.05
12.107, § 1.7     10.20
12.109, § 1.9     10.10
12.110, § 1.10    10.07
12.112, § 1.12    10.99
12.113, § 1.13    10.08
12.151, § 1.51    30.20
12.152, § 1.52    30.01
12.153, § 1.53    30.02
12.154, § 1.54    30.01
12.155, § 1.55    30.03
12.156, § 1.56    30.04
12.157, § 1.57    30.05
12.158, § 1.58    30.06
12.159, § 1.59    30.07
12.161, § 1.61    30.21
12.162, § 1.62    30.21
12.163, § 1.63    30.21
12.164, § 1.64    30.21
12.171, § 1.71    31.07
12.172, § 1.72    31.08
12.175, § 1.75    31.09
12.181, § 1.81    96.50
12.182, § 1.82    96.51
12.183, § 1.83    96.51
12.184, § 1.84    9
                   6.52
12.185, § 1.85    96.54
12.186, § 1.86    96.53
12.187, § 1.87    96.55
12.188, § 1.88    96.55
12.189, § 1.89    96.56
12.190, § 1.90    31.01
12.191, § 1.91    31.02
12.192, § 1.92    31.03
12.193, § 1.93    31.03
12.194, § 1.94    31.04
12.195, § 1.95    31.05
12.196, § 1.96    31.06
12.201, § 1.101   33.01
12.202, § 1.102   33.02
12.203, § 1.103   33.02
12.204, § 1.104   33.02
12.205, § 1.105   33.03
12.206, § 1.106   33.04
12.207, § 1.107   33.05
12.208, § 1.108   33.06
12.209, § 1.109   33.06
12.210, § 1.110   33.07
12.211, § 1.111   33.08
12.212, § 1.112   33.08
12.213, § 1.113   33.08
12.214, § 1.114   33.09
12.215, § 1.115   33.09
12.216, § 1.116   33.10
12.217, § 1.117   33.11
12.218, § 1.118   33.12
12.219, § 1.119   33.13
12.220, § 1.120   33.13
12.221, § 1.121   33.14
12.222, § 1.222   33.15
12.223, § 1.123   33.16
12.224, § 1.124   33.17
12.225, § 1.125   33.18
12.241, § 1.141   32.01
12.242, § 1.142   32.02
12.243, § 1.143   32.03
12.244, § 1.144   32.04
12.251, § 1.151   32.55
12.252, § 1.152   32.56
12.253, § 1.153   32.57
12.281, § 1.181   30.35
12.282, § 1.182   30.35
12.283, § 1.183   30.35
12.284, § 1.184   30.22
12.285, § 1.185   30.35
12.286, § 1.186   30.22
12.287, § 1.187   30.35
12.302, § 1.102   32.70
12.303, § 1.103   32.71
12.304, § 1.204   32.72
12.305, § 1.205   32.73
13.001, § 1       32.30
13.002, § 2       32.31
13.003, § 3       32.32
13.004, § 4       32.33
13.005, § 5       32.34
13.006, § 6       32.35
13.007, § 7       32.36
13.008, § 8       32.37
13.009, § 9       32.38
13.010, § 10      32.34
13.101, § 1       32.39
13.102, § 2       32.39
13.103, § 3.30    32.39
13.103, § 3.20    32.39
13.104, § 4.20    32.39
13.104, § 4.10    32.39
13.105, § 5       32.39
13.106, § 6       32.39
13.107, § 7       32.39
13.108, § 8       32.39
13.109, § 9       32.39
13.110, § 10      32.39
14.001, § 5.201   32.15
14.002, § 5.202   32.16
14.003, § 5.203   32.16
14.004, § 5.204   32.17
14.005, § 5.205   32.19
14.006, § 5.206   32.18
14.007, § 5.207   32.19
14.008, § 5.208   32.18
15.011, § 5.1     154.001,
                   154.002
15.012, § 5.2     154.002
15.013, § 5.3     154.002
15.014, § 5.4     154.002
15.015, § 5.5     154.002
15.016, § 5.6     154.002
15.017, § 5.7     154.002
15.018, § 5.8     154.002
15.031, § 5.11    154.015
15.031, § 5.11A   154.015
15.032, § 5.12    154.016
15.033, § 5.13    154.017
15.034, § 5.14    154.017
15.035, § 5.15    154.018
15.040, § 5.16    154.030
15.042, § 5.18    154.032
15.051, § 5.19    154.060
15.052, § 5.20    154.060
15.053, § 5.21    154.060
15.054, § 5.22    154.060
15.055, § 5.23    54.061
15.056, § 5.24    54.061
15.057, § 5.25    54.061
15.058, § 5.26    54.061
15.060, § 5.27    154.062
15.061, § 5.28    154.062
15.062, § 5.29    154.062
15.071, § 5.26    154.063
15.072, § 5.27    154.063
15.073, § 5.28    154.063
15.091, § 5.31    154.064
15.092, § 5.32    154.064
15.093, § 5.33    154.064
15.094, § 5.34    154.064
15.111, § 5.38    154.065
15.112, § 5.39    154.065
15.113, § 5.40    154.065
15.114, § 5.41    154.065
15.115, § 5.42    154.065
15.131, § 5.46    154.066
15.132, § 5.47    154.066
15.134, § 5.49    154.066
15.135, § 5.50    154.066
15.151, § 5.54    154.067
15.152, § 5.55    154.067
15.153, § 5.56    154.067
15.154, § 5.57    154.067
15.171, § 5.58(1) 154.068
15.172, § 5.58(2) 154.068
15.173, §§ 5.58(3154.068
15.174, § 5.58(4) 154.068
15.191, § 5.61    154.069
15.192, § 5.62    154.069
15.193, § 5.63    154.069
15.194, § 5.64    154.069
15.195, § 5.65    154.069
15.211, § 5.69    154.070
15.212, § 5.70    154.070
15.213, § 5.71    154.070
15.214, § 5.72    154.070
15.215, § 5.73    154.070
15.231, § 5.76    154.071
15.232, § 5.77    154.071
15.233, § 5.78    154.071
15.234, § 5.79    154.071
15.235, § 5.80    154.071
15.251, § 5.84    154.072
15.252, § 5.85    154.072
15.253, § 5.86    154.072
15.271, § 5.91    154.073
15.272, § 5.92    154.073
15.273, § 5.93    154.073
15.274, § 5.94    154.073
15.275, § 5.95    154.073
15.276, § 5.96    154.073
15.277, § 5.97    154.073
15.278, § 5.98    154.073
15.279, § 5.99    154.073
15.291, § 5.103   154.085
15.292, § 5.104   154.085
15.293, § 5.105   154.086
15.311, § 5.108   154.003
15.312, § 5.109   154.004
15.313, § 5.110   154.100
15.314, § 5.111   154.101
15.315, § 5.112   154.102
15.316, § 5.113   154.103
15.317, § 5.114   154.104
15.318, § 5.115   154.105
15.319, § 5.116   154.106
15.320, § 5.117   154.107
15.321, § 5.118   154.108
15.322, § 5.119   154.109
15.324, § 5.121   154.110
15.325, § 5.122   154.111
15.326, § 5.123   154.112
15.327, § 5.124   154.113
15.328, § 5.125   154.114
15.351, § 5.128   154.125
15.352, § 5.129   154.126
15.353, § 5.130   154.127
15.354, § 5.131   154.128
15.355, § 5.132   154.129
15.356, § 5.133   154.130
15.357, § 5.134   154.131
15.358, § 5.135   154.132
15.359, § 5.136   154.133
15.360, § 5.137   154.134
15.361, § 5.138   154.135
15.362, § 5.139   154.136
15.363, § 5.140   154.137
15.364, § 5.141   154.138
15.381, § 5.145   154.150
15.382, § 5.146   154.150
15.383, § 5.147   154.151
15.384, § 5.148   154.152
15.385, § 5.149   154.153
15.386, § 5.150   154.154
15.387, § 5.151   154.155
15.388, § 5.152   154.005
15.389, § 5.153   154.156
15.390, § 5.154   154.157
15.391, § 5.155   154.159
15.392, § 5.156   154.159
15.393, § 5.157   154.999
15.411, § 5.161   154.158
15.412, § 5.162   154.158
15.418, § 5.168   154.159
17.011, § 5.231   153.01
17.012, § 5.232   153.02
17.013, § 5.233   153.03
17.014, § 5.234   153.04
17.015, § 5.235   153.85
17.016, § 5.236   153.86
17.021, § 5.241   153.15
17.022, § 5.242   153.15
17.023, § 5.243   153.15
17.024, § 5.244   153.16
17.025, § 5.245   153.17
17.026, § 5.246   153.18
17.027, § 5.247   153.19
17.031, § 5.248   153.30
17.032, § 5.249   153.31
17.033, § 5.250   153.32
17.034, § 5.251   153.33
17.035, § 5.252   153.34
17.036, § 5.253   153.35
17.037, § 5.254   153.36
17.041, § 5.261   153.50
17.042, § 5.262   153.60
17.043, § 5.263   153.50
17.044, § 5.264   153.51
17.045, § 5.265   153.52
17.046, § 5.266   153.53
17.047, § 5.267   153.54
17.048, § 5.268   153.54
17.049, § 5.269   153.56
17.050, § 5.270   153.57
17.051, § 5.271   153.58
17.052, § 5.272   153.59
17.061, § 5.275   153.70
17.062, § 5.276   153.71
17.063, § 5.277   153.72
18.200, § 6.200   92.01
18.201, § 6.201   92.02
18.202, § 6.202   92.03
18.203, § 6.203   92.04
18.204, § 6.204   92.05
18.205, § 6.205   92.06
18.206, § 6.206   92.99
20.113, § 9.113   130.16
20.114, § 9.114   130.17
20.115, § 9.115   130.17
20.116, § 9.116   130.17
20.117, § 9.117   130.99
20.141, § 10.11   72.01
20.142, § 10.12   72.02
20.143, § 10.13   72.07
20.144, § 10.14   72.03
20.145, § 10.15   72.04
20.146, § 10.16   72.08
20.147, § 10.17   72.05
20.148, § 10.18   72.06
20.202, § 2       72.21
20.204, § 4       72.22
20.205, § 5       72.23
25.071, § 2.121   51.60
25.072, § 2.122   51.62
25.073, § 2.123   51.63
25.074, § 2.124   51.60
25.075, § 2.125   51.68
25.076, § 2.126   51.68
25.077, § 2.127   51.64
25.078, § 2.128   51.61
25.079, § 2.131   51.66
25.080, § 2.132   51.67
25.081, § 2.133   51.65
30.051, § 4.41    98.45
30.052, § 4.42    98.46
30.053, § 4.43    98.47
30.054, § 4.44    98.48
30.101, § 4.91    99.01
30.102, § 4.92    99.02
30.103, § 4.93    99.03
30.104, § 4.94    99.04
30.105, § 4.95    99.05
30.106, § 4.96    99.06
30.107, § 4.97    99.07
30.108, § 4.98    99.08
30.109, § 4.99    99.09
35.001, § 2.1     50.01
35.002, § 2.2     50.03
35.003, § 2.3     50.04
35.004, § 2.4     50.20
35.005, § 2.5     50.05
35.006, § 2.6     50.06
35.007, § 2.7     50.07
35.008, § 2.8     50.02
35.009, § 2.9     50.22
35.010, § 2.10    50.23
35.011, § 2.11    50.21
35.012, § 2.12    50.24
35.013, § 2.13    50.02
35.014, § 2.14    50.08
35.021, § 6.1     151.01
35.022, § 6.2     151.02
35.023, § 6.3     151.03
35.024, § 6.4     151.04
35.025, § 6.5     151.05
35.026, § 6.6     151.06
35.027, § 6.7     151.07
35.028, § 6.8     151.08
35.031, § 2.21    50.35
35.032, § 2.22    50.36
35.033, § 2.23    50.37
35.034, § 2.24    50.38
35.035, § 2.25    50.39
35.036, § 2.26    50.40
35.111, § 3.1     96.02
35.112, § 3.2     96.01
35.113, § 3.3     96.03
35.114, § 3.4     96.04
35.115, § 3.5     96.05
35.141, § 3.41    96.35
35.142, § 3.42    96.36
35.143, § 3.43    96.36
35.144, § 3.44    96.36
35.145, § 3.45    96.36
35.146, § 3.46    96.37
35.147, § 3.47    96.99
35.161, § 7.141   96.15
35.162, § 7.142   96.15
35.163, § 7.143   96.15
35.164, § 7.144   96.16
35.165, § 7.145   96.17
35.166, § 7.146   96.18
35.167, § 7.147   96.19
35.168, § 7.148   96.20
35.169, § 7.149   96.21
35.170, § 7.150   96.22
35.181, § 9.51    90.02
35.182, § 9.52    90.01
35.183, § 9.53    90.03
35.184, § 9.54    90.04
35.185, § 9.55    90.05
35.186, § 9.56    90.06
35.187, § 9.57    90.07
35.188, § 9.58    90.08
35.191, § 9.61    90.20
35.192, § 9.62    90.21
35.193, § 9.63    90.21
35.194, § 9.64    90.22
35.195, § 9.65    90.23
35.196, § 9.66    90.24
35.197, § 9.67    90.25
35.198, § 9.68    90.26
35.199, § 9.69    90.27
40.005, § 9.135   93.02
40.006, § 9.136   93.03
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ordinance Effective or Passage date Code section
Ordinance Effective or Passage date Code section
                                    154.001,
                                    154.002,
                                    154.003,
                                    154.004,
                                    154.005,
                                    154.015,
                                    154.016,
                                    154.017,
                                    154.030,
                                    154.032,
                                    154.060,
                                    154.061,
                                    154.062,
                                    154.063,
                                    154.064,
                                    154.065,
                                    154.066,
                                    154.067,
                                    154.068,
                                    154.069,
                                    154.070,
                                    154.071,
                                    154.072,
                                    154.073,
                                    154.085,
                                    154.086,
                                    154.100,
                                    154.101,
                                    154.102,
                                    154.103,
                                    154.104,
                                    154.105,
Eff. 8-1-67                         154.106,
                                    154.107,
                                    154.108,
                                    154.109,
                                    154.110,
                                    154.111,
                                    154.112,
                                    154.113,
                                    154.114,
                                    154.125,
                                    154.126,
                                    154.127,
                                    154.128,
                                    154.129,
                                    154.130,
                                    154.131,
                                    154.132,
                                    154.133,
                                    154.134,
                                    154.135,
                                    154.136,
                                    154.137,
                                    154.138,
                                    154.150,
                                    154.151,
                                    154.152,
                                    154.153,
                                    154.154,
                                    154.155,
                                    154.156,
                                    154.157,
                                    154.159,
                                    154.999
                                    154.001,
                                    154.002,
                                    154.003,
                                    154.004,
                                    154.005,
                                    154.015,
                                    154.016,
                                    154.017,
                                    154.060,
                                    154.061,
                                    154.062,
                                    154.063,
                                    154.064,
                                    154.065,
                                    154.066,
                                    154.067,
                                    154.068,
                                    154.069,
                                    154.070,
                                    154.071,
                                    154.072,
                                    154.073,
                                    154.085,
                                    154.086,
                                    154.100,
                                    154.101,
                                    154.102,
                                    154.103,
                                    154.104,
                                    154.105,
                                    154.106,
Passed 1973                         154.107,
                                    154.108,
                                    154.109,
                                    154.110,
                                    154.111,
                                    154.112,
                                    154.113,
                                    154.114,
                                    154.125,
                                    154.126,
                                    154.127,
                                    154.128,
                                    154.129,
                                    154.130,
                                    154.131,
                                    154.132,
                                    154.133,
                                    154.134,
                                    154.135,
                                    154.136,
                                    154.137,
                                    154.138,
                                    154.150,
                                    154.151,
                                    154.152,
                                    154.153,
                                    154.154,
                                    154.155,
                                    154.156,
                                    154.157,
                                    154.159,
                                    154.999
                                    130.16,
Eff. 1-1-73                         130.17,
                                    130.99, T.S.O. I
Passed 1-1-73                       50.04
Passed 4-16-73                      30.21
                                    154.002,
Eff. 11-19-75                       154.015,
                                    154.061
                                    32.70,
Eff. 3-14-77                        32.71,
                                    32.72,
                                    32.73
Eeff. 7-13-81                       72.03,
                                    72.07
                                    154.002,
Eff. 5-3-82                         154.015,
                                    154.062,
                                    154.085
Eff. 6-15-82                        154.030,
                                    154.032
                                    51.60,
                                    51.61,
                                    51.62,
                                    51.63,
Eff. 12-13-82                       51.64,
                                    51.65,
                                    51.66,
                                    51.67,
                                    51.68
                                    154.015,
Eff. 1-31-83                        154.061,
                                    154.085
                                    51.65,
                                    51.67,
                                    151.01,
                                    151.02,
Eff. 2-14-83                        151.03,
                                    151.04,
                                    151.05,
                                    151.06,
                                    151.07,
                                    151.08
Eff. 10-31-83                       96.01
                                    92.01,
                                    92.02,
                                    92.03,
Eff. 9-17-84                        92.04,
                                    92.05,
                                    92.06,
                                    92.99
                                    31.01,
                                    31.02,
Passed 10-1-84                      31.03,
                                    31.04,
                                    31.05,
                                    31.06
Eff. 4-1-85                         154.015
                                    32.30,
                                    32.31,
                                    32.32,
                                    32.33,
Eff. 6-17-85                        32.34,
                                    32.35,
                                    32.36,
                                    32.37,
                                    32.38
Eff. 9-16-85                        32.39
Passed 3-4-86                       32.34
Passed 3-4-86                       32.40
                                    152.01,
                                    152.02,
                                    152.03,
                                    152.04,
                                    152.15,
                                    152.16,
                                    152.17,
                                    152.18,
                                    152.19,
                                    152.20,
                                    152.21,
Passed 6-14-88                      152.22,
                                    152.23,
                                    152.24,
                                    152.25,
                                    152.26,
                                    152.27,
                                    152.28,
                                    152.29,
                                    152.30,
                                    152.40,
                                    152.41,
                                    152.99
Passed 9-14-93                      T.S.O. I
                                    51.01,
                                    51.02,
                                    51.03,
                                    51.15,
                                    51.16,
                                    51.17,
                                    51.18,
                                    51.19,
                                    51.20,
                                    51.21,
                                    51.22,
                                    51.23,
                                    51.24,
                                    51.35,
                                    51.36,
                                    51.37,
Passed 2-8-94                       51.38,
                                    51.39,
                                    51.40,
                                    51.41,
                                    51.42,
                                    51.43,
                                    51.44,
                                    51.45,
                                    51.46,
                                    51.47,
                                    51.48,
                                    51.49,
                                    51.80,
                                    51.81,
                                    51.82,
                                    51.83,
                                    51.99
                                    93.15,
                                    93.16,
                                    93.17,
                                    93.18,
Passed 5-10-94                      93.19,
                                    93.20,
                                    93.21,
                                    93.22,
                                    93.99
                                    98.60,
                                    98.61,
                                    98.62,
Passed 7-9-96                       98.63,
                                    98.64,
                                    98.65,
                                    98.99
                                    71.01,
                                    71.02,
                                    71.03,
                                    71.04,
                                    71.05,
Passed 12-23-97                     71.06,
                                    71.07,
                                    71.08,
                                    71.09,
                                    71.10,
                                    71.99
                                    73.01,
                                    73.02,
                                    73.03,
                                    73.04,
                                    73.05,
                                    73.06,
                                    73.07,
                                    73.08,
                                    73.09,
                                    73.10,
                                    73.11,
                                    73.12,
                                    73.99,
                                    110.01,
                                    110.02,
                                    110.03,
                                    110.04,
                                    110.05,
                                    110.06,
                                    110.20,
                                    110.21,
                                    110.22,
                                    110.23,
                                    110.24,
                                    110.25,
                                    110.26,
                                    110.27,
                                    110.28,
                                    110.29,
                                    110.30,
                                    110.31,
                                    110.99,
                                    111.01,
                                    111.02,
                                    111.03,
Passed 7-28-98                      111.15,
                                    112.01,
                                    112.02,
                                    112.03,
                                    112.04,
                                    112.05,
                                    112.06,
                                    112.20,
                                    112.21,
                                    113.01,
                                    113.02,
                                    113.03,
                                    114.01,
                                    114.02,
                                    114.03,
                                    114.04,
                                    115.01,
                                    115.02,
                                    116.01,
                                    116.02,
                                    116.03,
                                    116.04,
                                    116.05,
                                    116.06,
                                    116.07,
                                    116.08,
                                    116.09,
                                    116.10,
                                    116.11,
                                    116.12,
                                    116.13,
                                    116.14,
                                    116.15,
                                    117.01,
                                    117.02,
                                    117.03
                                    130.01,
Passed 9-29-98                      130.02,
                                    130.03,
                                    130.99
                                    97.01,
                                    97.02,
                                    97.03,
                                    97.04,
                                    97.05,
                                    97.06,
                                    97.20,
                                    97.21,
                                    97.22,
Passed 10-13-98                     97.23,
                                    97.24,
                                    97.25,
                                    97.26,
                                    97.27,
                                    97.28,
                                    97.40,
                                    97.41,
                                    97.42,
                                    97.99
                                    95.01,
                                    95.02,
                                    95.03,
                                    95.04,
                                    95.05,
Passed 10-27-98                     95.06,
                                    95.07,
                                    95.08,
                                    95.09,
                                    95.10,
                                    95.11,
                                    95.99
Passed 12-7-98                      150.01,
                                    150.99
                                    34.01,
                                    34.02,
                                    34.03,
                                    34.04,
Passed 4-27-99                      34.05,
                                    34.06,
                                    34.07,
                                    34.08,
                                    34.09,
                                    34.10
                                    10.01,
                                    10.02,
                                    10.05,
                                    10.07,
                                    10.08,
                                    10.10,
                                    10.18,
Passed 5-11-99                      10.20,
                                    10.99,
                                    33.05,
                                    33.07,
                                    154.045,
                                    154.046,
                                    154.047,
                                    154.048,
                                    154.049
Passed 5-25-99                      30.36
                                    52.01,
                                    52.02,
                                    52.03,
                                    52.04,
                                    52.05,
                                    52.06,
                                    52.07,
                                    52.08,
                                    52.09,
                                    52.10,
                                    52.11,
Passed 6-22-99                      52.12,
                                    52.13,
                                    52.25,
                                    52.26,
                                    52.27,
                                    52.28,
                                    52.29,
                                    52.30,
                                    52.40,
                                    52.41,
                                    52.42,
                                    52.99
                                    91.01,
                                    91.02,
                                    91.03,
                                    91.04,
                                    91.05,
                                    91.06,
                                    91.07,
Passed 7-13-99                      91.08,
                                    91.09,
                                    91.10,
                                    91.11,
                                    91.99,
                                    152.02,
                                    152.26,
                                    154.069,
                                    154.070
                                    98.01,
                                    98.02,
                                    98.03,
                                    98.04,
                                    98.05,
                                    98.06,
                                    98.07,
                                    98.08,
                                    98.09,
                                    98.10,
                                    98.11,
                                    98.25,
                                    98.26,
                                    98.27,
                                    98.28,
Passed 8-24-99                      98.29,
                                    98.30,
                                    98.31,
                                    98.32,
                                    98.45,
                                    98.46,
                                    98.47,
                                    98.48,
                                    99.01,
                                    99.02,
                                    99.03,
                                    99.04,
                                    99.05,
                                    99.06,
                                    99.07,
                                    99.08,
                                    99.09
Passed 8-24-99 (PILOT ord.)         T.S.O. II
Passed 1-11-00                      30.03,
                                    51.15
                                    94.01,
Passed 3-14-00                      94.02,
                                    94.99
Passed 3-14-00 (PILOT ord.)         T.S.O. II
                                    31.20,
                                    31.21,
                                    31.22,
                                    31.23,
Passed 9-12-00                      31.24,
                                    31.25,
                                    31.26,
                                    31.27,
                                    72.20,
                                    72.21
Passed 11-28-00                     71.03
Passed 7-10-01                      91.07,
                                    91.08
Passed 8-28-01                      Adopting Ordinance
Passed 3-12-02                      30.36
                                    155.01 -
Passed 3-12-02                      155.10,
                                    155.99
Passed 6-25-02                      51.15
                                    74.01 -
Passed 7-9-02                       74.03,
                                    74.99
Passed 11-12-02                     32.35
Passed 12-26-02                     118.01 -
                                    118.20
Eff. 10-2-03                        32.100 -
                                    32.104
Eff. 2-9-04                         30.36
Eff. 6-5-04                         152.02,
                                    152.26
Eff. 6-21-04                        95.02
Passed 4-12-05                      154.066
                                    119.01 -
Passed 4-12-05                      119.08,
                                    119.99
Passed 8-29-05                      154.159
                                    114.01 -
Eff. 10-31-05                       114.10,
                                    114.99
                                    154.045 -
Passed 12-13-05                     154.047,
                                    154.060
Passed 1-10-06                      154.150
                                    53.01 -
                                    53.05,
                                    53.10 -
Passed 3-28-06                      53.15,
                                    53.20 -
                                    53.28,
                                    53.40,
                                    53.99
Passed 4-11-06                      130.02,
                                    130.99
Eff. 4-30-06                        51.67
Eff. 4-30-06                        154.034 -
                                    154.042
                                    95.01 -
Eff. 7-17-06                        95.11,
                                    95.99
Passed 8-8-06                       52.03
Eff. 12-17-06                       70.01
Eff. 12-17-06                       70.02
Eff. 12-17-06                       150.02
Eff. 1-28-07                        51.62,
                                    51.63
                                    154.002,
                                    154.150,
Eff. 4-19-07                        154.151,
                                    154.158,
                                    154.159
Eff. 4-19-07                        154.030
Eff. 4-19-07                        15.046
Eff. 7-2-07                         152.15
Eff. 7-30-07                        150.02
                                    156.01 -
Eff. 9-6-07                         156.13,
                                    156.98,
                                    156.99
Eff. 1-28-08                        32.35,
                                    32.39
Eff. 2-11-08                        32.40
Eff. 4-4-08                         32.16
                                    154.002,
                                    154.030,
                                    154.060,
                                    154.064-
Eff. 6-6-08                         154.069,
                                    154.071,
                                    154.072,
                                    154.107,
                                    154.150, 154,158,
                                    154.159
Eff. 7-3-08                         153.030
                                    156.03,
Eff. 12-15-08                       156.04,
                                    156.07
Eff. 3-5-09                         154.070
                                    
