CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF
CLAYTON, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-3 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 2019-484, passed 12-12-2019
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets; limited authority
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the Charter Township of
Clayton Code.
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES.  The Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of
Clayton, Michigan.
      CODE.  The Charter Township of Clayton Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Genesee, Michigan.
      JUVENILE.  Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR.  A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  An act or omission that is prohibited by
this code or any ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under this
code or any other ordinance of the township, and for which civil sanctions,
including without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§
600.8801  through 600.8835.  A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser
included offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE.  Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Charter
Township of Clayton, Michigan.”  Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any
officer of the township is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or
duty, reference to that officer shall mean and include the officer or his or
her deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES.  The ordinances of the Charter Township of Clayton and all
amendments thereto.
      PERSON.  Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association,
or corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE.  The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP.  The Charter Township of Clayton, Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP BOARD or BOARD.  The Board of Trustees of Charter Township of
Clayton, Michigan.
§ 10.03  SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. 
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or
division.
§ 10.04  CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code.  All such
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set out at length in this code.  The ordinances are on file
in the Township Clerk’s office.
   (B)   (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the township,
or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the township or any evidence of the
township’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the
township;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Township Board;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like, any street or public way in the
township;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the township;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the township;
      (10)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the township;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any
township officers or employees;
      (12)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones;
specific speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield
intersections or other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
      (13)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
      (14)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
§ 10.05  CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06  PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07  ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.  The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not
impair or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Charter Township of
Clayton Code is hereby amended to read as follows: . . .” The new provisions
shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Charter Township of Clayton
Code is hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said
section reads as follows: . . .”  The new section shall then be set out in full
as desired.
§ 10.09  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by township personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Township Board. 
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code.  The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code.  For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this article,” “this division,” and the like, as the case may
be, or to “sections _____  to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10  APPEARANCE TICKETS; LIMITED AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Designation of persons with authority.  The Building Inspector, or any
authorized designee of the Building  Inspector, serving the township, is
authorized to issue  and serve appearance tickets, with respect to offenses
resulting from violations of section of the township, of less than felony
grade, which are not matters ordinarily handled by an empowered police
department and/or agency, and which relate to matters which fall within the
scope of Building Department authority and activity.
   (B)   Limitation of authority.  The authority granted by this section may
not be exercised unless there is reasonable cause to believe that the person
upon whom the appearance ticket is served has committed an offense, within the
scope and area of activity assigned to the Building Department to address and
handle.
   (C)   This section shall be known as the Clayton Township General Appearance
Ticket Ordinance.
(Ord. 423, passed 10-12-2006)
§ 10.11  SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any
particular provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this code or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine
and imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in
the ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the
greater penalty shall control.  Each act of violation and every day upon which
any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.  The
penalty provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided,
shall apply to the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the
penalty is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to § 21 of the Charter Township Act of the State of
Michigan, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 et seq., specifically § 42.21, all fines
collected for violation of ordinances of the Charter Township of Clayton shall
be distributed as provided in Public Act 236 of 1961, § 8379, being M.C.L.A. §
600.8379.
      (2)   In any codifications of compilations hereinafter effected with
respect to the ordinances of the Charter Township, all penalty clauses shall be
adjusted and restated as above set forth.
(Ord. 322, passed 1-13-1991)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS; TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Statutory reference:
   For administrative provisions applicable under state law, see The Charter
Township Act, Act 359 of 1947, being M.C.L.A. §§ 42.1 through 42.34
CHAPTER 30:  GENERAL PROVISIONS; TOWNSHIP ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Housing Commission
   
30.01   Purpose
   
30.02   Membership
   
30.03   Funding
   
30.04   Powers and duties
   
30.05   Conflict of interest
   
30.06   Annual report
   
30.07   Additional duties
   
30.08   Effective date
Police Department
   
30.15   Scope, purpose and intent
   
30.16   Establishment
   
30.17   Chief; duties
   
30.18   Officers (part-time)
   
30.19   Disciplinary procedure
   
30.20   Compensation
   
30.21   Public contact
   
30.22   Emergency responses
   
30.23   Department equipment
   
30.24   Use of public safety building
   
30.25   Soliciting donations
Cross-reference:
   Emergency services cost recovery, See
Chapter 95
   Construction Board of Appeals, see
Chapter 150
   Zoning Board of Appeals, see
Chapter 152
HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 30.01  PURPOSE.
   There is hereby created a Commission pursuant to Act 18 of 1933 (Extra
Session), being M.C.L.A §§ 125.651 et seq., effective January 9, 1934, which
shall be known as the Township Housing Commission, which shall have the power
to purchase, acquire, construct, maintain, operate, improve, extend or repair
facilities and eliminate housing conditions which are detrimental to the public
peace, health, safety, morals or welfare of the residents of the unincorporated
area of the Charter Township of Clayton.
(Ord. 31, passed 10-23-1974)
§ 30.02  MEMBERSHIP.
   The Housing Commission shall consist of 5 members to be appointed by the
Supervisor.  The term of office of members of the Commission shall be 5 years. 
Members of the first Commission existing hereunder shall be appointed for the
terms of 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years, respectively, and
annually thereafter 1 member shall be appointed for the term of 5 years. 
Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation and may be removed
from office by the appointing authority.  Any vacancy in office shall be filled
by the appointing authority for the remainder of the unexpired term. 
(Ord. 31, passed 10-23-1974)
§ 30.03  FUNDING.
   Funds for the operation of the Housing Commission may be provided by the
Township Board as it may from time to time provide, but the Commission shall as
soon as possible reimburse the township for all monies expended by it from
revenues from the sale of bonds.
(Ord. 31, passed 10-23-1974)
§ 30.04  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Housing Commission shall have the following enumerated powers and
duties:
   (A)   To determine in what areas of the township it is necessary to provide
property sanitary housing facilities for families of low income and for the
elimination of housing conditions which are detrimental to the public peace,
health, safety, morals and/or welfare;
   (B)   To purchase, lease, sell, exchange, transfer, assign and mortgage any
property, real or personal, or any interest therein, or acquire the same by
gift, bequest or under the power of eminent domain; to own, hold, clear and
improve property; to engage in or contract for the design and construction,
reconstruction, alteration, improvement, extension and/or repair of any housing
project or projects or parts thereof; to lease and/or operate any housing
project or projects;
   (C)   To control and supervise all parks and playgrounds forming a part of
the housing development, but may contract with existing departments of the
township for operations or maintenance of either or both;
   (D)   To establish and revise rents of any housing project or projects, but
shall rent all property for such sums as will make them self-supporting,
including all charges for maintenance and operation, for principal and interest
on loans and bonds, and for taxes;
   (E)   To rent only to those tenants as are unable to pay for more expensive
housing accommodations;
   (F)   To call upon other departments for assistance in the performance of
its duties, but the departments shall be reimbursed for any added expense
incurred therefor; and
   (G)   It shall have such other powers relating to such housing facilities
project as may be prescribed by ordinance or resolution of the governing body
of the township or as may be necessary to carry out the purposes of this act.
(Ord. 31, passed 10-23-1974)
§ 30.05  CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   No member of the Housing Commission or any of its officers or employees
shall have any interest directly or indirectly in any contract for property,
materials or services to be acquired by the Commission.
(Ord. 31, passed 10-23-1974)
§ 30.06  ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Commission shall make an annual report of its activities to the Township
Board of the Charter Township of Clayton and shall make any other reports as
the Township Board shall from time to time require.
(Ord. 31, passed 10-23-1974)
§ 30.07  ADDITIONAL DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have such other powers and duties which shall be more
particularly set forth in Act 18 of 1933, being M.C.L.A §§ 125.651 et seq.
(Ord. 31, passed 10-23-1974)
§ 30.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective October 30, 1974.
(Ord. 31, passed 10-23-1974)
POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 30.15  SCOPE, PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted the Township
Board under Public Act  246  of  1945, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.181
through 41.187.  The purpose of this subchapter is to provide that the Township
Board shall hereby establish the Charter Township of Clayton Police Department;
to establish jurisdiction and authority of the Township Board over personnel
selection; to establish authority to adopt rules and regulations for the
conduct of personnel and maintenance of equipment; to employ and appoint a
Chief and officers, and to prescribe the powers and duties of employees.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.16  ESTABLISHMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby established the Charter Township of Clayton Police
Department.  The Township Board, acting by resolution, shall appoint such
persons who, based on experience, training and qualifications would, in its
discretion, best perform the duties associated with providing police protection
to the citizens of the township.
   (B)   The Township Board shall approve an annual appropriation for the
operation and maintenance of the Department and its equipment, and for that
purpose shall have the authority to use general funds and extra voted millage
for the operation and maintenance of the Department; it shall provide for
payment of any debts incurred incidental to its continued operation; it shall
purchase necessary equipment, and/or construct public buildings for uses
incidental to the maintenance and operation of a Police Department. The
Township Board shall establish rules and regulations for the operations of the
Department and the care of the equipment.
(Res. 01-1108-01, passed 11-8-2002; Am. Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.17  CHIEF; DUTIES.
   (A)   The Township Board shall appoint a Chief, a full-time position, who
shall be the chief administrative officer of the Department.  The Chief shall
be accountable to the Township Board for the efficient and effective operation
of the Department, and for the Department’s compliance with all state laws,
township ordinances and policies.  The Chief shall serve at the pleasure of the
Board.
   (B)   The Chief shall recommend, subject to Board approval, the appointment
of a Sergeant  (a full- time position), part-time officers and any other part-
time employees as may be deemed necessary. 
   (C)   The Chief shall develop written administrative rules to increase the
efficiency and effectiveness of the Department, including pre-planning and
post-incident critiques, regulations, assignment and scheduling of personnel
and shall plan for the long-range needs of the Department.
   (D)   The Chief shall establish job descriptions for each position in the
Department.
   (E)   The Chief shall review all personnel and operating problems with and
shall report monthly to the Township Board.  A written report shall be filed
annually with the Township Board.
   (F)   As needed, the Chief shall notify the Township Supervisor and/or the
Township Police Liaison Officer of major problems or issues that require Board
action.  When such problems must be resolved immediately and it is impractical
or will endanger the health, safety or welfare of the township to wait until
the next Board meeting to resolve the issue, the Township Supervisor, together
with the Township Police Liaison Officer, shall be empowered to resolve the
issue or problem, subject to the subsequent approval of the Board.
   (G)   The Chief shall hold regular Department informational meetings.
   (H)   The Chief may incur expenditures against the Department budget as
appropriated by the Township Board.  The Chief will monitor the unencumbered
balances remaining in the Department budget and shall make timely
recommendations for budget amendments at the time that the need for the
amendments become known.  The Department’s expenditures shall not exceed the
amounts appropriated.  Capitol outlay purchases that exceed $15,000 shall
conform to township policy regarding written quotes and competitive bidding.
   (I)   The Chief shall also be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Supervise the enforcement of all state laws, local laws and
ordinances;
      (2)   Ensure that all personnel are trained and qualified for the duties
that they are expected to fulfill;
      (3)   Ensure that public safety programs are conducted;
      (4)   Ensure that all equipment and buildings are properly maintained and
in good working order; and
      (5)   Ensure that all Department personnel comply with departmental and
Board rules, regulations and policies.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.18  OFFICERS (PART-TIME).
   (A)   Applicants for police officer positions shall hold all qualifications
of a state-certified police officer, shall be of good character, and shall be
screened by a physician of the Township Board’s choice and at township
expense.  The physician’s examination shall determine if the applicant has any
pre- existing physical conditions that would preclude the applicant from
performing the duties associated with public safety.
   (B)   All police officers shall serve an initial probationary period for a
period of not less than 6 months.  At the discretion of the Chief, the
probationary period may be extended.  At the conclusion of the minimum
probationary period, the Chief may recommend that a probationary police officer
that has met all necessary qualifications be given permanent part-time status
by the Township Board.
   (C)   A probationary police officer shall be entitled to all compensation
afforded to permanent part- time officers.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.19  DISCIPLINARY PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Violations of Board rules, Department administrative regulations, or
convictions of a felony shall subject any personnel involved to disciplinary
proceedings.  A violation shall be documented by the Chief upon good cause
shown, or when a violation occurs in his or her presence.
   (B)   The Chief shall provide a copy of the written reprimand to an alleged
violator.  The written reprimand shall state the rule that was allegedly
violated, the nature of any disciplinary action taken, and the consequences of
any further recurrences.  Disciplinary action may range from a reprimand to a
suspension, demotion or dismissal, or a combination of any of the above,
depending on:
      (1)   Seriousness of the violation;
      (2)   Consequences to the safety of others by the violation;
      (3)   Potential harm to the Department or the township;
      (4)   Prior record of the individual; and
      (5)   The degree of wantonness, if any, of the act.
   (C)   In addition to such administrative rules that may be promulgated by
the Chief, theft of township property or other property shall be cause for
dismissal.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.20  COMPENSATION.
   Compensation to police officers shall be in such amounts as may be
determined from time to time by the Township Board.  The Department shall keep
accurate records that indicate the amount of compensable time served by all
personnel.  The time records shall be submitted bi-weekly to the Township Clerk
for payment, and all such time slips shall be signed by the Department
personnel designated on the time slip.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.21  PUBLIC CONTACT.
   (A)   The Police Chief, or his or her designee, may release facts regarding
police-related incidents to the news media.  All other personnel shall refer
all media inquires to the Chief or the designee.
   (B)   All Department personnel will always treat members of the public
courteously and professionally.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.22  EMERGENCY RESPONSES.
   When responding to emergencies, all personnel will drive vehicles with
appropriate concern for the safety of the public and defensive driving.  Use of
emergency signals on vehicles shall be considered a request for the right-of-
way from other drivers.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.23  DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   All gear, as issued, shall be used in the manner prescribed in the
administrative rules of the Charter Township Police Department.
   (B)   Lost or damaged equipment shall be reported as soon as possible to the
Chief.  Township property shall be disposed of only with the prior approval of
the Township Board.  All Department- issued equipment shall be returned to the
Chief by personnel leaving the Department.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.24  USE OF PUBLIC SAFETY BUILDING.
   Only township-owned vehicles and equipment may be kept at the Public Safety
Building.  Department equipment shall not be borrowed for private use.  Private
vehicles must be parked in designated areas only. 
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
§ 30.25  SOLICITING DONATIONS.
   All fund-raising activities shall have the prior approval of the Township
Board, and all revenues solicited in the name of the Police Department shall be
deposited with the Township Treasurer.  These funds will be disbursed by the
Township Board.
(Ord. 406, passed 12-12-2002)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER REGULATIONS
      
51.   SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50:  WATER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Use of system
   
50.03   Connection required for subdivisions
   
50.04   Sprinkler systems
   
50.05   Assignment of units
   
50.06   Effective date
Fees and Charges
   
50.15   Inspection and approval fee
   
50.16   Connection or availability fee
   
50.17   Water supply charges
   
50.18   Delinquency penalty
   
50.19   Right of termination; right to dispute; notice; nuisance; outstanding
invoice
   
50.20   Billing; delinquent payment; discontinued service
   
50.21   Lien of delinquent accounts; rental property responsibility
   
50.22   Fiscal year
   
50.23   Supervision and control
   
50.24   Enforcement
Emergency Water Ban
   
50.35   Declaration of emergency
   
50.36   General prohibition of water use during emergency
   
50.37   Limited restriction upon usage; exceptions
   
50.38   Prior notification
   
50.39   Effective date
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD.  The Township Board of the Charter Township of Clayton, the
legislative and governing body thereof.
   CHARGES OF WATER SUPPLY SERVICES or CHARGES.  The amount charged to each
premises in the township for water supply services.
   CONNECTION FEE or AVAILABILITY FEE.  The amount charged at the time and in
the amount hereinafter provided, to each premises in the township for
connecting directly or indirectly to the system.
   COUNTY.  The County of Genesee, in the State of Michigan.
   INSPECTION AND APPROVAL FEE.  The amount charged to each applicant by the
District at the time an application is made to the county to connect the
premises in the township to the system, to cover the cost of the water meter,
the cost of installing the line from the main to the curb box, the cost of
inspecting and approving the physical connection from the curb box to the meter
and the issuance of a connection permit.
   SPRINKLE SYSTEM.  A water supply service to property providing water only to
an outside network for irrigating lawns and gardens.
(Am. Ord. 402.1, passed 6-6-2006)
   SYSTEM.  The water supply systems as now or hereafter established and
constructed by the county, with the consent of the township, to service the
residents of the township.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Charter Township of Clayton, in the County of Genesee, in the
State of Michigan.
   UNIT.  Any premises or portion of premises to which there is available or
delivered that quantity of water ordinarily used in or needed for the occupancy
of a residential building by a single family.  Equivalent units shall be
determined in accordance with the Table of Unit Factors attached to Ord. 402 as
Exhibit A and incorporated by reference as a part of this chapter.
   WATER SUPPLY DISTRICT or DISTRICT.  The Genesee County Water Supply District
in Charter Township of Clayton.
   WATER SUPPLY SERVICES.  The transportation, metering, pumping and delivery
of potable water to the properties now hereafter connected directly or
indirectly to the water supply system.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM. The Genesee County Water Supply System in the Charter
Township of Clayton, established and constructed by the county under agreements
made with the township.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.02  USE OF SYSTEM.
   The described system shall be used for the transportation and delivery of
potable water only.  Connections to the system, directly or indirectly, and the
use of water therefrom for all purposes shall be only in compliance with this
chapter and with the standards and regulations of the county and the township
applicable thereto, all of which shall apply.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.03  CONNECTION REQUIRED FOR SUBDIVISIONS.
   Land subdivided into 4 or more lots or parcels and permits to improve
parcels of land, after the effective date hereof, shall not be approved or
issued on behalf of the township, and none of the parcels shall be improved by
the erection of a building thereon unless water mains and lines to serve all of
the lots or parcels and to connect same to the system are available as part of
the system, or shall be installed at private cost or by special assessment
(except in roadside plats, wherein for each lot there shall be deposited in
escrow with the township a sum of money equal to the connection fee and
inspection and approval fee to be paid to the Water Supply District at the time
water is there available), in compliance with the ordinances of the township
and the statutes of the State of Michigan regulating the approval of plats in
the Charter Township of Clayton, or regulating and requiring improvements on
land not covered or any amendments of such ordinances.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.04  SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   Sprinkler systems shall be activated on May 2 of each year and deactivated
on October 31 of each year, unless a written request is delivered to the
township for a different period of time, or unless the sprinkler system meter
is activated by consumption.
(Ord. 402.1, passed 6-6-2006)
§ 50.05  ASSIGNMENT OF UNITS.
   The number of units to be assigned to any particular premises used for any
purpose or purposes shall be determined on the basis of the Table of Unit
Factors, attached to Ord. 402 as Exhibit A and incorporated by reference as
part of this chapter.  If the circumstances justify, more than 1 unit may be
assigned to a single-family dwelling.  No less than 1 unit shall be assigned to
each premises, but units in excess of 1 may be computed and assigned to the
nearest whole unit.  If subsequent changes in intensity or type of  use or
premises should  increase or decrease, the unit classification, the number of
units assigned to the premises, may be increased or decreased.  No change in
subsequent use of any premises shall result in a decrease of unit assignment to
less than 1.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.06  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Effective date of this subchapter and §§
50.15 through
50.22 is April 28, 2002.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 50.15  INSPECTION AND APPROVAL FEE.
   (A)   Owners of premises within the district in which water is used and for
which direct connection to the system is available, as of the effective date
hereof, shall pay an inspection and approval fee in the amount as set by
resolution of the township Board of Trustees, at the time application is made
for a permit to connect the premises to the system.
   (B)   Any owner of premises within the district for which direct connection
to the system is available, but in which water is not now used, as of the
effective date hereof, who thereafter improves the same by erection of a
building thereon, shall pay an inspection and approval fee as set by resolution
of the Township Board.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.16  CONNECTION OR AVAILABILITY FEE.
   (A)   Owners of premises within the district in which water is used or who
hereafter improve the same by the erection of a building thereon shall pay, at
the time a connection permit or construction permit is issued, a connection or
availability fee computed in the basis of unit factors as follows:
      (1)   Where the premises are connected directly to a public water main
installed at the expense of the owner or by special assessment or at the
expense of a subdivider or developer, the connection charge for each user shall
be an amount set by resolution of the township Board of Trustees.
      (2)   In all other cases, the connection charge for connection to a
public water main shall be an amount set by resolution of the township Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   However, the owner of the premises in which water is used, as of the
date when public water is made available to the premises, may elect to pay the
connection fee on time payments by paying 25% of the total computed connection
fee when the connection permit is issued by the county and the balance shall be
paid in 10 equal annual payments together with interest at 6% per annum on the
declining balance from the date when the connection permit is issued.  The
first installments and accrued interest shall be due and payable on the next
December 1, which is more than 3 months after the date when the connection
permit is issued, the subsequent installments with accrued interest shall be
due and payable on December 1 annually thereafter, and all installments which
accrued interest shall be subject to the same interest and penalties as the
township taxes on the premises.  The balance of any connection charge from time
to time remaining unpaid may nevertheless be paid in cash at any time before
due, together with accrued interest to the date of payment.  The balance due on
a connection charge for a given premises shall be paid in full at the time the
premises changes ownership and shall be the responsibility of the record
titleholder.  The foregoing charges shall be in addition to any charges which
may be due and payable at that time for the actual cost of making connection to
the system and for transporting water from the facilities of the system to the
point of use on the premises.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.17  WATER SUPPLY CHARGES.
   (A)   Monthly rates.
      (1)   Charges for water supply services to each premises within the
township connected with the water supply system shall be an amount set by
resolution of the township Board of Trustees.
      (2)   The charges for service shall be determined monthly and the bills
shall be rendered monthly, the first such charges for each premises to be due
and payable within the calendar month following, by at least 1 month, the date
the premises are connected to the system and successive charge to be due and
payable on the due date set forth on the bill.  If the charges are not paid on
or before the due date, then a penalty of 10% shall be added thereto.
   (B)   Excess usage charges.
      (1)   For the difference in usage in excess of the allowance provided for
above 3,500 cubic feet in excess usage, the differential rate to be charged
shall be an amount set by resolution of the township Board of Trustees per 100
cubic feet, in addition to the charge required and established for the
allowance amount.
      (2)   For the difference in usage in excess of the allowance provided for
above between 3,500 cubic feet in excess usage and 35,000 cubic feet in excess
usage, the differential rate to be charged shall be an amount set by resolution
of the township Board of Trustees per 100 cubic feet, in addition to the charge
required and established for the allowance amount.
      (3)   For the difference in usage in excess of the allowance provided for
above which is 35,001 cubic feet or more in excess usage, the differential rate
to be charged shall be an amount set by resolution of the township Board of
Trustees per 100 cubic feet, in addition to the charge required and established
for the allowance amount.
   (C)   Quarterly billing.  Should charges be billed on a quarterly basis, the
charge shall be triple the monthly allowance amount and applicable charge.
   (D)   Uniform application of charges.  No free services shall be furnished
by the system to the township or to any person, firm or corporation, public or
private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.  The township shall pay
for all water used by it at the foregoing rates, except for fire hydrant
services; the charge shall be an amount set by resolution of the township Board
of Trustees per year for each fire hydrant, based upon public necessity and the
protection of the citizenry.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.18  DELINQUENCY PENALTY.
   For charges not paid on or before the due date, a penalty of 10% shall be
added and commencing 30 days after the due date the charges and penalty shall
draw interest at the rate of 6% per annum.  In the event that the charges for
any such services furnished to any premises shall not be paid within 60 days
thereof, then all services furnished by the water supply system shall be
discontinued.  Termination shall be done in accordance with §
50.19. Service so discontinued shall not be restored until all sums then due
and owing, including penalties and interest, shall be paid, plus a shut-off and
turn-on charge of an amount set by resolution of the township Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002; Am. Ord. 437, passed 9-9-2010)
§ 50.19  RIGHT OF TERMINATION; RIGHT TO DISPUTE; NOTICE; NUISANCE; OUTSTANDING
INVOICE.
   (A)   (1)   Termination notice. The Clayton Township Supervisor, or his/her
designee, shall have the right to discontinue water service anytime after a 14-
day written notice has been issued and mailed by regular first class mail to
the owner of premises for violations of this §§
50.18 through
50.21.
      (2)   The owner of premises shall have the right to dispute the accuracy
of the billing by personally appearing and filing a written appeal of the
services charges at the Clayton Township Hall, Office of the Supervisor, 2011
S. Morrish Road, Swartz Creek, Michigan 48473 within the grace period after the
due date, as more fully set forth in §
50.18.
      (3)   All such disputes shall be heard and determined by the Charter
Township of Clayton, Supervisor, or his/her designee, within 3 business days
from receipt of appeal.
   (B)   Service to public nuisance.  The Clayton Township Supervisor, or his/
her designee, shall have the right to terminate water service to any premises
declared a public nuisance or public hazard and in situations of noncompliance
with other township regulations or codes or ordinance violations.
   (C)   Moved with outstanding invoice. The Clayton Township Supervisor, or
his/her designee, shall have the right to refuse or discontinue water service
to any person if that person has failed to pay an outstanding water or sewer
invoice for a property located in the Charter Township of Clayton.
(Ord. 437, passed 9-9-2010)
§ 50.20  BILLING; DELINQUENT PAYMENT; DISCONTINUED SERVICE.
   (A)   The following billing cycles are hereby established:
      (1)   Charges for water services supplied to commercial and industrial
accounts shall be billed monthly; and
      (2)   Charges for residential accounts shall be billed quarterly.
   (B)   If charges are not paid on or before the due date a penalty of 10%
shall be added thereto, and commencing 30 days after due date the charges and
penalties shall draw interest at a rate of 6% per annum.
   (C)   The Charter Township of Clayton shall terminate water service in
accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Residential account services shall be discontinued if changes are
not paid within 60 days after due date;
      (2)   Commercial, industrial and rental properties where meters are read
monthly shall be discontinued if changes are not paid within 30 days after due
date;
      (3)   The township shall mail notice of water shut off to the occupant
not less than 14 days prior to scheduled shut off date. Failure of the township
to mail such notice shall not delay termination as set forth in divisions (C)
(1) and (2) of this section; and
      (4)   If the owner/occupant responsible for payment of the water bill has
filed a dispute pursuant to §
50.18(A)(2), then services shall not be discontinued until determination has
been made by the Township Supervisor or designee.
   (D)   Discontinued services shall not be restored until all sums owning,
including penalties, shall be paid in addition to a shut off processing fee of
$50 applicable at time of shut off notice and irrespective of whether or not
service was actually terminated and water turn-on fee of $50, which may be
amended from time to time by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 437, passed 9-9-2010)
§ 50.21  LIEN OF DELINQUENT ACCOUNTS; RENTAL PROPERTY RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Charges for services furnished by the system to any premises shall be
a lien thereon as of the due date and on August 1 of each year, the Township
Treasurer shall certify charges which have been delinquent 60 days or more,
plus penalties and interest accrued, to the Assessor, who shall enter the same
upon the next tax roll against the premises to which the services shall have
been rendered. The charges, with penalties and interest accrued thereon, shall
be collected and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided in
respect to taxes assessed upon the roll.
   (B)   Whenever the owner of property serviced by the township shall have the
premises rented or leased to another, the property owner may file an affidavit
of non-responsibility with the Clayton Township Treasurer, together with a
deposit which shall be held as a guarantee of payment of all charges, including
shut off and turn-on fees. Any portion of the deposit not used for payment of
delinquent charges shall be returned to the depositor upon discontinuance of
the service to the property or may be transferred by written request to
transfer received by the depositor.
      (1)   Deposits shall not bear interest, and in the event that a deposit
has been made which is unclaimed by the original depositor within 5 years
following discontinuance of service to the tenant(s) reflected on the affidavit
and the township has not received a written request to transfer the deposit to
a successor tenant, then the township may forfeit the deposit and transfer the
deposit to the water fund or sewer fund of the township.
      (2)   In the event of a change of occupancy at the premises where an
affidavit of non-responsibility has been filed, the township shall require the
successor occupant to place a new deposit with the township unless the original
depositor shall have transferred the deposit to the successor by written
transfer. The township shall not be obligated to return an original or
successor occupant’s deposit unless the person entitled thereto shall apply to
the Township Treasurer for the return thereof.
   (C)   The filing of an affidavit of non-responsibility and deposit shall
preclude the township from placing a lien upon the premises in accordance with
M.C.L.A. § 123.165 for usage charges, although property owners shall, however,
remain liable for all tap-in (connection) charges for the use of the township
water and sewer supply systems and these charges may be entered upon the tax
roll.
   (D)   An affidavit of non-responsibility shall be in the form as prescribed
by the Township Treasurer and shall, in addition to the signatures of the
owner, be executed by the person(s) in possession of the premises and using
services.
   (E)   There shall be 3 categories of affidavits of non-responsibility and
the property owner or occupant responsible for payment of the water bill may
elect to file any or none of the 3 options.
      (1)   Affidavit of non-responsibility for water service only shall be
accompanied by a deposit initially established at $300. The deposit amount may
be amended from time to time by way or resolution passed by the Charter
Township of Clayton Board of Trustees. There shall be no fee for filing of type
of affidavit.
      (2)   Affidavit of non-responsibility for sewer service only shall be
accompanied by a deposit initially established at $300. The deposit amount may
be amended from time to time by way or resolution passed by the Charter
Township of Clayton Board of Trustees. There shall be no fee for filing of type
of affidavit.
      (3)   Affidavit of non-responsibility for water and sewer services shall
be accompanied by a deposit initially established at $500. The deposit amount
may be amended from time to time by way or resolution passed by the Charter
Township of Clayton Board of Trustees. There shall be no fee for filing of type
of affidavit.
(Ord. 437, passed 9-9-2010)
§ 50.22  FISCAL YEAR.
   The system shall be operated upon the basis of the fiscal year beginning
January 1 of each year and ending on December 31 of the same year.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.23  SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The operation, maintenance and management of the County Water Supply System
in the township shall be under the immediate supervision and control of the
county, as agent for the township, and the county as the agent, acting through
its duly designated agency shall collect the connection fee or availability fee
payable pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)
§ 50.24  ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable through the bringing of
appropriate action for injunction, mandamus, or otherwise in any Court having
jurisdiction.  Any violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 402, passed 4-24-2002)  Penalty, see §
50.99
EMERGENCY WATER BAN
§ 50.35  DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY.
   A water supply emergency shall be deemed to exist when the Township
Supervisor finds on the basis of drought conditions, depletion of water supply,
reduction of water pressure, or when a water emergency is declared by the
Genesee County Drain Commissioner, or for other reasons he or she determines
that there is a threat of loss of water supply emergency to be publicly
announced by broadcast from radio or television stations with a normal
operating range covering the township or by other means designed to disseminate
information as to the existence of the water supply emergency.  The Township
Supervisor shall make or cause to be made a record of each time and date when
any declaration of water supply emergency is announced to the public in
accordance with this section and shall, in support of the declaration, set
forth a written summary of the reasons for the declaration with the supporting
documentation.  The statement shall be available for public inspection and
copying at the Township Hall during regular business hours.
(Ord. 407, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 50.36  GENERAL PROHIBITION OF WATER USE DURING EMERGENCY.
   (A)   During a water supply emergency it shall be unlawful for any person to
utilize water from the township water supply system for any type of outside use
other than responding to a fire emergency.  The prohibition upon the outside
use of water shall remain in effect 24 hours per day, 7 days a week, until the
water supply emergency is declared ended by the Township Supervisor. 
   (B)   The outside use of water shall include but not be limited to garden
and lawn watering, cleaning of walkways, sidewalks and streets, washing motor
vehicles, filling of swimming pools and other recreational activities involving
the use of water.
(Ord. 407, passed 9-11-2003)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.37  LIMITED RESTRICTION UPON USAGE; EXCEPTIONS.
   The declaration of water supply emergency may, if the Supervisor determines
that a less comprehensive prohibition will serve the Supervisor’s purposes,
provide for limited use of water subject to terms and conditions as more fully
set forth in the declaration of water emergency.  The nighttime hours or every
other day.  Upon written application to the Supervisor, he or she may provide
exceptions to the prohibition when necessary to prevent imminent and
substantial financial loss to a water user.  This subchapter does not apply to
residential or commercial property not hooked up to the public water supply
system.
(Ord. 407, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 50.38  PRIOR NOTIFICATION.
   No person shall be subject to a penalty unless he or she has been previously
notified orally or in writing of the existence of the water emergency by an
enforcement official and warned of the consequences of failure to abide by the
terms of the water supply emergency.
(Ord. 407, passed 9-11-2003)  Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.39  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective upon the date of publication
following its final passage.
(Ord. 407, passed 9-11-2003)
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates a water emergency declaration shall be subject
to a civil infraction penalty of $100 per violation, subject to the
notification set forth in §
50.38.
(Ord. 407, passed 9-11-2003)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
Public Sewers; Use Required
   
51.10   Unlawful deposits
   
51.11   Prohibited discharges
   
51.12   Unlawful construction
   
51.13   Connection required
   
51.14   Waste discharges; use of approved connection required
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
51.20   Private treatment and disposal requirements
   
51.21   Public sewers; connection required when available
   
51.22   Operation and maintenance
   
51.23   Requirements
   
51.24   Additional requirements apply
Conditions of Service
   
51.30   Sewer maintenance
   
51.31   Customer connection requirements
   
51.32   Disruption of service
   
51.33   Service inspections
Building Sewer and Connections
   
51.40   Permits
   
51.41   Connection costs
   
51.42   Multiple buildings
   
51.43   Existing building sewers
   
51.44   Pipe materials
   
51.45   Pipe joints and connections
   
51.46   Pipe size and slope
   
51.47   Building sewer location
   
51.48   Low building sewers
   
51.49   Wye branch connection designation
   
51.50   Building sewer inspections
   
51.51   Protection and restoration
   
51.52   Capacity required
   
51.53   Pretreatment required
   
51.54   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors
County Regulations
   
51.70   Adopted by reference
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  The Federal Waster Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean
Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
   ACT 342.  The County Public Improvement Act of 1939, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 46.171 et seq., which Act authorizes, in pertinent part, the
establishment by the county of a system or systems of sewer, or sewage disposal
improvements and services and disposal facilities and services within or
between cities, villages, townships, charter townships, or any duly authorized
and established combinations thereof, within or without the county, and mains,
trunks, connecting lines, and disposal facilities thereof.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF THE TOWNSHIP.  The Water and Waste Services
Division of the Genesee County Drain Commission.
   B.O.D. (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure in
5 days at 20º C., expressed in milligrams per liter.
   BOARD.  The Township Board of Clayton Charter Township.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil land waste pipes inside the walls
of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning 5 feet outside
of the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal (such as a grinder pump). The BUILDING SEWER shall
be deemed to begin 5 feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   COUNTY.  The County of Genesee, Michigan.
   COUNTY AGENCY.  The Genesee County Water and Waste Services Division
(“GCWWSD”) which as designed by the Genesee County Board of Commissioners,
shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of Act 342 and this
chapter.
   COUNTY CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT FEE or CCIF.  The charge authorized to be
assessed to all new applicants for a connection permit to the POTW after May 1,
2002, which charge is used to defray the costs of new construction and expenses
related thereto for increasing the capacity of the county sewage disposal,
transportation, and/or treatment system components, respectively, to
accommodate new users.
   DAYS.  For purposes of computing a period of time prescribed or allowed by
this chapter, consecutive calendar days.
   DWELLING, DETACHED SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.  A stand-alone structure in
which only 1 family is intended to reside and that is not attached to any other
residential dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL.  Any structure used for residential
dwelling purposes, other than a single-family detached dwelling.
   DWELLING, RESIDENTIAL.  Any structure designed for habitation, including but
not limited to houses, mobile homes, apartment buildings, condominiums, and
townhouses.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, serving, or dispensing
of food, from the handling, storage, processing or sale of produce, or from the
canning or packaging of food. It is composed largely of putrescible organic
matter and its natural or added moisture content.
   GARBAGE, PROPERLY SHREDDED OR OTHER SOLID MATERIAL.  Garbage or other solid
material that has been shredded to a degree that all particles will be carried
freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in the POTW (or so as to
otherwise not result in interference), with no particle greater than ½- inch in
any dimension.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes for industrial, manufacturing
processes, trade or business as distinct from sanitary sewage.
   INFILTRATION.  Waters entering the POTW from the ground through such means
as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole
walls. INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFLOW.  Any waters entering the POTW from sources such as, but not limited
to, building downspouts; roof leaders; cellar, yard and area drains; foundation
and footing drains; connections from storm sewers and combined sewers; catch
basins; storm waters; surface runoff; street wash waters; or drainage.
   INSPECTION FEE.  The amount charged to each applicant by the POTW and/or
Clayton Charter Township at the time an application is made to the POTW and/or
Clayton Charter Township solely for permission to connect to the public sewer.
This sewer connection inspection fee includes, but is not limited to, covering
the routine cost of inspecting and approving the physical connection of a
building sewer and service connection to the public sewer, and the issuance of
a sewer connection permit.
   INSPECTOR.  Any person (and the person’s authorized representatives)
designated by the POTW and/or the township to observe the construction of and
connection of building sewers to the public sewer system, to ensure conformance
with the sewer connection requirements of this chapter, and to otherwise act as
provided by this chapter.
   MAC.  The Michigan Administrative Code.
   MDEQ.  The Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   mg/l.  Milligrams per liter.
   NAICS or NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM.  The system of
classification for business establishments adopted by the U.S. Office of
Management and Budget, as amended.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any naturally formed outlet into a water-course, pond,
ditch, lake or other body of surface or ground water.
   NONDOMESTIC WASTE.  Any wastewater (or water- or liquid-carried waste) other
than domestic waste.
   NPDES PERMIT.  A permit issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act.
   OUTFALL.  The point(s) of discharge by a user to the POTW, approved by the
POTW and specified in a user permit.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
association, society, corporation, joint stock company, trust, estate,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity or their legal representatives,
agents or assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the
singular shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the weight of hydrogen ions in grams
per liter of solution.
   POTW (PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS).  The complete sewage disposal,
transportation and treatment system of Genesee County, Michigan, as defined by
the Act, the County Public Improvement Act, and this chapter, including any
devices, processes and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling or
reclamation of wastewater, sewage or sludge, as well as sewers (including all
main, lateral and intercepting sewers), pipes and other conveyances used to
collect or convey wastewater or sewage to the treatment works, as now or
hereafter added to, extended or improved. The term POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW. References in this chapter to
approvals, determinations, reviews, and the like, by the POTW shall mean by the
County Agency, the POTW Manager, or their authorized representatives. The term
POTW may also be used to refer to the GCWWSD (acting through the County Agency)
as the entity that has jurisdiction over the discharges to, and discharges
from, the POTW (the “control authority”), as appropriate to the context in
which the term is used.
   PREMISES.  A lot, tract, or parcel of land, or a building or structure,
having any connection, directly or indirectly, to the POTW, or from which there
is a discharge to the POTW.
   PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  A cesspool, septic tank, or similar
device which discharges to a suitable drainage field.
   PROCESS WASTEWATER.  Any water which, during manufacturing or processing,
comes into direct contact with or results from the production or use of any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, by-product, or waste product.
   REU (RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT).  A standard basis of measuring the
relative quantity of sewage, including the benefits derived from the disposal
thereof, arising from the occupancy of a single-family detached residential
dwelling (but such term shall not necessarily relate to actual use arising from
any particular dwelling). The relative relationship between the various users
of the system shall be as determined by the County Agency. The assignment of
REUs to a particular user shall be determined from time to time by the County
Agency based upon the use to which the user’s property is put. The assignment
of REUs for an use shall, in the sole discretion of the County Agency, be based
upon the most similar use and shall be enumerated in the Table of Unit Factors
which is marked “Exhibit A” and attached to Ordinance 432.
   SEEPAGE PIT.  A cistern or underground enclosure constructed of concrete
blocks, bricks or similar material loosely laid with open joints so as to allow
the overflow or effluent to be absorbed directly into the surrounding soil.
   SEPTIC TANK.  A watertight receptacle receiving sewage and having an inlet
and outlet designed to permit the separation of suspended solids from sewage
and to permit retained solids to undergo decomposition therein.
   SERVICE CONNECTION.  The portion of the public sewer which extends either to
or onto the parcel of land adjacent to the path of the public sewer, and
includes the sewer main, tee/wye, valve,  check valve, connector pipes, and
sewer lead, the grinder pump system, electrical controls and connections at the
electric meter (but not including the meter) and appurtenances, but not
including the building sewer.
   SEWAGE.  See WASTEWATER.
   SEWAGE, SANITARY.  See DOMESTIC WASTE.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT.  All facilities consisting of any arrangement of
devices and structures used for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing of
sewage.
   SEWER.  A pipe, tile, tube or conduit for carrying sewage/wastewater or
drainage water.
   SEWER, COUNTY.  The County Interceptor or any other sewer constructed by the
county and the possession, control, and operating responsibility of which is
not vested in the township.
   SEWER, LATERAL.  That portion of the sewer system located under the street
or within the public right-of-way from the property line to the trunk line and
which collects sewage from a particular property for transfer to the trunk
line.
   SEWER LEAD.  That portion of the service connection which connects to the
sewer main located in the public right-of-way and extends to the property line.
   SEWER, PUBLIC.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights and which is controlled by a public authority.
   SEWER, SANITARY.  A sewer intended to carry liquid and water-carried wastes
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants and institutions, and
to which storm, surface and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE.  The sum of the applicable connection fee, inspection
fee, user charge, surcharges and debt service charges.
   SEWER, STORM OR STORM DRAIN.  A sewer or drain, either natural or
artificial, intended to carry storm water, snowmelt, and surface runoff and
drainage, but not wastewater.
   SEWER, TOWNSHIP.  Any of the sewers comprising the township arms as
identified in the preamble to this chapter or any other sewer as to which the
Township has or shall have possession, control, and operating responsibility.
   SEWER, PUBLIC.  A sewer, located within the township in which all owners of
abutting properties have equal rights and which is controlled by the county
and/or township.
   SLUDGE.  Accumulated solid material separated from liquid waste as a result
of the wastewater treatment process.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including, but not
limited to, and accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STATE.  The State of Michigan. The term shall include, where applicable, any
administrative agency of the state having jurisdiction in the subject matter of
this chapter, including (but not limited to) the Michigan Department of
Environmental Quality (DEQ).
   STORM WATER.  Any flow (such as storm water runoff, snow melt runoff, and
surface runoff and drainage) occurring during or following, and resulting form
any form of natural precipitation, and is that portion of flow in excess of
that which infiltrates into the soil of the drainage area.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (SS) or TOTAL SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TSS).  Solids that either
float on the surface of, or are in suspension in water, wastewater, or other
liquids, and which are removed by laboratory filtering or other standard
methods.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Charter Township of Clayton (Clayton Township), Genesee
County, Michigan.
   TRUNK LINE.  The main sewer line located under any street or within any
public right-of-way which collects and transmits the sewage of the various
properties served by the sewer system.
   ug/l.  Micrograms per liter.
   USER.  Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution,
introduction or discharge of wastewater into the POTW, whether intention or
unintentional, and whether directly or indirectly.
   USER, NONDOMESTIC.  Any user other than a domestic user (such as, any user
that discharges anything other than segregated normal strength domestic waste
in the POTW).
   USER DEBT RETIREMENT CHARGE.  The charge levied on all users of the POTW for
the cost of any bond debt of which debt repayment is to be met from the
revenues of such works.
   USER OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE CHARGE.  The charge levied on all users of
the POTW for the cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement and
depreciation of such treatment works.
   USER PERMIT.  A general user permit or industrial user permit.
   WASTEWATER.  The liquid and water-carried domestic or industrial waste from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
whether treated or untreated, that is contributed, introduced or discharged
into the POTW. The term includes any water that has in any way been used and
degraded or physically or chemically treated.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE.  All rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, marshes,
watercourses, waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation
systems, drainage systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water,
surface, or underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are
contained within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion
thereof, and as otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WATERS OF THE UNITED STATES.  All waters as defined by 40 CFR 122.2 and as
otherwise specified by applicable laws and regulations.
   WYE BRANCH.  A local service connection to the sewer that is made at an
angle similar to a wye so that a sewer cleaning rod will not come into the
sewer at a right angle and penetrate the far side, but will travel down the
course of the sewer.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED
§ 51.10  UNLAWFUL DEPOSITS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other waste ordinarily
regarded as wastewater, upon or below, the surface of public or private
property within the jurisdiction of the township, except by discharging such
wastewater into an approved connection to a public sanitary sewer where
available or an approved private wastewater disposal system.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.11  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   Except as otherwise expressly permitted by local, state and federal laws and
regulations, and subject to obtaining all required permits and approvals from
governmental agencies (including, without limitation, Clayton Township, Genesee
County Drain Commission, Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, and the
U.S. EPA) and providing any required treatment, it shall be unlawful to
discharge, or permit or cause to be discharged, either directly or indirectly:
   (A)   Polluted water, sewerage or wastewater to any natural outlet within
the township, to any water of the state or waters of the United States, or to
any public sewer; or
   (B)   Unpolluted water of any kind, including, without limitation, storm
water, surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, artesian well water, drainage
water (surface or subsurface), industrial non-contact cooling water, air-
conditioning water, swimming pool water, or industrial process waters to any
sanitary sewer. Unpolluted water may be discharged only to a sewer that is
specifically designated as a combined sewer or storm sewer or to a natural
outlet, and only if all applicable permits and approvals have first been
obtained from the POTW and other governmental bodies or agencies and only if
not prohibited by applicable local, state or federal laws or regulations. If
any person drains any unpolluted water from his or her property by means of
conductors, eaves troughs, roof downspouts or otherwise, into a combined sewer,
storm sewer, or natural outlet in violation of applicable laws or regulations
or without securing the prior approval of the POTW, or into a sanitary sewer,
the POTW shall order its disconnection at the property owner’s expense, and if
the property owner refuses to obey the order of the POTW, then the POTW shall
disconnect the connection and the costs shall be charged to the property
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.12  UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any private privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other
facility intended or used for disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.13  REQUIRED CONNECTION TO AVAILABLE SANITARY SEWER.
   The owner of any house, building, structure, premises, or property used for
human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the
county and/or township, and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way, in
which there is located or may in the future be located, a public sanitary sewer
or public combined sewer within 200 feet from a building or structure, is
hereby required, at the owner’s expense, to install suitable toilet facilities
therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper public sewer,
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, when given official notice
to do so, provided that such connection shall be required to be made within 12
months. The connection shall be made, in the case of future improvement of the
premises, so as to require connection to a public sewer, as above provided,
prior to occupancy or use of the building or structure. No new residential
development, such as but not limited, to a plat or site condominium site plan,
shall hereafter be approved unless the developer or subdivider shall agree to
install in such residential development, at his or her own expense, an approved
system of lateral sewers and to connect the same to a public sewer.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.14  WASTE DISCHARGES; USE OF APPROVED CONNECTION.
   All discharges to a sewer shall be through an approved sewer connection or
at another discharge point expressly approved by the POTW in accordance with
this chapter. No person shall discharge any waste or other substances into a
manhole, catch basin or inlet.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 51.20  PRIVATE TREATMENT AND DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   If a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the provisions
of §§
51.10 through
51.14, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system complying with all requirements of the County Health Department.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.21  PUBLIC SEWERS; CONNECTION REQUIRED WHEN AVAILABLE.
   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §§
51.10 through
51.14, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance with
this chapter; and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar sewage disposal
facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.22  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the POTW or township.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.23  REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all local, county, state and federal requirements. No
permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal systems employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than
determined necessary by township and county or state health officials, as
applicable. No septic tank, cesspool, subsurface disposal facility or other
private sanitary sewer system shall be permitted to discharge to any public
sewer or natural outlet.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.24  ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS APPLY.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the Michigan Department
of Public Health or other governmental agencies.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 51.30  SEWER MAINTENANCE.
   At the time of original construction of the public sewer, the POTW shall
install that portion of the building sewer from the public sewer to the lot or
easement line off all occupied premises. The POTW shall maintain, at its
expense, the public sewer. Those customers making connections at the time of
original construction of the public sewer shall install, at their expense, that
portion of the building sewer from the lot or easement line to their premises.
The customer shall maintain, at his or her expense, the building sewer.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.31  CUSTOMER CONNECTION REQUIREMENTS.
   Those customers making connections subsequent to the time of original
construction of the public sewer shall install, at their expense, that portion
of the building sewer from the public sewer to the lot or easement line in
addition to that portion of the building sewer from the lot or easement line to
their premises.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.32  DISRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   Neither the POTW or township shall be held responsible for claims made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service laterals, or by
reason of any other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs; and no person shall be entitled to
damages nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.33  SERVICE INSPECTIONS.
   The premises receiving sanitary service shall, at all reasonable hours, be
subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the POTW or township.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS
§ 51.40  PERMITS.
   There shall be 3 classes of building sewer connection permits:  residential,
commercial, and industrial. In any case, the owner or the owner’s agent shall
make application on special form furnished by the POTW and/or township, if
applicable. The connection permit application shall be supplemented by any
plans, specifications or other information considered necessary and appropriate
in the judgment of the POTW. The established CCIF and applicable local
connections fees shall be paid to the POTW and township, respectively; at the
time the application is filed. Agents of the POTW, township, Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality, or U.S. Environmental Protection Agency
shall have the right to enter all properties for the purpose of inspecting and
copying all records which are required to be kept pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.41  CONNECTION COSTS.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner, under the provisions as follows:
The owner or the person installing the building sewer for the owner shall
indemnify the POTW and township from any loss or damage that may directly or
indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
   (A)   Each user whose premises are hereafter connected directly to a public
sewer shall pay to the township a connection charge as provided in this
subchapter and based on the unit factors shown in Exhibit A, Table of Unit
Factors attached to Ordinance 432.
   (B)   Computation of charges.
      (1)   Where the premises consist of dwellings which include single-family
homes, apartments, condominiums, or mobile homes, the connection charge shall
be $3,000 per unit, except as provided in subsection (3).
      (2)   For all other premises consisting of commercial, industrial and
institutional facilities, the connection charge shall be $3,000 per unit for
each of the first 5 units per connection and $2,500 for each additional unit or
fraction thereof per connection except as provided in subsection (4).
      (3)   In the case of a property owner who has owned the subject property
for 2 or more years at the time a public sewer first becomes available for
connection, the following regulation and charges shall apply:
         (a)   If a property owner requests a sewer connection where a sewer
line is not at the subject’s property line, the property owner must pay to
bring the sewer line to their property line.
         (b)   If the subject property has situated upon it, a septic system
which meets all requirements, the connection charge shall be $1,500 per unit.
If the existing septic system does not meet the above specified requirements,
the regular charge, as above set forth shall apply.
         (c)   For property owners in the Swartz Creek Sewer District, the
connection charge shall be $1,700 per unit plus an annual special assessment of
$10 for transportation charges (as per agreement).
      (4)   When a developer bears the cost of constructing a portion of the
public sewer system, brings it to the property line and makes it available to a
parcel or parcels, the connection charge to the developer or parcels owned by
him or her and to which the developer made service available, shall be at the
rate of $2,250 per unit.
   (C)   The foregoing connection charges shall be paid in cash when the
connection permit is issued by the township except that, where the building or
other structure connected to the sewer has been constructed prior to the
effective date of this chapter, the user shall have the option of paying
installments as follows: The minimum sum of $300 per single unit connection or
10% of the total computed connection permit as issued by the township and the
balance shall be paid in 10 equal annual installments together with interest at
6% per annum on the declining balance from the date when the connection permit
is issued. The first installment and accrued interest shall be due and payable
on the next December 1, which is more than 3 months after the date when the
connection permit is issued, the subsequent installments with accrued interest
shall be due and payable on December l , annually thereafter, and all
installments with accrued interest shall be subject to the same interest, fees,
and penalties as the township taxes on such premises. The balance of any
connection charge from time to time remaining unpaid may nevertheless be paid
in cash at any time before due together with accrued interest to the date of
payment. The balance due on the connection charge for a given premises shall be
paid in full at the time same premises change ownership.
   (D)   All connection charges and all installments thereof, together with
interest, fees, and penalties, shall constitute a lien upon the premises
connected to the sewer and such lien shall be enforced in the same manner as
are liens for township taxes.
   (E)   The foregoing charges, as established by resolution of the Township
Trustees, shall be billed and collected monthly or quarterly as the Township
Board shall determine. The charges shall become due on the 15th day of the
month following the end of each billing period, and if the charges are not paid
on or before that date, then a penalty of 10% shall be added thereto. In the
event that the charges for any billing period shall not be paid within the next
succeeding billing period, then the water supply to such premises shall be
discontinued. Service so discontinued shall not be restored until all sums then
due and owing, including penalties, shall be paid, plus a water turn-on charge
of $25.
   (F)   The foregoing charges, including penalties, payable for sewage
disposal and treatment service to any premises shall be a lien on the premises,
and on August 1 of each year, the person or agency charged with the collection
of the charges shall certify to the Township Assessor any charges which have
been delinquent for 6 months or more, who shall enter the same upon the next
tax roll against such premises, and the charges and penalties shall be
collected and the lien enforced in the same manner as provided in respect to
township taxes assessed upon such roll: Provided, however, that when a tenant
is responsible for the payment of the charges for service to any premises, and
the Board is so notified in writing, with a true copy of the lease of the
affected premises (if there be one) attached, then the charge shall become a
lien against the premises from and after the date of the notice. However, in
the event of the filing of the notice, no further service shall be rendered to
the premises until a cash deposit equal to twice the average monthly or
quarterly bill to the premises shall have been made as security for payment of
charges for service to the premises.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.42  MULTIPLE BUILDINGS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where 1 building stands at the rear of another on an interior
lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway, the building
sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the
whole considered as 1 building sewer. Other exceptions will be allowed only by
special permission granted by the Inspector.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.43  EXISTING BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers or portions thereof may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found, on examination and testing by the
Inspector, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.44  PIPE MATERIALS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be constructed of either the following types
of pipe meeting the current ASTM specifications:
      (1)   Plastic (ABS) ASTM D 1527;
      (2)   Plastic (PVC) ASTM D 3034-SDR 35;
      (3)   Cast Iron Extra Heavy ASTM A-74.
   (B)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be
of cast iron extra heavy pipe, except that other types of pipe may be used if
laid on a suitable improved bed or cradle as approved by the Inspector.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.45  PIPE JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All building sewer joints and connections shall be made gas tight and
watertight and shall conform to the requirements of the current building and
plumbing codes. Asbestos cement or concrete sewer pipe joints shall be of
rubber ring, flexible compression type, similar and equal to joints specified
for vitrified clay pipe. The joints and connections shall conform to the
manufacturer’s recommendations.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.46  PIPE SIZE AND SLOPE.
   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to the approval of
the Inspector, but in any event, shall the diameter be less than 4 inches.
Minimum grade shall be as follows:
 
6-inch pipe 1/8" per foot or 1" per 8 feet (1%)
4-inch pipe 1/4" per foot or 2" per 8 feet (2%)
 
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.47  BUILDING SEWER LOCATION.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the buildings at
an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid parallel
to, or within 3 feet of, any bearing wall that might thereby be weakened. The
depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. All excavations
required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open trench work
unless otherwise approved by the Inspector. Pipe laying and backfill shall be
performed in accordance with current ASTM specifications, except that no
backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by the Township
Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.48  LOW BUILDING SEWERS.
   In all buildings in which any building sewer is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drains shall be
lifted by artificial means and discharged to the building sewer, subject to
approval by the Plumbing Township Inspector.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.49  WYE BRANCH CONNECTION DESIGNATION.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the wye branch designated for the property if such branch is available at a
suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated wye branch in the
main sewer shall be made only as directed by the Township Plumbing Inspector.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.50  BUILDING SEWER INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the Inspector when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer. The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Township Plumbing
Inspector.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.51  PROTECTION AND RESTORATION.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard. Streets,
sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the GCWWSD and township.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.52  CAPACITY REQUIRED.
   No connection to a public sewer will be required or allowed unless there is
capacity available (in both wastewater volume and strength) in all downstream
sewers, pump stations, interceptors, and force mains, including, but not
limited to, adequate capacity to accept, treat and dispose of BOD, TSS, or
similar materials as required by applicable local, state or federal laws, rules
or regulations, as determined by the POTW.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)  Penalty, see §
51.99
§ 51.53  PRETREATMENT REQUIRED.
   Pretreatment of any discharge to the public sewer, including, but not
limited to, grease, oil, and sand interceptors, shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the POTW Manager, they are necessary.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
§ 51.54  GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   A grease, oil and sand interceptor (trap) shall be installed and maintained
in continuously efficient operating condition at the expense of the property
owner when, in determination of the POTW Manager, an interceptor is necessary
for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in excessive amounts
or any flammable waste, sand, or other harmful ingredient. An interceptor shall
be required for every restaurant, fast food outlet, automotive repair shop or
garage, car wash, or any other type of establishment or use as determined
necessary by the POTW Manager. An interceptor shall not be required for a
single-family detached residential or multiple-family residential dwelling unit
when used solely for residential living purposes. All interceptors shall be of
a type and capacity approved by the POTW Manager, and shall be located so as to
be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Interceptors
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperature, and shall be of substantial construction,
watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers which when in place shall
be gas-tight and watertight.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
COUNTY REGULATIONS
§ 51.70  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   Articles 6 through 23 of the Genessee County Sewer Use Ordinance are hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in full in this code.
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   No person violating any provision of this chapter shall, upon conviction
before a court of competent jurisdiction, be fined a sum of not less that $250
nor more than $500, or imprisoned for not to exceed 90 days, or both so fined
and imprisoned for not to exceed 90 days, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 432, passed 10-11-2007)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC  CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Michigan Motor Vehicle Code adopted
Cross-reference:
   Vehicle offenses, see
Chapter 130 of this code of ordinances
§ 70.01  MICHIGAN MOTOR VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Michigan Motor Vehicle Code (Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§
257.1 et seq.), as amended, together with all subsequent amendments thereto, is
hereby adopted by reference as the traffic control ordinance for the Charter
Township of Clayton.
   (B)   Reference in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code to "local authorities"
shall mean the Charter Township of Clayton.
   (C)   The penalties as provided by the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code are
adopted by reference provided however, that the penalty shall not exceed a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days and/or a fine
of $500 unless a greater penalty is specifically authorized by the Michigan
Motor Vehicle Code for violation of the Clayton Township ordinances.
   (D)   Specifically, a violation of § 625(l)(c) of the Michigan Motor Vehicle
Code is adopted by reference and shall be punishable by one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Community service for not more than 360 hours;
      (2)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days; and
      (3)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
   (E)   A violation of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code shall be numbered
374.1, followed by the section citation of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, or,
alternatively a violation may be numbered 70.01 followed by the section
citation of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code. The designation of 374.1 or 70.01
preceding the code section citation shall indicate that the violation is being
prosecuted pursuant to the Charter Township of Clayton ordinance.
   (F)   This section shall become effective 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 374.3, passed 9-30-1999; Am. Ord. 374.6, passed 1-9-2003; Am. Ord. 374.7,
passed 11-13-2003; Am. Ord. 374.10, passed 2-10-2005; Am. Ord. 438, passed 8-
19-2010; Am. Ord. 441, passed 9-13-2012; Am. Ord. 459, passed 3-13-2014)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Title
   
71.02   Purpose
   
71.03   Parking of vehicles on public roads or rights-of-way
   
71.04   Snow emergency
   
71.05   Nuisance
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Charter Township of Clayton
Public Street Parking ordinance.
(Ord. 390, passed 4-13-2000)
§ 71.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to limit and restrict the public street
parking and/or storage of vehicles, including any conveyance, trailer, boat,
aircraft and/or other similar pieces of equipment, upon the public street
located within the township; to provide for effective and adequate street
maintenance by public and privately contracted services; all for the safety,
comfort and benefit of adjoining township residents and property owners, as
well as others traveling in and through the Charter Township of Clayton.
(Ord. 390, passed 4-13-2000)
§ 71.03  PARKING OF VEHICLES ON PUBLIC ROADS OR RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   No person, firm or corporation shall park or store or permit to be parked or
stored upon any public roadway or public right-of-way located within the
Charter Township of Clayton any vehicle, including any conveyance, boat,
aircraft, trailer and/or similar equipment of any kind between the hours of 2:
00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on any day of the week, unless otherwise issued a permit
by the township and/or any other regulatory agency.
(Ord. 390, passed 4-13-2000)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  SNOW EMERGENCY.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or store or permit to be
parked or stored upon any public roadway or public right-of-way located within
the Charter Township of Clayton, any vehicle, including any conveyance, boat,
aircraft, trailer of any kind, during any period of declared “snow emergency.”
   (B)   Notification of the snow emergency shall be given by announcement over
television, radio and cable media transmissions, which are broadcast in the
Charter Township of Clayton, Michigan, and shall become effective immediately
upon broadcast.  Further, a posting shall be made at the Township Hall, in the
same and usual place where other public notices are regularly displayed.  The
snow emergency shall be effective once authorized and declared, and shall
continue until it is declared to be ended, by the Township Supervisor or his or
her designee.
(Ord. 390, passed 4-13-2000)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.05  NUISANCE.
   Any parking of vehicles or equipment in violation of the provisions of this
chapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance which may be enjoined or
which may subject the violator to the fines and penalties herein provided for.
(Ord. 390, passed 4-13-2000)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be deemed guilty of having committed a civil infraction, which
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100.  Each day that a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.  This penalty provision
shall not preclude any civil action against a violator for injunctive or other
relief.
(Ord. 390, passed 4-13-2000)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   CEMETERY REGULATIONS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   STREETS AND ROADS
      
93.   ABANDONED AND JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL
      
95.   EMERGENCY SERVICES COST RECOVERY
      
96.   BLIGHT PREVENTION AND ELIMINATION
      97.   FIREWORKS
CHAPTER 90:  CEMETERY REGULATIONS
Section
   
90.01   Title
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Sale of lots or burial spaces
   
90.04   Grave opening/closing charges
   
90.05   Markers or memorials
   
90.06   Interment regulations
   
90.07   Grounds maintenance
   
90.08   Forfeiture of vacant cemetery lots or burial spaces
   
90.09   Repurchase of lots or burial spaces
   
90.10   Records
   
90.11   Vault
   
90.12   Cemetery hours
   
90.13   Effective date
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Charter Township of Clayton
Cemetery Ordinance.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURIAL RIGHTS.  A document giving the named the rights for burial in Bendle
Cemetery.
   BLOCK/LOT.  A group of burial sites/graves as designated on the Bendle
Cemetery map.
   CEMETERY.  Bendle Cemetery, owned by the Charter Township of Clayton.
   CEMETERY SEXTON/SUPERINTENDENT.  A person or company designated by the
Township Board to schedule interments and maintain cemetery grounds.
   CHILDREN BURIED TOGETHER.  Interment is equal to 1 adult-sized vault.
   GRAVE.  One adult burial site/space of approximately 5 feet wide by 9 feet
or per the Bendle Cemetery map for the “old” and “new” sections.
   INTERMENT.  Burial.
   RESIDENT(S).  Any person or persons residing and/or paying property taxes in
the township at the time of sale, such as taxpayers/qualified electors and
their minor children.
   SECTION(S).  Divisions of Bendle Cemetery known as the “old,” “new” or
“addition.”
   TOWNSHIP.  The Charter Township of Clayton.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD.  The Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of Clayton.
   TOWNSHIP CLERK.  The duly elected Clerk of the township.
   TRANSIT PERMIT.  The document accompanying the deceased to the place of
interment. 
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.03  SALE OF LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   (A)   All sales shall be made through the Township Clerk.
   (B)   Cemetery lots or burial spaces shall be sold to taxpayers, residents
or nonresidents of the township for the purpose of burial of purchaser, his or
her heirs at law, or next of kin.  No sale shall be made to funeral directors
or others than as heretofore set forth.  The Clerk/Township Board, however, is
hereby granted the authority to vary the aforesaid restriction on sales where
the purchaser discloses sufficient personal reason for burial within the
township through previous residence in the township or relationship to person
interred therein.
   (C)   All sales shall be made on a form approved by the Township Board,
which grants a right of burial only and does not convey ownership or any other
title to the lot or burial space sold.  This form shall be executed by the
Township Clerk.
   (D)   Burial rights may only be transferred to those persons eligible to be
original purchasers of cemetery lots within Bendle Cemetery and may be effected
only by endorsement of an assignment of the burial permit upon the original
burial permit form issued by the Township Clerk, approved by the Clerk, and
entered upon the official records of the Clerk.  Upon such assignment, approval
and record, the Clerk shall issue a new burial permit to the assignee and shall
cancel and terminate upon these records the original permit thus assigned.
   (E)   The Township Board, by resolution, may periodically change the fees to
accommodate increased costs and needed funds for cemetery operation and
maintenance.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.04  GRAVE OPENING/CLOSING CHARGES.
   (A)   The opening and closing of any burial space, prior to and following a
burial therein, and including the interment of ashes, shall be at a cost to be
determined from time to time by resolution of the Township Board, payable to
the township.
   (B)   No burial spaces shall be opened and closed except under the direction
and control of the Cemetery Sexton.  In the event of a removal and/or
reinterment of bodies and remains, which is under the main supervision of the
local Health Department, the Cemetery Sexton shall be present.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.05  MARKERS OR MEMORIALS.
   (A)   All markers or memorials must be of stone or other equally durable
composition.
   (B)   Any large upright monuments must be located upon a suitable foundation
to maintain the same in an erect position. 
   (C)   Only 1 monument, marker or memorial shall be permitted per burial
space, except in the case of a government marker (which shall be installed
flush at the foot of the grave).
   (D)   The footing or foundation upon which any monument, marker or memorial
must be placed shall be constructed by the township or its agent at cost to the
owner of the burial right.
   (E)   All markers or memorials will be placed upon gravesites under the
supervision of the Cemetery Sexton as directed by the Township Board.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.06  INTERMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Only 1 person may be buried in a burial space except for a mother and
infant buried together, or 2 children together, or 2 infants, or up to 2
cremains, or 1 cremain and 1 infant.  Interment will be equal to no more than 1
adult vault.
   (B)   Not less than 36 hours’ notice shall be given in advance of any time
of any funeral to allow for the opening of the burial spaces.
   (C)   A transit permit, or comparable document, for the burial space
involved, together with appropriate  identification of the person to be buried
therein, shall be presented to the Cemetery Sexton prior to  interment.  Where
this permit has been lost or destroyed, the Township Clerk shall determine from
the records that the person to be buried in the burial space is an authorized
and appropriate one before any interment is commenced or completed.
   (D)   All graves shall be located in an orderly and neat appearing manner
within the confines of the burial space involved.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.07  GROUNDS MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No grading, leveling or excavating upon burial space shall be allowed
without the permission of the Cemetery Sexton.
   (B)   The planting of all flowers, shrubs, trees or vegetation of any type
must be requested in writing and approved by the Township Board and/or Cemetery
Sexton.  Any items planted in violation of the list and without specific
approval of the Township Board and/or the Sexton may be removed.
   (C)   The Township Board and/or Cemetery Sexton reserves the right to trim
or remove any tree, plant or shrub located within the cemetery in the interest
of maintaining proper appearance and the use of the cemetery.
   (D)   Mounds which hinder the free use of a lawn mower or other
groundskeeping apparatus are prohibited.
   (E)   The Cemetery Sexton shall have the right and authority to remove and
dispose of any and all growth, emblems, displays or containers therefor that
through decay, deterioration, damage or otherwise become unsightly, a source of
litter or maintenance problem.
   (F)   Surfaces other than earth or sod are prohibited.
   (G)   All refuse of any kind or nature, including but not limited to dried
flowers, wreaths, papers and flower containers, must be removed or deposited in
containers located within the cemetery.
   (H)   All old artificial flowers/plants will be removed as of April 1 of
each year.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.08  FORFEITURE OF VACANT CEMETERY LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   Cemetery lots or burial spaces sold after the effective date of this chapter
and remaining vacant 60 years from the date of their sale shall automatically
revert to the township upon occurrence of the following events:
   (A)   Notice shall be sent by the Township Clerk by first-class mail to the
last known address of the last owner of record, informing him or her of the
expiration of the 60-year period and that all rights with respect to the lots
or spaces will be forfeited if he or she does not affirmatively indicate in
writing to the Township Clerk within 60 days from the date of mailing of the
notice his or her desire to retain the burial rights.
   (B)   No written response to the notice indicating a desire to retain the
cemetery lots or burial spaces in question is received by the Township Clerk
from the last owner of record of the lots or spaces, or his or her heirs or
legal representative, within 60 days from the date of mailing of the notice.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.09  REPURCHASE OF LOTS OR BURIAL SPACES.
   The Charter Township of Clayton will repurchase any cemetery lots or burial
spaces from the owner, at the original price rate of $100 per gravesite, upon
written request of the owner, his or her legal heirs or representatives.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.10  RECORDS.
   The Township Clerk shall maintain all records related to Bendle Cemetery,
such as all burials, issuance of burial rights, permits and transfers.  These
records shall be separate and apart from any other records of the township and
the same shall be open to public inspection during at all reasonable business
hours.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.11  VAULT.
   All burials shall be within a standard vault, as approved by the cemetery
industry, installed or constructed in each burial space before interment under
the supervisor of the Cemetery Sexton.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.12  CEMETERY HOURS.
   (A)   Bendle Cemetery will be open to the general public from sunrise to
sunset each day.
   (B)   No person shall be permitted in Bendle Cemetery at any time other than
the foregoing hours, except upon permission of the Township Board or the
Cemetery Sexton.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.13  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in effect upon publication.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine of up
to $500 and/or imprisonment for up to 90 days in jail as may be determined by a
court of competent jurisdiction.  Each day that a violation continues to exist
shall constitute a separate offense.  Any criminal prosecutions hereunder shall
not prevent civil proceedings for abatement and termination of the activity
complained of.
(Ord. 377.1, passed 10-8-2003)
CHAPTER 91:  HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Hazardous Materials
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Hazardous materials defined
   
91.03   Duty to remove and clean up
   
91.04   Failure to remove and clean up
   
91.05   Enforcement
   
91.06   Effective date
Alarm System Users
   
91.15   Definitions
   
91.16   False alarm fee
   
91.17   Audible or visual signals
   
91.18   Effective date
Noise Control
   
91.30   General prohibitions
   
91.31   Exemptions
Lawn Maintenance and Noxious Weed Removal
   
91.45   General
   
91.46   Lawn maintenance
   
91.47   Noxious weeds
   
91.48   Notification
   
91.49   Assessment of expenses incurred
   
91.50   Appeal procedures
   
91.51   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Animal nuisances; offenses, see
Chapter 130 of this code of ordinances
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
§ 91.01  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to enable the township to require
reimbursement from those responsible for the leaking, spilling, or otherwise
allowing certain dangerous or hazardous substances or materials to escape
containment, thereby requiring cleanup and disposal by the township or its
agents.
(Ord. 419, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 91.02  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any substance which is spilled, leaked or otherwise
released from its container, which is dangerous or harmful to the environment
or human or animal life, health or safety, or is obnoxious by reason of odor,
or constitutes a danger or threat to the public health, safety or welfare; and
shall include but not be limited to such substances as chemicals and gases,
explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum products or gases,
poisons, biologic agents, flammables and corrosives.  Determinations as to
whether any particular substance is a HAZARDOUS MATERIAL shall be made by the
Swartz Creek Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative.
(Ord. 419, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 91.03  DUTY TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP.
   It shall be the duty of any person or entity which causes or controls
leakage, spillage or any other dissemination of dangerous or hazardous
substances or materials to immediately remove it and clean up the area of the
spillage in such manner that the area involved is fully restored to its
condition before the happening.
(Ord. 419, passed 3-20-2006)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  FAILURE TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP.
   Any such person or entity which fails to comply with §
91.03 shall be liable to and shall pay the township of its costs and expenses,
including the costs incurred by the township to any party which it engages, for
the complete abatement, clean up and restoration of the affected area.  Costs
incurred by the township shall include but shall not necessarily be limited to
the following:  actual labor costs of township personnel, including workers’
compensation benefits, fringe benefits, administrative overhead; cost of
equipment operation, cost of materials obtained directly by the township; and
cost of any contract labor and materials.
(Ord. 419, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 91.05  ENFORCEMENT.
   If any person or entity fails to reimburse the township as above provided,
the township shall have the right to bring an action in the appropriate court
to collect the costs.  If the person or entity is the owner of the affected
property, the township shall have the right to add any and all costs of cleanup
and restoration to the tax roll as to the property, and to levy and collect the
costs in the same manner as provided for the levy and collection of real
property taxes against the property.
(Ord. 419, passed 3-20-2006)
§ 91.06  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take immediate effect upon its date of publication in
a newspaper of general circulation.
(Ord. 419, passed 3-20-2006)
ALARM SYSTEM USERS
§ 91.15  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM.  A device or an assembly of equipment or devices arranged to
signal the presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention and to which police
officers and/or firefighters are expected to respond.
   ALARM USER.  Any person, property owner, business, corporation or legal
entity of any kind on whose premises an alarm system is maintained within the
township, except for alarm system on motor vehicles.  If, however, an alarm
system on a motor vehicle is connected with an alarm system at a  premises, the
person using the alarm system is an ALARM USER.  Also excluded from this
definition and from the coverage of this subchapter are persons who use alarm
systems to alert or signal persons within the premises in which the alarm
system is located of an attempted unauthorized intrusion or hold- up attempt. 
If the system, however, employs an audible signal emitting sounds or flashing
lights or beacon designed to signal persons outside the premises, the system
shall be within the definition of an alarm system and shall be subjected to
this subchapter.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE.  The providing, sending and/or utilizing of police,
firefighting, emergency medical and/or rescue services by the township, or a
private individual or corporation operating at the request or direction of the
township to an incident involving an activated alarm system.
   EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.  All direct and reasonable costs incurred
by the township or by a private person or corporation operating at the request
or direction of the township in the course of an emergency response to an
activated alarm system, including the costs of providing police, firefighting,
emergency medical and/or rescue services at the scene of the incident.  These
costs further include all the salaries and wages of township personnel
responding to the activated alarm, all salaries and wages of township personnel
engaged in investigation, supervision and report preparation, and all the costs
connected with the administration and preparation of any township case which is
authorized as a result of the incident.
   FALSE ALARM.  Any alarm condition which is registered at the Police
Department, Fire Department or elsewhere not resulting from the activity for
which the alarm was intended and responded to by public safety personnel.
(Ord. 395, passed 4-12-2001)
§ 91.16  FALSE ALARM FEE.
   (A)   Any alarm system user within the township who maintains an alarm
system that registers more than 3 false alarms in any 1-year period is in
violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Alarm conditions caused by the following extenuating circumstances
shall not constitute a false alarm, and no false alarm fee shall be charged by
the township:
      (1)   Alarm conditions being activated by persons working on the alarm
system with prior notification to Police or Fire Department of the township;
      (2)   Alarm conditions being activated by severe weather or other violent
conditions beyond  the control of the alarm user; or
      (3)   Alarm conditions activated by disruption or disturbance of
telephone of other communication systems.
(Ord. 395, passed 4-12-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.17  AUDIBLE OR VISUAL SIGNALS.
   No person shall use, install or direct to be installed any alarm system
which emits a sound and/or visual signal for a period of longer than 15 minutes
from the time of the initial signaling of the devices.
(Ord. 395, passed 4-12-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.18  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is effective 30 days after first publication on March 18,
2001.
(Ord. 395, passed 4-12-2001)
NOISE CONTROL
§ 91.30  GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm, corporation or business shall cause, create, or
permit to continue any loud noise or disturbance, injurious to the health,
peace or quiet of the residents and property owners of the Charter Township of
Clayton. 
   (B)   The following noises and disturbances are hereby declared to be a
violation of this subchapter; provided, however, that the specification of the
same is not to be construed to exclude other violations of this subchapter not
specifically enumerated:
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television or other
electronic or mechanical sound- producing device, including any musical
instrument, in such a manner or with such volume as to upset or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of reasonable persons.  A prima facie cause
establishing unreasonableness shall be established upon the submission of proof
that the device as used in the interior of any building emanates such volume of
sound as to be heard from any public way or from any private property not owned
by the maker of the noise;
      (2)   The playing of any radio, stereo, compact disc player or other
electronic or mechanical sound-producing device upon or within any motor
vehicle in such a manner as to upset or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
any reasonable person;
      (3)   Yelling, shouting, hooting or singing on the public streets between
the hour of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to upset or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any reasonable persons in the vicinity,
or which constitutes a breach of the peace;
      (4)   The emission or creation of any excessive noise, which unreasonably
interferes with the operation of any school, church, hospital or court;
      (5)   The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl, which emanates frequent or
extended noise which shall disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any
reasonable persons in the vicinity, such as allowing or permitting any dog to
bark repeatedly in an area where the barking can be clearly heard from nearby
residential property;
      (6)   The operation of any automobile, motorcycle or other vehicle so out
of repair, loaded or constructed as to cause loud and unnecessary grating,
grinding, rattling or other unreasonable noise, including the noise resulting
from exhaust, which is clearly audible from nearby properties and disturbing to
the quiet, comfort or repose of other reasonable persons;
      (7)   The sounding of any horn or other device on any motor vehicle
unless necessary to operate the vehicle safely or as required by the Michigan
Motor Vehicle Code or the Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships and
villages as adopted by the Charter Township of Clayton;
      (8)   The discharging outside of any enclosed building of a steam engine,
internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or motor boat engine, except through
a muffler or other similar device which will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noises.  The modification of any noise abatement device on any motor
vehicle or engine or the failure to maintain same so that the noise emitted by
the vehicle or engine is increased above that emitted by the vehicle as
originally manufactured shall be in violation of this section;
      (9)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any
building or premises in any part of the Charter Township of Clayton, including
the streets and highways, in such a manner as to emanate noise or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of other reasonable persons, other than between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. on weekdays, including Saturdays and Sundays,
except in cases of urgent necessity in the interest of public health and
safety.  In this case, a permit shall be obtained from the Building Inspector
or ordinance enforcement officer of the Charter Township of Clayton, which
permit shall limit the periods that the activity may continue;
      (10)   The creation of a loud or excessive noise which disturbs the
quiet, comfort, or repose of reasonable persons in the vicinity in connection
with the operation, loading or unloading of any vehicle, trailer, railroad car,
or other carrier or in connection with the repairing the equipment and/or
vehicles;
      (11)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale, display or
other commercial purpose which, by the creation of the noise, disturbs the
quiet, comfort or repose of other reasonable persons in the vicinity;
      (12)   The operation of any loudspeaker or other sound-amplifying device
upon or within any vehicle on the streets of the Charter Township of Clayton
for the purpose of advertising or for any other purpose which the vehicle,
speaker or sound amplifying equipment emits loud and raucous noises easily
heard from nearby adjoining residential property, and which disturbs the quiet,
comfort or repose of any reasonable person;
      (13)   The operation of any machinery, equipment or mechanical device so
as to emit loud noise which is disturbing to the quiet, comfort or repose of
any reasonable person;
      (14)   The operation of any racetrack, proving ground, testing area or
obstacle course for motor vehicles, motorcycles, 4-wheel recreational vehicles,
go-carts, boats, racers, automobiles, snowmobiles or similar vehicles of any
kind or nature in any area of the Charter Township of Clayton where the noise
emanating therefrom disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of other reasonable
persons in the vicinity.  Under no circumstances shall any race track, proving
ground, testing area or obstacle course operate after 10:00 p.m. on any
evening; and
      (15)   The use of any loudspeaker, bullhorn or other device to urge,
incite or induce any violence or breach of the peace.
(Ord. 396, passed 4-12-2001)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31  EXEMPTIONS.
   None of the prohibitions enumerated herein shall apply to the following:
   (A)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine or emergency vehicle while
engaged in necessary emergency activities;
   (B)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency;
   (C)   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work;
   (D)   Warning devices necessary for public safety such as police, fire and
ambulance sirens and horns;
   (E)   Motor vehicles and equipment for which noise levels regulated by
Public Act 73 of 1978, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 257.707, and/or the Traffic
Code set forth in Chapter 28;
   (F)   Aircraft and trains;
   (G)   The operation of domestic tools such as lawn mowers, snowblowers,
rototillers, edgers and the like, when the tools are operated in a manner and
frequency which is normal and customary in the community; or
   (H)   The operation of farm equipment/machinery in the course of any bona
fide farming operation, as allowed, provided for and/or permitted under the
Right to Farm Act being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 through 286.474 or any similar
legislative enactment.
(Ord. 396, passed 4-12-2001) 
LAWN MAINTENANCE AND NOXIOUS WEED REMOVAL
§ 91.45  GENERAL.
   The establishment of maximum heights for grass and weeds in necessary to
reduce rodent shelters and pollen dust problems.
(Ord. 436, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 91.46  LAWN MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   This section applies to lots or parcels in residential subdivisions,
site condominium developments, or planned unit developments; commercial and
industrial parcels, whether improved or not.
   (B)   The Township of Clayton hereby deems and defines grass and/or
vegetation, which is allowed to grow to a height in excess of 8 inches measured
from the grade level of the ground on any portion of the involved parcel, to be
a common nuisance on such parcels, which violates the intent and purpose of
this subchapter.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of all owners of a parcel, to which this
subchapter applies, to cut the grass and/or vegetation growing on same and to
prevent the grass and/or vegetation from reaching a height in excess of 8
inches, as measured from the grade level of the ground on any portion of the
involved parcel,  by continued cutting in a fashion that is aesthetically
appropriate for the area where the parcel is located.
(Ord. 436, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 91.47  NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include Canada
thistle (Cirsium Arvense), dodders (any species of Cuscuta), mustards
(Charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis),
wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis), perennial
sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa incana), ragweed
(Ambrosia elatior l.) and poison ivy (Rhus toxicodendron), poison sumac
(Toxicodendron vernix) or other similar plants which, in the opinion of the
Supervisor, or his or her designee, are regarded as a common nuisance.
   (B)   Cultivated flowers and gardens are not considered to be weeds. The
word “cultivated” is important.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
      CULTIVATE.  To loosen or dig (soil) around growing plants.
   (D)   Uncultivated gardens should be treated the same as weeds and tall
grasses.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of every person who owns any lots in approved
undeveloped plats, site condominium developments, or planned unit developments
and land along public streets and roads or improves streets in common usage,
for a depth of 10 rods (165 feet) or the depth of a platted lot, whichever is
greater, within the limits of the Charter Township of Clayton to cut, destroy
and remove from the land all noxious and poisonous weeds growing thereon, as
well as dead grass and brush which becomes located thereon, at least twice each
year, once before the first day of June, and once again after July 30 but
before the first day of September, to prevent the weeds from going to seed or
to blossom, as the case may be, and to prevent the dead grass and brush from
becoming a fire hazard.
(Ord. 436, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 91.48  NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Township Clerk, on or before May 1, to
publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation within Genesee County
giving notice of this subchapter.  The notice shall be substantially in the
following form:
      “TO ALL OWNERS OF LAND SITUATED IN THE CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF CLAYTON,
GENESEE COUNTY, STATE OF MICHIGAN:
      NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that all noxious weeds growing and all dead grass
and brush on any subdivided land or land along a public streets, roads, or
improved streets, for a depth of 10 rods (165 feet) or the depth of a platted
lot, whichever is greater, within the Charter Township of Clayton, County of
Genesee, State of Michigan, must be cut down, destroyed and removed on or
before June 1, 20__, and, again, between the period from July 30 to September
1, 20__, to prevent the weeds from going to seed or to blossom, as the case may
be, and to prevent the dead grass and brush from becoming a fire hazard; and
      Owners of lots or parcels in residential subdivisions, site condominium
developments, or planned unit developments; commercial and industrial parcels,
whether occupied or not, provided that such parcels have a building intended
for the shelter, housing, or enclosure of persons, animals, or property, shall
cut the grass and/or vegetation growing on the same and to prevent such grass
and/or vegetation from reaching a height in excess of 8 inches, as measured
from the grade level of the ground on any portion of the involved parcel, by
continued cutting in a fashion that is aesthetically appropriate for the area
where such a parcel is located.
      FAILURE TO COMPLY with this notice on or before the above-mentioned dates
shall make any party so failing liable for the costs of lawn mowing and of
cutting, destroying and removing the noxious weeds and dead grass and brush by
the township, which cost to be levied and collected against the lands in the
same manner as other taxes are levied and collected.”
   (B)   Further, in the event the owner(s), occupant(s), or agent(s) of a
parcel of land found to be in violation of this subchapter, the Charter
Township of Clayton shall notify the owner(s), occupant(s), or agent(s) 1 time
by first class mail of the violation.
   (C)   Once notice is given by first class mail regarding a violation of this
subchapter, the Township of Clayton Supervisor, or his or her designee, may
post a notice for mowing the parcel in a conspicuous place on the property.
Failure of Clayton Township to give immediate notice, in the event of any
violation, shall not, however, constitute a defense in any action to enforce
the payment of any penalty provided for a debt created under the provisions of
this subchapter, as each day that a condition violating the provisions of this
subchapter exists, a new separate, and distinct violation is deemed to have
occurred.
   (D)   After notice is given, the grass and/or vegetation must be cut and
maintained at a height not in excess of 8 inches until October 1 of that year. 
After notice is given and the grass remains in excess of 8 inches in height,
the township shall be entitled to enter onto the property and cut the grass
and/or vegetation to a height of less than 8 inches.
   (E)   Thereafter without further notice the Township Supervisor, or his or
her designee, may continue to order the lawn mowing and/or cutting of noxious
weeds as many times as is reasonably necessary when either reaches a height in
excess of 8 inches and shall charge the associated costs to the involved
property owner.
(Ord. 436, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 91.49  ASSESSMENT OF EXPENSES INCURRED.
   All of the expenses plus administrative fee, the total of which is set by
fee schedule resolution of the Township Board, incurred in connection with such
cuttings as may be required under the terms of this subchapter, shall be paid
by the owner or owners of the involved parcels.  In the event that the expenses
are not paid by the owner or owners of the involved parcels, the township shall
have a lien upon the parcel for the total amount of the expenses associated
with the cuttings.  Any such lien may be enforced in the manner prescribed by
the general laws of the state providing for the enforcement of tax liens.
(Ord. 436, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 91.50  APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   The owner or owners of any property, against which a lien is attached,
pursuant to the terms of this subchapter, shall have recourse to appeal the
nature and extent of the lien during the Board of Review session following the
imposition of the lien.
(Ord. 436, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 91.51  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take immediate effect after publication. All
ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith are hereby repealed.
(Ord. 436, passed 8-19-2010)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person, corporation, or other legal entity who shall violate
or fail to comply with any of the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.18 or any of the regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor, and may be fined up to $500 and/or 90 days in jail, or both.
      (2)   In addition, any person, corporation, partnership or other legal
entity who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
91.15 through
91.18 may be ordered by the Court to pay all expenses of any emergency response
necessitated by the violation of these sections.
(Ord. 395, passed 4-12-2001)
   (C)   (1)     Any person, firm or corporation who violates §
91.30 or §
91.31 is responsible for a civil infraction and shall be subject to a fine not
to exceed $100, plus court costs as determined by the sentencing judge, and
shall also be required to reimburse the Charter Township of Clayton for the
cost of prosecution.  Each time a violation shall occur, it will be considered
and treated as a separate offense. 
      (2)   Provisions of §
91.30 or §
91.31 may also be enforced by lawsuit for injunction damages, or other
appropriate legal action.
(Ord. 396, passed 4-12-2001)
CHAPTER 92:  STREETS AND ROADS
Section
Private Roads
   
92.01   Statement of intent; procedure
   
92.02   Definition
   
92.03   Access to dedicated public street
   
92.04   Applicability of public vs. private road standards
   
92.05   Private road standards
   
92.06   Existing nonconforming private roads and access easements
   
92.07   Effective date
   
92.08   Private road standards and testing
Public Roads; Rights-of-Way
   
92.20   Definitions
   
92.21   Permit required
   
92.22   Structures erected in violation; removal
   
92.23   Application, plans
   
92.24   Construction; maintenance of structures
   
92.25   Enforcement Officer
   
92.26   Effective date
 
   
92.99   Penalty
PRIVATE ROADS
§ 92.01  STATEMENT OF INTENT; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   It is the intent of the Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of
Clayton to provide standards of the construction and establishment of private
roads.  Generally, the use of private roads for single- family residential,
commercial or industrial access is discouraged.  A private road may be allowed
in multi-family developments, such as attached condominiums where severe
topography or important natural features, such as wetlands or woodlands,
landscaping or design of the project would be comprised by the construction of
streets to public standards, or in other appropriate circumstances as are
determined to further the health, welfare and safety of the township by the
Township Board.  The owners accessing private roads assume full liability and
maintenance responsibilities of private roads, as noted in an agreement or
condominium documents reviewed and approved by the Township Attorney.
   (B)   Application for approval of a private road shall be initiated by
filing an application to the Township Planning Commission with a site plan, as
required.  The Planning Commission shall review the application and shall hold
hearings, as it deems appropriate.  Notice shall be given, at a minimum, to
those property owners owning, abutting or having direct access to the proposed
private road, public utilities, the Genesee County Road Commission and the
Michigan Department of Transportation, if applicable.  The recommendation of
the Planning Commission with such conditions as it deems appropriate shall be
submitted to the Township Board before the Township Board takes action on the
application.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-13-2000)
§ 92.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE ROAD.  A road owned and maintained by the owners of the property it
serves and provides access to 3 or more dwelling buildings or 2 nonresidential
principal buildings.  PRIVATE ROADS include roads with condominium projects,
roads serving 2-family dwelling units and roads within office or industrial
complexes.  A PRIVATE ROAD may be used to provide public services such as
utility easements, waste collection and emergency services.  The definition of
PRIVATE ROAD does not include drives serving apartment buildings with 3 or more
attached dwelling units, parking lot aisles or drives connecting parking lots
to internal roads.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-13-2000)
§ 92.03  ACCESS TO DEDICATED PUBLIC STREET.
   Any lot created after the effective date of this subchapter shall have
frontage upon a public street right-of-way unless the Township Board has
approved a private road.  Any private road must have direct access to a
dedicated public street.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-13-2000)
§ 92.04  APPLICABILITY OF PUBLIC VS. PRIVATE ROAD STANDARDS.
   All private roads in the Charter Township of Clayton, as defined above,
shall be constructed to the standards of the Genesee County Road Commission
unless the Township Board determines that all of the following apply:
   (A)   There is no indication of need for the roadway to be dedicated as a
public road in the future;
   (B)   Dedication of the road as a public street would not result in
continuity in the public street system at the present time or in the future;
   (C)   The expected traffic volumes along the roadway will not exceed 300
vehicles per average weekday, based on accepted trip generation figures;
   (D)   Significant natural features such as mature trees, natural slopes,
wetlands or other water bodies would be preserved through construction and
maintenance as a private road or the arrangement of buildings expand the open
areas within the development;
   (E)   The property owners enter into an agreement with the township for
quality assurance testing and inspection.  All costs to administer and/or
perform the necessary testing and inspections shall be the financial
responsibility of the applicant.  The township may require a deposit prior to
the commencement of construction to cover these costs; and
   (F)   The property owners shall provide financial and administrative
mechanisms acceptable to the Township Board to ensure maintenance of the
private road.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-13-2000)
§ 92.05  PRIVATE ROAD STANDARDS.
   (A)   Construction plans shall be submitted in conjunction with an
application and site plan to be reviewed and approved by the township prior to
construction containing the following information:
      (1)   Parcel number and name of owner for all properties having legal
interest in the private road;
      (2)   Plans designed by a registered engineer showing location, dimension
and design of the  private road.  The plan shall identify existing proposed
elevation contours within all areas to be disturbed or altered by construction
of the private road;
      (3)   Location of all public or private utilities located within the
private road right-of-way or easement, or within 20 feet of same, including but
not limited to water, sewer, telephone, gas, electricity and television cable;
      (4)   Location of any lakes, streams, drainageways, Michigan Department
of  Natural Resources regulated wetlands or trees with a caliper of 8 inches or
greater, within 100 feet of the proposed private road right-of-way or easement;
and
      (5)   Ownership or easement documents allowing for the private road.
   (B)   Private roads which the township has determined do not need to comply
with all the standards of the Genesee County Road Commission noted above shall
be constructed to the following minimum standards:
      (1)   The site plan shall provide for an easement or easements 60 feet in
width, provided that the Township Board may reduce the required width to 40
feet where the easement will provide access to no more then 5 lots or dwelling
units and is not expected to accommodate over 500 vehicle trips per average
weekday based on accepted traffic generation figures.  The easement for the
private roads shall extend 10 feet beyond the hard surface;
      (2)   All private roads shall meet the public street base, pavement
width, surface, slope and drainage system standards of the Genesee County Road
Commission;
      (3)   The minimum pavement width may be reduced to 22 feet with concrete
curbing and gutter on both sides thus having a total width of 26 feet;
      (4)   Maximum length of a private road shall be 1,600 feet and shall
include a cul-de-sac with a 45-foot radius or 55-foot radius if a center
landscaped island is included;
      (5)   Grades shall not exceed 10% with a maximum grade of 2% for a 
minimum distance of 30 feet from its intersection with a public right-of-way or
another private road;
      (6)   Private road design plans shall meet the design criteria outlined
in the most recent edition of the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Manual, “A Policy on Geometric Design for
Highways and Streets,” provided the minimum horizontal curve shall be 230 feet
in radius;
      (7)   Private roads which intersect with existing or proposed private
roads or public street right- of-way should intersect at a 90-degree angle. 
Where constrained by environmental features, the Township Board may allow a
reduced angle of intersection but in no case shall the angle be less than 70
degrees;
      (8)   Proposed private roads or entrances to a development shall align
directly across from, or be offset at least 250 feet from, public street or
private road intersections on the opposite side of the street, measured
centerline to centerline.  This standard may be reduced if approved by the
Township Board;
      (9)   Private roads and driveways within a development shall align
directly across from other private roads or driveways or be offset at least
150, feet measured centerline to centerline;
      (10)   In order to provide adequate access for emergency vehicles, 15
feet of overhead tree clearance shall be provided within the width of the
pavement;
      (11)   Street names shall be required to assist public emergency
services.  Names shall be subject to Township Board approval;
      (12)   All signs within the private road or access easement shall be
identified on the site plan and be in accordance with the Michigan Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, unless the Township Board approves another
type of design for consistency with the character of the development.  Street
signs shall be provided at all intersections.  These signs shall contrast in
terms of color with public street signs, and shall clearly indicate the road is
private; and
      (13)   The diagrams attached to Ord. 392 are an integral part of this
subchapter and the requirements therein shall apply to any private road
approved hereunder, except as waived or altered by the Township Board.  The
diagrams are hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full herein.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-13-2000)
§ 92.06  EXISTING NONCONFORMING PRIVATE ROADS AND ACCESS EASEMENTS.
   (A)   The township recognizes there exist private roads, service roads and
access easements which were lawful prior to the adoption of this subchapter
which are inconsistent with the standards herein.  These roads are declared by
this section to be legal nonconforming roads or easements and shall continue to
have that status so long as the road or easements are maintained in a safe and
physically sound condition as determined by the Township Board.  The Township
Board may allow construction on existing parcels which front along such a road
on the adoption date of this subchapter if the roads are reasonably capable of
providing sufficient access for the uses permitted in the zoning district and
for provision of emergency service vehicles.
   (B)   However, this section is also intended to discourage the extension of
nonconforming roads or increase the number of lots or building sites served by
such a road, condominium project existing on the adoption date of this
subchapter, provided provisions are made to upgrade the road to comply with the
standards herein.  Any reconstruction, widening or extension of a nonconforming
private road or access easement shall be in conformity with this subchapter or
the standards of the Genesee County Road Commission for Public Streets.
   (C)   For the purposes of determining whether a long along a private road or
access easement qualifies as an “existing parcel” as used in this section, at
least 1 of the following conditions must have existed at the time this
subchapter was adopted:
      (1)   The parcel consists of a “condominium unit” as to which a master
deed had been recorded with the Genesee County Register of Deeds in accordance
with the requirements of the Michigan Condominium act and other applicable laws
and ordinances;
      (2)   The parcel was described by metes and bounds as evidenced by a
recorded deed or as a land contract and has no other access from a public road;
or
      (3)   The lot has been assigned a unique parcel number by the Genesee
County Register of Deeds and was individually assessed and taxed on that basis.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-13-2000)
§ 92.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be published according to law and shall become
effective 30 days from the date of publication.
(Ord. 392, passed 7-13-2000)
§ 92.08  PRIVATE ROAD STANDARDS AND TESTING.
   Any application of a private road within the township, under this
subchapter, shall be subject to the Quality Assurance Standards and Testing
Requirements attached to Res. 00-0608-02 and incorporated by reference as if
set out in full herein, which are intended and designed to promote the
aforestated objectives, as it related to the maintenance of quality and safe
thoroughfares for the residents of this township.
(Res. 00-0608-02, passed 6-8-2000)
PUBLIC ROADS; RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 92.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREETS.  A road, alley, street or public way which can be and is used for
travel.
   UTILITY COMPANY.  Any public or private person, firm, political subdivision
of the State of Michigan, municipality or corporation whose purpose it is to
transmit and maintain any appurtenance for the use of any transmission of a
utility.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-28-1971)
§ 92.21  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, political subdivision of the
State of Michigan, municipality or corporation or any of its subdivisions to
use, enter upon, excavate, construct, lay out or use for the construction and
maintenance, any roadway or street for any telegraph, telephone or power lines,
pipe lines, wires, cables, pole, conduits, sewers and like structures upon,
over, across or under any public road, bridge, street or public place in the
Charter Township of Clayton; provided that every such telephone, telegraph,
power and other public and private utility company, person, firm, political
subdivision of the State of Michigan, municipality or corporation, before any
of the work of the construction or erection shall commence, shall first obtain
a permit from the Charter Township of Clayton authorizing the lines, poles,
sewers, wires, cables, conduits or like structures to be constructed and
erected.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-28-1971)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.22  STRUCTURES ERECTED IN VIOLATION; REMOVAL.
   Lines, poles, sewers, wires, cables, conduit or like structures constructed
or erected without the necessary permit or in violation thereof, shall be
removed.  Lines, poles, sewers, wires, cables, conduits or like structures
constructed or erected under terms of the permit shall be removed, altered,
relocated at the expense of the party to whom the permit is issued if requested
by the Charter Township of Clayton to do so.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-28-1971)
§ 92.23  APPLICATION; PLANS.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit 2 sets of complete design plans with proof
of approval of the Genesee County Road Commission to the Charter Township of
Clayton, and upon approval and issuance of a permit by the Township Board shall
display the County Road Commission permit to any designated official of the
county as the township has hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Ninety days from the date of completion, the applicant must submit the
reproducible finished set of plans of the project as constructed to the
township.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-28-1971)
§ 92.24  CONSTRUCTION; MAINTENANCE OF STRUCTURES.
   It shall be the duty of the person, firm, political subdivision of the State
of Michigan, municipality or corporation, to do the construction, maintenance,
erection and the like in a workmanlike manner, and that they shall repair and
replace as near as possible the roadway in as near the same condition as is
possible and shall do the work on condition that such shall be considered as an
agreement on the part with the Charter Township of Clayton to keep the same in
good repair and condition at all times during their control thereof, to
indemnify and save harmless the township from any and all damages, actions,
claims at law which may arise or be brought by reason of the control, use,
construction and maintenance of the utility.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-28-1971)
§ 92.25  ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   The Building Inspector is hereby designated as the Enforcement Officer of
this subchapter and it shall be his or her duty to perform all the acts
necessary and appropriate for the enforcement of this subchapter.  The township
may designate some other person to serve at the pleasure of the Township Board
as the Building Inspector under this subchapter, in which case the person shall
act as the Enforcement Officer for this subchapter, and it shall be his or her
duty to perform all the acts necessary and appropriate for the enforcement of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-28-1971)
§ 92.26  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter is to take effect 31 days after publication thereof, which
provision being published May 5, 1971 and effective June 3, 1971.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-28-1971)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of §§
92.20 through
92.26 shall be, upon the conviction thereof, a fine of $100 or imprisonment in
the County Jail not to exceed 90 days, or both the fine and imprisonment at the
discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 25, passed 4-28-1971)
CHAPTER 93:  ABANDONED AND JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
Vehicle Storage, Repair and Abandonment
   
93.01   Name
   
93.02   Purpose
   
93.03   Regulations
   
93.04   Nuisance
   
93.05   Effective date
Junk Motor Vehicles
   
93.20   Definition
   
93.21   Regulations
   
93.22   Persons liable
 
   
93.99   Penalty
VEHICLE STORAGE, REPAIR AND ABANDONMENT
§ 93.01  NAME.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Charter Township of Clayton
Vehicle Storage, Repair and Abandonment Ordinance.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-13-2000)
§ 93.02  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to limit and restrict the outdoor storage,
parking, repair or unreasonable accumulation of junk, unused, partially
dismantled or nonoperational vehicles, including any conveyance, trailer, boat,
aircraft or new or used parts thereof, upon premises within the township; to
provide restriction concerning the repairing of the vehicles; to minimize the
devaluation of property values and the psychological ill effects of the
presence of the same upon adjoining residents and property owners; and to
eliminate safety hazards along roadways and thoroughfares, by virtue of the
abandonment of vehicles and/or equipment.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-13-2000)
§ 93.03  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or store or permit to be
parked or stored upon any premises, within the Charter Township of Clayton, any
vehicle, including any conveyance, boat, aircraft, or trailer of any kind or
new or used parts therefrom, unless 1 or more of the following conditions
exist:
      (1)   The parking or storage is located within a fully enclosed building;
      (2)   A special permit is first obtained therefor for a period of not to
exceed 120 days from the Zoning Board of Appeals of the Charter Township of
Clayton or such other officer or official as the Township Board may designate,
to be granted only in special hardship cases beyond the control of the
applicant, where special or peculiar circumstances exist, where no adjoining
property owner is adversely affected thereby and where the spirit and purposed
of these regulations are still observed;
      (3)   The vehicle or conveyance is licensed or registered by the State of
Michigan, is an operable vehicle or conveyance, has all of its main component
parts attached, as hereinafter defined, and is, in fact, regularly operated for
its designed purpose;
      (4)   The vehicles, boats, trailers, aircraft or conveyances are located
in a duly licensed and properly zoned junkyard, salvage yard, new or used
dealer’s lot or storage yard where the uses or operations are legally
authorized under the township zoning ordinance;
      (5)   The vehicle or vehicles are awaiting repairs or delivery to owners
at an authorized service station, garage, paint shop or body shop, provided
they are locked, licensed by the State of Michigan; they do not remain on the
property in that state for more than 7 consecutive calendar days or for longer
than 14 days in any 1 year; and are not otherwise a public nuisance; or
      (6)   The vehicle, boat, trailer, aircraft or conveyance, although
temporarily inoperable because of minor mechanical failure, has substantially
all of its main component parts attached as hereinafter defined; is, where
subject to license or registration, licensed or registered by the State of
Michigan; is not in any manner a dismantled vehicle; and the premises do not
contain any such vehicle, boat, aircraft, trailer or conveyance on the property
in that state for more than 7 consecutive calendar days or for longer than 14
days in any 1 year.  MAIN COMPONENT PARTS  shall, for the purpose of this
chapter, mean those parts required by state law or by necessity for its
operation upon a public highway, waterway or airway.
   (B)   No repairing, re-designing, modifying of dismantling work or
operations shall be allowed upon any vehicle, boat, trailer, aircraft or
conveyance or parts thereof upon any public right-of-way or public  property
(except for emergency minor repairs not exceeding 1 hour in duration) or upon
any property not zoned for that purpose, except such occasional minor work by
the owner thereof as may infrequently be required to maintain the same in
normal operational conditions and as shall be accomplished within full enclosed
buildings; will not constitute a nuisance or annoyance to property owners or
occupants; and does not violate any provisions of the township zoning
ordinance.
   (C)   No person, firm or corporation shall park or store or permit to be
parked or stored, in any road and/or public right-of-way area, located within
the Charter Township of Clayton, any vehicle, including any conveyance, boat,
aircraft, or trailer of any kind or new or used parts therefrom, on an
emergency  basis, due to catastrophe, vehicle and/or equipment disablement and/
or other similar circumstance, for a period in excess of 24 hours.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-13-2000)
§ 93.04  NUISANCE. 
   Any parking, storage, placement, operations and/or abandonment in violation
of the provision of this chapter are hereby declared to be a public nuisance
which may be enjoined or which may subject the violator to the fines and
penalties herein provided for.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-13-2000)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 30 days after publication on April 20,
2000.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-13-2000)
JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 93.20  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle which is in such condition of
disrepair that it shall not be legally operable upon public roads of this state
or which is unlicensed for a period of 6 months or longer after the last days
of licensing of motor vehicles in the state.
(Ord. 24, passed 10-16-1969)
§ 93.21  REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No junk motor vehicle shall be kept for any period of 30 days or
longer upon any premises within the township which premises are not licensed as
a junk yard or which premises are not a public motor vehicle repair garage
regularly used and occupied, as a legal commercial public motor vehicle repair
garage.
   (B)   Provided, further, this shall not prohibit the keeping of farm
tractors or other motorized farm equipment upon any farm upon which the tractor
or farm equipment is regularly used for farming operations nor shall it
prohibit the keeping of motorized construction equipment upon commercial
premises legally devoted to the construction business if the construction
equipment is regularly used or in a usable condition.
(Ord. 24, passed 10-16-1969)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.22  PERSONS LIABLE.
   The person who shall be in possession of the land upon which a junk
automobile shall be kept shall be deemed to be in violation of this subchapter
and the fact that the person in possession of the land upon which the vehicle
is kept does or does not have a proprietary interest in the vehicle shall be
immaterial. The owner of any junk vehicle kept upon any land or left or
abandoned on any land shall also be in violation of this subchapter.
(Ord. 24, passed 10-16-1969)  Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates §§
93.01 through
93.05 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not to exceed
90 days or by both the fine and imprisonment.  Each day that a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.  This penalty provision
shall not preclude any civil action against a violator for injunctive or other
relief, as provided for by this chapter and/or other applicable laws.
   (B)   In the event of any storage, abandonment and/or parking of any vehicle
and/or equipment in any road and/or public right-of-way area, located within
the Charter Township of Clayton, in violation of the aforementioned
regulations, the vehicle shall be subject to tagging and/or marking by a
conspicuously affixed notice, which shall allow an additional period of 24
hours from the time of posting for removal of the vehicle and/or equipment.  In
the event that the vehicle and/or equipment is not removed within the specified
timeframe, it will be deemed to have been abandoned and subject to removal and
impoundment.  Any and all costs and fees incurred in removal, impoundment and/
or storage will be required to be paid in addition to any otherwise applicable
fines and/or costs assessable under any applicable provisions of state and/or
local law.  Should the costs and/or fees accumulate to the point of exceeding
the value of the vehicle and/or equipment removed and impounded, in the opinion
of the Township Code Enforcement Officer, the vehicle and/or equipment in
question may be sold to recoup the costs and/or fees, after first sending a 7-
calendar day notice to the registered owner of the vehicle and/or equipment, by
first-class mail, at the last address where the vehicle and/or equipment was
registered.
   (C)   In the event of the outdoor storage, parking, repair or unreasonable
accumulation of junk, unused, partially dismantled or non-operational vehicles,
including any conveyance, trailer, boat, aircraft or new or used parts thereof,
upon premises within the township, in violation of this chapter, the violating
property owner may be notified within a period of 7 calendar days from the time
of the notice to allow for removal of the vehicle and/or equipment and/or
correction of the specified condition.  In the event that the vehicle and/or
equipment is not removed and/or condition is not corrected within the specified
timeframe, the township shall have the right to enter onto the involved
property to remove, seize and/or impound any and all involved property.  Any
and all costs and fees incurred in removal, impoundment and/or storage will be
required to be paid in addition to any otherwise applicable fines and/or costs
assessable under any applicable provisions of state and/or local law.  Should
the costs and/or fees accumulate to the point of exceeding the value of the
vehicle, equipment and/or property removed and impounded, in the opinion of the
Township Code Enforcement Officer, the vehicle, equipment and/or property in
question may be sold to recoup the costs and/or fees, after first sending a 7-
calendar day notice to the registered owner of the vehicle and/or equipment, by
first-class mail, at the last address where the vehicle and/or equipment was
registered.
(Ord. 391, passed 4-13-2000)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §§
93.20 through
93.22 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof,
punished by a fine of not to exceed $100 and the costs of prosecution, or in
default of the payment thereof by imprisonment in the county jail of not to
exceed 90 days or by both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
Each day that a violation is permitted to exist shall constitute a separate
offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender from
compliance with the requirements of this §§
93.20 through
93.22.
(Ord. 24, passed 10-16-1969)
CHAPTER 94:  FIRE PREVENTION AND CONTROL
Section
Fire Control
   
94.01   Open burning prohibited
   
94.02   Attendance of open fire
   
94.03   Time limitations
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Effective date
 
   
94.99   Penalty
FIRE CONTROL
§ 94.01  OPEN BURNING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall start or have any open fires upon any woodlands, grasslands,
field or public right- of-way within the Charter Township of Clayton, Genesee
County, Michigan, whenever there be danger of the fire spreading beyond the
control of the person so starting or having the open fire so as to injure,
damage or endanger the life, limb or property of another.
(Ord. 3, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02  ATTENDANCE OF OPEN FIRE.
   No person who shall start or have any open fire upon any woodlands,
grasslands, field or public right-of way within the Charter Township of
Clayton, Genesee County, Michigan, shall leave the open fire unattended by a
person of mature years until the fire shall have been completely extinguished.
(Ord. 3, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.03  TIME LIMITATIONS.
   No person shall start or have any open fire upon any woodlands, grasslands,
field or public right-of- way within the Charter Township of Clayton, Genesee
County, Michigan, before sunrise nor later than ½ hour following sunset;
provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall prohibit any
person who, having obtained the written permission of the Director of
Conservation or other authorized conservation officer pursuant to Public Act
143 of 1943, § 7, as amended, from starting or having any open fire upon any
woodlands, grasslands, field or public right-of-way within the Charter Township
of Clayton, Genesee County, Michigan, before sunrise or later than ½ hour
following sunset, so long as the written permission shall not specifically
prohibit the starting or having of the open fire upon any woodlands,
grasslands, field or public right-of-way within the Charter Township of
Clayton, Genesee County, Michigan, before sunrise or later than ½ hour
following sunset.
(Ord. 3, passed - -)
§ 94.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN FIRE.   As used in the preceding sections of this subchapter,  any fire
not wholly contained within an incinerator, outside fireplace, grill or other
receptacle constructed for and suitable to the purpose of the burning of
combustibles.
(Ord. 3, passed - -)
§ 94.05  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective on June 7, A.D. 1957.
(Ord. 3, passed - -)
§ 94.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
94.01 through
94.05 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment in the County Jail
not exceeding 90 days, or both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of
the Court; provided, however, that the Court may, in its discretion, suspend
any sentence imposed under §§
94.01 through
94.05 and grant probation to any person convicted of a violation thereof and
the Court may further, in its discretion, condition the probation and/or
suspension of sentence upon reimbursement to the Township of Clayton, Genesee
County, Michigan, of any cost and expense suffered or incurred by the township
in extinguishing the fire.
(Ord. 3, passed - -)
CHAPTER 95:  EMERGENCY SERVICES COST RECOVERY
Section
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Purpose
   
95.03   Definitions
   
95.04   Liability for emergency response costs
   
95.05   Exemptions from liability
   
95.06   Appeal procedures
   
95.07   Cost recovery schedule of charges
   
95.08   Payment and collection of emergency services fees
   
95.09   Non-exclusive charges
§ 95.01  TITLE.
   The ordinance codified herein shall be known and cited as the Emergency
Services Cost Recovery Ordinance.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 95.02  PURPOSE.
   The Emergency Cost Recovery Ordinance is enacted by the Charter Township of
Clayton pursuant to Michigan statute M.C.L.A. § 41.806(a) and is intended to
provide authority for the reimbursement to Clayton Township for the cost and
expense of emergency services from those receiving direct benefits provided by
the Clayton Township Police Department and the Swartz Creek Area Fire
Department.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 95.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSABLE COSTS FOR AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.  All costs, charges, and fees
incurred by the Clayton Township Police Department and/or the Swartz Creek Area
Fire Department or by a third  party acting on behalf of or at the request or
direction of either the Police Department or Fire Department in connection with
a Police Department or Fire Department response to an enumerated incident and
shall include, but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   Labor costs of all employees of the Police Department and/or the
Fire Department and any third party operating on behalf of or at the request or
direction of Clayton Township, the Police Department, or the Fire Department to
respond to, investigate, and prepare reports concerning the incident including,
without limitation, employee wages, fringe benefits, and all reasonably related
costs;
      (2)   Administrative overhead costs;
      (3)   Cost of vehicles;
      (4)   Cost of fire fighting and containment materials used at the scene
of the incident;
      (5)   Cost of equipment;
      (6)   Cost of equipment operation;
      (7)   Cost of materials;
      (8)   Cost of transportation;
      (9)   Cost of material disposal;
      (10)   Cost of any disposal supplies and materials used during the
incident;
      (11)   Cost of the rental or leasing of any special equipment;
      (12)   Replacement cost of any township supplies and equipment damaged,
lost, or destroyed as a result of the incident;
      (13)   Reimbursement for any special consulting and technical service;
      (14)   Laboratory costs;
      (15)   Any cost associated with the preparation for or actual evaluation
of the area surrounding the incident;
      (16)   Cost of contracted labor;
      (17)   Cost of all attorney and legal fees; and
      (18)   Cost of collection of all associated costs and fees as assessed
pursuant to this chapter.
   AVIATION ACCIDENT/FIRE.  A burning air craft, air craft contents, or any
incident requiring emergency services from the Clayton Township Police
Department or the Swartz Creek Area Fire Department.
   AVIATION COMPANY.  Any person, partnership, association, or corporation,
their respective lessees, trustees, or receivers, appointed by a court, or
other legal entity operating in this state either as a common carrier for hire
or for private use as a carrier of persons of property upon air craft.
   BUILDING.  As any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering
any use or occupancy.
   CHARTER TOWNSHIP OF CLAYTON RESIDENT.  An individual, business, or
corporation that is a resident of the Charter Township of Clayton and subject
to the Swartz Creek Area Fire Department millage and the Clayton Township
Police millage on the date emergency services are provided.
   CITY OF SWARTZ CREEK RESIDENT.  An individual, business, or corporation that
is a resident of the City of Swartz Creek and located in the Swartz Creek Area
Fire District on the date that emergency services are provided.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE.  Utilizing the services and equipment of the Police
Department and/or the Fire Department or that of any other municipality,
corporation, or individual operating at the request or direction of Clayton
Township, the Police Department, or the Fire Department for an incident which
threatens the public health, safety, welfare, or property located within the
Township and shall include but is not limited to:
      (1)   Fire incident, traffic, or vehicular accident, vehicle extrication,
medical response, lift assist or hazardous condition, vehicle fire, grass fire,
rubbish fire, house fire, commercial property fire, industrial property fire,
manufacturing property fire, multiple-family building fire, hotel or motel
fire, aircraft fire, train fire, truck fire, forest fire, emergency rescue
service, resuscitator service, swimming pool service, downed power line or
other non-HAZMAT public utility hazard response or any hazardous materials
incident;
      (2)   Response to any premises within the Township required by the Police
and/or Fire Department by unauthorized open burning incidents or by violation
of the township’s burning ordinance, as it may be amended;
      (3)   Release or threatened release of hazardous or toxic materials;
      (4)   Downed overhead power, electrical, transmission, telephone, or
cable lines owned by non-governmental entities;
      (5)   An individual responsible for any intentional false alarm causing a
response by the Clayton Township Police Department or the Swartz Creek Area
Fire Department; and
      (6)   A false alarm at any business, commercial, or residential structure
within Clayton Township requiring a response from the Clayton Township Police
Department or the Swartz Creek Area Fire Department as defined in §§
91.15 through
91.18 of the Charter Township of Clayton Code of Ordinances.
   FEE SCHEDULE.  A schedule of fees hereby incorporated by reference as set
forth by resolution of the Clayton Township Board of Trustees. The fee schedule
may be amended at any time by resolution of the Clayton Township Board of
Trustees.
   FIRE DEPARTMENT.  The Swartz Creek Area Fire Department and its acting
Chief, officers, and employees.
   HAZARDOUS CONDITION.  An occurrence resulting in a risk to the physical
welfare of persons in the immediate area of the situation requiring a Police
Department or Fire Department response.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.  Any material that poses an unreasonable risk to the
property and/or to the health and safety of the public, environment, or
emergency personnel, if not properly controlled during handling, storage,
manufacture, processing, packaging, use, disposal, or transportation and shall
include but not be limited to:
      (1)   Explosives;
      (2)   Pyrotechnics;
      (3)   Flammable gas;
      (4)   Flammable compressed gas;
      (5)   Nonflammable compressed gas;
      (6)   Flammable liquid;
      (7)   Combustible liquid;
      (8)   Oxidizing material;
      (9)   Poisonous gases;
      (10)   Poisonous liquid;
      (11)   Poisonous solid;
      (12)   Irritating material;
      (13)   Etiological material;
      (14)   Radioactive material;
      (15)   Corrosive material; and
      (16)   Liquefied petroleum gas.
   OWNER.  The record titleholder, or their purchaser by contract, or a person
or corporation having vested or contingent interest in the premises, container,
building, or vehicle in question.
   PERSON.  A natural person, corporation, utility, railroad, partnership, or
any other entity with legal capacity.
   POLICE DEPARTMENT.  The Charter Township of Clayton Police Department and
its acting Chief, officers, and employees.
   PREMISES.  Any lot or parcel of land, exclusive of building within the
Township.
   RAILROAD.  As any person, partnership, association, or corporation, their
respective lessees, trustees, or receivers, appointed by a court, or other
legal entity operating in this state either as a common carrier for hire or for
private use as a carrier of persons of property upon cars operated upon
stationary rails and include any person, partnership, association, corporation,
trustee, or receiver appointed by a court or any other legal entity owning
railroad tracks.
   RAILROAD FIRE/ACCIDENT.  A burning rail car contents, or burning vegetation
(e.g., grass, brush) adjacent to the railroad rails, tracks, or roadbed
originating from railroad/trains passing over the rails, track or roadbed after
the Fire and/or Police Department is dispatched and arrives on scene or any
other incident requiring emergency services from the Clayton Township Police
Department or the Swartz Creek Area Fire Department.
   RELEASE.  Any actual or threatened leaking, spilling, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, or disposing
into the environment (including air, soil, ground water, and surface water).
   RESIDENT.  Any person having legal residency within the Charter Township of
Clayton. Residency may be established by voter registration or similar public
record maintained by Clayton Township or by the County of Genesee, State of
Michigan or any agency or department of the United States Federal Government.
RESIDENT shall include any individual, firm, partnership, or corporation owning
real property within the Charter Township of Clayton.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  Any person who receives Fire or Police Department
response services who does not pay property taxes to the Charter Township of
Clayton or who is not a resident and is not specifically exempted under the
provisions of §
95.05. When a particular service rendered by or through the Fire or Police
Department directly benefits more than 1 person, the owner of each property
benefited and each person benefited (if property protection is not involved),
shall also be responsible jointly and severally for assessable costs billed to
the recipient of the service. Parents or guardians shall be responsible for
payment of assessable costs incurred by minors.
   TAXPAYER.  Any person, business, corporation, or other entity that pays
property taxes to the Charter Township of Clayton directly or through a
mortgage escrow or similar arrangement.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Charter Township of Clayton, Genesee County, Michigan, and
its acting Supervisor, officers, and employees.
   UTILITY.  All persons, firms, corporations, partnerships, organizations,
municipal, or other public authority that provides gas, electric, water, steam,
sewer, energy, telecommunications, cable television, or other service of a
similar nature.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE.  A downed power line, gas pipeline breaks (including
ruptures and punctures), the disabling of any transmission or service line,
cable, conduit, pipeline, wire or the like used to provide, collect or
transport electricity, natural gas, propane, communication, or electronic
signals, water, or sanitary or storm sewage, or other mishaps occurring in
connection with the activities of utilities or their suppliers after the Fire
or Police Department is dispatched and arrives on scene.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 95.04  LIABILITY FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSE COSTS.
   (A)   All recipients or responsible parties shall be jointly and severally
civilly liable to the Charter Township of Clayton for all assessed costs as
authorized by this chapter for any emergency response by the Clayton Township
Fire Department or the Swartz Creek Area Fire Department. A property owner
remains liable for all assessed costs for any emergency response pursuant to
this chapter regardless of whether the owner has, by agreement, imposed on an
occupant or operator the duty to guard against, insure against, or indemnify
from any of the charges, costs, or fees encompassed by this chapter unless
specifically exempted from liability by this chapter.
   (B)   A recipient or responsible party shall include, but is not limited to,
the property owner, occupant, or operator of real or personal property. If an
emergency response by the Clayton Township Police Department or the Swartz
Creek Area Fire Department benefits more than 1 person or property, the owner
of each property or each responsible party so benefited shall be jointly and
severally liable for the payment of the full assessed fees and costs of the
emergency response.
   (C)   Any apportionment of costs or fees among or between responsible
parties for an emergency response, interpretation, and application of this
subsection is exclusively at the discretion of the Clayton Township Fire
Department Chief and/or the Swartz Creek Area Fire Department Chief and is
subject only to the appeal procedures set forth in §
95.06.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 95.05  EXEMPTIONS FROM LIABILITY.
   The following shall be exempt from the collection of emergency response
charges by the Clayton Township Police Department and/or the Swartz Creek Area
Fire Department:
   (A)   False alarms not exceeding 3 false alarms in any one-year period and
any exemption as set forth and defined in §
91.16 of the Charter Township of Clayton Code of Ordinances. False alarms shall
be governed in accordance with §§
91.15 through
91.18 of the Clayton Township Codified Ordinances.
   (B)   Fires or accidents caused by railroad trains, which are the specific
statutory responsibility of railroad companies, to the extent that state or
federal statutes exempt them from liability.
   (C)   Fires or accidents caused by aviation companies which are the specific
statutory responsibility of aviation companies, to the extent that state or
federal statutes exempt them from liability.
   (D)   Fires involving Clayton Township buildings, property, or grounds.
   (E)   Fire or other emergency response services performed outside the
jurisdiction of Clayton Township, unless Clayton Township and the other
municipality where the services are performed have each adopted an ordinance to
impose cost recovery fees for emergency services within their respective
territories pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 41.806(a). Any services provided by the
Clayton Township Police Department or the Swartz Creek Area Fire Department
outside the jurisdiction of Clayton Township relating to the release of
hazardous or toxic materials shall not be exempt from reimbursement charges for
emergency services.
   (F)   Emergency services, including the services of the Swartz Creek Area
Fire Department and the Clayton Township Police Department, provided to an
individual, business, or corporation that is a resident of the Charter Township
of Clayton on the date of the services.
   (G)   Emergency services provided by the Swartz Creek Fire Department to an
individual, business, or corporation that is a resident of the City of Swartz
Creek or a resident of the Swartz Creek Fire District on the date the services
were provided. This exemption shall not apply to the services of the Clayton
Township Police Department for City of Swartz Creek residents.
   (H)   Emergency services provide to all municipalities including
incorporated cities, townships, villages, counties including Genesee County and
the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 95.06  APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   Any responsible party receiving a bill for Emergency Services pursuant to
this chapter may appeal all charges or any portion of the charges according to
the following procedures.
   (A)   A responsible party may file a written protest of any portion or all
of the charges assessed to the party by filing such protest with the Clayton
Township Clerk’s office within 30 days of the date of the invoice received by
the responsible party. Any protest or challenge to the emergency services
charges must state specific reasons that the charges are improper and the
specific relief requested.
   (B)   The Clayton Township Clerk shall notify the Clayton Township Police
Chief or the Swartz Creek Area Fire Chief and schedule a meeting with the
appealing party and the Police Chief and/or the Fire Chief within 14 days of
receipt of the written protest. The Police Chief and/or the Fire Chief shall
notify the appealing party in writing of his/her decision on the appeal of the
charges within 14 days of the meeting.
   (C)   If, after meeting with the Police Chief and/or the Fire Chief, the
appeal is not resolved, the appealing party shall have the right to have the
appeal placed on the agenda of the Clayton Township Board of Trustees next
regularly scheduled meeting. The request for a meeting of the appealing party
and the Clayton Township Board shall be made in writing within 14 days of the
date of the Police Chief and/or Fire Chiefs written decision.
   (D)   When hearing the appeal, the Clayton Township Board of Trustees shall
consider the following factors:
      (1)   The degree to which the imposition of assessable costs presents a
unique situation unlikely to be repeated;
      (2)   Whether granting the appeal would do harm to the intent and purpose
of this chapter;
      (3)   Whether the service provided was given as the result of false
information or false alarm not caused by the party to whom the services were
provided;
      (4)   Whether the charges comply with the Clayton Township schedule of
charges or whether the apportionment of said charges is incorrect or
inappropriate in any manner;
      (5)   Whether the responsible party is subject to paying the Clayton
Township ad valorem public safety millage;
      (6)   Whether the assessment of emergency services charges will cause
undue hardship to the responsible party; and
      (7)   Good cause with sufficient proof to satisfy the Clayton Township
Board.
   (E)   The Clayton Township Board may extend the time period in which the
payment of assessed emergency services fees are due for a reasonable period of
time not to exceed 1 year.
   (F)   Failure to file a timely written request pursuant to the above time
periods shall constitute a waiver by the responsible party of any right to
request relief for any assessed charges and shall constitute an agreement to
pay the charges in full.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 95.07  COST RECOVERY SCHEDULE OF CHARGES.
   (A)   The Clayton Township Board of Trustees shall, by resolution, adopt a
schedule of all fees and costs association with emergency services provided by
the Clayton Township Police Department and/or the Swartz Creek Area Fire
Department. The fee schedule shall be available to the public at the Clayton
Township Clerk’s office. The schedule of emergency services fees and costs is
subject to revision by resolution of the Clayton Township Board of Trustees.
   (B)   The recovery of emergency services cost pursuant to this chapter shall
not relieve or limit the liability of any responsible parties under any other
applicable local ordinance, state or federal law, rule, or regulation.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 95.08  PAYMENT AND COLLECTION OF EMERGENCY SERVICES FEES.
   (A)   Clayton Township shall provide an itemized written invoice of all
assessed costs and fees for emergency services to all each responsible party
within a reasonable period of time after the incident giving rise to the use of
the emergency services. All charges shall be due and payable within 30 days
from the date of the invoice.
   (B)   Failure to file the appropriate appeal pursuant to the guidelines set
forth in §
95.06 shall constitute a waiver of all appeal rights.
   (C)   Failure of the responsible party to reimburse Clayton Township for all
assessed fees and costs as invoiced within 30 days of the date of the invoice
shall constitute a default of payment.
   (D)   All invoices issued pursuant to this ordinance shall be a civil
liability against the responsible party. Clayton Township may proceed to the
appropriate court of jurisdiction to collect any monies owed pursuant to
invoice.
   (E)   Clayton Township reserves the right to utilize the services of a third
party to administer invoices to a responsible party and to collect the
corresponding charges.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
§ 95.09  NON-EXCLUSIVE CHARGES.
   The charges cited by this chapter shall not be exclusive charges for
emergency services provided by the Clayton Township Police Department and/or
the Swartz Creek Area Fire Department. Fees may be additionally collected by
Clayton Township through general taxation after a vote of the electorate
approving the same or by a special assessment established under the Michigan
Statutes. General Fund appropriations may also be made to cover such additional
costs and expenses of providing emergency services.
(Ord. 442, passed 3-21-2013)
CHAPTER 96:  BLIGHT PREVENTION AND ELIMINATION
Section
   
96.01   General prohibitions
   
96.02   Purpose
   
96.03   Causes of blight
   
96.04   Enforcement
§ 96.01  GENERAL PROHIBITIONS.
   An ordinance to prevent, reduce or eliminate blight, blighting factors or
causes of blight within the Charter Township of Clayton, Genesee County,
Michigan; to provide for the enforcement hereof; and to provide penalties for
the violation hereof. Pursuant to the enacting authority therefore provided by
Public Act 344 of 1945, as amended, the Blight Area Rehabilitation Act
[M.C.L.A. §§ 125.71 et seq.].
(Ord. 449, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 96.02  PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the letter and spirit of Public Act 344 of 1945, as amended,
it is the purpose of this chapter to prevent, reduce or eliminate blight or
potential blight in the Charter Township of Clayton by the prevention or
elimination of certain environmental causes of blight of blighting factors
which exist or which may, in the future, exist in the Charter Township of
Clayton.
(Ord. 449, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 96.03  CAUSES OF BLIGHT.
   It is hereby determined that the following uses, structures, and activities
are causes of blight or blighting factors which, if allowed to exist, will tend
to result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods. On, and after, the
effective date of this chapter, no person, firm or corporation of any kind
shall maintain, or permit to be maintained, any of the following causes of
blight or blighting factors upon any property in the Charter Township of
Clayton owned, leased, rented, or occupied by such person, firm or corporation.
   (A)   In any area zoned for residential purposes, the storage upon any
property of junk automobiles except in a completely enclosed building. For the
purpose of this chapter, the term JUNK AUTOMOBILES shall include any automobile
which is not licensed for use upon the highways of the State of Michigan, and
shall also include, whether so licensed or not, any motor vehicle which is
inoperative.
   (B)   In any area zoned for residential purposes unless approved by the
Charter Township of Clayton, the storage of any building materials other than
in a completely enclosed building. BUILDING MATERIALS shall include, but shall
not be limited to, lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts or equipment,
shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws, steel, or any other
materials commonly used in constructing any structure. This definition shall
not apply to building materials temporarily on a site, when there is in force,
a valid building permit.
   (C)   In any area, the storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish, or
refuse of any kind. The term JUNK shall include, but is not limited to: parts
of machinery or motor vehicles; unused dilapidated, unlicensed or disassembled
snowmobiles; ATV’s, farm tractors, lawn tractors, trailer or semi-trailers, or
motorcycles; unused stoves or other appliances stored in the open; remnants of
wood, metal, junk tires, or any other material or other cast-off material of
any kind whether or not the same could be put to any reasonable use.
   (D)   In any area, the existence of any structure or part of any structure
which, because of fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration is no longer habitable nor useful for any other purpose of which
it may have been intended, or as may be prohibited by the Michigan Building
Code.
   (E)   In any area, the existence of any vacant dwelling, garage or other
out-building unless such buildings are kept securely locked, windows kept
glazed or completely boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent entrance
thereto by vandals, or other unauthorized persons.
   (F)   In any area, the existence of any partially completed structure unless
such structure is in the course of construction in accordance with a valid and
subsisting building permit issued by the Township Board and unless such
construction is completed within a reasonable time.
(Ord. 449, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 96.04  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by such persons who shall be so
designated by the Township Board.
   (B)   The owner, if possible, and the occupant of any property upon which
any of the causes of blight or blighting factors set forth in §
96.03 is found to exist, shall be notified, in writing, to remove or eliminate
such causes of blight or blighting factors from such property within 30 days
after service of the notice upon him or her. Personnel of the Charter Township
of Clayton shall serve such notices. Additional time may be granted by the
Enforcement Officer where bonafide efforts to remove or eliminate such causes
of blight or lighting factors are in progress.
   (C)   Failure by the owner and/or occupant to comply with terms of the
notice required by division (B) of this section within the time allowed shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys,
omits, neglects, or refuses to comply or who resists the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this chapter, Blight Prevention and Elimination, shall be
deemed responsible for a municipal civil infraction subject to the terms and
penalties set forth in §§
150.65 through
150.72.
(Ord. 449, passed 10-10-2013)
CHAPTER 97:  FIREWORKS
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Regulations for the ignition, discharge and use of fireworks
   
97.04   Ignition, discharge or use of consumer fireworks on public property,
school property, church property or the property of another person
   
97.05   Ignition, discharge or use of consumer fireworks while under the
influence of alcoholic liquor or a controlled substance
   
97.06   Determination of violation of chapter; seizure, destruction and storage
costs of fireworks
   
97.07   Local, state and federal requirements
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01  PURPOSE.
   The regulation of the ignition, discharge, and use of fireworks for the
safety of the residents of the Charter Township of Clayton is enacted pursuant
to the provisions of M.C.L.A. § 28.451 et seq., as amended by Michigan Public
Acts 634, 635, and 636 of 2018 and is intended to protect the safety of all
township residents and protect the rights of all township residents to peaceful
enjoyment of their property.
(Ord. 2019-482, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 97.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR.  The term shall be as defined in the Michigan Motor
Vehicle Code, M.C.L.A. § 257.1d .
   APA STANDARD 87-1.  The standard for the construction and approval
transportation of fireworks, novelties, and theatrical pyrotechnics, as
published by the American Pyrotechnics Association of Bethesda, Maryland.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS.  Fireworks devices that are designed to comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Protection Safety Commission 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507,
as amended, and that are listed in APA Standard 87-1. CONSUMER FIREWORKS do not
include low-impact fireworks.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  The term shall be as defined in the Michigan Motor
Vehicle Code, M.C.L.A. § 257.8b.
   FIREWORKS.  Any composition or device, except for a starting pistol, a flare
gun, or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a visible or audible
effect by combustion, deflagration or detonation.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparling devices as defined in APA
Standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5.
   MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
(Ord. 2019-482, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 97.03  REGULATIONS FOR THE IGNITION, DISCHARGE AND USE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Except as provided in this section, a person shall not ignite,
discharge or use consumer fireworks at any time.
   (B)   A person may ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks during the
following dates and times:
      (1)   From 11:00 a.m. on December 31 to 1:00 a.m. on the immediately
following January 1.
      (2)   From 11:00 a.m. to 11:45 p.m. on the Saturday immediately preceding
Memorial Day.
      (3)   From 11:00 a.m. to 11:45 p.m. on the Sunday immediately preceding
Memorial Day.
      (4)   From 11:00 a.m. to 11:45 p.m. on June 29, June 30, July 1, July 2,
July 3, and July 4.
      (5)   From 11:00 a.m. to 11:45 p.m. on July 5, if that date is a Friday
or Saturday.
      (6)   From 11:00 a.m. to 11:45 p.m. on the Saturday immediately preceding
Labor Day.
      (7)   From 11:00 a.m. to 11:45 p.m. on the Sunday immediately preceding
Labor Day.
   (C)   A minor shall not possess, ignite, discharge, or use consumer
fireworks.
   (D)   A violation of this section shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction, punishable by a fine of $1,000.
(Ord. 2019-482, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 97.04  IGNITION, DISCHARGE OR USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS ON PUBLIC PROPERTY,
SCHOOL PROPERTY, CHURCH PROPERTY OR THE PROPERTY OF ANOTHER PERSON.
   (A)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks on
public property, school property, church property or the property of another
person without that organization's or a person's express permission to use
fireworks on the premises.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction, punishable by a fine of $1,000.
(Ord. 2019-482, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 97.05  IGNITION, DISCHARGE OR USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS WHILE UNDER THE
INFLUENCE OF ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR OR A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.
   (A)   A person shall not ignite, discharge or use consumer fireworks or low-
impact fireworks while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a controlled
substance or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance.
   (B)   A violation of this section shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction, punishable by a fine of $1,000.
(Ord. 2019-482, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 97.06  DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION OF ORDINANCE; SEIZURE, DESTRUCTION AND
STORAGE COSTS OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   If a township law enforcement officer determines that a violation of
this chapter has occurred, the officer may seize the fireworks as evidence of
the violation.
   (B)   The township shall store the evidence seized under this chapter
pending the disposition of any proceedings from the violation.
   (C)   Upon a final disposition of an appeal of a finding of responsibility
under this chapter that affirms the finding, the township may dispose of or
destroy any fireworks seized as evidence.
   (D)   A person determined responsible, by a court of competent jurisdiction,
for a violation of this chapter and from whom fireworks are seized, shall pay
the actual costs of storage and the cost of disposal of the seized fireworks.
(Ord. 2019-482, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 97.07  LOCAL, STATE AND FEDERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No provision of this chapter shall relieve a person from any duty or
obligation under any local, state or federal law, rule, regulation, license or
permit requirements.
(Ord. 2019-482, passed 8-8-2019)
§ 97.99  PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for
a municipal civil infraction with a civil fine of$1,000 for each violation of
the chapter. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 28.457(3), $500 of the fine collected under
this chapter shall be remitted to the township Police Department for
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 2019-482, passed 8-8-2019)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLER, CANVASSER AND SOLICITOR REGULATIONS
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
      
112.   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
CHAPTER 110:  PEDDLER, CANVASSER AND SOLICITOR REGULATIONS
Section
General Regulations
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Requirements
   
110.04   Application
   100.05   Exemptions
   
110.06   Issuance
   
110.07   Conditions
   
110.08   Suspension and revocation
   
110.09   Effective date
Solicitations of Charitable, Patriotic Nature and the Like
   
110.20   Permit required; compliance
   
110.21   Application
   
110.22   Issuance, term
   
110.23   Organizations exempted from fee payment
   
110.24   Suspension and revocation
   
110.25   Prohibited acts
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 110.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Charter Township of Clayton Solicitors
Ordinance.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following words and phrases shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section:
   PEDDLER.  Any person, whether a resident of the township or not, traveling
by foot, automobile, vehicle or any other type of conveyance, from place to
place, from house to house, from street to street, carrying, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, baked goods, fruits or vegetables,
offering and exposing the same for sale or making and delivering articles to
purchasers. 
   RELIGIOUS ORGANIZATIONS.  Any organization, church, body of communicants, or
group, not for economic profit, or individuals united for religious purposes at
a definite place; or a church- related private school, not for economic profit.
   SOLICITOR or CANVASSER.  Any person traveling either by foot, automobile,
motor truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to
house, from street to street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of
goods, wares, merchandise, or personal property of any nature whatsoever, for
future, whether or not the individual has, carries or exposes for sale a sample
of the subject of the sale, or whether or not he or she is collecting advance
payments on such sales.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.03  REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any solicitor, canvasser or peddler to engage in
such business in the township without first obtaining a license therefor in the
manner set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  APPLICATION.
   (A)   Each person, firm or corporation desiring to obtain a license or
engage in business as a solicitor, canvasser or peddler shall file a written
application to the Clerk and at the time of application pay to the Clerk a fee
as prescribed by resolution of the Township Board.
   (B)   The application for license shall contain the following items with
such additional information as the Clerk may require:
      (1)   Full name, age, permanent residence and local address;
      (2)   The name of the firm or corporation represented, together with the
central or district office of the corporation;
      (3)   The address or location of the place of business within the
township or county;
      (4)   List of general description of the goods, wares or merchandise to
be sold or offered to be sold;
      (5)   Length of time requested for the license;
      (6)   Previous license held;
      (7)   Place where applicant has conducted business in the previous 6
months;
      (8)   A photograph of the applicant taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the day of filing the application, which picture shall be 2 inches by
2 inches, showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear and
identifiable manner;
      (9)   The fingerprints of the applicant;
      (10)   A statement of any convictions of the applicant or any crime or
misdemeanor or violation of any provision of this chapter or other code, the
nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor; and
      (11)   The affidavit of the applicant to the truth of the statement
contained in the application, signed by the applicant.
   (C)   If the business of the applicant shall require the use of weighing or
measuring devices, the application shall be accompanied by a certificate from
the sealer of weights and measures stating that the devices have been examined
and approved.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.05  EXEMPTIONS.
   The following classes of solicitors, canvassers or peddlers may be exempt,
with the concurrence of the Township Board:
   (A)   Church and social functions of the township;
   (B)   All scout- and school-related fundraisers;
   (C)   4-H club activities; and
   (D)   All other nonprofit fund promotion activities.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.06  ISSUANCE.
   Upon receipt of an application for a license under this subchapter, together
with the appropriate fee, the Clerk shall make such investigation as he or she
deems necessary for the protection of the public good.  If as a result of this
investigation, the applicant’s character and business reputation are found to
be unsatisfactory, the application shall be denied.  If as a result of the
investigation the character and business reputation appear to be satisfactory,
the Clerk shall issue a license.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.07  CONDITIONS.
   The following conditions and regulations shall apply to the exercise of
privileges granted by licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter,
in addition to those set forth in other parts of this subchapter, or this
chapter or other ordinances of the township:
   (A)   No licensee shall use any weighing or measuring device in the conduct
of his or her business or have in his or her possession any weighing or
measuring device unless the device shall have been examined and approved by the
sealer of weights and measures.
   (B)   No licensee shall sell or offer for sale any article or commodity
purporting to be in quantities of standard weight or measure, whether in
original or other packages or not, unless the same shall be actually the weight
or measure purported.
   (C)   No licensee shall sell or offer for sale any unsound or unripe or
unwholesome food or defective, faulty, incomplete or deteriorated article or
merchandise, unless the goods are so represented to prospective customers.
   (D)   The Clerk may require that the goods, wares and merchandise of any
applicant for a license hereunder be inspected by the Chief of the Fire
Department or any inspector of the Fire Department designated by the Chief of
the Fire Department to act for him or her, before issuing a license under the
terms of this subchapter.  The Clerk shall refuse a license to any applicant
where the goods, wares or merchandise are found to be fire hazards by the
inspecting official.
   (E)   Persons peddling or vending goods under this subchapter for a vehicle
shall comply with the provisions of the traffic and parking regulations of the
township relative to vehicles and shall not be allowed to remain standing at 1
place on any of the streets, alleys or public places for a longer period than
10 minutes in any 1 block while being used for peddling or vending purposes.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.08  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Township Board shall have the power to suspend any license issued
under the provisions of this subchapter whenever in its judgment it is for the
best interests of the community to do so, having in mind the welfare, safety
and health of the township.
   (B)   The Township Board may revoke any license for the same causes as above
specified, after giving the licensee reasonable notice and an opportunity to be
heard.
   (C)   Violations of the express conditions and regulations under which the
license was granted shall be sufficient cause for the suspension and revocation
of the license.
   (D)   In case the license is revoked for violation of the express conditions
and regulation under which it was granted, the amount of the fee paid therefor
shall be forfeited to the township, and no licensee shall have the right to a
refund of any part of the fee.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 10 days after passage and publication on July
2, 2006.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
SOLICITATIONS OF CHARITABLE, PATRIOTIC NATURE AND THE LIKE
§ 110.20  PERMIT REQUIRED; COMPLIANCE.
   No person shall obtain contributions or solicit contributions or sell or
offer for sale any cookies, candy, poppies, tags, button, forget-me-nots,
flags, ribbons or any other tokens, whether real or artificial, for any
charitable, patriotic or other purposes on the streets or in public places or
by door-to- door, in the township without complying with the provisions of this
subchapter and without obtaining a permit authorized by the Township Clerk for
conducting the solicitation or sale at a particular time and place involved,
and without paying a fee.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21  APPLICATION.
   An application for a permit to obtain funds or to solicit or sell as
provided in §
110.04 shall be filed with the Clerk no later than 1 day prior to the
commencement of any solicitation or sale.  The applications shall contain the
following information or in lieu thereof, a detailed statement of the reason or
reasons why the information cannot be furnished:
   (A)   The name, address or headquarters of the applicant;
   (B)   If applicant is not an individual, the names and addresses of the
applicant’s principal officers and managers, and whether the organization is
part of an international, national or state agency or organization, or entirely
local;
   (C)   Length of time the organization has been in continuous existence in
the township or state;
   (D)   If the organization is a new organization, a detailed statement of the
type or kind of organization, its objectives and the service it will render in
the township or elsewhere;
   (E)   The names and addresses of the person who will be in direct charge of
conducting the solicitation or sale, and of the person by whom the receipts
will be disbursed;
   (F)   The purpose of which solicitation or sale is to be made, the total
goal or amount of funds proposed to be raised thereby and the use or
disposition to be made of any receipt therefrom;
   (G)   An outline of the methods to be used in conducting the solicitations
or sale, and a description of any device, token or article to be given or sold,
together as to the place of origin and manufacture;
   (H)   The time when the solicitations or sales shall be made, giving the
preferred dates for the beginnings and ending thereof, and the area within the
township in which the solicitation or sale will be conducted;
   (I)   The estimated costs of the solicitation and the amount of any wages,
fees, commissions, expenses or gifts to be expended, paid or given to any
person in connection with such solicitations or sales, and the names and
addresses of all such persons;
   (J)   A full statement of character and extent of the charitable work being
done by the applicant within the township and elsewhere, if the applicant is a
charitable or nonprofit corporation;
   (K)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted it will not be
used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the township, by any
department or officer thereof;
   (L)   Attached to the application shall be a form of identification card
which shall be the credentials of all persons participating in the solicitation
or sale and the application shall show the name of the person authorized by the
applicant to sign the identification cards; and
   (M)   Any other information as may be reasonably required by the Clerk to
determine the kind and character of the proposed solicitation or sale, and
whether the solicitation is in the interest of, and not contrary to, the public
welfare.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.22  ISSUANCE, TERM.
   (A)   The Clerk shall issue a permit provided for in §
110.20 when the Clerk shall find the following facts exist:
      (1)   That all the statements made in the application are true;
      (2)   That the applicant has a good reputation for honesty and integrity,
or if the applicant is not an individual, that every officer, manager or agent
of the applicant has a good reputation for honesty and integrity;
      (3)   That the control and supervision of the solicitation or sale will
be under responsible and reliable persons; and
      (4)   That the applicant has not engaged in any fraudulent transaction or
enterprise.
   (B)   No door-to-door solicitation or sales shall occur prior to 10:00 a.m.
or after sundown on any day.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.23  ORGANIZATIONS EXEMPTED FROM FEE PAYMENT.
   A charitable, religious, school, veterans or scout organization shall be
exempt from payment of any fee as may be required by this chapter when making
application for a permit to solicit contributions or sell or offer for sale any
item for any charitable religious or other purpose, on the streets or in public
places or door-to-door campaign in the township.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.24  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Upon complaint with the Police Department or with the Clerk or by any
person or organization or upon his or her own notice, the Clerk may suspend the
permit of any person or organization or upon his or her motion, the Clerk may
suspend the permit or organization granted a permit under this subchapter for
any of the following:
      (1)   Any material misrepresentation in the application for a permit or
any fraud in its  procurement, or failure to carry out any commitment or
representation contained in the application;
      (2)   Any cause which would have prevented the granting of the permit in
the first place; or
      (3)   Misconduct of the permittees, such as the violation of any of the
requirements of this subchapter, the commission of any unlawful act prohibited
by this subchapter, or any other law involving honesty, good faith, integrity,
responsibility or moral turpitude.
   (B)   After the Township Clerk has made his or her findings and suspends a
permit, the holder of the permit shall have the right to appeal to the Township
Board, or a committee thereof, within 10 days after receiving notice of the
suspension.  Such appeal shall be made by writing a letter and filing it with
the Clerk stating that if an appeal is not made within the 10-day period the
permit shall be revoked.  The Township Board, or a committee thereof, shall
convene to hear an appeal at their next regular meeting after written notice of
appeal has been filed with the Clerk.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.25  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Solicit for a charitable, patriotic or other nonprofit organization
unless the organization shall have previously applied for and obtained a permit
as set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   Solicit without the express prior permission of an occupant, at any
residence address or apartment complex where there is posted a sign stating “No
solicitors or peddlers.”
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   Any violations of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of $500 or 90
days in jail, or both, within the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 421, passed 6-8-2006)
CHAPTER 111:  CABLE TELEVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
111.03   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
111.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
111.05   Proprietary information
   
111.06   Initial review of rates
   
111.07   Tolling order
   
111.08   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-deadline
   
111.09   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
111.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
111.11   Refunds; notice
   
111.12   Written decisions; public notice
   
111.13   Rules and regulations
   
111.14   Failure to give notice
   
111.15   Additional hearings
   
111.16   Additional powers
   
111.17   Failure to comply; remedies
   
111.18   Effective date
§ 111.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.  All
other words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
   ACT.  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended, being 47 USC 201 et seq.
(and specifically as amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and
Competition Act of 1992, Pub. L. No. 102-385, being 47 USC 201 and 521), and as
may be amended from time to time.
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT.  All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE.  Basic service as defined in the FCC Rules, and any
other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the
township pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC RULES.  All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
   INCREASE IN RATES.  An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.  (Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.02  PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to: 
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with the basic
cable service rate regulation by the township. 
   (B)   This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with the
Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.03  RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the Charter Township of Clayton shall follow all FCC
Rules.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.04  FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in those rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules.  The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
FCC Rules.  The cable operator shall file 10 copies of the schedule or proposed
increase with the Township Clerk.  For purposes of this chapter, the filing of
the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least 10 copies
have been received by the Township Clerk.  The Township Board may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the township pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide
all information requested by the Township Supervisor in connection with the
township’s review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier
and associated equipment or proposed increase in these rates.  The Township
Supervisor may establish deadlines for submission of the requested information
and the cable operator shall comply with the deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
the rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.05  PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the township
pursuant to §
111.04(B), or any request for information requires the production of
proprietary information, the cable operator shall produce the information. 
However, at the time the allegedly proprietary information is submitted, a
cable operator may request that specific identified portions of its response be
treated as confidential and withheld from public disclosure.  The request must
state the reason why the information should be treated as proprietary and the
facts that support those reasons.  The request for confidentiality will be
granted if the township determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows
that nondisclosure is consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of
Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552.  The township shall place in a public file for
inspection any decision that results in information being withheld.  If the
cable operator requests confidentiality and the request is denied, (1) where
the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may withdraw the proposal,
in which case the allegedly proprietary information will be returned to it; or
(2) the cable operator may seek review within 5 working days of the denial in
any appropriate forum.  Release of the information will be stayed pending
review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the township.  The township shall weigh the policy
considerations favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case.  It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request.  It may grant, deny or
condition a request.  The requesting party or the cable operator may seek
review of the decision by filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. 
Disclosure will be stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality, including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.06  INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of 10 copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
111.04(A), the Township Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the township which shall state that: 
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Township Clerk and (except
those parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public
inspection and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encourage to submit written comments on the
filing to the Township Clerk not later than 7 days after the public notice is
published. 
   (B)   The Township Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the
date, time and place of the meeting at which the Township Board shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.  This notice shall be
mailed by first-class mail at least 3 days before the meeting. 
   (C)   In addition, if a written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule
of rates or the proposed increase is prepared for consideration of the Township
Board, then the Township Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first-class
mail to the cable operator at least 3 days before the meeting at which the
Township Board shall first consider the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.07  TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
111.04(A) unless the Township Board (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by issuing a
brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date of
filing.  The Township Board may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional 150
days in cases involving cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.08  PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
111.07 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basis service tier and associated equipment or proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the township any addition information
required or requested pursuant to §
111.04.  In addition, the Township Board shall hold a public hearing to
consider the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or
150-day period, as the case may be.  The Township Clerk shall publish a public
notice of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the
township which shall state: 
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent or by letter at
the hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from  the office of the
Clerk. 
   (B)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing.  In addition, the Township Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy
of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.09  STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the Township Supervisor shall cause a report
to be prepared for the Township Board which shall (based on the filing of the
cable operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s
review, and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the Township Board pursuant to §
111.10.  The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
Township Clerk.  If at least 10 copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator with the Township Clerk within 10 days after the report is mailed to
the cable operator, the Township Clerk shall forward it to the Township Board.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.10  RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The Township Board shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with FCC Rules.  If the Township Board issues an order allowing the existing
rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it shall also
direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47 C.F.R. §
76.933.  The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90 days of
the tolling order under §
110.07 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing.  The order shall
be issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
111.07 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.11  REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The Township Board may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47
C.F.R. § 76.942.  Before the Township Board orders any refund to subscribers,
the Township Clerk shall give at least 7 days’ written notice to the cable
operator by first-class mail of the date, time and place at which the Township
Board shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity
for the cable operator to comment.  The cable operator may appear in person, by
agent or by letter at that time for the purpose of submitting comments to the
Township Board.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.12  WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the Township Board pursuant to §
111.10 or §
111.11 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the Township
Board, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.  The Township
Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a newspaper of
general circulation within the township which shall: 
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk. 
   (B)   In addition, the Township Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.13  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
111.04, the Township Board may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.14  FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the Township Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the Township Board.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.15  ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the Township Board may hold
additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the Township Board,
in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.16  ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The township shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules,
the cable operator’s franchise and all other applicable law.  The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules and this chapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise.  The township may take any
action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public
interest in connection with the basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.17  FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The township may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s consent agreement with the township) for failure to comply
with the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the township
pursuant to this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules or
regulations promulgated hereunder.  Subject to applicable law, failure to
comply with the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the
township pursuant to this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any
rules and regulations promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds
for revocation or denial of renewal of a cable operator’s consent agreement.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
§ 111.18  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective on September 30, 1993.
(Ord. 341, passed 9-22-1993)
CHAPTER 112:  ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Exclusions
   
112.03   Enforcement
   
112.04   Effective date
License Requirements
   
112.15   License required
   
112.16   Application for license
   
112.17   Standards for issuance of license
   
112.18   Fees
   
112.19   Display of license or permit
   
112.20   Renewal of license or permit
   
112.21   Revocation of license
   
112.22   Administrative procedure and review
Construction and Operation
   
112.35   Physical layout of adult-oriented establishment
   
112.36   Responsibilities of operator
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases
shall mean:
      ADULT BOOKSTORE.  An establishment having as its stock in trade, for
sale, rent, lease, inspection or viewing, books, films, video cassettes,
magazines or other periodicals which are  distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual
activities or specified anatomical areas as defined below, and in conjunction
therewith have facilities for the presentation of adult entertainment, as
defined below, including adult oriented films, movies or live performances, for
observation.
      ADULT CABARET.  A bar, club, restaurant cabaret which features topless
dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar entertainers.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT.  Any exhibition of any motion pictures, live
performance, display or dance of any type, which has as its dominant theme, or
is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on, any actual or simulated
specific sexual activities or specified anatomical areas, as defined below, or
the removal of articles of clothing or appearing partially or totally nude.
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building with a capacity
of less than 50 persons used for presenting material having as its dominant
theme, or distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on, matters depicting,
describing or relating to specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical
areas, as defined below, for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  An enclosed building with a capacity of 50
or more persons used for presenting material having as its dominant theme, or
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on, matters depicting, describing
or relating to specified sexual activities, or specified anatomical areas, as
defined below, for observation by patrons therein.
      ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENT.  Includes but is not limited to adult
bookstores, adult motion picture theaters, adult mini-motion picture
establishments, or adult cabaret; and further means any premises to which
public patrons or members are invited or admitted and which are so physically
arranged so as to provide booths, cubicles, rooms, compartments or stalls
separate from the common areas of the premises for the purposes of viewing
adult-oriented motion pictures, or wherein an entertainer provides adult
entertainment to a member of the public, a patron or a member, whether or not
the adult entertainment is held, conducted, operated or maintained for a
profit, direct or indirect.
      BOARD.  The Township Board for the Charter Township of Clayton, Michigan.
      OPERATORS.  Any person, partnership or corporation operating, conducting,
maintaining or owning any adult-oriented establishment.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  Simulated or actual:
         (a)   Showing of human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or
arousal;
         (b)   Acts of masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy, bestiality,
necrophilia, sado- masochistic abuse, fellatio or cunnilingus; and/or
         (c)   Fondling or erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breasts.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. 
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, and female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernible turgid state, even if
opaquely covered.
   (B)   To the extent that any words, terms and/or phrases are not
specifically defined in this section, the definitions, as set forth in the most
recent Webster’s unabridged dictionary shall apply.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.02  EXCLUSIONS.
   All private schools, and public schools, as defined in Michigan Statutes,
located within the Charter Township of Clayton are exempt from obtaining a
license hereunder when instructing pupils in sex education, approved by the
governing body for that school, as part of its curriculum.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.03  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Police Department and/or agency then servicing the Charter Township of
Clayton shall have the authority to enter any adult-oriented establishment, at
all reasonable times, to inspect the premises and enforce the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.04  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 30 days following adoption by a majority
vote of the Board and its publication in a recognized public newspaper of
general circulation within the County of Genesee.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
LICENSE REQUIREMENTS
§ 112.15  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   From and after the effective date of this chapter, no adult-oriented
establishment shall be operated or maintained in the Charter Township of
Clayton without first obtaining a license to operate issued by the township.
   (B)   A license may be issued only for 1 adult-oriented establishment
located at a fixed and certain place.  Any person, partnership or corporation
which desires to operate more than 1 adult-oriented establishment must have a
license for each.
   (C)   No license or interest in a license may be transferred to any person,
partnership or corporation without advance written municipal approval, by
resolution of the Board, after a full and complete investigation of the
transferee is conducted, pursuant to the terms of this chapter, to determine
that full compliance with the terms and intent of this chapter shall be
recognized, realized and met, in the event that the transfer is approved.
   (D)   All adult-oriented establishments existing at the time of the passage
of this chapter must submit an application for a license within 90 days of the
passage of this chapter.  If an application is not received within the 90-day
period, then such existing adult-oriented establishment shall immediately cease
operations.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.16  APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation desiring to secure a license
shall make application to the Township Clerk.  The application shall be filed
in triplicate with and dated by the Township Clerk.  The original application
shall be retained by the Township Clerk; a copy of the application shall be
distributed promptly by the Township Clerk to the police agency then servicing
the township, in order to allow the township to receive required reports and
background information; and a copy of the application shall be returned to the
applicant.
   (B)   The application for a license shall be upon a form provided by the
Township Clerk.  An applicant for a license, which shall include all partners
or limited partner of a partnership applicant, and all officers or directors of
a corporate applicant and all stockholders holding more than 5% of the stock of
a corporate applicant, or any other person who is interested directly in the
ownership or operation of the business, shall furnish the following information
under oath, as attested to by a duly authorized notary public, or by
examination under oath, to be conducted by an agent/representative of the
township:
      (1)   Full legal name and address, including all aliases;
      (2)   Written proof that the individual is at least 18 years of age;
      (3)   All residential addresses of the applicant for the past 10 years;
      (4)   The applicant’s height, weight, color of eyes, color of hair and
description of any scars, tattoos and/or other similar markings;
      (5)   The business, occupation or employment of the applicant for 10
years immediately preceding the date of application;
      (6)   Whether the applicant previously operated in this or any other
county, city or state under an adult-oriented establishment license or similar
business license;
      (7)   Whether the applicant has ever had such a license revoked or
suspended, the reason therefor, and the business entity or trade name under
which the applicant operated that was subject to the suspension or revocation;
      (8)   All criminal statutes, whether federal or state, or city ordinance
violation convictions, forfeiture of bond and pleadings of nolo contendere on
all charges brought against the applicant, except minor traffic violations;
      (9)   Fingerprints and 2 portrait photographs at least 2 inches by 2
inches of the applicant;
      (10)   The legal description and common street address of the property
where the proposed adult- oriented establishment is to be operated by the
applicant; and
      (11)   If the applicant is a corporation, the application shall specify
the name of the corporation, the date and state of incorporation, the name and
address of the registered agent, and the name and address of all shareholders
owning more than 5% of the stock in the corporation and all officers and
directors of the corporation.
   (C)   Within 45 days of receiving an application for a license the Township
Clerk shall notify the applicant whether the application is granted or denied,
in writing.  This time period may be extended, in the event that additional
time to verify, gather and/or obtain information is required.  A failure of the
Clerk to take action, within the timeframe specified, shall not constitute
either a grant or denial of the application.
   (D)   Whenever an application is denied, the Township Clerk shall advise the
applicant, in writing, of the reasons for the action.  If the applicant
delivers a written request for a hearing to the Clerk, within 10 days of
receipt of notification of denial of the application, a public hearing shall be
held, within 10 days thereafter, before the Board, as hereinafter provided.
   (E)   Failure or refusal of the applicant to give any information relevant
to the investigation of the application or his or her refusal or failure to
appear at any reasonable time and place for examination under oath regarding
the application or his or her refusal to submit to or cooperate with any
investigation required by this chapter shall constitute an admission by the
applicant that he or she is ineligible for the license and shall be grounds for
denial thereof by the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.17  STANDARDS FOR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   To receive a license to operate an adult-oriented establishment, an
applicant must meet the following standards:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual:
         (a)    The applicant shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   The applicant shall not have been convicted of or pleaded nolo
contendere to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution,
obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature, in any jurisdiction, within 7
years immediately preceding the date of the application; and
         (c)   The applicant shall not have been found to have previously
violated this chapter, or any similar municipal ordinance or state law, within
7 years immediately preceding the date of the application.
      (2)   If the applicant is a corporation:
         (a)   All officers, directors and stockholders required to be named
under §
112.16(B) shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under §
112.16(B) shall have been convicted of or pleaded nolo contendere to a felony
or any crime involving moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime
of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction within 7 years immediately preceding the
date of the application; and
         (c)   No officer, director or stockholder required to be named under §
112.16(B) shall have been found to have previously violated this chapter, or
any similar municipal ordinance or state law, within 7 years immediately
preceding the date of application.
      (3)   If the applicant is a partnership, joint venture, or any other type
of organization where 2 or more persons have a financial interest:
         (a)    All persons having a financial interest in the partnership,
joint venture or other type of organization shall be at least 18 years of age;
         (b)   No persons having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been convicted of or pleaded
nolo contendere to a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude,
prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual nature in any jurisdiction
within 7 years immediately preceding the date of the application; and
         (c)   No persons having a financial interest in the partnership, joint
venture or other type of organization shall have been found to have violated
any provision of this chapter, or any similar municipal ordinance or state law,
within 7 years immediately preceding the date of this application. 
   (B)   No license shall be issued unless the Police Department and/or agency
then providing police service to the township has investigated the applicant’s
qualifications to be licensed.  The results of that investigation shall be
filed in writing with the Township Clerk no later than 30 days after the date
of the application.
   (C)   If the Police Department and/or agency then providing police services
to the township is aware of any information bearing on the operator’s
qualifications, that information shall be filed in writing with the Township
Clerk.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.18  FEES.
   An initial license fee of $1,000 shall be submitted with the application for
a license.  If the application is denied, 1/2 of the fee shall be returned,
with the other 1/2 being retained as reimbursement for expenses and costs
incurred in the processing of the application.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.19  DISPLAY OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be displayed in
conspicuous public place in the adult-oriented establishment to which the
license applies.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.20  RENEWAL OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter will terminate at the
expiration of 1 year from the date of issuance, unless sooner revoked, and must
be renewed before any operation is allowed in the following year.  Any operator
desiring to renew a license shall make application to the Township Clerk.  The
application for renewal must be filed not later than 60 days before the license
expires.  The application for renewal shall be filed in triplicate with and
dated by the Township Clerk, on a form which shall be provided by the Township
Clerk. The submitted renewal form shall contain that information and data,
given under oath or affirmation, as is required for an application for a new
license. The manner in which the township processes the renewal application
shall be similar to that process which applies to all new applications, as
otherwise provided for in this chapter.
   (B)   A license renewal fee of $500 shall be submitted with the application
for renewal.  In addition to the renewal fee, a late penalty of $150 shall be
assessed against the applicant who files for a renewal less than 60 days before
the license expires.  If the application is denied, ½ of the total fees
collected shall be returned, with the other 1/2 being retained as reimbursement
for expenses and costs incurred in the processing of the application.
   (C)   If the Police Department and/or agency then servicing the township is
aware of any information bearing on the operator’s qualifications or
eligibility for license renewal, that information shall be filed in writing
with the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.21  REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Board shall revoke a license or permit for any of the following
reasons:
      (1)   Discovery that false or misleading information or data was given on
any application or material facts were omitted from any application;
      (2)   The operator or any employee of the operator violates any provision
of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted by the Board pursuant to this
chapter; provided, however, that in the case of a first offense by an operator
where the conduct was solely that of an employee, the penalty shall not exceed
a suspension of 30 days if the Board shall find that the operator had no actual
or constructive knowledge of a violation and could not by the exercise of due
diligence have had such actual or constructive knowledge;
      (3)   The operator becomes ineligible to obtain a license or permit at
any time while a license or permit are in effect;
      (4)   Any cost or fee required to be paid by this chapter is not paid; or
      (5)   Any intoxicating liquor or cereal malt beverage is served or
consumed on the premises of the adult-oriented establishment, where no license
permitting possession and/or consumption has been granted and/or is in effect.
   (B)   The Board, before revoking or suspending any license or permit, shall
give the operator at least 10 days’ written notice of the charges against him
or her, and the opportunity for a public hearing before the Board, as
hereinafter provided.
   (C)   The transfer of a license or any interest in a license shall
automatically and immediately revoke the license, and any and all activity
previously permitted by virtue of the initial issuance of the license or permit
shall immediately cease.
   (D)   Any operator whose license is revoked shall not be eligible to receive
a license for 1 year from the date of revocation.  No location or premises for
which a license has been issued shall be used as an adult-oriented
establishment for 6 months from the date of revocation.
   (E)   In the event of any revocation or suspension, no refund of fees paid
shall be made.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.22  ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE AND REVIEW.
   Michigan statutes, concerning contested cases, shall govern the
administrative procedure and review regarding the granting, denial, renewal,
nonrenewal, revocation or suspension of a license. The Township Clerk shall
schedule a public hearing before the Township Board, if the Clerk, as required
by this chapter, receives a timely application for review.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION
§ 112.35  PHYSICAL LAYOUT OF ADULT-ORIENTED ESTABLISHMENT.
   Any adult-oriented establishment having available for customers, patrons or
members any booth, room or cubicle for the private viewing of any adult
entertainment must comply with the following requirements, in addition to any
and all local, state and/or national health codes which may be in effect and be
applicable at any time while a license is issued and valid.
   (A)   Access.  Each booth, room or cubicle shall be totally accessible to
and from aisles and public areas of the adult-oriented establishment, and shall
be unobstructed by any door, lock or other control- type devices.
   (B)   Construction.  Every booth, room or cubicle in addition to local,
state and/or federal code requirements shall meet the following specific
construction requirements:
      (1)   Each booth, room or cubicle shall be separated from adjacent
booths, rooms and cubicles and any non-public areas by a wall;
      (2)   Have at least 1 side totally open to a public lighted aisle so that
there is an unobstructed view at all times of anyone occupying same;
      (3)   All walls shall be solid and without any openings, extended from
the floor to a height of not less than 6 feet and be light-colored, non-
absorbent, smooth textured and easily cleanable;
      (4)   The floor must be light-colored, non-absorbent, smooth textured and
easily cleanable; and
      (5)   The lighting level of each booth, room or cubicle, when not in use,
shall be a minimum of 10 foot-candles at all times, as measured from the floor.
   (C)   Occupants.  Only 1 individual shall occupy a booth, room or cubicle at
any time.  No occupant of any booth, room or cubicle shall engage in any type
of specified sexual activities, cause any bodily discharge or litter in the
booth.  No individual shall damage or deface any portion of the booth.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)  Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.36  RESPONSIBILITIES OF OPERATOR.
   (A)   The operator shall maintain a complete and detailed register of all
employees, showing the name and aliases used by the employee, home address,
age, date of birth, sex, height, weight, color of hair and eyes, phone numbers,
social security number, date of employment and termination, and duties of each
employee.  In addition, there shall be a legible copy of photo identification
maintained for each employee, which, along with the aforementioned information,
shall be updated each year, at the same time that any license renewals are
applied for, as to any then current employees.  The above information on each
employee shall be maintained in the register, which shall be located on the
premises, for a period of 5 years following termination.
   (B)   The operator shall make the register of employees available
immediately for inspection by police upon demand of a member of the Police
Department, any agency then providing police services Charter Township of
Clayton and/or the Township Attorney, at all reasonable times.
   (C)   Every act or omission by an employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
if the act or omission occurs either with the authorization, knowledge or
approval of the operator, or as a result of the operator’s negligent failure to
supervise the employee’s conduct, and the operator shall be punishable for the
act or omission in the same manner as if the operator committed the act or
caused the omission.
   (D)   Any act or omission of any employee constituting a violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed the act or omission of the operator
for purposes of determining whether the operator’s license shall be revoked,
suspended or renewed.
   (E)   No employee of an adult-oriented establishment shall allow any minor,
who shall be considered to be an individual under the age of 18 years of age,
to loiter around or to frequent an adult-oriented establishment or to allow any
minor to view adult entertainment as defined herein.
   (F)   The operator shall maintain the premises in a clean and sanitary
manner at all times.
   (G)   The operator shall maintain at least 15 foot-candles of light in the
public portions of the establishment at all times.  However, if a lesser level
of illumination in the aisles shall be necessary to enable a patron to view the
adult entertainment in a booth, room or cubicle adjoining an aisle, a lesser
amount of illumination may be maintained in the aisles; provided, however, at
no time shall there be less than 5 foot-candles of illumination in the aisles,
as measured from the floor.
   (H)   The operator shall ensure compliance of the establishment and its
patrons with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
§ 112.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, partnership or corporation who is found to have violated
this chapter shall be subject to a civil fine in a definite sum not exceeding
$1,000 and shall be subject to the revocation of any license granted.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor,
punishable by up to $500 and/or 93 days in jail.
   (C)   Each violation of this chapter shall be considered a separate offense,
and any violation continuing more than 1 day shall be considered a separate
offense.
(Ord. 374.4, passed 5-11-2000)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, PEACE AND THE ENVIRONMENT
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Curfew for minors
   
130.02   Control of animals
   
130.03   Assessment of cost of prosecution in misdemeanor cases
 
   
130.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Adult entertainment, see
Chapter 112 of this code of ordinances
§ 130.01  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No minor under the age of 16 years shall be permitted, caused or
suffered to be upon the public streets or in any public place between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. midnight and 6:00 a.m., unless the child is accompanied by his or
her parent or guardian, or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to
accompany the child, or unless the presence of the minor in that place or
places is connected with and required by some legitimate work, trade,
profession or occupation in which the minor is engaged, or unless the minor is
upon an emergency errand or other legitimate business directed by his or her
parent or legal guardian.
   (B)   No minor under the age of 12 years shall be upon the public streets or
in any public place within the township between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:
00 a.m., unless the minor is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or
some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor.
   (C)   The parent or legal guardian of a minor shall be held responsible for
the enforcement of divisions (A) and (B) above.  If any  minor violates any
provision of divisions (A) and (B) of this section, his or her parents or legal
guardian(s) shall be deemed to be in violation of this section and guilty of a
misdemeanor.  A presumption shall arise that the parent or legal guardian
having the care and custody of the minor assisted, aided, abetted and
encouraged the minor in so violating same.
   (D)   Any parent or guardian of a minor child who is notified that his or
her minor child has been taken into custody for a violation of a township
ordinance and who thereafter refuses to collect the minor child from the
authorities or make provision therefor within a reasonable time after
notification shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  Thirty minutes shall be deemed
a reasonable time in the absence of extraordinary circumstances precluding such
action by the parent or guardian.  Authorities shall transport a juvenile to
his or her home in those instances where the parent or guardian is unable to do
so, or to make provision therefor.
   (E)   Any person assisting, aiding, abetting or encouraging any minor under
the age of 16 years to violate the provision of divisions (A) and (B) above
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02  CONTROL OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DOMESTIC ANIMAL. Any dog, other than a vicious dog, cat, or, for the
purposes of this chapter only, farm animals (including, but not limited to,
cattle, horses, mules, sheep, swine, goats, and chickens).
      KEEPING. Allowing a dog or other animal to habitually remain and/or be
lodged within a house, store, building, enclosure, or premises.
      VICIOUS DOG.
         (a)   Any dog with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack,
to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or other
domestic animals;
         (b)   Any dog which has previously attacked or bitten a human being or
other domestic animal other than under what would be considered a justifiable
circumstances;
         (c)   Any dog which has behaved in such a manner that the owner
thereof knows or should reasonably know that the dog is possessed of a tendency
to attack or bite human beings or other domestic animals other than under what
would be considered justifiable circumstances; or
         (d)   The records of the county treasurer's office showing the name of
the owner and the license number issued to that owner, and proof that a tag
with the same number was affixed to the collar of a dog shall be prima facie
proof of ownership of that dog.
   (B)   Cruelty to animals. No person shall overdrive, overload, drive when
overloaded, overwork, torture, torment, deprive of necessary sustenance,
cruelly beat, mutilate, or cruelly kill, or cause or procure to be so
overdriven, overloaded, driven when overloaded, overworked, tortured,
tormented, deprived of necessary sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated, or
cruelly killed, any animal. Further, no person having the charge or custody of
any animal, either as owner or otherwise, shall inflict unnecessary cruelly
upon the same, or willfully fail to provide the same with proper food, drink,
shelter, or protection from the weather. The cropping of dogs' ears shall be
considered to be a mutilation or cruelty to an animal within the meaning of
this section, unless the cropping is performed by a registered veterinary
surgeon, while the dog is under anesthetic.
   (C)   Keeping of certain animals prohibited.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to keep, harbor, own, or in any way possess:
         (a)   Any warm-blooded, carnivorous, or omnivorous, wild, or exotic
animal, or dangerous or undomesticaled animal which is not of a species
customarily used as an ordinary household pet, but which would ordinarily be
confined in a zoo, or one which would ordinarily be found in the wilderness or
wild of this or any other country, or one which otherwise causes a reasonable
person to be fearful of bodily harm or property damage, including, but not
limited to, nonhuman primates, raccoons, skunks, foxes, and wild and exotic
cats, but excluding fowl, ferrets, and small rodents of varieties used for
laboratory purposes; or
         (b)   Any animal having poisonous bites.
      (2)   Any person in possession of a state department of natural resources
possession permit or game breeder's license, or United States Department of the
Interior, U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service federal fish and wildlife license or
permit for an animal otherwise prohibited by this section shall be allowed to
keep, harbor, own, or possess the animal specified in said permit or license;
however, the permit or license shall not be amended to include any additional
animal prohibited by this section.
   (D)   Animal noise. The following noises and disturbances are hereby
declared to be a violation of this section, provided, however, that the
specification of the same is not thereby to be construed to exclude other
violations of this chapter not specifically enumerated: the keeping of any
animal, bird, or fowl which emanates frequent or extended noise which shall
unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any persons in the
vicinity, such as allowing or permitting any dog or other animal to bark, howl,
or yelp repeatedly in an area where that barking, howling, or yelping can be
clearly heard from nearby residential property or to allow any animal to create
any other noise that causes serious annoyance or disturbance to the
neighborhood in which the animal is owned, kept, or harbored or to persons
passing upon the sidewalks, street, or highways.
   (E)   Domestic animals running at large.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring, or
having charge of any domestic animal (including, but not limited to, dogs,
cats, cattle, horses, mules, sheep, swine, goats, chickens, and any other farm
animal) to suffer or permit the domestic animal to run at large.
      (2)   A domestic animal shall be deemed to be running at large when the
domestic animal shall wander unrestrained on any street, alley, park, or public
place or upon any private property other than that of the person owning,
keeping, harboring, or having charge of such domestic animal. A domestic animal
shall be considered restrained if the domestic animal is on a leash no longer
than 8 feet and that the leash is held by a person of sufficient size to
control the domestic animal.
      (3)   It shall be lawful for any police officer of the Charter Township
of Clayton to seize any domestic animal running at large in the Charter
Township of Clayton in violation of this section.
   (F)   Abandonment of animals. It shall be unlawful for any person who is the
owner of, in the possession of, or has control of any dog, cat, domestic fowl,
horse, cattle, swine, or other domestic animal as defined in § 130.02(A) herein
to abandon the animal with the Charter Township of Clayton or to willfully or
negligently allow any animal to suffer unnecessary torture or pain.
   (G)   Domestic animals that trespass. It shall be unlawful for any person to
own, keep, harbor, or have charge of any domestic animal, licensed, or
unlicensed, that by the destruction of property or trespassing on the property
of another person, other than the person owning, keeping, harboring, or having
charge of such domestic animal, shall become a nuisance in the vicinity where
so kept.
   (H)   Creating unsanitary conditions.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, keeping, harboring, or
having charge of any dog or cat or any domestic animal as defined in §
130.02(A) whether licensed or unlicensed to collect, confine, keep, or harbor
such animal in a structure, pen, coop, yard, or otherwise so as to create an
unsanitary, unwholesome, malodorous, or other obnoxious or unclean condition.
      (2)   Any person owning, keeping, harboring, or having charge of any
domestic animal shall keep the yard, pen, shelter, or building provided and
maintained for the confinement of such domestic animal or that is used for the
housing, harboring, or keeping of such domestic animal, clean by removing from
the premises all manure and waste matter from which odors may arise or which
may act as vermin harborage. Such cleaning shall occur as needed to maintain
sanitary conditions.
   (I)   Keeping of vicious dogs. The keeping of vicious dogs as defined in §
130.02 (A)(3) of this chapter shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a vicious dog to go
outside its kennel, pen, or its owner's home unless such dog is securely
leashed with a leash no longer than 4 feet in length. No person shall permit
such a dog to be kept on a chain, rope, or other type of leash outside its
kennel, pen, or its owner's home unless a person is in physical control of the
leash. Such dogs may not be leashed to an inanimate object such as a tree,
post, or building. Any dog on a leash outside the dog's kennel, pen, or owner's
home must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dog from
biting a person or other animal.
      (2)   Confinement. A vicious dog shall be securely confined indoors or in
a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and muzzled
as provided in division(I)(1). Such pen, kennel, or structure must have secure
sides and a secure top attached to its sides. All structures used to confine
such dogs must be locked with a key or a combination lock when such animals are
within the structure. Such a structure must have a secure bottom or floor
attached to the sides of the pen or the sides of the pen must be embedded in
the ground to a depth of no less than 2 feet. All structures erected to house
such dogs must comply with all zoning and building regulations of the Charter
Township of Clayton. All such structures must be adequately lighted,
ventilated, and kept in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (3)   Confinement indoors. No vicious dog may be kept on a porch, patio,
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit such
house or structure on its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept
in a house or structure where window screens or screen doors are the only
obstacle preventing the dog from exiting the structure.
      (4)   Signs. All owners or keepers of vicious dogs within the Charter
Township of Clayton shall display in a prominent place on their premises a sign
easily readable by the public using the words "Beware of Dog." In addition, a
similar sign must be posted on the kennel or pen of such animals.
   (J)   Reporting requirements. Any owner or keeper of a vicious dog must,
within 1 day of any incident as listed below, provide the following information
to the Charter Township of Clayton Police Department:
      (1)   Notice of the removal of the vicious dog from the Charter Township
of Clayton or death of the vicious dog;
      (2)   The birth of the offspring of a vicious dog;
      (3)   The new address of a vicious dog if the owner or keeper moves
within the Charier Township of Clayton limits; and
      (4)   The dog is on the loose, has been stolen, or has attacked a person
or another animal.
   (K)   Seizure of domestic animal. The failure of the owner or keeper of a
domestic animal as defined in § 130.02(A) herein to comply with any of the
requirements and conditions set forth in §
130.02  shall subject the domestic animal to immediate seizure and impoundment.
   (L)   Penalty. Any person who violates the provisions of §
130.02  shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or a fine of not more than $500 or both and the cost of
prosecution as set forth in §
130.99 herein.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998; Am. Ord. 470, passed 3-12-2015)  Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03  ASSESSMENT OF COST OF PROSECUTION IN MISDEMEANOR CASES.
   (A)   Whenever a person is convicted of a misdemeanor offense, by plea or
otherwise, he or she shall be liable to the Charter Township of Clayton for
reimbursement of all costs of an administrative nature, including but not
limited to officer pay; expenses incurred in connection with the preparation of
reports and warrants; court appearances by officers; prosecution expenses and/
or otherwise.  At the time a judgment of conviction is entered, the Court shall
assess the costs to be paid directly to the Charter Township of Clayton, an in
no case shall that amount be less than $250, in addition to whatever other
fines and costs the Court may assess by statute and/or court rule.
   (B)   Effective date of this section is December 23, 2003 (30 days after
publication).
(Ord. 374.7, passed 11-13-2003)
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
130.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
and cost of prosecution, or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days,
or by both, the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
   (C)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
130.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
and cost of prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a
period not to exceed 90 days, or by both, the fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
131.01   Crimes of theft and/or dishonesty
   
131.02   Malicious destruction of property
   
131.03   Breaking and entering coin box
   
131.04   Trespassing or unlawful entry
   
131.05   Larceny from motor vehicles or trailers; attached accessories;
breaking or entering; damaging
   
131.06   Insufficient funds/bad checks
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01  CRIMES OF THEFT AND/OR DISHONESTY.
   (A)   As used in this section, PROPERTY shall include but not be limited to
the following:  money, goods, or chattels, bank note or bill, bond, promissory
note, due bill, bill of exchange or other bill, draft, order or certificate,
book of accounts for or concerning money or goods due or to become due, or to
be delivered, or any deed or writing containing a conveyance of land, or any
other valuable contract in force, any receipt, release, any writ, process or
public record.
   (B)   (1)    Larceny under $100.  A person who shall take any property not
his or her own or to which he or she has no legal right or claim from another
person, or building or vehicle having a value of $100 or less, shall be guilty
of the misdemeanor offense of larceny.
      (2)   Receiving and concealing.  A person who shall receive or possess
any property of another having a value of $100 or less, knowing the same to be
stolen, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   Retail fraud.  A person who does any of the following in a store or
in its immediate vicinity is guilty of retail fraud in the second degree and
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
         (a)   While a store is open to the public, alters, transfers, removes
and replaces, conceals or otherwise misrepresents the price at which property
is offered for sale, with the intent not to pay for the property or to pay less
than the price at which the property is offered for sale;
         (b)   While a store is open to the public, steals property of the
store that is offered for sale;
         (c)   With intent to defraud, obtains or attempts to obtain money or
property from the store as a refund or exchange for property that was not paid
for and belongs to the store;
         (d)   To request and obtain gasoline, oil or other merchandise at a
gasoline station in the township and flee without paying for same, with the
intention to defraud the owner of the business; or
         (e)   To order and consume any food and/or drink without making full
payment for same.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02  MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall maliciously or intentionally destroy, damage,
deface or remove from a building or place where kept, placed or stored, the
property of another having a value of not less than $1 and not more than $100,
without having the right or authority to do so, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor. 
   (B)   As used in this section, PROPERTY means any personal property having a
value in excess of $1, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Structures and the contents thereof, even if rented from another
person;
      (2)   House, barn or other building or the appurtenances thereof;
      (3)   Fences and gates;
      (4)   Vehicles;
      (5)   Growing crops;
      (6)   Trees and landscaping;
      (7)   Signs;
      (8)   Machinery;
      (9)   Domestic livestock or pets;
      (10)   Written or printed records or materials; and
      (11)   Township water meter or any other property belonging to the
township.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03  BREAKING AND ENTERING COIN BOX.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the Charter Township of Clayton
maliciously and willfully, with or without the aid and use of any key,
instruments, device or explosive, to blow or attempt to blow, to force or
attempt to force an entrance into any coin box, depository box, newspaper coin
box or other receptacle established and maintained for the convenience of the
public, which  person does not own or is not an agent of the owner, or for any
person not making payment for article of merchandise or service, wherein is
contained any money or thing of value, to extract or obtain, or attempt to
extract or obtain, the money or thing of value so deposited or contained
therein, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.04  TRESPASSING OR UNLAWFUL ENTRY.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to prohibit the trespass or unlawful
entry upon the land or premises of another and to prescribe the penalty for a
violation thereof. 
   (B)   A person shall not do any of the following:
      (1)   Willfully enter upon the lands or premises of another without
lawful authority to do so, after having been forbidden to do so by the owner of
occupant; or
      (2)   Neglect or refuse without lawful authority to depart from the lands
or premises of another, upon being notified to therefrom by the owner or
occupant or by the agent, servant, tenant, security guard, or other
representative of the owner or occupant.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.05  LARCENY FROM MOTOR VEHICLES OR TRAILERS; ATTACHED ACCESSORIES;
BREAKING OR ENTERING; DAMAGING.
   (A)   A person who commits larceny by stealing or unlawfully removing or
taking any wheel, tire, air bag, radio, stereo, clock, telephone, computer or
other electronic device in or on any motor vehicle, house trailer, trailer or
semi-trailer is guilty of misdemeanor punishable as set forth in §
131.99.
   (B)   A person who enters or breaks into a motor vehicle, house trailer,
trailer or semi-trailer to steal or unlawfully remove property from it is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as set forth in §
131.99.
   (C)   A person who breaks, tears, cuts or otherwise damages any part of the
motor vehicle, house trailer, trailer or semi-trailer is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable as set forth in §
131.99
   (D)   This section shall take effect on December 23, 2003 (30 days after
date of publication).
(Ord. 374.7, passed  11-13-2003)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.06  INSUFFICIENT FUNDS/BAD CHECKS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to write and deliver a check for
which he or she has a reasonable belief that he or she does not have sufficient
funds in the account against which the check is drawn, in order to cover the
payment of the check, at the time the check is written.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause another to write and
deliver a check against an account which he or she has a reasonable belief does
not have sufficient funds in the account against which the check is drawn, in
order to cover the payment of the check, at the time the check is written.
   (C)   This section shall take effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 374.9, passed 9-23-2004)  Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
131.01 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
and cost of prosecution, or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days,
or by both, the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
   (C)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
131.02 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
and cost of prosecution, or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days,
or by both, the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
   (D)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
131.03 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
and cost of prosecution, or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days,
or by both, the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
   (E)   A person who performs an act prohibited by §
131.04 is guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be punished by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by a fine of not more than $500, or
both.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
   (F)   A person who violates any of the provisions of §
131.05 is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than
93 days or a fine of not more than $500, or both, regardless of the value of
the property.
(Ord. 374.7, passed  11-13-2003)
   (G)   A person who violates or shall fail to comply with §
131.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be fined up to $500 and/or
receive up to 93 days in jail or both.
(Ord. 374.9, passed 9-23-2004)
CHAPTER 132:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH, PEACE AND THE ENVIRONMENT
Section
Peace and Persons
   
132.01   Drugs and drug paraphernalia
   
132.02   Disorderly persons
   
132.03   Domestic violence; domestic assault and battery
   
132.04   Stalking
   
132.05   Resisting and/or obstructing persons doing their duties
   
132.06   Intimidation, hindrance or obstruction of police officer
Alcohol
   
132.20   Minors and alcoholic beverages
   
132.21   Use of alcoholic beverages/drugs at open house parties
Environment
   
132.35   Littering
Traffic
   
132.50   Traffic hindrance
   
132.51   Removal of illegally stopped vehicles; costs
 
   
132.99   Penalty
PEACE AND PERSONS
§ 132.01  DRUGS AND DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   Possession of controlled substances.
      (1)   A person shall not knowingly or intentionally possess a controlled
substance or an official prescription form or a prescription form unless the
controlled substance, official prescription form, or prescription form was
obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a valid prescription or order of a
practitioner while acting in the course of the practitioner’s professional
practice, or except as otherwise authorized by this section.
      (2)   A person who violates this section as to any of the following is
subject to the provisions of §
132.99:
         (a)   Lysergic acid diethylamide, peyote, mescaline,
dimethyltryptamine,  psilocyn,  psilocybin,  or  a controlled substance
classified in schedule 5;
         (b)   Marijuana; or
         (c)    A prescription form other than an official prescription form.
   (B)   Possession of drug paraphernalia.  Purpose of this division (B) is to
regulate the selling, displaying, furnishing, supplying or giving away of
certain paraphernalia designed to facilitate the unlawful use or administration
of controlled substances.
      (1)   Definitions.
         COCAINE SPOON.  A spoon with a bowl so small that the primary use for
which it is reasonably adapted or designed is to hold or administer cocaine,
and which is so small as to be unsuited for the typical, lawful use of a
spoon.  A COCAINE SPOON may or may not be merchandised on a chain and may or
may not be labeled as a “cocaine spoon” or “coke spoon.”
         CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Any drug, substance or immediate precursor
enumerated in Public Act 368 of 1978, §§ 7210 through 7220, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.7210 et seq., as amended (commonly known as the Health Code).
         MARIJUANA OR HASHISH PIPE.  Any type of pipe characterized by a bowl
which is so small that the primary use for which it is reasonably adapted or
designed is smoking of marijuana or hashish, rather than lawful smoking
tobacco, and which may or may not be equipped with a screen.
         PARAPHERNALIA.  Any empty gelatin capsule, hypodermic syringe or
needle, cocaine spoon, marijuana pipe, hashish pipe, or any other instrument,
implement or device which is primarily adapted or designed for the
administration or use of any controlled substance.
         PERSON. Any individual, corporation, government or governmental
subdivision agency, business trust or estate.
      (2)    Acts declared to be unlawful.  It shall be unlawful for any person
to sell, offer for sale, display, furnish, supply or give away any empty
gelatin capsule, hypodermic syringe or needle, cocaine spoon, marijuana pipe,
hashish pipe, or other instrument, implement or device which is primarily
adapted or designed for the administration or use of any controlled substance
as enumerated in Public Act 368 of 1978, §§ 7210-7220, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.7210 et seq., as amended (commonly known as the Public Health Code).  The
prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, jobbers, licensed medical technicians, technologists, nurses,
hospitals, research teaching institutions, clinical laboratories, medical
doctors, osteopathic physicians, dentists, veterinarians, pharmacists or
embalmers in the normal, lawful course of their respective businesses or
professions, nor to the common carriers or warehousers or their employees
engaged in the lawful transportation of such paraphernalia, nor to public
officers or employees while engaged in the performance of their official
duties, nor to persons suffering from diabetes, asthma or any other medical
condition requiring self injections.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
   (C)   Prescription drug transfers.  It shall be unlawful for any person to
possess a drug, pharmaceutical preparation, or chemical belonging to another
person, or to possess for the purpose of resale, or sell, offer to sell,
dispense or give away a drug, pharmaceutical preparation or chemical that has
been dispensed on prescription and has left the control of a pharmacist.
(Ord. 374.8, passed 7-8-2004) 
Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02  DISORDERLY PERSONS.
   (A)   Prohibition.  No person shall be disorderly in the Charter Township of
Clayton.
   (B)   Definition.  For the purpose of this section, a DISORDERLY PERSON
shall be any person who shall engage in any act or practice hereinafter
enumerated, and any person who shall aid or abet such person to do the act or
to engage in the practice:
      (1)   Commit an assault or an assault and battery on any person, or be
engaged in or aid in any fight, quarrel or other disturbance;
      (2)   Be intoxicated in a public place and endanger directly the safety
of another person or of property, or act in a manner that causes a public
disturbance;
      (3)   Consume or offer any alcoholic liquor to any person in any
automobile while parked or being driven on any public street or highway, or
consume or offer any alcoholic liquor or beverage in any public place not
licensed as a place of sale or consumption;
      (4)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral or obscene conduct in
any public place;
      (5)   Fire, discharge, display or possess any firearms, air rifle, air
pistol, bow and arrow, sling shot, or other dangerous weapon within or into the
township, in any objective fashion which is intended to or which has the actual
effect of causing apprehension, concern or fear, on the part of another, that a
threat of harm to person and/or property is likely to occur;
(Am. Ord. 374.2, passed 9-30-1999)
      (6)   Fire, discharge, display, or possess any fireworks except those of
the type used under the conditions permitted by the Penal Code of the State of
Michigan or by the ordinances of the Charter Township of Clayton;
      (7)   Engage in peeping in windows of any inhabited place, without the
consent of the person residing there;
      (8)   Beg in any public place;
      (9)   Swim or bathe in any public place without wearing proper apparel;
      (10)   Utter any indecent, immoral, vulgar, insulting, vile, blasphemous,
profane, or obscene language in any public place or in such a way as to subject
the public to same, or by laughing, talking or otherwise disturbing any school,
meeting or congregation lawfully assembled, whether for purposes religious,
political or otherwise;
      (11)   Predict future events, or pretend to enable another to recover
lost or stolen property, give success in business, enterprises, speculation, or
conduct games of chance, or to make 1 person dispose of property in favor of
another, by cards, tokens, trances, by inspection of hands or the skull, by
mind reading, or by consulting the movement of the heavenly bodies, or by any
other means;
      (12)   Make any immoral or indecent exposure of his or her person or
indulge in any indecent, immoral or suggestive conduct in any public place;
      (13)   Print, publish, show, sell, offer for sale, exhibit, distribute or
process any indecent or obscene picture, drawing, engraving, paper, car, book,
pamphlet, statuary, image, representation, matter or thing;
      (14)   Willfully destroy, take, damage, alter, or in any manner deface
any property of another or that which is not his or her own, or remove same
from the building or place where it may be kept, placed or stored, without
proper authority, or mark or pose handbills on or in any manner mark the walls
of any public building, fence, tree or pole within the township, or destroy,
take, disconnect, tamper or meddle with any township water meter or any other
property belonging to the Charter Township of Clayton;
      (15)   Insult, flirt, accost, molest or otherwise annoy, either by mouth,
sign, motion or any act, any person in any public place; or to induce, coax,
persuade or induce by threat any person to enter any vehicle or conveyance;
      (16)   Engage in any disturbance, fight or quarrel in a public place;
      (17)   Collect or stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
public place or for any purpose to the annoyance or disturbance of other
persons;
      (18)   Jostle or roughly crowd persons in any public place;
      (19)   Loiter on any street or sidewalk or in any park or public building
or conduct himself or herself in any public place so as to obstruct the free
and uninterrupted passage of the public;
      (20)   Engage in any act of prostitution or solicit or accost any person
for the purpose of inducing the commission of any illegal or immoral act;
      (21)   Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant or inmate of any place
where prostitution, unlicensed gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor, or where any other illegal business or occupation is regularly
permitted or conducted;
      (22)   Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution or
unlicensed gambling is practiced, encouraged or allowed for the purpose of
enabling the person to engage in unlicensed gambling or in any illegal or
immoral act;
      (23)   Keep, maintain or permit the use of a gambling room, table or
equipment, or any policy or pool tickets to be used for gambling on any
premises occupied, or controlled by him or her, or place, receive or transmit
any bet on the outcome of any race, contest or game of any kind whatsoever;
      (24)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous or vulgar
conduct or by loud music, or to make, aid, countenance or assist in making any
improper noise, riot, disturbance or diversion tending to breach the peace;
      (25)   Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him or her to
be a resort of noisy, boisterous or disorderly persons;
      (26)   Obstruct, resist, hinder or oppose any member of the police force
or any peace officer in the discharge of his or her duties as such, or any
deputized officer serving civil process or executing upon property by proper
court order;
      (27)   Wander about the streets, either by day or night, or loiter in any
public building without any lawful means of support or without being able to
give a satisfactory account of himself or herself;
      (28)   Prowl about any alley or the private premises of any other person,
either by day or night, without authority or the permission of the owner of the
premises;
      (29)   Turn in, or encourage to be turned in, a false alarm of fire or a
false report or complaint to any township, police, fire or school official;
      (30)   Knowingly sell, give or furnish liquor, wine, beer or other
alcoholic beverages to any person under the age of 21 years, or to any drunken
or intoxicated person, or to any disorderly person, or to any habitual
drunkard;
      (31)   Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile, or object toward
any person or vehicle or from any moving vehicle;
      (32)   Cause any animal to be overdriven, overloaded, tormented,
overworked, tortured, cruelly beaten, mutilated, cruelly killed or deprived of
necessary sustenance; or
      (33)   Intentionally refuse or fail to disperse when ordered to do so by
a peace officer  or other public servant engaged in executing or enforcing the
law.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
      (34)   Public nuisance.
         (a)   Creation, maintenance of public nuisance.
            1.   No person shall commit, create or maintain any public
nuisance;
            2.   Public nuisances shall include, but be limited to, whatever is
forbidden by the provisions of this chapter; and
            3.   It shall be unlawful for any owner, possessor or occupier of
any lot or premises, occupied or vacant, within the township limits or for any
person having charge of the lot or premises to cause or permit to continue
unabated any condition as described in this chapter as a nuisance.
         (b)   Public nuisances defined.  Public nuisances are those things,
acts or failures to act, or uses of property which:
            1.   Annoy, injure or endanger the safety, health or comfort of the
public;
            2.   Offend public decency;
            3.   Interfere with, obstruct or render dangerous any street,
highway, alley, stream or public place; or
            4.   In any way render the public insecure in life or property.
(Ord. 374.8, passed 7-8-2004)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03  DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; DOMESTIC ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault and battery
upon a spouse, former spouse, or a person residing or having resided in the
same household as the perpetrator, or a person who has had a child in common
with the perpetrator.  This section shall be enforced in accordance with
M.C.L.A. § 764.15a.
   (B)   This section shall take effect 30 days after date of publication.
(Ord. 374.6, passed 1-9-2003)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.04  STALKING.
   (A)   Definitions.   For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      COURSE OF CONDUCT.  A pattern of conduct composed of 2 or more separate
noncontinuous acts evidencing a continuity of purpose.
      EMOTIONAL DISTRESS.  Significant mental suffering or distress that may,
but does not necessarily, require medical or other professional treatment or
counseling.
      HARASSMENT.  Conduct directed toward a victim that includes but is not
limited to repeated or continuing unconsented contact that would cause a
reasonable individual to suffer emotional distress and that actually causes the
victim to suffer emotional distress.  HARASSMENT does not include
constitutionally protected activity or conduct that serves a legitimate
purpose.
      STALKING.  A willful course of conduct involving repeated or continuing
harassment of another individual that would cause a reasonable person to feel
terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed or molested and that
actually causes the victim to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated,
threatened, harassed or molested.
      UNCONSENTED CONTACT.  Contact with another individual that is initiated
or continued without that individual’s consent or in disregard of that
individual’s expressed desire that the contact be avoided or discontinued. 
UNCONSENTED CONTACT includes but is not limited to any of the following:
         (a)   Following or appearing within the sight of that individual;
         (b)   Approaching or confronting that individual in a public place or
on private  property;
         (c)   Appearing at that individual’s workplace or residence;
         (d)   Entering onto or remaining on property owned, leased or occupied
by that individual;
         (e)   Contacting that individual by telephone;
         (f)   Sending mail or electronic communications to that individual; or
         (g)   Placing an object on or delivering an object to property owned,
leased or occupied by that individual.
      VICTIM.  An individual who is the target of a willful course of conduct
involving repeated or continuing harassment.
   (B)   Prohibited conduct.  It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in
stalking.
   (C)   Presumption.  In a prosecution for a violation of this section,
evidence that the defendant continued to engage in a course of conduct
involving repeated unconsented contact with the victim after having been
requested by the victim to discontinue the same or a different form of
unconsented contact, and to refrain from any further unconsented contact with
the victim, gives rise to a rebuttable presumption that the continuation of the
course of conduct caused the victim to feel terrorized, frightened,
intimidated, threatened, harassed or molested.
   (D)   Effective date.  This section shall take effect 30 days after date of
publication.
(Ord. 374.6, passed 1-9-2003)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.05  RESISTING AND/OR OBSTRUCTING PERSONS DOING THEIR DUTIES.
   (A)   An individual who assaults, batters, wounds, resists, obstructs,
opposes or endangers a person who the individual knows or has reason to know is
performing his or her duties is subject to the provisions of §
132.99.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      OBSTRUCT.  Includes the use or threatened use of physical interference or
force or a knowing failure to comply with a lawful command.
      PERSON.  Any of the following:
         (a)   A police officer of this state or of a political subdivision of
this state, including but not limited to a motor carrier officer or capitol
security officer of the Department of State Police;
         (b)   A police officer of a junior college, college or university who
is authorized by the governing board of that junior college, college or
university to enforce state law and the rules and ordinances of that junior
college, college or university;
         (c)   A conservation officer of the Department of Natural Resources or
the Department of Environmental Quality;
         (d)   A conservation officer of the United States Department of
Interior;
         (e)   A sheriff or deputy sheriff;
         (f)   A constable;
         (g)   A peace officer of a duly authorized police agency of the United
States, including but not limited to an agent of the Secret Service or
Department of Justice;
         (h)   A firefighter; or
         (i)   Any emergency medical service personnel described in the Public
Health Code, Public Act 368 of 1978, § 20950, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.20950.
   (C)   This section shall take effect on December 23, 2003 (30 days after
date of publication).
(Ord. 374.7, passed 11-13-2003)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.06  INTIMIDATION, HINDRANCE OR OBSTRUCTION OF POLICE OFFICER.
   (A)   A person shall not attempt to intimidate, hinder or obstruct a public
officer or public employee or a police officer in the discharge of his or her
official duties by a use of unauthorized process.
   (B)   This section shall take effect on December 23, 2003 (30 days after
date of publication).
(Ord. 374.7, passed 11-13-2003)  Penalty, see §
132.99
ALCOHOL
§ 132.20  MINORS AND ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   No minor child under 21 years of age, within the Charter Township of
Clayton, shall be permitted, unless accompanied by parent or legal guardian, to
remain in any saloon, barroom or other place where any spirituous or
intoxicating liquors, or any wine or beer or any beverage, liquor or liquors
containing any spirituous or intoxicating liquor, beer or malt liquor is sold,
given away or furnished for a beverage.  All these establishments shall be
posted with signs bearing the legend; “Minors under 21 Unaccompanied by Parent
or Guardian Prohibited.”  No proprietor, keeper or manager of such place shall
permit a minor to remain in that place in violation of this section.
   (B)   No person under the age of 21 years shall at any time purchase,
obtain, consume or bring into any premises within the township for which a
license has been issued to sell intoxicating liquor on the premises, any
alcoholic liquor.
   (C)   No person, either directly or indirectly, by himself or herself,
clerk, agent, servant or employee shall knowingly give or furnish any alcoholic
beverages to a minor except upon authority or and pursuant to a prescription of
a duly licensed physician.  No person shall knowingly sell or furnish alcoholic
liquor to a person who is less than 21 years of age if the false documentary
evidence could be used by the minor to indicate or tend to indicate that the
minor is 21 years of age or over.
   (D)   No minor under the age of 21 years shall falsely represent himself or
herself to be 21 years of age or over, for the purpose of purchasing or
attempting to purchase any alcoholic liquor.
   (E)   No person shall give false information regarding the age of a minor
under 21 years of age for the purpose of procuring the sale of intoxicating
liquor to the minor; and no person shall furnish false documentary evidence to
a minor under 21 years of age if the false documentary evidence could be used
by the minor to indicate or tend to indicate that the minor is 21 years of age
or over.
   (F)   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase or knowingly
possess or transport any alcoholic liquor, or knowingly possess, transport or
have under his or her control in any motor vehicle any alcoholic liquor unless
the person is possessing, transporting or having the alcoholic liquor in a
motor vehicle under his or her control during regular working hours and in the
course of his or her employment, if employed by a person licensed by the Liquor
Control Commission, or by an agent of the Liquor Control Commission if the
liquor is not possessed for his or her personal consumption.  Such person under
the age of 21 years shall be in violation of this section whenever any
alcoholic liquor is found in an automobile operated by him or her, even though
he or she is not the registered owner, and not withstanding that the alcoholic
liquor was purchased by others or brought into the motor vehicle by others. 
The mere presence of alcoholic liquor in the automobile, with the knowledge of
the driver, shall constitute a violation of this section on the part of the
driver.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.21  USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES/DRUGS AT OPEN HOUSE PARTIES.
   (A)   No adult having control of any residence shall knowingly allow an open
house party to take place at that residence if any alcoholic beverage or drug
is possessed or consumed at that residence by any minor.
   (B)   No adult shall fail to take reasonable steps to prevent the possession
or consumption of the alcoholic beverage or drug at that residence by any minor
at an open house party.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
132.99
ENVIRONMENT
§ 132.35  LITTERING.
   (A)   Any person who knowingly, without the consent of the public authority
having supervision of the public property or the owner of private property,
shall dump, deposit, place, throw or leave or cause or permit the dumping,
depositing, placing, throwing or leaving of litter on public or private
property or water, other than property designated and set aside for such
purposes, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.  The phrase PUBLIC OR PRIVATE
PROPERTY OR WATER includes but is not limited to the right-of-way of a road or
highway, a body of water or watercourse, or the shore or beach thereof,
including the ice above the water; a park, playground building, refuge or
conservation or recreation area; and residential or farm properties or
timberlands.
   (B)   In addition to the general prohibition against the afore described
acts of littering, the following situations and circumstances shall also be
prohibited:
      (1)   Any person who removes a vehicle wrecked or damaged in an accident
on a highway, road or street, fails to remove all glass and other injurious
substances dropped on the highway, road or street as a result of the accident
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (2)   Any person who knowingly shall cause any litter or any object to
fall or be thrown into the path of or to hit a vehicle traveling upon a highway
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move any car,
wagon, truck or other vehicle within the township unless the vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent any load, contents or litter from being
blown or deposited upon any street, alley or other public or private place; and
it shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the township, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit upon
any street, alley or public or private place litter, mud or dirt, and shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (4)   In a proceeding for violation of this act involving littering from
a motor vehicle, proof that the particular vehicle described in the citation,
complaint or warrant was used in the violation, together with proof that the
defendant named in the citation, complaint or warrant was the registered owner
of the vehicle at the time of the violation (unless the registered owner is the
lessor of a vehicle under a written lease agreement) constitutes in evidence a
presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle was the driver of the
vehicle at the time of the violation.
   (C)   The term LITTER as used in this section means all rubbish, refuse,
waste, material, garbage, offal, paper, glass, cans, bottles, trash, debris,
ashes, dead animals, solid market and industrial wastes, junk, scrap metal,
scrap lumber, discarded building materials, dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable vehicle or vehicles, abandoned vehicle or any parts, machinery or
machinery parts or other foreign substances of every kind and description.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)  Penalty, see §
132.99
TRAFFIC
§ 132.50  TRAFFIC HINDRANCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or person to hinder, obstruct or
interfere with the flow of traffic on any public roadway within the Charter
Township of Clayton, in any manner or fashion, so as to cause delay, congestion
and/or inconvenience to others who are entitled to the free flow and use of the
roadways.
   (B)   This section shall take effect 30 days after its final adoption and
second publication.
(Ord. 374.5, passed 10-12-2000)  Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.51  REMOVAL OF ILLEGALLY STOPPED VEHICLES; COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of the provisions of this chapter, the officer is hereby authorized
to remove the vehicle, or require the driver or other person in charge of the
vehicle to move the same, to a position off the paved or improved or main
traveled part of the highway.
   (B)   Whenever any police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any
highway where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to traffic, the officer is
hereby authorized to provide for the removal of the vehicle to the nearest
garage or other place of safety.
   (C)   The necessary costs for the removal shall become a lien upon the
vehicle and the person into whose custody the vehicle is given may retain it
until the expenses involved have been paid.
   (D)   This section shall take effect on December 23, 2003 (30 days after
date of publication).
(Ord. 374.7, passed 11-13-2003) 
§ 132.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter for which no
penalty is provided shall be subject to the terms of §
10.99.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
132.01(A)(2) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor,  punishable by imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or a fine of not more than $500 or both.
      (2)   A person who violates any provision or provisions of §
132.01(B)(2), upon conviction, shall be punished with a fine not exceeding $500
or imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both, in the discretion
of the Court.  Each day of the violation, or act in violation, shall be
considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998; Am. Ord. passed 7-8-2004)
   (C)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
132.02 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and cost of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or
by both, the fine and imprisonment is in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998; Am. Ord. 374.2, passed 9-30-1999; Am. Ord. passed
7-8-2004)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
132.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable upon conviction, by a fine
not exceeding $500 in addition to the incurred costs of investigation and
prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or by both, the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
Court.
(Ord. 374.6, passed 1-9-2003)
   (E)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
132.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable, upon conviction, by a fine
not exceeding $500 in addition to the incurred costs of investigation and
prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or by both, the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
Court.
(Ord. 374.6, passed 1-9-2003)
   (F)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
132.05(A) is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more
than 93 days or a fine of not more than $500, or both. 
(Ord. 374.7, passed 11-13-2003)
   (G)   A person who violates §
132.06 is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than
93 days or a fine of not more than $500, or both.
(Ord. 374.7, passed 11-13-2003)
   (H)   (1)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
132.20(A) through (D) and (F) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and cost of
prosecution. 
      (2)   With regard to a violation of division (E), any person who is found
to have performed the act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction
thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500, by imprisonment in the
Genesee County Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both, with the
fine and imprisonment being in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
   (I)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
132.21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and cost of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or
by both, the fine and imprisonment is in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998) 
   (J)   Any person who performs an act prohibited by §
132.35 shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
and cost of prosecution, or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days,
or by both, the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 374, passed 1-8-1998)
   (K)   Any person who shall violate or fail to comply with §
132.50 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be fined up to $500 and/or
receive 90 days in jail or both.
(Ord. 374.5, passed 10-12-2000)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   LAND DIVISION
      
152.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Code Adoptions
   
150.01   Michigan Building Code and Michigan Residential Building Code
   
150.02   Michigan Electrical Code
   
150.03   International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.04   Michigan Mechanical Code
   
150.05   Michigan Plumbing Code
Building Code Administration and Enforcement Procedures
   
150.15   Permit applications
   
150.16   Reviewing plans
   
150.17   Issuing of permits
   
150.18   Scheduling inspections
   
150.19   Identifying code violations
   
150.20   Recordkeeping procedures
   
150.21   Certificates of occupancy and final approvals
   
150.22   Special conditions
Construction Board of Appeals Established; Procedures
   
150.35   Title
   
150.36   Creation
   
150.37   Membership
   
150.38   Appeals
   
150.39   Notice
   
150.40   Hearings
   
150.41   Action by Board
   
150.42   Decision
   
150.43   Action of Building Official upon decision of Board
   
150.44   Effective date
Miscellaneous Provisions
   
150.50   Driveway culverts; permits
   
150.51   Discharge of stormwater
   
150.52   Natural water drainage courses; licensing
Municipal Civil Infractions
   
150.65   Definitions
   
150.66   Municipal civil infraction action: commencement
   
150.67   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
   
150.68   Municipal civil infraction citations: issuance and service
   
150.69   Municipal civil infraction citations: contents
   
150.70   Fines for violations and citations
   
150.71   Availability of other enforcement options
   
150.72   Default of payment of fines, costs, assessments, and/or installments
Marihuana Establishments
   
150.80   Prohibition of marihuana establishments
 
   
150.99   Penalty
CODE ADOPTIONS
§ 150.01  MICHIGAN BUILDING CODE; MICHIGAN RESIDENTIAL BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the Clayton Township Building Code and
Residential Building Code.
   (B)   The Charter Township of Clayton hereby adopts and shall enforce the
Michigan Building Code and the Michigan Residential Building Code.
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Building Code and the
Michigan Residential Building Code, in accordance with Michigan Public Act 230
of 1972, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq., as amended, the Building Official of the
Charter Township of Clayton is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to
discharge the responsibility of the township under Michigan Public Act 230 of
1972, M.C.L.A. § 125.1501 et seq., as amended, State of Michigan.  The Charter
Township of Clayton assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of the Act throughout its corporate limits.
   (D)    All amendments to and any future editions of the Michigan Building
Code and the Michigan Residential Building Code shall be deemed adopted and
incorporated by reference and made a part hereof as if such editions were in
effect as of the effective date of this section through a resolution of the
township Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 399.20, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 2018-473, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 150.02  MICHIGAN ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the Clayton Township Electrical Code.
   (B)   The Charter Township of Clayton hereby adopts and shall enforce the
Michigan Electrical Code.
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions of the Electrical Code, in accordance with
Michigan Public Act 230 of 1972, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq. (the"Act"), as
amended, the township Building Official is hereby designated as the enforcing
agency to discharge the responsibilities of the township under Michigan Public
Act 230 of 1972, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq., as amended, State of Michigan. 
The township assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of
the Act throughout its corporate limits.
   (D)   All amendments to and any future editions of the Michigan Electrical
Code shall be deemed adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part
hereof as if such editions were in effect as of the effective date of this
section through a resolution of the township Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 399.2a, passed 8-14-2003; Am. Ord. 2018-474, passed 9-3-2018)
§ 150.03  INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the Clayton Township International
Property Maintenance Code.
   (B)   The Charter Township of Clayton hereby adopts and shall enforce the
International Property Maintenance Code as published by the International Code
Council, Inc. for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided.
   (C)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the International Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to,
adopted and made a part hereof as of fully set forth in this section, with the
additions, insertions and deletions and changes, if any, prescribed herein.
   (D)   The following sections of the International Property Maintenance Code
are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1.   The Charter Township of Clayton.
      Section 103.5.   Schedule of Fees as adopted by Resolution of the Charter
Township of Clayton Board of Trustees.
      Section 112.4   Schedule of Fees as adopted by Resolution of the Charter
Township of Clayton Board of Trustees.
      Section 302.4   Eight (8) inches.
      Section 304.14.   March 1 to November 1.
      Section 602.3.   Annually, September 1 to May 30.
      Section 602.4.   Annually, September 1 to May 30.
   (C)   All amendments to and any future editions of the International
Property Maintenance Code shall be deemed adopted and incorporated by reference
and made a part hereof as if such editions were in effect as of the effective
date of this section through a resolution of the township Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 399.21, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 2018-475, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 150.04  MICHIGAN MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the Charter Township of Clayton
Mechanical Code.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the Mechanical Code, in accordance with
Michigan Public Act 230 of 1972, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq. (the "Act"), as
amended, the township Building Official is hereby designated as the enforcing
agency to discharge the responsibilities of the township under Michigan Public
Act 230 of 1972, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq. as amended, State of Michigan. 
The township assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of
the Act throughout its corporate limits.
   (C)   All amendments to and any future editions of the Michigan Mechanical
Code shall be deemed adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part
hereof as if such editions were in effect as of the effective date of this
section through a resolution of the township Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 399.22, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 2018-476, passed 9-13-2018)
§ 150.05  MICHIGAN PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the Charter Township of Clayton
Plumbing Code.
   (B)   The Charter Township of Clayton hereby adopts and shall enforce the
Michigan Plumbing Code.
   (C)   Pursuant to the provisions of the Plumbing Code, in accordance with
Michigan Public Act 230 of 1972, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq. (the "Act"), as
amended, the township Building Official is hereby designated as the enforcing
agency to discharge the responsibilities of the township under Michigan Public
Act 230 of 1972, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq., as amended, State of Michigan. 
The township assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of
the Act throughout its corporate limits.
   (C)   All amendments to and any future editions of the Michigan Plumbing
Code shall be deemed adopted and incorporated by reference and made a part
hereof as if such editions were in effect as of the effective date of this
section through a resolution of the township Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 399.23, passed 3-11-2004; Am. Ord. 2018-477, passed 9-13-2018)
BUILDING CODE ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 150.15  PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Before construction of a building or structure is commenced, an owner or
owner’s representative must file an application for permit in writing on a form
prescribed by the State Construction Code Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531.
   (A)    The application must be accompanied by:
      (1)   Payment of the fee in accordance with the schedule of fees adopted
by the Charter Township of Clayton Board of Trustees;
      (2)   Full and complete plans and specifications drawn to scale with
sufficient clarity and detail dimensions to show the nature and character of
the work to be performed.  Plans must be signed and sealed in accordance with
the code rules and the Michigan Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of 1980, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 339.101 through 339.2919; and
      (3)   Site plan drawn to scale showing the size and location of the
structure or building and all existing structures on the site, distances from
lot lines, the established street grades and the proposed finished grades.
   (B)    For proposed plans that conform to the requirements of the code and
all other applicable laws, the Code Official shall initial, date, and stamp the
plans “approved.”
   (C)   For proposed plans that do not conform to the code, and other
applicable laws, the application shall be rejected in writing, setting forth
the reasons for the rejection.
   (D)   Applications must be granted, in whole or in part, within 10 days of
receipt of the completed application.  When the structure or building is of an
unusual design or unusually complicated, action must be taken within 15 days of
receipt of the completed application.
(Policy passed 9-11-2003)
§ 150.16  REVIEWING PLANS.
   Plans shall be reviewed for compliance by the registered plan reviewer for
the Charter Township of Clayton.  Where deficiencies in the plans are
identified, written notice shall be provided to the applicant and corrections
will be requested before the plan before the plans shall be approved.  Where
minor discrepancies are identified, compliance may be cited by the Code
Official as a condition of the approval.
(Policy passed 9-11-2003)
§ 150.17  ISSUING OF PERMITS.
   Upon approval of the application for permit, the Code Official shall cause
the permit to be issued identifying the use classification and building type. 
The permit shall include all requirements necessary for compliance with the
respective code(s).
(Policy passed 9-11-2003)
§ 150.18  SCHEDULING INSPECTIONS.
   Inspections shall be performed periodically during and upon completion of
the work for which the permit is issued.  Inspections shall be conducted to
assure compliance with the code, all applicable construction standards, and
conditions upon which the permit was issued.  Findings shall be reported to the
permit holder in writing as provided by the code.
(Policy passed 9-11-2003)
§ 150.19  IDENTIFYING CODE VIOLATIONS.
   (A)    Violations identified during the course of inspections shall be
reported in writing to the permit holder.  All violations shall be identified
with a reference to the code provision cited in the violation.  Where minor
violations are cited, the notice may be made verbally to the permit holder.
   (B)   Compliance with the code resolving the violation must be achieved
prior to granting an approval.
   (C)   When compliance is not achieved, the enforcing agency shall pursue
administrative remedies identified in the code or through legal proceedings as
provided by law or local ordinance.
(Policy passed 9-11-2003)
§ 150.20  RECORDKEEPING PROCEDURES.
   The Charter Township of Clayton Building Department shall maintain the
records of all actions taken in the review of plans, issuance of permits,
inspection of construction, issuance of violations and issuance of certificates
of occupancy.  All records shall be maintained at Township Hall and shall be
available for review by the public in accordance with the Freedom of
Information Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246.
(Policy passed 9-11-2003)
§ 150.21  CERTIFICATES OF OCCUPANCY AND FINAL APPROVALS.
   (A)   Final inspections shall be conducted when notification from the permit
holder is received that the construction, under permit, has been complete. 
Upon inspection, when compliance is noted, the Code Official shall provide
written notice of approval.
   (B)   When all construction permits have received final approval and the
construction is entitled to certificate of occupancy as provided by the State
Construction Code Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, a
certificate of occupancy shall be issued by the Charter Township of Clayton
Building Official, including all required information specified within the Act.
(Policy passed 9-11-2003)
§ 150.22  SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Reinspections and or additional inspections.  From time to time, as
determined by the Chief Building Official of Charter Township of Clayton,
reinspections or additional inspections of a structure or building may be
required.  The applicant of the building permit shall be notified in writing of
the reinspection or additional inspection and charged at the rate prescribed by
the schedule of fees as adopted by the Township Board of Trustees. 
   (B)   Structures/buildings started without a permit.  Any structure or
building started without an approved building permit shall be issued a “stop-
work order” and shall be subject to an administrative review by the Chief
Building Official of the Charter Township of Clayton.  The cost of the
administrative review shall be at a rate prescribed by the schedule of fees as
adopted by the Township Board of Trustees.
(Policy passed 9-11-2003)
CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS ESTABLISHED; PROCEDURES
§ 150.35  TITLE. 
   This subchapter shall be known as the Construction Board of Appeals
Ordinance.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.36  CREATION.
   All references to the Board of Appeals shall be to the Board of Appeals as
created by the Building Code adopted as Ord. 399.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.37  MEMBERSHIP.
   Three members shall be appointed by the Township Supervisor to 2-year
terms.  Each member must be qualified by experience or training in the building
trades.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.38  APPEALS.
   The owner of a building or structure or any other person may appeal from a
decision of the Building Official refusing to grant a modification of the
provisions of this subchapter covering the manner of construction or materials
to be used in the erection, alteration or repair of a building to the Board of
Appeals.  Application for appeals may be made when it is claimed that the true
intent of this subchapter or the rules legally adopted under this subchapter
have been incorrectly interpreted, or the provisions of this subchapter do not
fully apply, or an equally good or better form of installation or construction
can be used.  No appeal alters the effect of a stop-construction order issued
by the enforcing agency nor prevent the enforcing agency from seeking a court
order enjoining any particular alleged violation.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.39  NOTICE.
   The Board shall meet upon notice of the Chairperson within 10 days of the
filing of an appeal or at stated periodic meetings if warranted by the volume
of work.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.40  HEARINGS.
   All hearings shall be public, and the appellant, his or her representative,
the official of the township and any other person whose interests may be
affected by the matter on appeals shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.41  ACTION BY BOARD.
   The Board shall render its decisions in writing not later than 30 days after
the appeal is taken.  An indexed record of the decisions shall be kept for
public inspection.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.42  DECISION.
   The Board shall affirm, modify or reserve the decision of the Building
Official by a concurring vote of the majority of the entire membership.  Any
decision by the Board may be appealed to the State Construction Code Commission
within 5 days after the decision is filed.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.43  ACTION OF BUILDING OFFICIAL UPON DECISION OF THE BOARD.
   The Building Official shall take immediate action in accordance with the
decision of the Board. 
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
§ 150.44  EFFECTIVE DATE. 
   This subchapter shall become effective upon the date of its publication
following its adoption.
(Ord. 399.5, passed 5-8-2003)
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 150.50  DRIVEWAY CULVERTS; PERMITS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to construct or
maintain a driveway approach or other obstruction leading from any street or
road to a lot or parcel of land abutting thereon which may in any way obstruct
or interfere with the free and continuous flow or passage of water, in, through
or along any public gutters, watercourse, drain or ditch in the street or road,
without first placing in the bottom of the gutter, watercourse, drain or ditch,
a metal culvert pipe as hereinafter provided and maintaining the same safe and
unobstructed.
      (2)   Any culvert pipe installed in any public street or road shall be
approved by the Board of County Road Commissioners of the County of Genesee or
its appointed representative and shall be installed in a manner approved by the
Board of County Road Commissioners of the County of Genesee in a location at a
grade and at such elevation that it will not obstruct or interfere with the
free and continuous flow or passage of water in the direction designated by the
established grade of the gutter, watercourse, drain or ditch, and shall be
covered with material adjacent thereto, if appropriate, or other approved
material suitable for the use intended.
   (B)   Whenever any person shall desire to construct a driveway or
obstruction in a gutter, watercourse, drain or ditch, he or she shall make
application to the Board of County Road Commissioners of the County of Genesee
for a permit for the installation.  If there is no objection to the
installation by the Commission, it is intended that the Board of County
Commissioners of the County of Genesee will issue a permit for the
installation, in accordance with its regulations and shall make a record of the
permit.
   (C)   Whenever any street, road, lane or alley in the township has been
graded, ditched or paved without curbs, or whenever any existing culvert has
not been maintained or, because of its condition, is interfering with the free
and continuous flow or passage of water, the township upon receipt of a report
from the Building Official or Supervisor confirming the conditions shall serve
or cause to be served, a written notice in a form to be approved by the
Township Attorney upon the owner or agent of any lot or parcel of land abutting
the street, road, lane or alley, which has a driveway approach or other
obstruction leading from the lot or parcel of land to the traveled portion of
the street, road, land or alley requiring him, her or them to install culvert
pipes in all the driveways, approaches or obstructions in accordance with
divisions (A) and (B) of this section within 30 days after the service of the
notice or within such extension as shall be granted by the Supervisor or
Building Official.  In case the Clerk or other authorized agent or employee
shall be unable to find, within the township, the owner or agent of the lot or
parcel of land abutting the street, road, lane or alley, then the notice may be
served by posting in some conspicuous place on the lot or premises.
   (D)   In case the owner or agent of any lot or parcel of land, when ordered
by the Clerk, in the manner aforesaid, shall refuse or neglect to install
culvert pipes under the driveways, approaches or obstruction within 30 days
from the date of service of the notice provided for in division (C) of this
section, the Township Board may cause the driveway, approach or obstruction to
be constructed and installed and assess the cost thereof on the lot or parcel
of land benefited, the assessment to be collected in the same manner as
provided for the collecting of special assessments and the tax shall be and
remain a lien upon the lot or parcel of land until the same is paid.
   (E)   This section shall become effective upon publication following its
final passage on January 27, 1991.
   (F)   Any person or persons violating any of the above provisions of this
section shall upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding
$500 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days in the County Jail or by both
the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 323, passed - -)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.51  DISCHARGE OF STORMWATER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to construct,
arrange or continue to maintain any conduit, pipe or drain which collects
runoff water or stormwater from his or her property or from his or her roof or
from around the foundation of any structure on his or her property,
concentrates the flow thereof and discharges the collected water onto the
pavement of any paved public street or into the gutter of any street which has
paved curb and gutter.
   (B)   This section is not intended to prohibit the discharge of unpolluted
stormwater into open roadside ditches.
   (C)   Effective date for this section is July 17, 1989.
(Ord. 308, passed 6-8-1989)  Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.52  NATURAL WATER DRAINAGE COURSES; LICENSING.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the Township Natural Water Drainage
Course Licensing Ordinance.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to dam,
block, fill in, divert or in any other way interfere with or affect the flow of
stormwater through a natural water drain, without first obtaining a permit
therefor, in compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   For the purposes of this section, the following words and phrases
shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this division:
      NATURAL WATER DRAINAGE COURSE.  A channel or defined bed, formed or
determined by the general conformation of the surrounding country, in which a
flow of water occurs, either continuously or intermittently, such as creek,
stream, ditch and the like.
      TOWNSHIP.  The Charter Township of Clayton.
      TOWNSHIP BOARD.  The Board of the Charter Township of Clayton.
      TOWNSHIP CLERK.  The duly elected Clerk of the Charter Township of
Clayton.
      TOWNSHIP ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The person appointed by the Township
Board to enforce the zoning ordinances of the township.
   (D)   Applicants for a permit under this section, whether a person, firm or
corporation, shall file a written, sworn application signed by the applicant,
if an individual, and by an authorized officer if a firm or corporation, with
the Township Zoning Administrator, showing:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The name and address of the record owner of all land upon which the
flow of stormwater is proposed to be affected or interfered with;
      (3)   A full and detailed explanation for the request for the issuance of
a permit to interfere with or affect the flow of stormwater; and
      (4)   A detailed description of what the applicant proposes to do which
will affect or interfere with the flow of stormwater.
   (E)   The following must accompany the application when it is filed with the
Township Zoning Administrator, to wit:
      (1)   A drawing prepared by a registered engineer showing the location
of:
         (a)   The natural water drain upon the particular parcel of land for
which the permit is requested;
         (b)   The location of the land adjacent upstream and the location of
the land adjacent downstream to the land for which the permit is requested; and
         (c)   The location of any lands under the jurisdiction of the Genesee
County Road Commissioners and any lands under the jurisdiction of the Genesee
County Drain Commissioner which are contiguous to the land for which the permit
is requested.
      (2)   An opinion of a registered engineer as to the effect of the
proposal on the following:
         (a)   Land upon which the request is requested;
         (b)   Land adjacent upstream;
         (c)   Land adjacent downstream;
         (d)   Land under the jurisdiction of the Genesee County Road
Commissioners; and
         (e)   Land under the jurisdiction of the Genesee County Drain
Commissioner.
      (3)   The written consent of the record owner of the premises for which
the permit is requested;
      (4)   The written consent of the Genesee County Road Commissioners;
      (5)   The written consent of the Genesee County Drain Commissioner; and
      (6)    Required fees as determined by the Charter Township of Clayton
Board in the adopted schedule of fees.
   (F)   Upon receipt of the application the Township Zoning Administrator
shall review the application, the accompanying drawing and required written
consents, and shall thereafter submit them to the Township Planning Commission
with a written opinion and recommendations.
   (G)   Upon receipt of the written opinion and recommendation of the Township
Zoning Administrator, the Township Planning Commission shall set the time and
place for a special public hearing on the application.  The Township Clerk
shall give written notice of the special hearing to the applicant, the record
owner of the premises for which the permit is requested, the record owner of
the land adjacent upstream, the record owner of the land adjacent downstream,
the Genesee County Road Commissioners, and the Genesee County Drain
Commissioner, at least 10 days prior to the hearing by first-class mail sent
through the United States Postal Service.
   (H)   Following the special public hearing, if, with consideration of the
Planning Commission recommendation,  the Township Board finds that the proposal
will not substantially adversely affect the adjacent land upstream and
downstream, and will not create any unsafe or hazardous health or safety
conditions, or otherwise create a nuisance condition to the detriment of
adjoining land users or the general public, the application shall be approved
as presented or approved with conditions, and the Township Zoning Administrator
shall be directed to issue the permit.
   (I)   Any damming, blocking, filling-in, diverting or in any other way
interfering with or affecting the flow of stormwater through a natural water
drain, in violation of the ordinance, is hereby declared to be a nuisance per
se.  The Court shall order the nuisance abated, and the violating party shall
be responsible for all administrative, clerical, technical, consulting and/or
legal costs or fees which are incurred by the township associated and/or
related to any and all efforts and/or proceedings undertaken to abate the
conditions caused and/or created.
   (J)   This section shall become effective upon the date of its publication
following its final passage.
(Ord. 373, passed 8-14-1997)  Penalty, see §
150.99
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
§ 150.65  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL.  A Township Police Officer, Zoning
Administrator, Code Enforcement Officer, Building Inspector, or any other
township employee specifically designated in writing by the Township
Supervisor.
   BUREAU.  The Charter Township of Clayton Ordinance Violations Bureau as
established by this subchapter.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  A civil infraction involving a violation of the
Charter Township of Clayton Code of Ordinances where a violation is deemed a
civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.  A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.  A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized Township Official directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of one or more municipal civil infraction
violations by the person cited.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE.  A written notice prepared by
an authorized Township Official directing a person to appear at the Charter
Township of Clayton Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fines
and costs, if any, prescribed for the violation by this subchapter, as
authorized under the terms of the Act.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS ACT.  The Revised Judicature Act of 1961, Act
No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended; M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq.
   ZONING ENABLING ACT.  The Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3301
et seq.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 150.66  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION: COMMENCEMENT.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance, by
an authorized Township Official, of:
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged
violator to appear at the Ordinance Violations Bureau; or
   (B)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged violator
to appear in court.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 150.67  MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Established. The Charter Township of Clayton Municipal Ordinance
Violations Bureau (hereafter “Bureau”) is hereby established pursuant to the
Michigan Municipal Civil Infractions Act, M.C.L.A. § 600.8396 to accept
admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infraction in response to
municipal ordinance violation notices issued and served by authorized Township
Officials, and to collect and retain civil fines and costs as prescribed by any
ordinance.
   (B)   Location. The Bureau shall be located at the Clayton Township hall, or
other location in Clayton Township, as may be designated by the Clayton
Township Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Personnel. All personnel shall be Clayton Township employees or
contractors as designated by the Clayton Township Board of Trustees. The
Clayton Township Board may, by resolution, designate a Bureau Clerk with the
duties prescribed herein and, as otherwise, may be delegated by the Board.
   (D)   Disposition of violations. The Bureau may dispose only of municipal
civil infraction violations for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a
municipal civil infraction violation notice (not a civil infraction citation)
has been issued.  No person shall be required to dispose of a municipal civil
infraction violation notice at the Bureau and the alleged violator has the
right to have the violation processed before a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. A person issued a land use ordinance civil infraction citation
may request an informal or formal hearing before a court of appropriate
jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at
the Bureau shall not prejudice the person or in any way diminish the person’ s
rights, privileges and protection accorded by law.
   (E)   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility. The scope of
the Bureau’s authority shall be limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The Bureau shall not
accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and, in no event,
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity or
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation. The Bureau shall not
accept less of a fine and cost for a violation than the amount specified in the
ordinance.
   (F)   Municipal ordinance violation notices. Municipal ordinance violation
notices shall be issued and served by authorized Township Officials under the
same circumstances and upon the same person as provided for citation as
provided in § 152.68(F) and (G). In addition to any other information required
by this subchapter, the notice of violation shall indicate the time by which
the alleged violator must appear at the Bureau, the methods by which an
appearance may be made, the address and telephone number of the Bureau, the
hours during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the
alleged violation, and the consequences for failure to appear and pay the
required fine within the required time.
   (G)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs. An alleged violator receiving
a municipal ordinance violation notice shall appear at the Bureau and pay the
specified fines and costs at or by the time specified for appearance in the
municipal ordinance violation notice. An appearance may be made by mail, in
person, or by representation.
   (H)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid.
If an authorized Township Official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made and civil
fines and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines and costs for the
violation are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation
shall be filed with the district court and a copy of the citation may be served
by first class mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator’s last
known address. The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in all
particulars with the requirements for citations as provided by the Act, but
shall consist of a sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the
municipal ordinance violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged
violator of how to respond to the citation.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 150.68  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS: ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized Township Officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in the citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in the citation shall be the 67th
District Court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the State Court Administrator.  The original citation shall be
filed with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the
township and issued to the alleged violator as provided by the Act.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by the authorized
Township Official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged
in the citation occurred in the presence of the Official signing the complaint
and if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date
and signature of the Official: “I declare under the penalties of the perjury
that the statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge,
and belief.”
   (E)   An authorized Township Official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and required copy of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized Township Official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the Official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the Official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction
and if the prosecuting attorney or Township Attorney approves, in writing, the
issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
Township Official as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by division (G)(2) of this section, an
authorized Township Official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon
the alleged violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction involves the use or occupancy of
land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does not need to be
personally served upon the alleged violator, but may
be served upon an owner or occupant of the land. In addition, a copy of the
citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner of the land, building,
or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 150.69  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS: CONTENTS.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court and the time at, or by which, the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   The citation shall inform the alleged violator that they may do one of
the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance.
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction with
explanation by mail by the time specified for appearance or, in person, or by
representation.
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the Township;
or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility, with
explanation, in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time
specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance;
      (2)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by
representation within the time specified for appearance and obtains a scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing unless a hearing date is specified on the
citation;
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the township;
      (4)   That at an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney; and
      (5)   That at a formal hearing the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice that the failure of the alleged
violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or at the time
scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will result in entry
of a default judgment against the alleged violator on the municipal civil
infraction.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 150.70  FINES FOR VIOLATIONS AND CITATIONS.
   (A)   Any person or other entity that violates any of the provisions of this
Ordinance is responsible for a municipal civil infraction as defined by
Michigan law and subject to a civil fine as set forth in the fine schedule
adopted by resolution of the Charter Township of Clayton Board of Trustees. The
fine schedule may be amended by a Township Board resolution.
   (B)   In addition, a civil infraction violator shall pay costs of the
proceedings, which may include, but is not limited to attorney fees and all
expenses, direct and indirect, which the Charter Township of Clayton has
incurred in connection with the municipal civil infraction. Each day a
violation of this subchapter continues to exist constitutes a separate
violation.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 150.71  AVAILABILITY OF OTHER ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to require Clayton Township to
initiate its Municipal Civil Infraction Ordinance enforcement activity through
the issuance of an ordinance violation notice. As to each ordinance violation
designated as a municipal civil infraction, the township may, at its sole
discretion, proceed directly with the issuance of a municipal civil infraction
citation or take such other enforcement action as is authorized by law.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-10-2013)
§ 150.72  DEFAULT OF PAYMENT OF FINES. COSTS. ASSESSMENTS, AND/OR INSTALLMENTS.
   Pursuant to and in compliance with the terms set forth in M.C.L.A. §
600.8731, if a party fails to pay a civil fine, cost, assessment, or
installment within the time specified by a court of competent jurisdiction,
Clayton Township may seek to obtain a lien against the land, building, or
structure involved in the violation by recording a copy of the court order
requiring payment of the fines, costs, and assessment with the Register of
Deeds for Genesee County. The lien shall be effective immediately upon
recording of the court order with the Genesee County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 450, passed 10-10-2013)
MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 150.80  PROHIBITION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   Prohibition of establishments.
      (1)   The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§
333.27951 et seq. (the "Act") was passed by Michigan voters on November 6,
2018. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 333.27956.1, the establishment or operation of any
and all marihuana establishments are prohibited within the Charter Township of
Clayton.
      (2)   A marihuana establishment shall be defined as any establishment as
set forth in M.C.L.A. § 333.27953.
      (3)   Any application for a state or local license to establish or
operate a marihuana establishment, as defined by the Act, within the township
shall be deemed a violation of this section.
      (4)   The prohibition against the establishment or operation of marihuana
establishments in the township shall not interfere with the rights of a person
to lawfully possess, transport, or consume marihuana as set forth in the
provisions of the Act or any Michigan statute providing for or regulating
marihuana for medical use.
      (5)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and subject to penalties as set forth in §
150.70.
   (B)   Prohibition on the consumption of marihuana in public places.
      (1)   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 333.27954.l(e) , the consumption of
marihuana in any form in any public places within the township shall be
prohibited.
      (2)   The prohibition against the consumption of marihuana in public
places within the township shall not interfere with the rights of a person to
lawfully possess, transport, or consume marihuana on private property to the
extent authorized by a person who owns, occupies, or operates private property
as set forth in the provisions of the Act or any Michigan statute providing for
or regulating marihuana for medical use.
      (3)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and subject to penalties as set forth in §
150.70.
   (C)   Prohibition on the sale of marihuana in public places.
      (1)   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 333.27956.2(b), the sale of marihuana in any
form in any public places within the township shall be prohibited.
      (2)   The prohibition against the sale of marihuana in public places
within the township shall not interfere with the rights of a person to lawfully
possess, transport, or consume marihuana on private property to the extent
authorized by a person who owns, occupies, or operates private property as set
forth in the provisions of the Act or any Michigan statute providing for or
regulating marihuana for medical use.
      (3)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and subject to penalties as set forth in § 150.70.
   (D)   Prohibition on the sale or display of marihuana accessories in public
places.
      (1)   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 333.27956.2(b), the sale or display of
marihuana accessories in any public places within the township shall be
prohibited.
      (2)   The prohibition against the sale or display of marihuana
accessories in public places within the township shall not interfere with the
rights of a person to lawfully possess, transport, or consume marihuana on
private property to the extent authorized by a person who owns, occupies, or
operates private property as set forth in the provisions of the Act or any
Michigan statute providing for or regulating marihuana for medical use.
      (3)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and subject to penalties as set forth in § 150.70.
(Ord. 2019-478, passed 2-14-2019)
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of Title XV, Chapter 150, General Provisions, shall be deemed
responsible for a civil municipal infraction subject to the terms and penalties
set forth in §§
150.65 through
150.72.
(Ord. 451, passed 10-10-2013)
CHAPTER 151:  LAND DIVISION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Short title
   
151.002   Purposes
   
151.003   Legal basis
   
151.004   Scope of regulations and vested rights
   
151.005   Administration
   
151.006   Schedule of fees; adopted
   
151.007   Interpretation
   
151.008   Rules of construction
   
151.009   Definitions
Subdivision Procedure
   
151.020   General provisions
   
151.021   Pre-preliminary investigation
   
151.022   Required plat information
   
151.023   Optional pre-application contact and sketch plan
   
151.024   Tentative preliminary plat (mandatory)
   
151.025   Preliminary plat final approval (mandatory)
   
151.026   Construction of improvements
   
151.027   Final plat
   
151.028   Extension of review deadlines
   
151.029   Coordination of rezoning with subdivision approval
Design Standards; Compliance Standards
   
151.040   General provisions
   
151.041   Streets
   
151.042   Blocks
   
151.043   Lots
   
151.044   Sidewalks, pedestrian through-block connectors and bikepaths
   
151.045   Landscaping
   
151.046   Utilities
   
151.047   Easements
   
151.048   Natural features
   
151.049   Floodplains
   
151.050   Engineering standards
   
151.051   Compliance standards
Improvements
   
151.065   Purpose
   
151.066   Responsibility for plans
   
151.067   Procedures
   
151.068   Required public improvements
   
151.069   Installation of street trees and sidewalks
   
151.070   Performance guarantee
   
151.071   Maintenance of private improvements by subdivision association
Division of Land Not Requiring Subdivision Approval
   
151.085   Application requirements
   
151.086   Review procedures
   
151.087   Standards for granting approval
Administration; Variances; Enforcement
   
151.100   Variances or appeals from this chapter
   
151.101   Variance standards
   
151.102   Variances from the zoning ordinance
   
151.103   Enforcement
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the Charter Township of
Clayton Land Division Ordinance.
(Ord. 372.1 § 100, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.002  PURPOSES.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293, as amended, the Charter Township of Clayton, Genesee
County, Michigan, by and through its Board of Trustees, enacts this chapter
regulating and controlling the division of land within the township for the
following purposes:
   (A)   Provide means for carrying out the township’s responsibilities
relative to the platting of land under the laws of the State of Michigan;
   (B)   Provide for orderly growth and harmonious development of the township,
consistent with the Master Plan, the zoning ordinance and other plans and
ordinances related to development;
   (C)   Protect the character, the social and the economic stability of all
parts of the township, and  encourage an orderly and beneficial development of
the township through appropriate control of the timing and phasing of the
development process, promotion of infill development in existing neighborhoods
and areas with adequate public facilities, and protection of sensitive
environmental areas;
   (D)   Establish reasonable standards for design of subdivision lots,
streets, utilities, and landscaping to further the orderly layout and use of
land;
   (E)   Provide for adequate light, air, and privacy; to secure safety from
fire, flood, and other danger;
   (F)   Prevent the overcrowding of the land and population;
   (G)   Achieve maximum utility and livability on individual lots;
   (H)   Protect and conserve the value of land, buildings and improvements by
minimizing conflicts among both existing and planned land uses;
   (I)   Provide for efficient traffic circulation through a coordinated
functionally-classified street system in order to lessen existing or potential
congestion on the existing or planned street system;
   (J)   Ensure that facilities exist or are provided concurrent with
development; ensure that these facilities safely and efficiently accommodate
traffic associated with the proposed subdivision without requiring the township
or Genesee County to bear the cost of providing the facilities;
   (K)   Provide convenient facilities within the subdivision for pedestrians
and bicyclists; link with other existing or planned nonmotorized transportation
systems;
   (L)   Ensure that public facilities, such as water, sewerage and drainage,
are available concurrent with development, and will have sufficient capacity to
serve the proposed subdivision without requiring the township to bear the cost
of providing the facilities;
   (M)   Ensure that public services, such as police and fire protection, are
available and adequate to serve the proposed subdivision without requiring the
township to bear more than its fair share of the cost of providing the
services;
   (N)   Provide opportunities for efficient design and layout of the land in a
manner that retains or provides usable open space, parks, playgrounds and other
recreational facilities within subdivisions;
   (O)   Encourage the wise use and management of natural resources; require
additional tree plantings or landscaping to preserve the rural character,
integrity, stability and beauty of the township; and
   (P)   Ensure proper survey, legal description, and placement of monuments on
subdivided land.
(Ord. 372.1 § 101, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.003  LEGAL BASIS.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the statutory authority granted by the
Land Division Act of 1967, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293; Public Act 191of 1939 providing for publication or ordinances;
Public Act 246 of 1945, as amended, authorizing township boards to adopt
ordinances and regulations to secure the public health, safety, and general
welfare; and Public Act 168 of 1959 providing for approval by the township
Planning Commission and consistency with the township’s general development
plan.
(Ord. 372.1 § 102, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.004  SCOPE OF REGULATIONS AND VESTED RIGHTS.
   (A)   No land may be divided, subdivided or combined through the use of any
legal description unless  approved by the township in accordance with this
chapter; provided that the following shall be exempted from this requirement:
      (1)   An exempt split as defined in this chapter, provided the parcel is
accessible; and
      (2)   A parcel proposed as a condominium pursuant to the township zoning
ordinance and the Michigan Condominium Act.
   (B)   Land divisions that do not require subdivision plat approval shall be
reviewed and approved in accordance with the procedure and requirements of §§
151.085et seq.
   (C)   All subdivision plats shall be reviewed and approved in accordance
with  the procedure and requirements of §§
151.020et seq.,
151.040et seq. and
151.065et seq.
   (D)   These regulations apply to all subdivisions created after the
effective date of this chapter that are located totally or partially within the
boundaries of the Charter Township of Clayton, including those which received
tentative preliminary plat approval, or were submitted for review but did not
receive approval under the prior subdivision regulations.
   (E)   A subdivision which received final preliminary plat or final plat
approval from the Township Board prior to the effective date of this chapter
shall be processed in accordance with the standards and procedures established
in the previous subdivision regulations, provided a final plat, meeting all
requirements of this chapter and the Michigan Land Division Act, is filed with
the township within 2 years of receiving final preliminary plat approval.  The
township may require compliance with the standards established herein upon a
determination that compliance is necessary for the preservation or protection
of health, safety and welfare.
   (F)   This chapter shall not abrogate or annul any easement, bylaw, master
deed, deed restriction, covenant, private agreement or dedicated public right-
of-way, except where the regulations or standards of this chapter are more
restrictive or impose a higher standard.
   (G)   The regulations established herein are considered to be the minimum
necessary to achieve the purposes listed above.  Any conflicting ordinances,
regulations, or laws of a more restrictive nature shall supersede the
appropriate provisions of this chapter.
   (H)   Except as otherwise provided above, no vested rights shall accrue to
the owner or developer of any subdivision until the actual signing of the final
plat by the Township Clerk.
(Ord. 372.1 § 103, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.005  ADMINISTRATION.
   The approval provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the
Township Board in accordance with Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293, as amended.
(Ord. 372.1 § 104, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.006  SCHEDULE OF FEES; ADOPTED.
   The Township Board shall adopt a schedule of fees by resolution which shall
include the cost of engineering review and other costs incurred by the township
in reviewing and processing the preliminary and final plats including the costs
of the township retaining consultant and/or other experts to advise the
township regarding a particular plat.
(Ord. 372.1 § 105, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.007  INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion and preservation of public health,
safety and general welfare of the township.  These regulations are not intended
to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any manner interfere with existing regulations
or laws of the township, nor to conflict with any statutes of the State of
Michigan or Genesee County, except that these regulations shall prevail in
cases where these regulations impose a greater restriction than is provided by
existing statutes, laws or regulations.
(Ord. 372.1 Art. VIII, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.008  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following rules of construction shall apply to this chapter:
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   Unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary, where a
regulation involves 2 or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected
by a conjunction, the conjunctions shall have the following meaning:
      (1)   AND indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events shall apply.
      (2)   OR  indicates that all connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singly  or in any combination (i.e. “or” also means “and/or”).
      (3)    EITHER indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events shall apply  singly but not in combination.
   (C)   The phrase  SUCH AS shall mean “such as, but not limited to.”
   (D)   The phrase INCLUDING shall mean “including, but not limited to.”
   (E)   Use of INCLUDING, INCLUDES, SUCH AS, ADDITIONAL or SUPPLEMENTAL means
that the examples provided are illustrative and not an exhaustive listing,
unless the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
   (F)   Where an illustration accompanies any provision in this chapter, the
written text shall have precedence over the illustration, unless the context
indicates to the contrary.
   (G)   References to departments, commissions, boards and other offices are
to those of the Charter Township of Clayton, unless otherwise indicated.
   (H)   A reference to a public official or staff person of the township is to
that person who performs the function referred to, and may include a designee
of the public official or staff person.
   (I)   A reference to days is to calendar days unless otherwise indicated in
this chapter or specified by state law.  If a deadline falls on a weekend or
township holiday, the deadline shall be extended to the next working day.  A
WORKING DAY is defined as normal business hours of any day that is not a
Saturday, Sunday or official township holiday.
   (J)   In computing a period of days, the day of the act or event from which
the designated period of days begins to run shall be excluded, and the last day
of the period is included, unless the last day is not a working day.  If the
last day is not a working day, the period runs until the end of the next
working day. 
   (K)   (1)   Use of SHALL,WILL or MUST is mandatory;
      (2)   Use of MAY is permissive, with the decision made by the township.
   (L)   Words in the present tense include the future tense, words used in the
plural include the singular, and the singular plural, unless the context
clearly indicates to the contrary.
   (M)   The word PERSON includes a firm, association, organization,
partnership, trust, company, or corporation, as well as an individual.
   (N)   ACROSS or ACROSS FROM shall mean “on the opposite side” and shall not
be interpreted as having the same meaning as “adjacent” or “contiguous” unless
the context clearly indicates to the contrary.
   (O)   All measurements shall be to the nearest integer unless otherwise
specified.
   (P)   Singular words shall include the plural and masculine words shall
include the feminine and neuter.
   (Q)   Words or terms not defined herein shall have the meaning customarily
assigned to them.
(Ord. 372.1 § 200, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.009  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUTTING.  Having a common border with or being separated from the common
border by an easement.
   ADJACENT.  See definition of contiguous.
   APPLICANT.  An individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination thereof, who holds ownership interest in land and is seeking
approval for a division or consolidation of unplatted parcels in accordance
with this chapter.
   APPLICATION.  A request to divide and/or consolidate unplatted parcels and
platted lots, or for a subdivision tentative preliminary plat, final
preliminary plat or final plat application, submitted for  review in 1 complete
package, that substantially meets all of the submission requirements of this
chapter and has been accepted by the township as complete.
   BERM.  A mound of soil, either natural or manmade, suited to obstruct
views.  Unless otherwise indicated or appropriate, required BERMS shall be
measured from the average grade adjacent to the BERM or the grade of the
parking lot adjacent to the BERM.
   BICYCLE (BIKE) PATH.  A pathway, usually separated from the roadway,
designed specifically to satisfy the physical requirements of bicycling, in
accordance with the standards of the American Association of State Highway and
Transportation Officials (AASHTO).
   BLOCK.  That property abutting 1 side of the street and lying between the 2
nearest intersecting streets, or between the nearest street and railroad right-
of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream; or between any of the
foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development.
   BLOCK LENGTH.  The distance between intersections of through streets; such
distance being measured along the longest street bounding the block, and from
right-of-way line to right-of-way line of the 2 intersection streets.
   BOARD.  The Township Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of Clayton.
   BOND.  Any form of a surety bond in an amount satisfactory to the township
and in a form satisfactory to the Township Attorney (see also definition of
performance guarantee).
   BUFFER or BUFFER ZONE.  An area within a subdivision required adjacent to
certain zoning  districts to improve views, and reduce noise impacts between
uses which may otherwise be conflicting.  The BUFFER ZONE may consist of
natural existing vegetation which is preserved, or may be created or enhanced
by  trees, shrubs, fences or berms.
   BUILDABLE PORTION OF A LOT.  Generally includes that portion of the lot on
which the principal building may be constructed in compliance with all
ordinances and laws.
   BUILDING.  Any structure built for the support, shelter or enclosure of
persons, animals, chattels or movable property of any kind.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE.  A line parallel to a street right-of-way
line, shore of a lake, edge of a stream or river bank, established on a parcel
of land or on a lot for the purpose of prohibiting construction of a building
between the line and a right-of-way, other public area, or the shore of a lake,
or the edge of a stream or river bank.
   BUILDING PERMIT.  An authorization issued by the Building Inspector to move,
erect or alter a structure within the Charter Township of Clayton.
   CALIPER.  The diameter of a tree trunk measured in inches, 6 inches above
ground level for trees up to and including 4 inches in diameter, and 12 inches
above ground level for trees over 4 inches in  diameter.  This measurement is
for nursery stock trees only (see diameter at breast height (D.B.H.) for
measurement of existing trees).
   CAPTION.  The name by which the plat is legally and commonly known.
   CLERK.  The Township Clerk of the Charter Township of Clayton.
   COMMISSION.  See definition of Planning Commission.
   CONDOMINIUM.  A system of separate ownership of individual units in multi-
unit projects created according to Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§
559.101 through 559.272, as amended.  In addition to the interest acquired in a
particular unit, each unit owner is also a tenant in common in the underlying
fee and in the spaces and building parts used in common by all the unit owners.
   CONSOLIDATE.  The combining of 1 or more lots, outlots, or parcels of land
into a single lot or parcel.
   CONSTRUCTION PLANS.  The drawings accompanying a subdivision plat that show
the specific location and design of improvements to be installed in the
subdivision.
   CONTIGUOUS.  Lots are CONTIGUOUS when at least 1 boundary line of one lot
shares a boundary line or lines of another lot.
   CULVERT.  A structure designed to convey a watercourse not incorporated in a
closed drainage system, under a road or pedestrian walk.
   DATE OF FILING. 
      (1)   Date of filing for tentative approval of the preliminary plat.  The
date the proprietor files a complete preliminary plat, meeting the requirements
of this chapter and the Michigan Land Division Act, with the Township Clerk.
      (2)   Date of filing for final approval of the preliminary plat.  The
date the proprietor files the tentatively approved preliminary plat and a
certified list of all authorities required for approval with the Township
Clerk.
      (3)   Date of filing for final plat approval.  The date the proprietor
files the necessary prints of the final plat with the Township Clerk.
      (4)   Date of filing for land division.  The date that the applicant
files a complete land division application, meeting the requirements of this
chapter, with the Township Clerk.
   DEDICATION.  A conveyance of land by the owner in the nature of a gift or
grant and an acceptance of that land by or on behalf of the public.
   DETENTION BASIN.  A manmade or natural water collector facility designed to
collect surface and subsurface water in order to impede its flow and to release
the same gradually at a rate not greater than that prior to the development of
the property, into natural or manmade outlets.
   DEVELOPMENT.  A planning or construction project involving substantial
property improvement and, usually, a change of land-use character within the
site; the act of using land for building or extractive purposes.
   DIAMETER AT BREAST HEIGHT (D.B.H.).  The diameter in inches of an existing
tree measured at 4-1/2 feet above the existing grade.
   DIVISION.  The partitioning or splitting of a lot, parcel or tract of land
by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators,
legal representatives, successors or assigns, for the purpose of sale or lease
of more than 1 year, or of building development that results in 1 or more
parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that satisfies the
requirements of this chapter.  DIVIDE or DIVISION shall not include a property
transfer between 2 or more adjacent parcels, if the property taken from 1
parcel is added to an adjacent parcel; and any resulting parcel shall not be
considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to the requirements of
this chapter.
   DRAINAGE.  The removal of surface water or groundwater from land by drains,
grading or other means.
   DRAINAGE SYSTEM.  The system through which water flows from the land,
including all watercourses, water bodies and wetlands.
   DRIVEWAY.  A private lane, serving a principal dwelling, designed primarily
for vehicular access to connect a building with a street.
   EASEMENT.  A specific area of land over which a liberty, privilege or
advantage is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation or some
particular person or part of the public for specific uses and purposes, and
which shall be designated a “public” or “private” EASEMENT, depending on the
nature of the user.
   ENVIRONMENTALLY SENSITIVE AREAS.  Features, natural resources or land
characteristics that are sensitive to improvements.  These constraints may
require conservation measures, the application of creative development
techniques, or limited development to prevent degradation of the environment.
   EROSION.  The detachment and movement of soil or rock fragments, or the
wearing away of the land surface by water, wind, ice or gravity.
   ESCROW.  A deed, a bond, money or interest in a piece of property
temporarily deposited with the Township Clerk or a neutral third party called
the escrow agent, by the agreement of 2 parties.  The escrow agent will hold
the deposit until the conditions of the agreement are met, at which time the
agent will release it to the grantee.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.  The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance,
by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions, of underground,
surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or
distribution systems; collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles and other similar equipment and
accessories in connection therewith, as shall be reasonably necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by the public utilities or municipal departments
or commissions or for the public health or general welfare; but not including
buildings other than those buildings as are primarily enclosures or shelters of
the above essential service equipment.
   EXEMPT SPLIT or EXEMPT DIVISION.  The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, that does not
result in 1 or more parcels of less than 40 acres.
   FENCE.  An artificially constructed unroofed barrier of wood, masonry,
stone, wire, metal, or similar manufactured material which may or may not serve
as an enclosure.
   FLOODPLAIN.  That area of land adjoining the channel of a river, stream,
watercourse, lake or other similar body of water which will be inundated by the
greatest flood that can be reasonably expected for that area (100-year
interval).
   GCDC.  The Genesee County Drain Commission.
   GCDW&W.  The Genesee County Department of Waste and Water.
   GCHD.  The Genesee County Health Department.
   GCRC.  The Genesee County Road Commission.
   GOVERNING BODY.  The Board of Trustees of the Charter Township of Clayton.
   GRADE.  The slope of a street, other public way, or land specified in
percentage (%) terms.
   GREENBELT.  A strip of land of definite width and location reserved for the
planting of a combination of shrubs, trees and ground cover to serve as an
obscuring screen and buffer for noise or visual enhancement, in accordance with
the requirements of this chapter.
   GROUND COVER.  A planting of low-growing plants or sod that in time forms a
dense mat covering the area, preventing soil from being blown or washed away
and the growth of unwanted plants.
   IMPROVEMENTS.  Grading, street surfacing, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
culverts, bridges, landscaping and other additions to the natural state of land
which increase its value, utility or habitability.
   LAND DIVISION ACT.  The Land Division Act, Michigan Public Act 288 of 1967,
as amended, formally the Subdivision Control Act, being M.C.L.A §§ 560.101
through 560.293.
   LOT.  A parcel of land in the Charter Township of Clayton which constitutes
a part of a subdivision, the plat of which is filed pursuant to the State Land
Division Act (or successor Act), or constitutes part of an assessor’s plat;
and, further, shall mean and refer to a condominium site located within a
condominium project which is filed pursuant to the State Condominium Act (or
successor Act).
   LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot. For
purposes of calculation of minimum lot area, easements for overhead utilities
and private access easements shall be excluded; areas within the 100-year
floodplain elevation or determined to be MDEQ regulated wetlands shall be
included, except as noted under the definition of density.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot where the interior angle of 2 adjacent sides at the
intersection of 2 streets is less than 135 degrees.  A lot abutting upon a
curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT for the purposes of
this chapter if the arc is of less radius than 150 feet and the tangents to the
curve, at the 2 points where the lot lines meet the curve or the straight
street line extended, form an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT DEPTH.  The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  Any lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINE. 
      (1)   The lines bounding a lot or parcel and listed below:
         (a)   Front lot line (i.e. lot frontage).  The lot line(s) abutting a
public street or private road access easement that separates the lot from the
right-of-way or easement; typically measured along the right-of-way line. 
Corner lots or through lots are considered to have 2 front LOT LINES and shall
provide the minimum required front yard setback at both front LOT LINES.  In
the case of lots bordering on a lake, river or canal, the water or shoreline
shall be designated as the rear of the lots.
         (b)   Rear lot line.  The lot line opposite and most distant from the
front lot line.  For an irregular or triangular shaped lot, a line at least 10
feet in length, entirely within the lot, parallel to and most distant from the
front lot line.  In the case of lots bordering on a lake, river, stream or
channel, the shoreline shall be designated as the rear LOT LINE for zoning
purposes. 
         (c)   Side lot line.  Any lot line not a front or rear LOT LINE.
      (2)   In the case where the above definitions are not sufficient to
designate lot lines, the Zoning Administrator shall designate the front, rear
and side lot lines in consideration of the orientation of the building(s) on
the lot, the address of the lot, the orientation of other buildings along the
block, and natural features affecting site design.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE.  A lot abutting and/or collector thoroughfare, and a
minor street(s) with vehicular access only to the minor street.
   LOT, THROUGH.  Any interior lot having frontage on 2 more or less parallel
streets as distinguished from a corner lot.  In the case of a row of double
frontage lots, all yards of the lots adjacent to streets shall be considered
frontage, and front yard setbacks shall be provided as required.
   LOT, WIDTH.  The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured
parallel to the front lot line at the minimum required front setback.  For
irregularly shaped lots with access easements or flag lots connecting to a
public street, the minimum lot width shall be measured at the point where the
narrow access connects to the main section of the parcel.  This determination
shall be made by the Zoning Administrator.
   MAJOR STREETS or THOROUGHFARE PLAN.  The part of the Master Plan which sets
forth the location, alignment and dimensions of existing and proposed streets
and thoroughfares
   MASTER PLAN.  The comprehensive land use plan for the municipality,
including graphic and written proposals indicating the general locations
recommended for the streets, parks, schools, public buildings, zoning
districts, and all physical developments of the township including any unit or
part of the plan separately adopted, and any amendment to the plan or parts
thereof adopted by the Planning Commission.
   MDEQ.  Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   MDPH.  Michigan Department of Public Health.
   MDOT.  Michigan Department of Transportation.
   MEDIAN.  That portion of a divided street separating lanes of traffic
proceeding in opposite directions.
   OFF-SITE.  Any premises not located within the area of the property to be
subdivided, whether or not in the common ownership of the proprietor for
subdivision approval.
   OFF-STREET PARKING.  Parking that is provided within a parking lot, parking
structure or private driveway.
   ON-STREET PARKING.  Parking that is permitted on a dedicated street right-
of-way or approved private road.
   OUTLOT.  A lot in a subdivision which is restricted from use for building
purposes, whether or not deeded to the township, but which is not dedicated as
a street of public reservation or private part.  An OUTLOT cannot be built on
unless it conforms to this chapter.
   PARCEL.  A continuous area or acreage of unplatted land which can be
described as provided for in this chapter and the Michigan Land Division Act.
   PARENT PARCEL.  A parcel or tract lawfully in existence on March 31, 1997.
   PEDESTRIAN THROUGH-BLOCK CONNECTOR.  A pedestrian pathway located at street
level, but perpendicular to the street, to provide short cuts through
development blocks.
   PERFORMANCE BOND GUARANTEE.  Any bond acceptable by the Township Board in
lieu of a requirement that certain public improvements be made by the developer
prior to approval of a final plat, including performance bonds, escrow
deposits, and other similar collateral or surety agreements; which bond will be
payable to the governmental body upon failure of the faithful performance of
the condition upon which the subdivision plat was approved.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, limited partnership,
firm, corporation or association and their lessees, trustees or receivers
appointed by any court.  In the instance of a legal entity, the individual(s)
who is (are) the general partners of a partnership, whether limited or not, the
trustee(s) and any beneficiary having the power to appoint or constitute a
trustee of a trust, the officers and directors of a corporation and any
receiver thereof shall be equally liable with the legal entity for any
requirements or penalties provided for in this chapter.  In any instance an
agent having the apparent authority to control the use or occupation of such
persons having property regulated by this chapter shall be equally liable with
his, her or its principal for any requirements or penalties provided in this
chapter.
   PLANNING COMMISSION.  The Planning Commission of the Charter Township of
Clayton.
   PLAT.  A map, drawing or chart which depicts the plan of the proposed
subdivisions of land which is drawn in accordance with the regulations
hereinafter stated.
      (1)   Pre-preliminary plat.  An informal plan or sketch drawn to scale
and in pencil, if desired, showing the existing features of a site and its
surroundings and the general layout of a proposed subdivision. (optional)
      (2)   Preliminary plat; tentative approval.  A map showing the salient
features of a proposed subdivision of land submitted to an approving authority
for purposes of preliminary consideration, prepared in conformance with the
Land Division Act.  Tentative approval under this section shall confer upon the
proprietor, for a period of 1 year from approval date the rights granted under
§ 112 of the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. § 560.112.
      (3)   Preliminary plat; final approval.  Final approval of the
preliminary plat under this section shall confer upon the proprietor, for a
period of 2 years from approval date the rights granted under § 120 of the Land
Division Act, being M.C.L.A. § 560.120.
      (4)   Final plat.  A map of a subdivision of land made up in final form
ready for approval and recording.
   PRIVATE ROAD.  A road that is privately maintained and has not been accepted
for maintenance or ownership by the Genesee County Road Commission or the State
of Michigan.
   PROPRIETOR.  A  person who may hold any ownership interest in land, whether
recorded or not.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION.  A portion of a subdivision which is set aside for
public use and made available for public use and acquisition.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewage system as defined in Michigan Public Act 98 of 1913,
as amended, being M.C.L.A.§ 123.161.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  Any person, firm or corporation, municipal department,
board or commission, or other public authority duly authorized to furnish, and
furnishing under governmental regulations, to the public:  gas, steam,
electricity, sewage disposal, public water, telephone lines (not cellular phone
transmissions), cable television services (not communication antennas),
communication, telegraph, transportation, water or other services to residents
of the township.
   PUBLIC WALKWAY.  A right-of-way dedicated for the purpose of a pedestrian
access through residential areas, and located so as to connect to 2 or more
streets, or a street and a public land parcel.
   RECORD DRAWINGS.  Construction plans that have been revised upon completion
of construction to illustrate the recorded location and details of
improvements.
   REPLAT.  The process of changing, or the map or plat which changes, the
boundaries of a recorded subdivision plat or part thereof.  The legal dividing
of an outlot within a recorded subdivision plat without changing the exterior
boundaries of the outlot is not a REPLAT.
   RETENTION BASIN.  A pond, pool or basin used for the permanent storage of
water runoff.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land reserved and dedicated for a street, alley,
walkway or other public purpose, and which may be occupied by public utilities,
such as electric transmission lines, gas pipelines, cable television lines,
fiber optics lines, water mains, sanitary sewers, storm sewer mains, street
trees or other utility uses.  RIGHTS-OF-WAY established and shown on the final
plat are to be distinct and separate from the lots or parcels adjoining the
RIGHTS-OF-WAY, and are not to be included in the dimensions or areas of the
lots or parcels.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY LINES.  The lines that form the boundaries of a right-of-way.
   ROAD COMMISSION.  See definition of GCRC.
   SEDIMENTATION.  A deposit of soil that has been transported from its site of
origin by water, ice, wind, gravity or other natural means as a product of
erosion.
   SEDIMENTATION BASIN.  A manmade or natural water collection facility
designed to collect surface water in order to remove sand, silt, debris and
other material which would damage the downstream watercourse.
   SETBACK.  The distance required to obtain the minimum required separation
between the front, side or rear lot lines and the building line or parking lot.
SETBACKS from a public street or private  road shall be measured from the
right-of-way line or easement.  SETBACKS shall remain as open space as defined
herein, unless otherwise provided for in this chapter.
   SIDEWALK.  A concrete path that provides for pedestrian use and is usually
located at the side of a road within the right-of-way.
   SIGHT DISTANCE.  The length of roadway visible to a driver.  Generally
related to the distance and time considered to be sufficient for the driver to
safely execute a maneuver (such as complete a left turn for an access point),
under normal weather conditions, as specified by GCRC.
   SKETCH PLAN.  A plan drawn to scale showing existing and proposed features
of a site and its surroundings and the general layout of a proposed
subdivision.  The plan may include a description of general topographic and
soil conditions on the site including water level information, description of
existing and proposed manmade features important to the proposed development,
description of significant natural features on the site, description of general
site conditions that are to be retained or modified in the proposed
development, description of uses and facilities to be incorporated in the
development, and description of approximate phases of development.
   STREET.  Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct, alley
or other way which is an existing state, county or municipal roadway; or, a
street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved
by official action; or, a street or way on a plat duly filed and recorded in
the office of the County Register of Deeds.  A STREET includes the land between
the street right-of-way lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise
pavement, shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas and lawns.
      (1)   Alley.  A dedicated public way affording a secondary means of
access to the side or rear of those properties whose principal frontage is on
another street and not intended for general traffic circulation.
      (2)   Arterial.  An arterial street of greater continuity which is
intended to serve as a large volume trafficway for both the immediate
municipality area and region beyond.
      (3)   Boulevard street.  A street developed with two-2 lane, 1-way
pavements, separated by a median.
      (4)   Collector street (secondary thoroughfare).  Collector streets and
roads provide access to abutting properties and traffic circulation within
residential, commercial, industrial and public uses.  The purpose of a
collector road is to collect traffic throughout the township and channel it to
the major thoroughfare (arterial) system.
      (5)   Cul-de-sac street.  A minor street of short length, having one end
open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end by a
vehicular turn-around.
      (6)    Dead-end street.  A street or road that terminates with no current
or proposed thoroughfare to another street or road.
      (7)   Divided street.  A street or road having an island, boulevard,
median or other barrier separating moving lanes.
      (8)   Freeway.  A street designed for high-speed, high-volume through
traffic, with completely controlled access, no grade crossings and no private
driveway connections.
      (9)   Half-street.  A street or road containing less than the required
right-of-way width.
      (10)   Loop street.  A minor street of short length with 2 openings to
traffic beginning from the same street, and projecting parallel to each other
and connecting at their termination by a loop.
      (11)   Marginal access street.  A minor street paralleling and adjacent
to a major thoroughfare which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (12)   Minor/local street.  A street of limited continuity used primarily
for access to abutting residential properties.
      (13)   Stub street.  A portion of a street or road for which an extension
has been proposed and approved, and is terminated by a temporary cul-de-sac.
      (14)   Turn-around.  A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turnaround.
   STREET TREE.  A canopy tree along a public street or approved private road
that is typically located in a street right-of-way or access easement (see also
definition of tree).
   SUBDIVISION.  The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors, or assigns for the purpose of sale, or lease of
more than 1 year, or of building development, where the act of division creates
more parcels of land than provided in the Michigan Land Division Act and §§
151.085 through
151.087.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT.  See definition of Land Division Act.
   SUBDIVISION RULES AND DRAINAGE POLICIES.  A document prepared by the Genesee
County Drain Commissioner which sets the minimum standards for drainage
facilities within the county.
   SURVEYOR.  Either a land SURVEYOR who is registered in this state as a
registered land surveyor or a civil engineer who is registered in this state as
a registered professional engineer.
   TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP.  A map prepared by a surveyor showing existing physical
characteristics, with contour lines at sufficient intervals to permit
determination of proposed grades and drainage.
   TOWNSHIP.  The Charter Township of Clayton, Genesee County, Michigan.
   TOWNSHIP ENGINEERING CONSULTANT OR ENGINEER.  The staff engineer or
consulting engineer of the township.
   TOWNSHIP PLANNING CONSULTANT OR PLANNER.  The staff planner or consulting
planner of the township.
   TRACT.  Two or more parcels that share a common property line and are under
the same ownership.
   TREE.  A woody plant which has an erect perennial trunk, which at maturity
is 13 feet or more in height, which has a more or less definite crown of
foliage.  For purposes of this chapter the following definitions of types of
trees shall apply:
      (1)   Canopy tree.  A deciduous tree which has a mature crown spread of
greater than 15 feet and a mature height of 40 or more feet in southern
Michigan, and which has a trunk with at least 5 feet of clear stem at maturity.
      (2)   Deciduous trees.  A tree which has foliage that is shed at the end
of the growing season.
      (3)   Evergreen trees.  A tree which has foliage that persists and
remains green throughout the year.
      (4)   Ornamental tree.  A deciduous tree which is typically grown because
of its shape, flowering characteristics, or other attractive features, and
which grows to a mature height of 25 feet or less.
   VARIANCE.  A waiver from compliance with a specific provision of this
chapter granted to a particular property owner because of the practical
difficulties or unnecessary hardship that would be imposed by the strict
application of that provision of this chapter.
   VESTED RIGHT.  The right to initiate or continue the establishment of a use
that will be contrary to a restriction or regulation coming into effect when
the project associated with the use is completed (sometimes referred to as
“grandfathered”).
   WATER RESOURCES COMMISSION.  The Water Resources Commission through the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The Zoning Administrator of the Charter Township of
Clayton.
   ZONING ORDINANCE.  The Charter Township of Clayton zoning ordinance, as set
forth in
Chapter 152 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 372.1 § 201, passed 6-10-1999)
SUBDIVISION PROCEDURE
§ 151.020  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The preparation of a subdivision for platting shall be carried out through
the following process.  Submittals must include all information outlined in §
151.022.
   (A)   Optional sketch plan and pre-preliminary plat review, set forth in §
151.023, involves township staff, consultants and Planning Commission for
direction to the proprietor, but no formal action is taken.
   (B)   Tentative preliminary plat review, set forth in §
151.024, involves review of basic street layout and lot arrangement, the review
of additional information required under this chapter, and a recommendation by
the Planning Commission to the Township Board for approval or denial.  The
Township Board, within 90 days from the date of filing, shall tentatively
approve and note its approval on the copy of the preliminary plat to be
returned to the proprietor, or set forth in writing its reasons for rejection
and requirements for tentative approval.
   (C)   Final preliminary plat review, set forth in §
151.025, involves review by applicable outside (state and Genesee County)
agencies prior to review and action by the Township Board.  The Board shall
review the final preliminary plat, after the plans have been revised to be in
conformance with the requirements of outside agencies.  The Township Board
shall consider and review the final preliminary plat at its next meeting, or
within 30 days of the date of filing of an application that is accepted as
complete.  The Township Board will then either approve the application, if the
proprietor has met all the conditions laid down for approval of the final
preliminary plat have been met, or deny the application.  The Township Board
will then instruct the Clerk to promptly notify the proprietor of approval or
rejection in writing, and if rejected to give the reasons.
   (D)   Final plat approval, set forth in §
151.027, involves review and action to approve or deny the final plat by the
Township Board at its next regular meeting or within 20 days of the date of
filing of an application that is accepted as complete.  The Township Board
shall either approve the final plat if it conforms to all of the provisions of
this chapter and instruct the Clerk to certify on the plat to the Township
Board’s approval; or reject the final plat, instruct the Clerk to give reasons
in writing as set forth in the minutes of the meeting, and return the plat to
the proprietor.
(Ord. 372.1 Art. III, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.021  PRE-PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The proprietor may meet informally with the township departments
concerned to investigate the procedures and standards of the township with
reference to this subdivision regulations ordinance and with the proposals of
the Master Plan as they affect the area in which the proposed subdivision is
located.
   (B)   The proprietor should concern himself or herself with the following
factors:
      (1)   The proprietor shall secure a copy of the zoning ordinance,
subdivision regulations, engineering specifications, and other similar
ordinances or controls relative to the subdivision and improvement of land so
as to make himself or herself aware of the requirements of the township;
      (2)   The area for the proposed subdivision shall be properly zoned for
the intended use before preliminary plat application is made;
      (3)   An investigation of adequacy of existing schools and the adequacy
of public open spaces, including parks and playgrounds, to serve the proposed
subdivision shall be made by the proprietor;
      (4)   The relationship of the proposed subdivision with respect to major
thoroughfares and plans for widening of thoroughfares shall be investigated by
the proprietor; and
      (5)   Standards for sewage disposal, water supply and drainage of the
township shall be investigated by the proprietor.
(Ord. 372.1 § 300, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.022  REQUIRED PLAT INFORMATION.
   (A)   The following information is required to be provided on each plat
submittal to the township:
Submittal Requirements Sketch Plan Tent. Prelim. Plat Final Prelim. Plat
                                                                               Sketch  Tent.   Final
Submittal Requirements                                                         Plan    Prelim. Prelim.
                                                                                       Plat    Plat
Proposed name of subdivision                                                   x       x       x
Name(s) and address of the proprietor and the owner of record of the land to
be subdivided.  The proprietor shall indicate interest in the land as to      x       x       x
whether it is a land contract interest, or ownership of the property in fee
simple
Names, address and professional seals of the designer, engineer or land                x       x
surveyor who designed the subdivision layout
Location by Section, Town and Range, or by other legal description                     x       x
Scale of plat, 1 inch = 100 feet as minimum acceptable scale                           x       x
Date, revision dates and north arrow                                           x       x       x
EXISTING SITE INFORMATION
An overall area map at a scale of not less than 1 inch = 2,000 feet showing
the relationship of the subdivision to its surroundings such as section lines  x       x       x
and/or major streets or collector streets shall be provided
Property lines of adjacent tracts within 200 feet of subdivided and
unsubdivided land shown in relation to the tract being proposed for                    x       x
subdivision, including those of areas across abutting road with those
unplatted landowners being designated by name
Boundary lines with dimensions for the subdivision.  If plat is to be done in
phases, the boundaries and dimensions for each phase shall be indicated.  All
phases shall be numbered in the order in which they are intended to be                 x       x
platted.  An estimated timeframe for platting of each phase shall also be
provided
Township boundary lines if in or within 200 feet of the proposed plat                  x       x
Location, widths and names of existing or prior platted streets and private
streets, and public easements within or adjacent to the tract being proposed   x       x       x
for subdivision, including those located across abutting roads
Zoning district classification for all land parcels within and adjacent to the x       x       x
plat
Existing buildings or other structures in or within 100 feet of the proposed           x       x
subdivision plat
A written subdivision site report that includes soil boring logs and water
table information. Additional borings may be required by the Township                  x       x
Engineering Consultant
PROPOSED SUBDIVISION
Layout, numbers, dimensions and lot areas in square feet, including building   x       x       x
setback lines showing dimensions
Indication of parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set aside for public x       x       x
use or for the use of property owners in the subdivision
An indication of the ownership, and existing and proposed use of any parcels
identified as “excepted” on the preliminary plat. If the proprietor has an
interest or owns any parcel so identified as “excepted,” the preliminary plat      x       x
shall indicate how this property could be developed in accordance with the
requirements of the existing zoning district in which it is located and with
an acceptable relationship to the layout of the proposed preliminary plat
In the case where the proprietor wishes to subdivide a given area, but wishes
to begin with only a portion of the total area, the preliminary plat shall
include the proposed general layout for the entire area. The part which is
proposed to be subdivided first shall be clearly superimposed upon the overall         x       x
plan in order to illustrate clearly the method of development which the
proprietor intends to follow. Each subsequent plat shall follow the same
procedure until the entire area controlled by the proprietor is subdivided
Spot elevations of the proposed grading and roadwork                                           x
NATURAL FEATURES
Topography drawn as contours at an interval of not less than 2 feet for the
subject site and a general description of topography within 100 feet of the            x       x
plat.  Topography shall be based on NAVD 88 Datum. Existing and proposed
topography lines shall be shown in a manner which is easily distinguishable
Boundaries of regulated floodplain or wetlands, with documentation and
credentials supporting that the boundary was determined by a qualified firm or general x       x
individual
Location of individual trees greater than 8 inch D.B.H. and the canopy outline general x       x
of dense groupings of trees
Location and elevation of any floodplain areas                                 general x       x
STREETS
Traffic Impact Study                                                           x       x
Name, location, and right-of-way widths of existing or proposed public or      x       x       x
private streets in or within 250 feet of the proposed plat
Method of connection with adjoining street system                              x       x       x
General layout of proposed streets                                             x       x
Details on street design including curve radii, rights-of-way, cross-
sections, gradient, street signs, traffic-control devices, traffic signals,                    x
and the like
Names of proposed streets                                                              x       x
Street Lighting:  the location for any street lights shall be shown.  A
diagram of a typical street light planned to be installed in the plat shall be         x       x
provided
Location of school bus stops and documentation from the school district.                       x
SIDEWALKS AND BIKEPATHS
Locations of proposed sidewalks, bikepaths and similar facilities                      x       x
Details on the width, materials, grades and the like of pedestrian facilities                  x
LANDSCAPE PLAN
A general conceptual landscape plan illustrating buffer zones and greenbelts   general
Location and details of street trees, buffer zones and greenbelts including            x       x
plant lists
Entry features:  A detailed drawing to scale of any proposed entrance features        x       x
including dimensions of boulevards, walls, landscaping signs or lighting
PUBLIC RESERVATIONS AND EASEMENTS
Indication of parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set aside for public general x       x
use or for the use of property owners in the subdivision
Documentation of dedication or reservation                                                     x
Existing or proposed easements in or within 100 feet of the proposed plat.            x       x
Information should include the width and purpose for all easements
UTILITIES
General layout of water and sanitary sewer lines                                       x
Sewage disposal:  Location, size, material and slope of sewer lines, or
location of septic fields, for sewage disposal by a method approved by the
Genesee County Health Department or the Michigan Dept. of Public Health (MDPH)                 x
and the Township Board.  Utility information shall be shown for the plat and
for a distance 200 feet outside of the plat
Water system:  Location, material and sizes of lines and the location of fire
hydrants, or location of wells for proposed water supply by a method approved
by the Genesee County Health Department or the MDPH and the Township Board.                   x
Utility information shall be shown for the plat and for a distance 200 feet
outside of the plat
Location, sizes and other information on underground utilities such as
electricity present and other proposed utilities.  Utility information shall                  x
be shown for the plat and for a distance 200 feet outside of the plat
General plans for stormwater, including the location of detention basin and            x
the route of the runoff from the site to the nearest drainage course
Drainage:  An indication of storm drainage proposed by methods acceptable to
the township and/or the GCDC.  Detailed information shall be provided
including location, size, material and slope of storm sewer lines.  Stormwater                x
runoff, pipe and detention pond calculations shall be provided to analyze the
adequacy of proposed drainage facilities
MISCELLANEOUS
Declaration of restrictions                                                                    x
Proposed location of mailbox clusters (if required)                                    x       x
Details on mailbox cluster design and letter from Post Office                                  x
 
   (B)   A Traffic Impact Assessment, which evaluates current and future
traffic operations at site access points, shall be required at tentative
preliminary plat for a subdivision that contains between 50 and 99 lots.  A
Traffic Impact Statement which evaluates current and future traffic operations
at site access points and major signalized or non-signalized intersections in
proximity to the site shall be required for any proposed subdivision which
contains 100 or more lots.  The exact study area of a traffic impact statement
shall be established by the Planning Commission.  The contents of the traffic
impact study shall include:
      (1)   Illustrations and a narrative which describes the characteristics
of the site and adjacent roadway system (right-of-way, functional
classification, lane configuration, speed limits, any sight distances
limitations, current traffic conflicts and the like).  This description should
include surrounding land uses, expected development in the vicinity which could
influence future traffic conditions, special site features and a description of
any committed roadway improvements.  The study should define and justify the
study area selected for analysis;
      (2)   Existing traffic conditions, including existing peak hour traffic
volumes (and daily volumes if applicable) on street(s) adjacent to the
subdivision.  Existing counts and levels of service for intersections in the
vicinity which are expected to be impacted, as identified by the Planning
Commission or its staff/consultants, shall be provided for projects requiring a
Traffic Impact Statement.  Traffic count data shall be collected using accepted
practices and shall not be over 2 years old;
      (3)   The existing right-of-way shall be identified along with any
planned or desired expansion of the right-of-way requested by the applicable
road agency;
      (4)   The traffic study shall include traffic generated by other projects
in the vicinity which have been approved or are under construction;
      (5)   The traffic study shall also include a scenario analyzing forecast
traffic at date of completion along the adjacent street network using a
forecast based on a network traffic assignment model (if available), historic
annual percentage increases and/or future development in the area which has
been approved;
      (6)   Forecasted trip generation of the proposed use for the a.m. (if
applicable) and p.m. peak hour and average day.  The forecasts shall be based
on the data and procedures outlined in the most recent edition of “Trip
Generation” published by the Institute of Transportation Engineers (ITE);
      (7)   Any trip reduction for pass-by trips, transit, ride-sharing, other
modes, internal capture rates and the like shall be based both on ITE findings
and documented survey results acceptable to the township and applicable road
agency.  The community may elect to reduce the trip reduction rates used;
      (8)   For projects intended to be developed in phases, the trip
generation by phase shall be described;
      (9)   The projected traffic generated shall be distributed (inbound v.
outbound, left turn v. right turn) onto the existing street network to project
turning movements at site access points, and nearby intersections where
required.  Projected turning movements shall be illustrated in the report.  A
description of the application of standard engineering procedures for
determining the distribution should be provided (trip distribution model,
market studies, counts at existing driveways, etc.);
      (10)   Level of service or “capacity” analysis at the proposed access
points using the procedures outlined in the most recent edition of the “Highway
Capacity Manual” published by the Transportation Research Board.  For projects
requiring a Traffic Impact Statement or Regional Traffic Analysis, before and
after capacity analyses shall also be performed for all street intersections
where the expected traffic generated at the subdivision will comprise at least
5% of the existing intersection capacity, unless other intersections are
identified by the township.  Gap studies for unsignalized intersections shall
be provided where applicable;
      (11)   The report shall include a map and description of the location and
design of proposed access including: any sight distance limitations, dimensions
from adjacent driveways and intersections within 250 feet on either side of the
main roadway, support that the access points will provide safe and efficient
traffic operation and be in accordance with the standards of the GCRC; and
      (12)   The study shall outline mitigation measures and demonstrate any
changes to the level of service achieved by these measures.  Any alternatives
or suggested phasing of improvements should be described.  The mitigation
measures may include items such as roadway widening, need for bypass lanes or
deceleration tapers/lanes, changes to signalization or a reduction in the
density of the proposed subdivision.  Proposed mitigation measures should be
discussed with the GCRC.  The responsibility and timing of roadway improvements
shall be described.
(Ord. 372.1 § 301, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.023  OPTIONAL PRE-APPLICATION CONTACT AND SKETCH PLAN.
   (A)   Acceptance of the sketch plan does not assure acceptance of the
preliminary plat.
      (1)   Submittal.  The proprietor shall file 2 copies of the sketch plan
and other data to the Township Clerk at least 10 days before a meeting of the
Planning Commission.  The date of the Planning Commission meeting shall be
considered the filing date.  Copies shall be distributed by the Township Clerk
to:
         (a)   Planning Commission; and
         (b)   Township Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Information required.
         (a)   Sketch plan.  The plan shall show the subdivision’s entire
development scheme in schematic form including the area for immediate
development, and shall include the following:
            1.   General layout of street, blocks and lots in sketch form;
            2.   Existing conditions and characteristics of the land on and
adjacent to the site; and
            3.   Any general area set aside for schools, parks and other
community facilities.
         (b)   Engineering letter.  A letter from a surveyor concerning the
general feasibility of the land for subdividing.
         (c)   Ownership.  The Township Board and Planning Commission may
require such proof of ownership of the land proposed to be subdivided as they
deem necessary.
      (3)   Review procedure.
         (a)   The subdivider shall submit 2 copies of the pre-preliminary plat
to the Township Clerk 10 days before the next meeting of the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   The Township Clerk shall promptly transmit the 2 copies of the
pre-preliminary plat to. the Planning Commission.
         (c)   The Planning Commission or Subdivision Committee of the
Commission will review the plan with the subdivider or his or her agent.  The
Commission may also require that copies of the pre-preliminary plat be
submitted to other affected public agencies for review.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall inform the subdivider or his or
her agent of the township’s development policies and make appropriate comments
and suggestions concerning the proposed development scheme.
         (e)   The Planning Commission shall inform the Township Board of the
results of the review of the pre-preliminary plat.
   (B)   Pre-preliminary plat review is an aid to the developer and to the
township.  Under this procedure, a developer is provided with the opportunity
to obtain the advice and assistance of the Township Planning Consultant and
Engineering Consultant and the many agencies involved in subdividing, before
preparation of the preliminary plat and its submission for approval.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be so construed as to require any pre-
application contact.  Any subdivider may elect to begin the subdivision
procedure by submitting a preliminary plat for tentative approval, as set forth
below.
(Ord. 372.1 § 302, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.024  TENTATIVE PRELIMINARY PLAT (MANDATORY). 
   Tentative approval under this section shall confer upon the proprietor, for
a period of 1 year from approval date, the rights granted under § 112 of the
Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. § 560.112.
   (A)   Submittal. The proprietor shall file 15 copies of the preliminary plat
and other data to the Township Clerk at least 14 days before a meeting of the
Planning Commission.  The date the proprietor submits the application, plat and
fee shall be considered the filing date.  Copies shall be distributed by the
Township Clerk to:
      (1)   Planning Commissioners;
      (2)   Township Zoning Administrator;
      (3)   Township Engineering Consultant; and
      (4)   Township Planning Consultant.
   (B)   Review procedures.  The following review procedures shall be utilized.
      (1)   The Township Clerk shall refer the preliminary plat to the Township
Zoning Administrator for placement on the agenda at least 14 days prior to the
next regular meeting of the Planning Commission in order to be placed on the
agenda.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall review the tentative preliminary plat
and the comments of the Township Planning Consultant and Engineering Consultant
and, finding all conditions to have been satisfactorily met, shall recommend
tentative approval of the preliminary plat under § 112(4) of the Land Division
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 560.112(4), before distribution to other approving
authorities.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat does not meet all requirements, the
Planning Commission shall notify the proprietor of this fact by letter, giving
its reason and the earliest date for resubmission of the plat and additional
information required.  The Township Board shall receive a report of the
findings by the Planning Commission and its recommendation for disapproval.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall give its report to the Township Board
not more than 45 days after submission of the preliminary plat.  The 45-day
period may be extended if the applicant consents.  If no action is taken within
45 days, the preliminary plat shall be deemed to have been recommended for
approval by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   The Township Board, at its next regular meeting after receiving the
recommendation from the Planning Commission, shall review the preliminary plat
and within 45 days of filing, shall tentatively approve the preliminary plat or
disapprove that plat.  The Township Board shall record their approval on the
plat and return 1 copy to the proprietor or set forth in writing its reasons
for rejection and requirements for tentative approval.
      (6)   Tentative approval shall not constitute final approval of the
preliminary plat.
(Ord. 372.1 § 303, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.025  PRELIMINARY PLAT FINAL APPROVAL (MANDATORY).
   (A)   Final approval of the preliminary plat under this section shall confer
upon the proprietor for a period of 2 years from the date of approval, the
rights granted under § 120 of the Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. § 560.120. 
The 2-year period may be extended if applied for by the proprietor and granted
by the Township Board in writing.  Written notice of the extension shall be
sent by the Township Board to the other approving authorities.
   (B)   (1)   Submittal.  A complete application containing all of the
required information in §
151.022 shall be submitted.
         (a)   The proprietor, upon receiving tentative approval from the
Township Board, shall submit the preliminary plat to all authorities as
required by §§ 113 to 119 of the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.113 through 560.119, including but not limited to:
            1.   Genesee County Road Commission (for approval or rejection);
            2.   Genesee County Drain Commission (for approval or rejection);
            3.   Michigan Department of Transportation (for approval or
rejection);
            4.   Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (for approval or
rejection);
            5.   Michigan Department of Public Health and/or Genesee County
Health Department (for approval or rejection);
            6.   Genesee County Plat Board (for informational purposes); and
            7.   All public utilities serving the area (for informational
purposes).
         (b)   Prior to expiration the tentatively approved preliminary plat
shall be submitted by the proprietor in 15 copies to the Planning Commission
for review and recommendation to the Township Board.  The Township Clerk shall
distribute copies to the following:
            1.   Planning Commissioners;
            2.   Township Planning Consultant; and
            3.   Township Engineering Consultant.
      (2)   Review procedures.  The Township Board, after receipt of the
necessary approved copies of the preliminary plat shall:
         (a)   Consider the review and recommendations of the Township
Engineering Consultant, Township Planning Consultant and Township Planning
Commission for compliance with the tentative approved preliminary plat
standards;
         (b)   Consider the preliminary plat at its next meeting or within 30
days from the date of the submission of all necessary approved plats,
application and fee;
         (c)   If the preliminary plat conforms substantially to the plat
approved tentatively by the Township Board and has met all conditions specified
for tentative approval, then the Township Board shall give final approval to
the preliminary plat; and
         (d)   Instruct the Township Clerk to record promptly on the copy of
the preliminary plat to be returned to the proprietor the approval or rejection
with reasons for any rejection.
(Ord. 372.1 § 304, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.026  CONSTRUCTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   After final approval of preliminary plat no construction of
improvements shall be commenced by the subdivider until the subdivider has:
      (1)   Received notice of final approval of the preliminary plat by the
Township Board;
      (2)   Entered into a subdivision agreement with the appropriate
regulatory agencies for construction of all required subdivision improvements;
and
      (3)   Deposited with the appropriate regulatory agency a performance
guarantee and cash escrow if required under §
151.070.
   (B)   Construction of up to 4 model homes in a new subdivision may be
commenced by the proprietor, provided he or she has fully and satisfactorily
complied with the provisions of the preceding divisions (A)(1) and (2) of this
section.  The model(s) shall be constructed on proposed residential lots and in
complete conformance with all conditions and regulations which would be in
effect if the final plat were recorded.
   (C)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until the time that the
final plat is recorded and all utilities and other improvements are installed,
inspected and accepted.
(Ord. 372.1 § 305, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.027  FINAL PLAT.
   The procedure for preparation and review of a final plat shall be as
follows.  Following final approval of the preliminary plat by the Township
Board, the proprietor shall cause a survey and 1 true plat thereof to be made
by a surveyor.
   (A)   Submittal.  One copy of true plat mylar and an additional 10 paper
prints of the final plat, along with the application, shall be submitted to the
Township Clerk.
      (1)   A final plat shall not be accepted after the date of expiration of
the preliminary plat final approval.
      (2)   Submittal to the Clerk shall be at least 10 days prior to a
regularly scheduled meeting of the Township Board.  The date the proprietor
submits the application, plat and fee shall be considered the date of filing.
   (B)   Information required.
      (1)   All final plats of subdivided land shall comply with the provisions
of survey and mapping requirements cited in the Land Division Act, Public Act
288 of 1967, especially those cited in §§ 126 through 141, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.126 through 560.141;
      (2)   All final plats of subdivided land shall comply with the
certification requirements cited in the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of
1967, especially those cited in §§ 142 through 151, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.142
through 560.151; and
      (3)   A policy of title insurance currently in force covering all of the
land included within the boundaries of the proposed subdivision certified to
the date of submission for final plat approval, which establishes recordable
ownership interest.
   (C)   Procedures.
      (1)   The final plat shall be reviewed by the Township Engineering
Consultant as to compliance with the approved preliminary plat final approval
and plans for utilities and other improvements, including the placement of
monuments.
      (2)   The Township Board shall review all recommendations within 20 days
and take action on the final plat as soon as practicable after the filing of
the plat if it is in proper form.
      (3)   The Township Board shall require all improvements and facilities to
be constructed including the placement of monuments or require a cash deposit
or its equal in lieu of constructions of the improvements and facilities before
it approves the final plat.
      (4)   Upon approval of the final plat by the Township Board, the
subsequent approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the Land Division
Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293.  If not
approved, the Township Board shall instruct the Clerk to give the proprietor
its reasons in writing, as set forth in the minutes of the meeting, and return
the plat to the proprietor.
      (5)   The Township Board shall instruct the Clerk to record all
proceedings in the minutes of the meeting, which shall be open for inspection,
and to certify on the approved final plat the Board’s approval and the date
thereof on behalf of the Township Board.
      (6)   The Township Clerk shall transcribe a certificate of approval of
the Township Board on the final plat and direct the proprietor or proprietor’s
representative to deliver all originals to the Clerk of the County Plat Board
together with the filing and a recording fee required by the Land Division Act.
      (7)   The Township Clerk shall transmit 1 paper print copy to the
Planning Commission, 1 paper print to the Township Zoning Administrator, 1
paper print to the Township Assessor, and retain 1 paper print copy temporarily
in the files of the Township Board.
(Ord. 372.1 § 306, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.028  EXTENSION OF REVIEW DEADLINES.
   Deadlines for the township to take action on a preliminary or final plat, as
specified in the Land Division Act and reiterated in this chapter, may be
extended by mutual written consent of the proprietor and the Township Clerk.  A
waiver of the review deadlines may be required to permit concurrent processing
of related review applications.  In the absence of written consent for this
waiver, denial of a plat shall be considered appropriate if the township has
not been given sufficient time within the deadline to evaluate the impact of a
proposed plat on the public health, safety and welfare, pursuant to the
regulations in this chapter.
(Ord. 372.1 § 307, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.029  COORDINATION OF REZONING WITH SUBDIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Rezoning required.  No subdivision plat that requires a rezoning shall
be considered prior to approval of the rezoning by the Township Board.
   (B)   Issuance of permits.  No building permits or certificates of occupancy
shall be issued until the township has granted final approval of the zoning
application and the final plat has been properly recorded.  This provision
shall not apply to model homes subject to the limitations of §
151.026(B).
(Ord. 372.1 § 308, passed 6-10-1999)
DESIGN STANDARDS; COMPLIANCE STANDARDS
§ 151.040  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The subdivision design standards set forth under this section are
development guides for the assistance of the proprietor.  All final plans must
be reviewed and approved by the governing body.
(Ord. 372.1 Art. IV, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.041  STREETS.
   Streets shall conform to at least all minimum requirements of the general
specifications and typical cross-sections as set forth in this Design Standards
subchapter, and other conditions set forth by the Township Board and Genesee
County Road Commission.
   (A)   Location and arrangements.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the various elements of
the Master Plan and shall be considered in relation to the existing and planned
major thoroughfares and secondary streets, and the part shall be platted in the
location and the width indicated on the plan.
      (2)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of
existing streets from adjoining areas into new subdivisions, unless otherwise
approved by the Township Board, following a recommendation by the Planning
Commission, due to documented environmentally sensitive features, unusual lot
configuration or unique site conditions.  Where adjoining vacant areas are
zoned or planned for development similar to the proposed subdivision, streets
shall be extended to the boundary line of the tract to make provision for the
future street connections.  The proprietor shall demonstrate that the proposed
stub street is in a reasonable location for extension into the adjacent lands,
in consideration of such factors as grades, water bodies, wetlands and lot
configuration.
      (3)   Streets shall be aligned to maximize the preservation of natural
features and existing grades to the extent feasible.  Streets should follow
natural topography to minimize grading.
      (4)   The proposed subdivision street layout shall discourage use by
through traffic, except where a continuation of streets to adjoining properties
is deemed desirable by the township.  In determining the need for these
connections, the township shall consider the need for adequate access and
response time for emergency vehicles, the impacts the connections may have on
reducing congestion along arterials, the projected traffic volumes and the
compatibility with adjacent developments. 
      (5)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain an existing or
proposed major thoroughfare or collector, the Planning Commission may require
marginal access streets, reverse frontage with an approved screen planting
contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property line having a
minimum width of 15 feet, or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards.  Vehicular driveway access shall be to a minor
street.
      (6)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain a railroad,
expressway or other limited- access highway right-of-way, the Planning
Commission may require the location of a street approximately parallel to and
on each side of the right-of-way at a distance suitable for the development of
an appropriate use of the intervening land as for parks in residential
districts.  The distances shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for approach grades to future grade separation.
      (7)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where the parcel is
adjacent to another platted and dedicated half street or when a contemporaneous
development proposal includes the required adjacent half street.  Wherever
there exists, adjacent to the tract to be subdivided, a dedication or platted
and recorded half street; the other half shall be platted.
      (8)   Where a subdivision incorporates existing public streets or private
roads which are not in conformance with current standards, facilities shall be
reconstructed as necessary to improve the road to the extent required by the
GCRC for public roads.
   (B)   Specifications.
      (1)   Street rights-of-way roadway widths.  Street and road right-of-way
and roadway widths shall conform to the adopted Township Major Thoroughfare
Plan and the standards adopted by the Genesee County Road Commission as
evidenced by the Genesee County Master Right-of-Way Plan and the rules of the
County Road Commission and the Michigan Department of Transportation.  The
specifications for design of various right-of-way types are provided in this
section.
      (2)   Street gradients.
         (a)   Maximum grades.  Street grades shall not exceed 6% (a rise or
fall of 6 feet in 100 feet) on either local streets or collector streets.
         (b)   Minimum grades.  No street grade shall be less than 0.4%.
      (3)   Street alignment.
         (a)   When street lines deflect from each other by more than 10
degrees in alignment, the centerlines shall be connected by a curve with a
minimum radius of 500 feet for arterial streets, 300 feet for collector streets
and 150 feet for local or minor streets.  Between reverse curves, on minor
streets, there shall be a minimum tangent distance of 100 feet, and on
collector and arterial streets, 200 feet.
         (b)   The sight distance over a crest shall be a minimum of 300 feet
viewed from a point 3 feet 6 inches above the surface of the pavement, with the
object sighted being 3 feet 6 inches above the surface of the pavement.
         (c)   The minimum radii on platted street intersections shall be as
follows:
            1.   State and federal highways, as approved by MDOT;
            2.   Principal county local or primary roads, 40 feet to the back
of curb;
            3.   Residential area streets, 30 feet to the back of curb; and
            4.   Commercial and industrial platted streets, as approved by the
Township Engineering Consultant and Fire and Police Departments.
         (d)   All newly platted streets which intersect with existing
highways, or with proposed platted streets will do so at 90 degree angles with
a minimum straightaway of 150 feet, as measured from centerline of the existing
highway.  The grade in the 150 foot straightaway shall not exceed 3.0%.  The
maximum number of intersecting streets shall be 2.
         (e)   Each horizontal curve on curvilinear streets shall have a
minimum radius, as measured from centerline, as approved by the Township
Engineer.  Curves or other features principally to obtain a particular lot
size, shape, appearance or scenic attraction not in keeping with good
engineering design will not be permitted.
   (C)   Intersections.
      (1)   Angle of intersection.  Streets shall intersect at 90 degrees or
closer, thereto and in no case at less than 80 degrees.
      (2)   Sight triangles.  Minimum clear sight distance at all street
intersections and street junctions shall permit vehicles to be visible to the
driver of another vehicle when each is 125 feet from the center of the
intersection, and within which area no obstruction to vision, excluding
existing topography, shall be permitted from a height of 2 feet to 8 feet above
centerline elevation of abutting streets, except that not more than 1 tree with
a trunk of not more than 30 inches in diameter, and clear of any branches for
these heights may be located within the area; provided, however, that this
section shall not prohibit the requirements of a greater clear vision zoning
where that is necessary in view of permitted traffic turning moments, existing
and anticipated traffic volumes, traffic speeds, intersection configurations,
geographic and topographic conditions, or any other unique characteristics
which may require a greater clear vision zone.  The area of the clear vision
zone shall be shown as an easement on the plat.
      (3)   Number of streets.  No more than 2 streets shall cross at any 1
intersection.
      (4)   “T” intersections.  Except on arterials and certain collectors, T-
type intersections shall be used where practical.
      (5)   Centerline offsets.  Slight jogs at intersections shall be
avoided.  Where these jogs are unavoidable, street centerlines shall be offset
by a distance of 125 feet or more.
      (6)   Vertical alignment of intersection.  A nearly flat grade with
appropriate drainage slopes is desirable within intersections.  This flat
section shall be carried back 50 feet to 100 feet each way from the
intersection.  An allowance of 2% maximum intersection grade in rolling and 4%
in hilly terrain will be permitted.
   (D)   Cul-de-sac streets.  Culs-de-sac shall not be more than 1,200 feet in
length.  Special consideration shall be given to longer culs-de-sac under
certain topographic conditions or other unusual situations.  Cul-de-sacs shall
terminate with an adequate turnaround with a minimum radius of 60 feet for the
right-of-way.
   (E)   Private streets.  Private streets and roads shall generally be
prohibited.
   (F)   Half streets.  Half streets generally be prohibited except where
unusual circumstances make it essential to the reasonable development of a
tract in conformance with these regulations and where satisfactory assurance
for dedication of the remaining part of the street is provided.  Whenever a
tract to be subdivided borders on an existing half or partial street, the other
part of the street shall be dedicated within the tract, according to the
requirements of the County Road Commission.
   (G)   Alleys.  Alleys shall generally be prohibited.
   (H)   Signs and signalization.  The developer shall be responsible for
placement of street name signs at all street intersections in accordance with
the requirements of the GCRC.  Where roads are proposed to be dedicated to the
county, the GCRC may install the signs at the developer’s expense.  The
developer shall also be responsible for placement of pavement markings and
regulatory street signs (such as no parking signs, stop or yield signs, speed
limit signs, and warning signs) as requested by the township, the GCRC or the
MDOT.  All regulatory signs shall be in conformance with the Michigan Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices.  The developer shall be responsible for
placement of traffic signalization, as required by the GCRC.
   (I)   Phasing.  Each phase of the plat shall be designed to meet the street
requirements above, regardless of whether future phases are constructed.
   (J)   Street names.  Street names shall not duplicate any existing street
name in Charter Township of Clayton and Genesee County, except where a new
street is a continuation of an existing street.
      (1)   Street names that may be spelled differently but sound the same
shall be avoided.
      (2)   Duplications can be avoided by checking new street names with the
Planning Commission’s master listing and the County Road Commission.
(Ord. 372.1 § 400, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.042  BLOCKS.
   Blocks within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   The size and shape of blocks shall be appropriate for the type of lots
and land use proposed.
   (B)   Blocks shall be designed so as to permit good lot orientation, safe
street design and economical use of the land.
      (1)   Length.  Length of blocks between intersecting streets shall he no
less than 500 or more than 1,320 feet in length.
      (2)   Arrangement.  A block shall be so designed as to provide 2 tiers of
lots and shall not be less than 240 feet, except where lots back into a major
thoroughfare, natural feature or subdivision boundary.
      (3)   Nonresidential blocks.  Blocks intended for purposes other than
residential shall be especially designed for those purposes and shall have
adequate provision for off-street parking and loading in accordance with the
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 372.1 § 401, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.043  LOTS.
   Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   General lot arrangement.
      (1)   Through lots (lots with frontage on 2 parallel streets) are
prohibited, except in the case of a reverse frontage lot that abuts a major
thoroughfare, where access to the major thoroughfare is prohibited.
      (2)   Lots facing a 3-way intersection should be aligned to prevent
oncoming headlight glare into the living area of the building envelope.
      (3)   Blocks shall be so designed as to provide 2 tiers of back-to-back
lots, except where lots back onto a major thoroughfare, railroad, natural
feature or subdivision boundary.
      (4)   Corner lots shall have access to the lesser-traveled roadway.
      (5)   If the plat extends into an adjacent community, boundaries for
individual lots shall be within 1 community to the extent feasible.  In no case
shall a building envelope result in a situation where a home crosses a
community or school district boundary.
      (6)   If the subdivision includes any outlots or excepted parcels, an
illustration shall be provided to demonstrate that the remaining land can be
used or subdivided in conformance with township standards.
   (B)   Sizes and shapes.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth and shape in any subdivision proposed
for residential uses shall be appropriate for the location and the type of
development contemplated.
      (2)   Lot areas and widths shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in which the subdivision
is proposed.
      (3)   Regarding width related to length, narrow, deep lots shall be
avoided.  The depth of a lot generally shall not exceed 4 times the width as
measured at the building line.
      (4)   Building setback lines shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance.  Staggered building lines are encouraged.
      (5)   Areas of the subdivision plat that contain ponds, lakes or similar
bodies of water shall be recorded as acreage, but shall not be platted as
subdivision lots nor calculated as a portion of the minimum lot area as
required by the zoning ordinance.  This provision shall not apply to artificial
ponds or pools created on a lot after final plat approval.
      (6)   Corner lots in residential subdivisions shall be platted at least
10 feet wider than the minimum width permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      (7)   Lots shall be of sufficient size and proportion to accommodate at
least the minimum requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in
which the subdivision is located.
      (8)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for those purposes, and shall have adequate provision for
off-street parking, off-street loading and other requirements in accordance
with the zoning ordinance.
      (9)   Lots which abut an active rail line shall have minimum depth of 250
feet to provide a minimum 75-foot setback from the railroad right-of-way line. 
      (10)   Lands subject to flooding or otherwise deemed by the Planning
Commission to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential purposes,
or for uses that may in the judgment of the Planning Commission increase the
danger to health, life or property, or increase the flood hazard.  Such land
within a subdivision shall be set aside for other uses, such as parks or other
open space.
      (11)   Lots shall not back into such features as freeways, arterial
streets, shopping centers, or industrial properties, except where there is a
marginal access street, unless a secondary access is provided.  These lots
shall contain a landscaped easement along the rear at least 20 feet wide in
addition to the utility easement to restrict access to the arterial street to
minimize noise and to protect outdoor living areas.  Lots extending through a
block and having frontage on 2 local streets shall be prohibited.
      (12)    Where parcels of land are subdivided into unusually large lots
(such as when large lots are required for septic tank operations), the parcels
shall be divided, where feasible, so as to allow for resubdividing into smaller
parcels in a logical fashion.  Lot arrangements shall allow for the ultimate
extension of adjacent streets through the middle of wide blocks.  Whenever
future redividing or lot splitting is contemplated, the plan for such shall be
approved by the Planning Commission, or its designee prior to the taking of
those actions.
   (C)   Arrangement.
      (1)   Every lot shall front on and have direct access to a public street
approved by GCRC, with vehicular access only to a minor street.  In addition,
the driveways for all corner lots shall access the most interior, or less
traveled, street within the subdivision.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall generally be at right angles or radial to the
street centerlines. This requirement shall not apply where the lot lines would
create irregularly shaped lots which would unreasonably limit construction, or
where adjustments to the standard lot configuration would protect regulated
wetlands or preserve other natural features, such as topography.  Dogleg side
lot lines shall be avoided.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thoroughfares shall be platted so
that the driveways shall access the interior road network
      (4)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible.
(Ord. 372.1 § 402, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.044  SIDEWALKS, PEDESTRIAN THROUGH-BLOCK CONNECTORS AND BIKEPATHS.
   (A)   Requirement.  Sidewalks  or bikepaths may be required by the Township
Board, based upon a recommendation by the Planning Commission, on one or both
sides of the street or road.
   (B)   Through-block connectors.  Pedestrian through-block connectors may be
required in the middle of any block over 1,350 feet in length to obtain
satisfactory pedestrian circulation within the subdivision, to provide access
to parks or open space, to provide links with an adjacent subdivision, or to
provide access to an activity center.  Where the pedestrian through-block
connectors are required, an easement at least 20 feet wide shall be provided.
The township may require placement of a fence along the easement to ensure the
location is visible and to protect the adjacent property owners.  Pedestrian
through-block connectors shall be paved in accordance with the specifications
of the Township Engineer, provided wood chip paths or wooden boardwalks may be
permitted in areas with sensitive environmental features.
   (C)   Setback.  Any yard which abuts a pedestrian easement shall provide the
required minimum building setback, as applicable, from the easement.
   (D)   Bikepaths. The Township Board, based upon a recommendation of the
Planning Commission, may require a bikepath be provided from a subdivision
where it abuts a major thoroughfare. The township may also require a bikepath
to provide access from within the subdivision to existing or proposed bikepaths
outside the subdivision, or to schools, parks, commercial areas and public
institutions.
   (E)   Sidewalk specifications.  All sidewalks shall be a minimum 5 feet wide
and constructed to the specifications of the American Association of State
Highway and Transportation Officials (AASHTO).
   (F)   Bikepath specifications.  Bikepaths shall be at least 8 feet wide and
constructed in accordance with the specifications of the AASHTO.
   (G)   Grades.  Grades shall be clearly illustrated on the plans to ensure
proper connection to sidewalks and bikepaths on adjacent lands.
   (H)   Placement.  Sidewalks and bikepaths shall be installed by the
developer within the dedicated street right-of-way, private road access
easements or special easement where grades or other factors prevent placement
within the right-of-way or access easement.
   (I)   Crosswalks.  Crosswalk pavement markings and signs may be required by
the township. Crosswalks shall be in accordance with the requirements of the
GCRC.
(Ord. 372.1 § 403, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.045  LANDSCAPING.
   The selection, size, spacing and planting of all landscaping within a
subdivision shall comply with the landscaping standards of the zoning ordinance
and the following standards:
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Tree species should be selected for tolerance of the harsh roadside
conditions in southeast Michigan, for compliance with sight distance
requirements, to ensure maintenance of accessibility to fire hydrants, to
provide a minimum overhead clearance of 15 feet over any roadway and 8 feet
over a sidewalk or bikepath, and to avoid interference with overhead or
underground utility lines.
      (2)   Plantings within 15 feet of a fire hydrant shall be no taller than
6 inches.
      (3)   The development and planting of required landscaping shall be the
responsibility of the proprietor, not the individual lot owner.
      (4)   The Township Board, upon recommendation from the Planning
Commission, may approve fewer trees if the proprietor provides evidence that
existing healthy trees over 2.5 inch caliper or natural habitat areas will be
preserved during and after construction.
      (5)   The landscape plan shall be approved by the Township Board, upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission, as part of the final preliminary
plat process.
      (6)   All landscaping within the county road right-of-way shall require a
permit from the County Road Commission.
   (B)   Street trees.
      (1)   The minimum size of all street trees shall be 2 inch caliper.
      (2)   One canopy tree shall be planted for each 40 linear feet along a
median boulevard.
      (3)   Street trees shall be planted so that each lot has at least 2
canopy trees and each corner lot has at least 3 canopy trees.  Street trees
shall be placed to avoid any future driveway locations.
      (4)   Street trees shall be at least 50 feet from the intersection of 2
street right-of-way lines or access easements.
      (5)   Street trees shall be planted between the curb and sidewalk; where
curbs or sidewalks do not exist, trees shall be located between the front
property line and the edge of the pavement but outside of areas needed for open
ditches or potential future sidewalks.  Where tree location in the public
right-of-way is not possible due to conflicts with overhead or underground
utility lines or restrictions of the County Road Commission, street trees may
be located on private property within 5 feet of the road right-of-way.  Where a
meandering sidewalk or bikepath exists or is approved, the street tree
locations shall be determined by the township.  Trees shall be within 5 feet of
the road right-of-way or easement and shall not interfere with sight distance
required by the County Road Commission.
      (6)   The lowest branch of any canopy tree shall provide a minimum 15-
foot clearance over a public street or private road, and a minimum 8 feet above
grade from a sidewalk or bikepath.  Greater clearances shall be provided if
required by the County Road Commission.
      (7)   Street trees should be informally arranged, rather than using a
formal or regimented scheme, to be consistent with the township’s goal of
retaining a rural character.
      (8)   The Planning Commission may allow existing trees of 2-1/2 caliper
or greater, preserved in good condition, to be counted towards meeting the
above requirements.
   (C)   Landscaping in culs-de-sac.  Where a cul-de-sac contains an island,
the island must be either be mounded to a height of between 1 foot, 6 inches
and 2 feet, 6 inches and planted with grass or ground cover.
   (D)   Subdivision entrances.  Subdivision entrances may include landscaping,
lighting, identification signs, wrought iron fences or other architectural
features.  All these features shall comply with the zoning ordinance.  A detail
of the entranceway shall be submitted with the tentative preliminary plat.  The
lighting for entryway signs must be ground-mounted with no more than two 125-
watt bulbs directed toward each face of a sign.  In no case shall high-pressure
sodium or other non-standard bulbs be utilized.  Any features proposed to be
placed within the county road right-of-way must meet County Road Commission
design and sight distance standards.  Any features proposed to be placed
outside of the county road right-of-way must be located within an easement
recorded for the maintenance of the features by the subdivision association.
   (E)   Buffer/transition zone.  A buffer/transition zone shall be meet all
requirements of §
152.078(E) of this chapter.  The buffer/transition zone may include
preservation of existing woodlands or slopes, plus the addition of landscaping
to provide an effective screen. 
   (F)   Landscape greenbelt.  A greenbelt shall be planted or preserved along
public rights-of-way and designated frontage roads. The greenbelt is intended
to provide a transition between the roadway and an existing or proposed land
use. Greenbelts shall be provided in accordance with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Where a residential development borders a major thoroughfare, and
wherever a rear yard abuts a public street or private road, an easement for
construction of a greenbelt shall be provided, in addition to the required rear
yard setback, measured from the interior setback line.  Existing natural
features shall be retained wherever possible to promote a natural appearance
and to protect the existing ecosystem within the greenbelt. Where a freeform
berm is used as part of the landscape greenbelt, the minimum height shall be 2
feet, 6 inches.  The maximum slope of the berm facing the primary road shall be
6:1 and the maximum slope of the berm facing the inside of the lot shall be 3:
1.  The construction of the greenbelt and its plantings shall be the
responsibility of the developer and not the individual lot owner(s).
      (2)   The width of the greenbelt shall be 35 feet in residential
districts and equivalent to the minimum required parking lot setback in non-
resident districts.
      (3)   Greenbelts shall include living materials and planting beds, except
for approved sidewalks, bike paths, signs, driveways, and essential services.
      (4)   The greenbelt shall contain a minimum of 1 canopy tree or evergreen
per 30 linear feet, or fraction thereof, of road frontage including any
openings for driveways, pathways or easements. The Planning Commission may
require the substitution of evergreen trees due to site conditions.
      (5)   Ornamental trees may be used to diversify greenbelt planting
requirements, provided 2 ornamental trees shall be provided for each 1 required
canopy tree or evergreen tree.
      (6)   Greenbelt plantings may be arranged to simulate a natural setting
such as massing or staggered rows, except where the Planning Commission finds a
more formal arrangement would be consistent with the established character of
the area.
      (7)   Greenbelts shall be designed to ensure adequate sight visibility
for motorists, adequate clearance for pedestrians and vehicles, clearance from
overhead utility lines, adequate separation from underground utilities and
accessibility to fire hydrants. Where such conditions prohibit full compliance,
the Planning Commission may adjust the location of the required materials so as
long as the design intent is met.
   (G)   Detention/retention pond. A minimum of 1 evergreen tree shall be
planted every 40 feet around the perimeter of all detention or retention ponds.
   (H)   Surety bonds. Where the installation of trees is deferred until after
construction of housing units is completed, the Township Board shall require a
performance guarantee for tree planting.
(Ord. 372.1 § 404, passed 6-10-1999; Am. Ord. 424, passed 12-14-2006)
§ 151.046  UTILITIES.
   Utility improvements shall be provided by the proprietor in accordance with
the standards and requirements established in this section and any other such
standards and requirements which may from time to time be established by the
Township Engineer or by the Township Board.
   (A)   Requirements for underground wiring.  The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all distribution lines for telephone, electric and cable
television service to be placed underground entirely throughout a subdivided
area.  The conduits or cables shall be placed within 12-foot wide easements
provided to such service companies by the developer.  These easements shall be
located adjacent to the road right-of-way or in the rear of the lots.  No
underground wiring shall be located within a public road right-of-way. 
Telephone and electrical facilities shall be planned so as not to conflict with
other underground utilities. The proposed location of all underground wiring
shall be submitted to the Township Engineer for approval.  Installation shall
not proceed until this approval has been granted.  All telephone and electrical
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of construction
approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission.  All drainage and
underground utility installations which traverse privately owned property shall
be protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
   (B)   Storm drainage system.
      (1)   An adequate storm drainage system including necessary storm sewers,
catch basins, manholes, culverts, bridges and other appurtenances shall be
required in all subdivisions.  Paved spillways shall be required when deemed
necessary by the Township Engineer.
      (2)   Adequate provision shall be made for proper drainage of stormwater
runoff from residential rear yards.  Each yard shall be self-contained and
shall be drained from rear to front except where topography or other natural
features require otherwise.  The Township Engineering Consultant may approve
drainage to the rear lot line where adequate rear yard drainage is provided.
      (3)   Ditch bottoms having greater than a 3% slope shall be sodded. 
Ditch bottoms having greater than a 5% slope shall not be permitted.
      (4)   A detention basin is required for all subdivisions, unless the
property is located adjacent to an existing water body and the petitioner
submits a hydraulic study prepared by a registered engineer which shows the
runoff from the development will not adversely affect any or the downstream
properties.  A sedimentation basin shall be provided for all developments which
do not require detention.  Such drainage shall be permitted only with the
approval of the GCDC.
      (5)   All detention and retention ponds shall be designed to have a
naturalistic appearance and have gradual side slopes of not more than 1:6 so as
to not require security fencing.
      (6)   Where county drains are involved, the GCDC approval shall be
required prior to final preliminary plat approval by the township.
      (7)   Detention or retention ponds shall not be within the boundaries of
any lot intended for residential use.  No detention or retention pond shall be
placed within a required buffer zone or along a county road right-of-way unless
it is demonstrated to the satisfaction of the Township Engineering Consultant
and Planning Commission that there is no other alternative.
   (C)   Sewage system.  Public sanitary sewers and other required
appurtenances thereto shall be installed in such manner as to adequately serve
all lots shown on the subdivision plat.  Construction plans for sanitary sewers
shall be approved by the Township Engineering Consultant.
   (D)   Water supply.  Water mains, fire hydrants, required water system
appurtenances shall be constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve all
lots shown on the subdivision plat, both for domestic use and fire protection. 
Construction plans for public water shall be approved by the Township
Engineering Consultant.
(Ord. 372.1 § 405, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.047  EASEMENTS.
   (A)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided along the front,
rear or side lot lines as necessary for utility lines.  Easements shall give
access to every lot, park or public grounds.  Such easements shall be a total
of not less than 12 feet wide, 6 feet from each parcel.  Public utility
easements inside lots adjacent to street right-of-way shall be 10 feet wide.
   (B)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone, electric and
cable television company easements should be sought from all of the utility
companies serving the area. It shall be the responsibility of the proprietor to
submit copies of the preliminary plat to all appropriate public utility
agencies.
   (C)   Drainage easements when required by the County Drain Commission or the
township shall be shown.
   (D)   All easements for public water mains shall be a minimum of 20 feet in
width; provided all easements for sanitary sewer shall be at least a minimum of
twice the depth of the sewer main.
(Ord. 372.1 § 406, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.048  NATURAL FEATURES.
   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved wherever
possible.  Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large
trees, natural groves, watercourses, vistas, wildlife habitats and similar
irreplaceable assets that will add attractiveness and value to the property, if
preserved.  The preservation of drainage and natural stream channels must be
considered by the proprietor and the dedication and provision of adequate
barriers, where appropriate, shall be required.
(Ord. 372.1 § 407, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.049  FLOODPLAINS.
   Any areas of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either wholly or
in part within the floodplain of a river, stream, creek or lake, or any other
areas which are subject to flooding or inundation by stormwater shall require
specific compliance with the Subdivision Act and its review by the Water
Resources Commission of the MDEQ and the Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA). The Township Engineer will give particular attention to projected
floodplain when considering the adequacy of land for building sites.
(Ord. 372.1 § 408, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.050  ENGINEERING STANDARDS.
   The Township Board may adopt by resolution additional engineering standards
and inspection procedures applicable to subdivision plats.  All subdivision
plats shall comply with the adopted standards and procedures.
(Ord. 372.1 § 409, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.051  COMPLIANCE STANDARDS.
   The approvals required under the provisions of this chapter shall be
obtained prior to the installation of any subdivision or project improvements
within the township, in public streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way and
public easements and/or under the ultimate jurisdiction of the township.  All
subdivision or project improvements within the township installed in public
streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way or public easements and/or under
the ultimate jurisdiction of the township shall comply with all of the
provisions and requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 372.1 Art. VI, passed 6-10-1999)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.065  PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this section to establish and define the public
improvements which will be required to be constructed by the subdivider as
conditions for final plat approval and also to outline the procedures and
responsibilities of the subdivider and the various public officials and
agencies concerned with the administration, planning design, construction and
financing of public facilities, and to further establish procedures for
assuring compliance with these requirements.
(Ord. 372.1 § 501, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.066  RESPONSIBILITY FOR PLANS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivider of every proposed
subdivision to have prepared by a registered engineer, a complete set of
construction plans, including profiles, cross-section, specifications and other
supporting data, for the hereinafter required public streets, utilities and
other facilities.  The construction plans shall be based on preliminary plans
which have been approved with the preliminary plat, and shall be prepared in
conjunction with the final plat.  Construction plans are subject to approval by
the responsible public agencies shown.  All construction plans shall be
prepared in accordance with the standards or specifications of each such
agency.
(Ord. 372.1 § 502, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.067  PROCEDURES. 
   When construction has been completed at the time of filing the final plat, 1
complete copy of as-built engineering plans of each required public improvement
shall be filed with the Township Clerk coincident with the filing of the final
plat.  Other requirements and procedures in the submittal of final plats shall
be as provided in §
151.025.
(Ord. 372.1 § 503, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.068  REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows:
   (A)   Monuments.  Monuments shall be set in accordance with the State Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through
560.293, as amended, and the rules of the State Department of Treasury.  Final
plats can be approved prior to placement of all lot irons and monuments
provided cash surety is posted with the township guaranteeing the placement of
lot irons and monuments within 1 year of approval of the final plat.  The
amount of security to be posted will be in accordance with the fee schedule
adopted by the Township Board.
   (B)   Streets.  All streets shall be constructed in accordance with the
standards and specifications adopted by the County Road Commission.
   (C)   Curbs and gutters.  Curbs and gutters shall be required on all
neighborhood access streets and minor streets and shall be constructed in
accordance with the standards and specifications adopted by the County Road
Commission and the Township Board, whichever is the more restrictive, but which
in no case shall exceed engineering standards normally deemed adequate for
climatic conditions unique to Genesee County.  The Township Board, based upon a
recommendation by the Planning Commission, may waive the curbing requirement
where all lots within the subdivision have a lot width of at least 150 feet,
provided the roads shall be constructed in accordance with the standards and
specifications adopted by the County Road Commission for gravel shoulders and
open ditches.
   (D)   Installation of public utilities.  Public utilities and driveways
shall be located in accordance with the rules of the Township Board.  The
underground work for utilities shall be stubbed to the property line.
   (E)   Requirements for underground wiring.  The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all lines for telephone, electric, television and other
similar services distributed by wire or cable to be placed underground entirely
throughout a subdivided area, except for major thoroughfare rights-of-way.  The
conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements provided to the
service companies by the proprietor or within dedicated public ways, provided
only that overhead lines may be permitted upon written recommendation of the
Township Engineer, Planner, Commission and the approval of the Township Board
at the time of final plat approval, where it is determined that overhead lines
will not constitute a detriment to the health, safety, general welfare, plat
design and character of the subdivision.  All such facilities placed in
dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other
underground utilities.  All these facilities shall be constructed in accordance
with standards of construction approved by the Michigan Public Service
Commission.  All drainage and underground utility installations which traverse
privately owned property shall be protected by easements granted by the
proprietor.
   (F)   Driveways.  All driveway openings in curbs shall be as specified by
the County Road Commission or the Michigan Department of Transportation when
the openings are contiguous to an arterial street or state highway.
   (G)   Storm drainage.  An adequate storm drainage system, including
necessary storm sewers, drain inlets, manholes, culverts, bridges and other
appurtenances shall be required in all subdivisions.  The requirements for each
particular subdivision shall be established by the County Drain Commissioner
and the Township Board.
      (1)   Contractors shall grade the banks of all open ditches to a maximum
slope of 1:4, and remove all debris so that drainage easement can be maintained
as a portion of a lot yard area.
      (2)   Construction shall follow the specifications and procedures
established by the County Drain Commissioner.  All proposed storm drainage
construction plans for proposed plats shall be approved by the County Drain
Commissioner.
   (H)   Water supply system.
      (1)   When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a public water
supply system, fire hydrants and other required water system appurtenances
shall be provided by the subdivider in accordance with the requirements of the
Township Board.
      (2)   If there is no existing or accessible public water supply system,
the township may require the subdivider to install a water supply system for
the common use of the lots within the subdivision.  If such a system is
established the proprietor shall provide assurances for perpetual operation and
maintenance to the satisfaction of the Township Board.  The proprietor or his
or her assigns shall offer the system to the township who may or may not deem
to accept same for preparation and maintenance.
      (3)   Individual wells may be permitted in accordance with the
requirements of the County Health Department and the Township Board policies.
   (I)   Sanitary sewer system. 
      (1)   When a proposed subdivision is to be serviced by a public sanitary
sewerage system, sanitary sewers and other required appurtenances thereto shall
be provided by the subdivider in accordance with the requirements of the
Township Board.  Sewer systems shall comply with the requirements of Public Act
98 of 1913, being M.C.L.A. § 123.161, as amended, and any township ordinances
or requirements.  If there is no existing or accessible public sewer system, a
sewer system for the common use of the lot owners be required to be provided by
the subdivider, if feasible in the judgment of the Planning Commission with the
advice of the Township Engineer and County Health Department and shall comply
with the requirements of Public Act 98 of 1913, as amended and any township
ordinances or requirements.  When such a system is established, the proprietor
shall provide assurances for perpetual operation and maintenance to the
Township Board.  The proprietor or his or her assigns shall offer a system to
the township who may or may not deem to accept same for operation and
maintenance.
      (2)   Where it is determined in the judgment of the Planning Commission,
with the advice of the Township Engineering Consultant and the County Health
Department, that a subdivision cannot be economically connected with an
existing public sewer system or that a public sewer system cannot be provided
for the subdivision itself, then approved septic tanks and disposal fields may
be approved which shall comply with the requirements of the County Health
Department, and are subject to the approval of the Michigan Department of
Health.
   (J)   Street name signs.  Street name signs are to be provided in the manner
prescribed by the Genesee County Road Commission and names approved by the
township.
   (K)   Street lighting.  Street lighting shall be required for all streets
within subdivisions.  Design aspects, such as spacing of poles, height of
standards, type of lighting, distribution of the illumination pattern,
intensity of illumination and the like, must receive prior approval from the
Township Board and be in accordance with the standards and specifications of
the public utility company.
   (L)   Recreational.  Where a school site, neighborhood park, recreation
areas, or public access to water frontage, as previously delineated or
specified by official action of the Planning Commission, is located in whole or
part in the proposed subdivision, the Township Board may request the
reservation of the open space for school, park and recreation or public access
purposes.  All these areas shall either be reserved for the respective school
district, in the case of school sites, or for the township in all other cases;
however, voluntary dedication of these land areas will be accepted.
   (M)   Landscaping and greenbelts.  Financial or other guarantees shall be
made to the Township Board to ensure continued upkeep and maintenance of all
landscape improvements.  These guarantees may consist of a deed restriction or
covenant which requires all future purchasers of lots in the plat to belong to
a homeowners’ association and to pay an annual fee adequate to maintain and
upkeep the improvements to their original condition.
(Ord. 372.1 § 504, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.069  INSTALLATION OF STREET TREES AND SIDEWALKS. 
   Street trees located within the front yard of lots and sidewalks located
along the frontage of lots shall be installed prior to a occupancy permit being
issued for each home, or within 6 months of issuance of an occupancy permit
where a performance bond is posted with the township guaranteeing that the
trees and sidewalk, where required or provided, shall be installed.  The
subdivision deed restrictions should state that occupancy permits for homes
shall not be granted until the required trees and sidewalk are installed.
(Ord. 372.1 § 505, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.070  PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. 
   (A)   Financial guarantee arrangements; exceptions.  In lieu of the actual
installation of required public improvements, the Township Board on
recommendation of the Planning Commission may permit the subdivider to provide
a financial guarantee of performance in 1 or a combination of the following
arrangements for those requirements which are over and beyond the requirements
of the County Road Commission, County Drain Commissioner, or any other agency
responsible for the administration, operation and maintenance of the applicable
public improvement.  In case these improvements are specified, completion shall
be required prior to the issuance of occupancy permits.
      (1)   Performance or surety bond.
         (a)   Accrual.  The bond shall accrue to the regulatory agency
covering construction, operation and maintenance of the specified public
improvement.
         (b)   Amount.  The bond shall be in an amount equal to the total
estimated cost for completing construction of the specific public improvement,
including contingencies, as estimated by the regulatory agency.
         (c)   Term length.  The term length in which the bond is in force
shall be for a period to be specified by the regulatory agency for the specific
public improvement.
         (d)   Bonding or surety company.  The bond shall be with a surety
company authorized to do business in the State of Michigan, acceptable to the
regulatory agency.
         (e)   Escrow agreement.  The escrow agreement shall be drawn and
furnished by the regulatory agency.
      (2)   Cash deposits, certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank
letter of credit.
         (a)   Treasurer, escrow agent or trust company.  A cash deposit,
certified check, negotiable bond or an irrevocable bank letter of credit, such
surety acceptable by the regulatory agency, shall accrue to the regulatory
agency.  These deposits shall be made with the regulatory agency or deposited
with a reasonable escrow agent or trust company, subject to the approval of the
regulatory agency.
         (b)   Dollar value.  The dollar value of the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be equal to
the total estimated cost of construction of the specific public improvement
including contingencies, as estimated by the regulatory agency.
         (c)   Escrow time.  The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified
check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be for a
period to be specified by the regulatory agency.
         (d)   Progressive payment.  In the case of cash deposits or certified
checks, an agreement between the regulatory agency and the subdivider may
provide for progressive payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the
certified check, negotiable bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the
extent of the cost of the accordance with a previously entered-into agreement.
   (B)   Condition of township approval of final plat financial guarantees.
With respect to financial guarantees, the approval of all final subdivision
plats shall be conditioned on the accomplishment of 1 of the following:
      (1)   The construction of improvements required by this chapter shall
have been completed by the subdivider and approved by the regulatory agency; or
      (2)   Surety acceptable to the regulatory agency shall have been filed in
the form of a cash deposit, certified check, negotiable bond, irrevocable bank
letter of credit or surety bond.
   (C)   Special agreements.  A special agreement shall be entered into between
the subdivider and the regulatory agency where street trees and street lights
have been required by the regulatory agency.
   (D)   Inspection of public improvements under construction.  Before
approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for public
improvements, an agreement between the subdivider and the regulatory agency
shall be made to provide for checking or inspecting the construction and its
conformity to the submitted plans.
   (E)   Penalty in case of failure to complete the construction of a public
improvement.  In the event the subdivider shall, in any case, fail to complete
the work within such period of time as required by the conditions of any
guarantee for the completion of public improvements, it shall be the
responsibility of the regulatory agency to proceed to have such work
completed.  In order to accomplish this, the regulatory agency shall reimburse
itself for the cost and expense thereof by appropriating the cash deposit,
certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit or negotiable bond which the
subdivider may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps
as may be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company,
and as included in a written agreement between the regulatory agency and the
subdivider.
   (F)   Temporary improvement.  The applicant shall build and pay for all
costs of temporary improvements required by the regulatory agency and shall
maintain same for the period specified by the regulatory agency.  Prior to
construction of any temporary facility or improvement, the developer may be
required to file with the regulatory agency a separate suitable bond for
temporary facilities, which bond shall ensure that the temporary facilities
will be properly constructed, maintained and removed.
   (G)   Acceptance of dedicated officers.  Acceptance of formal offers of
dedication of streets, public areas, easements and parks shall be by ordinance
of the regulatory agency.  The approval of the Planning Commission of a
subdivision plat shall not be deemed to constitute or imply the acceptance by
the local government of any street, easement or park shown on the plat.  The
Planning Commission may require the plat to be endorsed with appropriate notes
to this effect.
   (H)   Release or reduction of performance bond.
      (1)   Certificate of satisfactory completion.  The regulatory agency will
not accept dedication of required improvements, nor release nor reduce a
performance bond, until the Township Engineering Consultant has submitted a
certificate stating that all required improvements have been satisfactorily
completed and until the applicant’s engineer or surveyor has certified to the
regulatory agency, through submission of a detailed as-built survey plat of the
subdivision, indicating location, dimensions, materials and other information
required by the regulatory agency, that the layout of the line and grade of all
public improvements is in accordance with construction plans for the
subdivision and that a title insurance policy has been furnished to and
approved by tile regulatory agency indicating that the improvements shall have
been completed, are ready for dedication to the regulatory agency and are free
and clear of any and all liens and encumbrances.  Upon such  approval and
recommendation, the regulatory agency shall thereafter accept the improvements
for dedication in accordance with the established procedure.
      (2)   Reduction of performance bond.  A performance bond shall be reduced
upon actual dedication of public improvements, to the ratio that the public
improvement dedicated bears to the total public improvements for the plat.  In
no event shall a performance bond be reduced below 25% of the principal amount.
(Ord. 372.1 § 506, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.071  MAINTENANCE OF PRIVATE IMPROVEMENTS BY SUBDIVISION ASSOCIATION.
   (A)   It shall be the responsibility of the subdivision association to
maintain the commonly owned improvements and land that is not dedicated to a
public agency in accordance with the approved subdivision plat.  The
subdivision covenants and deed restrictions shall contain provisions
establishing a subdivision association and describing the responsibilities of
the association and individual lot owners with regard to maintenance of the
property on a continuing basis in accordance with the approved subdivision
plat.  The subdivision covenants and deed restrictions shall further establish
the means of permanent financing for required maintenance and improvement
activities which are the responsibility of the subdivision association. 
Failure to maintain improvements and land in accordance with the approved
subdivision plat shall be deemed in violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   The applicant shall be required to maintain all improvements of the
individual subdivided lots and provide for snow removal on streets and
sidewalks, if required, until acceptance of the improvements by the regulatory
agency.  If there are any certificates of occupancy on a street not dedicated
to the regulatory agency, the township may, on 12 hours’ notice to the
subdivider, plow the street or effect emergency repairs and charge same to
applicant.
   (C)   The applicant shall be required to file a maintenance bond with the
regulatory agency, prior to dedication, in an amount considered adequate by the
regulatory agency and in a form satisfactory to the regulatory agency, in order
to assure the satisfactory condition of the required improvements, including
all lot improvements on the individual subdivided lots for a period on 1 year
after the date of their acceptance by the regulatory agency and dedication of
same to the regulatory agency.
(Ord. 372.1 § 507, passed 6-10-1999)
DIVISION OF LAND NOT REQUIRING SUBDIVISION APPROVAL
§ 151.085  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Application forms and documentation.  An application to divide or
consolidate platted lots or unplatted parcels shall be made with the Township
Clerk in writing, shall be signed by all required applicants, shall be
accompanied by the necessary fees, and to be considered complete and entitled
to consideration shall disclose, contain, include or be accompanied by all
information specified in this chapter.  If the township provides forms and
guidelines for applications, they shall be used and followed.
   (B)   Information required.  Applications shall be accompanied by the
following information:
      (1)   Two copies of a survey map prepared by a professional surveyor who
is registered with the State of Michigan, according to the guidelines specified
in Michigan Public Act 132 of 1970, § 3, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 54.211
through 54.213, showing the parcels that would result from the requested
division or consolidation of land, provided that the parcels are drawn as large
as possible within the 8-1/2 by 14 inch format required by Act 132, and include
all information required above for the above information scale drawing.
         (a)   Dimensions of all existing and proposed parcels;
         (b)   All structures on and within 50 feet of the proposed parcels;
         (c)   Location of all existing and proposed public and private
easements and rights-of-way; and
         (d)   Location of surface water, lakes, ponds, streams and wetlands. 
The initial investigation shall locate wetlands identified on the National
Wetlands Inventory maps, prepared by the U.S. Department of Interior and
available from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.  More detailed
wetlands information may be required if deemed necessary to make a decision
regarding the application.
      (2)   A legal description of existing parcels of land involved in the
application;
      (3)   A legal description of all parcels that would result from the
application being approved.  The legal description shall be in a form
sufficient for recording with the Genesee County Register of Deeds, and shall
indicate the acreage  and square footage of all existing and proposed lots and
parcels;
      (4)   Copies of any existing or proposed deed, building, use or other
restrictions, covenants or conditions related to the land involved in the
application;
      (5)   If any portion of the land has been part of a previous request for
division or consolidation of land during the previous 10 years either by the
applicant or another person the applicant shall submit the date(s) of the
application(s) and action taken by the township;
      (6)   Information addressing the approval standards in §
151.087; and
      (7)   A certified statement from the Genessee County Treasurer's Office
stating that any parcel(s) subject to the proposed division or combination have
no delinquent taxes or special assessments due; and
      (8)   Additional information that is or may be necessary to application
and approval standards may be required by the Township Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 372.1 § 700, passed 6-10-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-484, passed 12-12-2019)
§ 151.086  REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Review by township staff and consultants.  The application shall be
transmitted to the Township Zoning Administrator and the Township Assessor, and
may be submitted to other staff and consultants for review, such as the Swartz
Creek Area Fire Chief, the township Police Chief, township Public Works
Director, Township Engineer and Township Planner.
   (B)   Review by Township Zoning Administrator.  The Township Zoning
Administrator shall review the application for completeness of data and to
determine whether it is in compliance with this chapter and the township zoning
ordinance.  If deemed necessary during the course of the application review,
the Township Zoning Administrator may submit the application to other township
staff or consultants for review and recommendation, including but not limited
to those having jurisdiction over assessing, planning, engineering and/or
Building Code enforcement.  The Township Zoning Administrator shall approve or
deny the application for land division within 45 days of receipt of a complete
application. 
   (C)   Appeal to Township Board.  The decision of the Township Zoning
Administrator on an application for land division or land combination may be
appealed to the Township Board following the requirements of §§
151.100 through
151.103.
   (D)   Application for site plan approval or a building permit.  Following
final approval of a division or consolidation of platted lots or unplatted
parcels in accordance with this chapter, the property owner may apply for site
plan review or a building permit, as applicable, to allow development in
accordance with the zoning ordinance.  For any land use proposed on such lot or
parcel, the applicable site plan and special land use review and approval
procedures contained in the zoning ordinance shall be followed prior to
establishment of that use.  Building permits shall not be effective or issued
for land that has been illegally divided or consolidated, and until an approved
division or consolidation has been lawfully recorded and proof of the recording
submitted to the Township Assessor.
(Ord. 372.1 § 701, passed 6-10-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-484, passed 12-12-2019)
§ 151.087  STANDARDS FOR GRANTING APPROVAL.
   The standards in this subchapter have been adopted to provide a uniform
basis for decisions required by this chapter and to allow land division and
consolidation where it would protect public health, safety and welfare; be
consistent with the township’s Master Plan; minimize danger from fire and
floods; protect and conserve the value of land and the value of buildings and
improvements upon the land; minimize conflict between land uses; further the
orderly layout and use of land; and provide the most beneficial relationship
between the uses of land and buildings and circulation of traffic.
   (A)   Compliance with state law.  An application shall not be approved
unless it is in compliance with the Land Division Act, Michigan Public Act 288
of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as amended by the Michigan
Public Act 23 of 2019 and as amended or replaced. 
      (1)   A subdivision lot, outlot or other parcel of land in a recorded
plat may be divided pursuant to the requirements of this chapter only if the
lot, outlot or other parcel is divided into not more than 4 parts, and provided
that:
         (a)   The resulting parcels shall comply with applicable zoning
requirements; and
         (b)   The total land area within the subdivision shall not decrease
below the area of the original plat.
      (2)   The division of unplatted parcels shall not exceed the maximum
number allowed by § 108 of the Michigan Land Division Act, being M.C.L.A. §
560.108, as follows:
         (a)   For a parcel, the division, together with any previous divisions
of the same parent parcel or parent tract, shall result in a number of parcels
not more than the sum of the following, as applicable:
            1.   For the first 10 acres or portion thereof in the parent parcel
or parent tract, 4 parcels;
            2.   For each whole 10 acres in excess of the first 10 acres in the
parent parcel or parent tract, 1 additional parcel, for up to a maximum of 11
additional parcels; and
            3.   For each whole 40 acres in excess of the first 120 acres in
the parent parcel or parent tract, 1 additional parcel.
         (b)   For a parent parcel or parent tract of not less than 20 acres,
the division may result in a total of 2 parcels in addition to those permitted
by division (A)(2)(a) above, if 1 or both of the following apply:
            1.   Because of the establishment of 1 or more new streets, no new
driveway to an existing public street for any of the resulting parcels under
division (A)(2)(a) or this division (A)(2)(b) are created or required; or
            2.   One of the resulting parcel(s) under division (A)(2) and this
division comprises not less than 60% of the area of the parent parcel or parent
tract.
         (c)   A parcel of 40 acres or more created by the division of a parent
parcel or parent tract shall not be counted toward the number of parcels
permitted under divisions (A)(2)(a) and (A)(2)(b) and is not subject to the
approval requirements of this chapter, if the parcel is accessible.
         (d)   A parcel or tract created by an exempt split or a division is
not a new parent parcel or parent tract and may be further partitioned or split
without being subject to the platting requirements of this act if all of the
following requirements are met:
            1.   Not less than 10 years have elapsed since the parcel or tract
was recorded.
            2.   The partitioning or splitting results in not more than the
following number of parcels, whichever is less.
               a.   Two parcels for the first 10 acres or fraction thereof in
the parcel or tract, plus 1 additional parcel for each whole 10 acres in excess
of the first 10 acres in the parcel or tract; or
               b.   Seven parcels or 10 parcels, if 1 of the resulting parcels
under this division comprises not less than 60% of the area of the parcel or
tract being partitioned or split.
            3.   The partitioning or splitting satisfies the requirements of
this chapter and the Michigan Land Division Act.
         (e)   A parcel or tract created under the provisions of division (c)
above may not be further partitioned or split without being subject to the
platting requirements of this act, except in accordance with the provisions of
division (A)(2)(d).
      (3)   Nothing herein shall prevent the township from approving the
division of any such lot, outlot or parcel of land in a case where the owner of
the divided parcel owns land immediately adjacent thereto or in a case where
there is presented to the township an executed agreement to sell and convey the
divided parcel to the adjoining owner and where the combined width and area of
the divided parcel and the adjacent parcel shall, as a single parcel, conform
to the terms and provisions of this chapter and other ordinances of the Charter
Township of Clayton.
   (B)   Zoning requirements.  All lots and parcels created as a result of
division or consolidation of land shall comply with all applicable zoning
requirements, including minimum lot area, lot width, public road frontage or
frontage on an approved private road, and parking requirements.  No parcel that
is smaller in area than currently required by the zoning ordinance shall be
further divided, except as is provided under division (D) of this section.
   (C)   Parcel shapes.
      (1)   Lots and parcels should resemble rectangles, but irregularly shaped
may be allowed where, in the opinion and judgment of the Township Zoning
Administrator, conditions dictate.  Lot lines should be straight, but may be
irregular if conditions dictate.  However, irregular shapes and lines proposed
only for the purpose of meeting minimum area or width requirements shall not be
permitted. 
      (2)   The depth-to-width ratio of lots created through land division or
combination that are 10 acres or less in size shall not exceed 4 to 1 unless
authorized in the township zoning ordinance.  Variation from these proportions
may be permitted where the action would reduce existing nonconformance with
these standards.
   (D)   Buildability.  An application for division or consolidation of
unplatted parcels shall not be approved unless the applicant demonstrates that
the resulting parcels have adequate usable land area, such that the parcels can
be built upon or used in compliance with zoning and other township ordinances
and standards without variances, exceptions or waivers.  In determining whether
this standard has been met, issues that shall be taken into consideration
include, but are not necessarily limited to the following:
      (1)   Soils that are incapable of supporting a septic system;
      (2)   Unusual topography which may prevent use of portions of a parcel;
      (3)   Presence of easements or rights-of-way that restrict use of a
parcel;
      (4)   Wetlands, surface water or floodplains that restrict or prevent use
of portions of a parcel;
      (5)   Soils that are incapable of supporting a foundation for a building;
      (6)   The shape of a parcel and/or building footprint with respect to
minimum practical dwelling unit dimensions; and
      (7)   Any other factor related to ability to build on or use the proposed
parcel in a lawful manner.
   (E)   Nonconforming lots of record. 
      (1)   Notwithstanding these requirements, division and consolidation
proposals for platted lots and unplatted parcels may be approved in the
following circumstances:
         (a)   Where the proposed division or consolidation of platted lots and
unplatted parcels would reduce the degree of existing nonconformity with zoning
standards;
         (b)   Where the division of land is proposed with the intention of
immediately combining portions of the original lot or parcel with additional
land for the purposes of creating a new parcel or parcels, provided that the
new parcel or parcels is/are in compliance with zoning requirements or reduce
the degree of nonconformity with zoning standards;
         (c)   If a division or consolidation of land provides an opportunity
to either create a lot that is less nonconforming or create a lot that conforms
with the zoning ordinance standards, the lot shall be made to conform with
zoning ordinance standards.
      (2)   In each of these cases, the division or consolidation shall be
permitted only if the property owner records an affidavit or deed restriction
with the Genesee County Register of Deeds which describes the property and the
circumstances and conditions of approval.  The affidavit or deed restriction
shall be reviewed by the Township Zoning Administrator and the Township
Assessor prior to recording, and the property owner shall provide a copy of the
recorded affidavit or deed restriction to the township.
   (F)   Easements.  Approval of an application shall be conditioned on the
creating, creation or dedication of other agreements to provide by easements or
otherwise, for roads, public utilities, bicycle/nonmotorized vehicle paths,
sidewalks or other necessary public facilities required.
   (G)   Taxes and assessment liens.  Any due or unpaid taxes, special
assessments or financial obligations to the township of or upon the property
shall be paid before an application is given final approval.  A certified
statement from the Genesee County Treasurer's Office stating that any parcel
(s)  subject to the proposed division or combination have no delinquent taxes
or special assessments due shall be submitted to the Township Zoning
Administrator by the applicant.
   (H)   Consent of the title holder.  No application shall be reviewed or
approved without the written consent of all title or deed holders of the
subject parcel.
   (I)   Consideration of deed restrictions.  The effect of private
restrictions on a proposed division or consolidation shall be considered in the
review of the application, not as a separate standard, but as related to other
standards set forth therein.  In no such circumstances shall restrictions be
binding upon the township.
(Ord. 372.1 § 702, passed 6-10-1999; Am. Ord. 2019-484, passed 12-12-2019)
ADMINISTRATION; VARIANCES; ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.100  VARIANCES OR APPEALS FROM THIS CHAPTER.
   (A)   The Township Board may grant a variance from the provisions of this
chapter on a finding that undue hardship may result from strict compliance with
specific provisions or requirements of the chapter or that application of the
provision or requirement is impracticable.  The Township Board may also grant
an appeal of the decision of the Zoning Administrator on a land division.  The
Township Board shall only grant variances or appeals that it deems necessary to
or desirable for the public interest.  The Township Board shall not grant any
variance or appeal that would violate the requirements of the Michigan Land
Division Act.  In making its findings, as required herein below, the Township
Board shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the
existing use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work
in the proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed
subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity and any other condition
which shall be deemed to be detrimental to the public welfare or injurious to
other property owners.  Any variance related to a subdivision plat shall be
based upon a recommendation from the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Subdivision process.  For a subdivision plat, the process for a
variance request from this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Applications for any variance shall be made in writing to the
Township Clerk by the developer prior to approval of the final preliminary
plat.  The application shall state fully and clearly all facts relied upon by
the proprietor.  The application shall include any required fee, and be
supplemented with maps, plans and other additional data which may aid the
Planning Commission in the analysis of the requested variance.
      (2)   The request shall be forwarded to the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission shall first conduct a public hearing.  Following the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall provide a recommendation to the Township
Board, in accordance with the standards below.
      (3)   The Township Board shall make a decision on the request. In making
its decision, the Township Board may establish requirements, time constraints
or conditions that will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
and requirements of this chapter.  The Township Board shall state the reasons
for its finding or decisions as part of its official records. 
      (4)   The Township Board shall have the final authority on variances,
waivers or modifications of the standards of this chapter, except Genesee
County must also approve any variances from County standards.  Appeals of the
Township Board decisions shall be to a court of law.
   (C)   Land division process.  For an appeal of the decision of the Zoning
Administrator on a land division, the process for an appeal or variance request
from this chapter shall be as follows:
      (1)   Applications for any variance shall be made in writing to the
Township Clerk by the applicant within 30 days of the decision of the Zoning
Administrator.  The application shall state fully and clearly all facts relied
upon by the applicant. The application shall include any required fee, and be
supplemented with maps, plans and other additional data which may aid the
Township Board in the analysis of the requested appeal or variance.
      (2)   The Township Board shall make a decision on the request. In making
its decision, the Township Board may establish requirements, time constraints
or conditions that will, in its judgment, secure substantially the objectives
and requirements of this chapter.  The Township Board shall state the reasons
for its finding or decisions as part of its official records. 
      (3)   The Township Board shall have the final authority on variances,
waivers or modifications of the standards of this chapter, except Genesee
County must also approve any variances from county standards.  Appeals of the
Township Board decisions shall be to a court of law.
(Ord. 372.1 § 900, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.101  VARIANCE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The decision on a variance request shall be based on a finding that
practical difficulties result from strict compliance with specific provisions
or requirements of this chapter.  In making its finding, the Township Board
shall take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing
use of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity. 
   (B)   No variance or waiver shall be recommended unless the Township Board
finds that:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner;
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which the property
is situated;
      (4)   The variance or waiver will not violate the provisions of the Land
Division Act (Michigan Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293, as amended) nor create a violation of the township zoning
ordinance; and/or
      (5)   The variance or waiver will not have the effect of nullifying the
intent and purpose of this chapter and the township Master Plan.
(Ord. 372.1 § 901, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.102  VARIANCES FROM THE ZONING ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Applicable variances.  Variances or waivers from requirements of the
zoning ordinance may be considered by the Zoning Board of Appeals where, in the
case of a particular proposed subdivision, it can be shown that strict
compliance with the requirements of this chapter would result in extraordinary
hardship to the proprietor because of unusual topography or other physical
conditions which are not self-initiated or that these conditions would result
in inhibiting the achievement of the objectives of this chapter, a variance may
be granted.
   (B)   Process.  The process for a variance request from the zoning ordinance
shall be according to §§
152.165 through
152.167 of the zoning chapter.
(Ord. 372.1 § 902, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.103  ENFORCEMENT.
   No subdivision plat required by this chapter or the Land Division Act shall
be admitted to the public land records of the county, or received or recorded
by the County Register of Deeds, until the subdivision plat has received final
approval by the Township Board.  No public board, agency, commission, official
or other authority shall proceed with the construction of or authorize the
construction of any of the public improvements required by this chapter unless
the public improvement shall have already been accepted, opened or otherwise
received the legal status of a public improvement prior to the adoption of this
chapter, unless the public improvement shall correspond in its location and to
the other requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 372.1 § 1000, passed 6-10-1999)
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of Title XV,
Chapter 151, Land Division, shall be deemed responsible for a civil municipal
infraction subject to the terms and penalties set forth in §§
150.65 through
150.72.
(Ord. 452, passed 10-10-2013)
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Purpose
   
152.002   Interpretation
   
152.003   Vested right; severability; repeal of prior ordinances
   
152.004   Schedule of fees, charges and expenses
   
152.005   Effective date
   
152.006   Construction of language
   
152.007   Definitions
General Regulations
   
152.015   Scope
   
152.016   Building regulation
   
152.017   Conflicting laws, ordinances,  regulations or restrictions
   
152.018   Construction or contracts under permits prior to this chapter
   
152.019   Permits
   
152.020   Area requirements; generally
   
152.021   Sewer and water connection
   
152.022   Moving buildings
   
152.023   Garbage containers
   
152.024   Dangerous excavations or holes prohibited
   
152.025   Nonconforming uses
   
152.026   Yard and lot area requirements
   
152.027   Accessory buildings
   
152.028   Accessory living quarters prohibited
   
152.029   Prohibited temporary uses
   
152.030   Temporary motor home, travel trailer parking
   
152.031   Performance standards
   
152.032   Nuisance
   
152.033   Sizes of dwellings
   
152.034   One-family dwelling regulations
   
152.035   Zoning districts
   
152.036   Zoning District Map; adopted
   
152.037   District boundaries
   
152.038   Permissive zoning concept
   
152.039   Wireless communication facilities
   
152.040   Essential services
   
152.041   Medical marijuana dispensaries, medical marijuana clubs, compassion
clubs, and medical marijuana growing facilities
   
152.042   Prohibition of marihuana establishments
   
152.043   Solar energy systems regulations
General Exceptions and Miscellaneous Provisions
   
152.050   Voting place
   
152.051   Height limit
   
152.052   Yard regulations
   
152.053   Multiple-dwelling side yards
   
152.054   Terraces
   
152.055   Projections into yards
Off-Street Parking and Loading Area
   
152.065   Off-street parking requirements
   
152.066   Off-street parking space layout, standards, construction and
maintenance
   
152.067   Off-street loading and unloading
Walls, Fences, Screening and Landscaping
   
152.075   Fences and walls
   
152.076   Obscuring walls and fences
   
152.077   Screening of trash storage areas
   
152.078   Landscaping
Signs
   
152.085   Purpose and intent
   
152.086   Definitions
   
152.087   Administration
   
152.088   Regulations
   
152.089   Specific sign type requirements
   
152.090   Exempt signs
   
152.091   Prohibited signs
   
152.092   Temporary signs
   
152.093   Inspections, maintenance and removal
   
152.094   Variances
Height, Bulk, Density, Area and Placement by Zoning District
   
152.100   Schedule of regulations
District Regulations
   
152.105   Residential Agricultural District (RA)
   
152.106   Residential Suburban Farms District (RSF)
   
152.107   Residential Rural Estate District (RE)
   
152.108   Single-Family District (FS)
   
152.109   Multiple-Family District (FM)
   
152.110   Manufactured Housing Community District (MHC)
   
152.111   Office District (O)
   
152.112   Local Commercial District (LC)
   
152.113   General Commercial District (GC)
   
152.114   Industrial District (M-1)
   
152.115   Floodplain Zone (FPZ)
   
152.116   Planned Unit Development Zoning District (PUD)
Site Development
   
152.130   Site development requirements; general regulations by type
   
152.131   Site plan review; intent
   
152.132   Application
   
152.133   Fees required
   
152.134   Site plan requirements
   
152.135   Review procedure
   
152.136   Expiration
   
152.137   Review and approval of condominium developments
   
152.138   Site plan approval for special condition uses
Special Condition Uses
   
152.150   Applicability
   
152.151   Data required
   
152.152   Standards for approval
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.165   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.166   Appeal
   
152.167   Jurisdiction
Administration
   
152.180   Enforcement
   
152.181   Occupancy and zoning permits
   
152.182   Surety bond
   
152.183   Public hearing notification requirements
   
152.184   Nuisance per se
Amendments
   
152.195   Amendment by Township Board
   
152.196   Amendment application by property owner or resident
   
152.197   Public hearing
   
152.198   Township Board action
   
152.199   Review criteria for amendment of zoning regulations
 
   
152.999   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Michigan Planning Enabling Act (2008) repealed and replaced many state laws
cited in this chapter, see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 through 125.3885
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety, morals
and general welfare, to encourage the use of lands in accordance with their
character and adaptability and to limit the improper use of land, to avoid the
overcrowding of population, to provide adequate light and air, to lessen
congestion on the public roads and streets, to reduce hazards to life and
property, to facilitate adequate provisions for a system of transportation,
sewage disposal, safe and adequate water supply, education, recreation and
other public requirements, and to conserve the expenditure of funds for public
improvements and services to conform with the most advantageous uses of land,
resources and properties, and with reasonable consideration among other things,
to the character of each district, its peculiar suitability for particular
uses, the conservation of property values and natural resources, and the
general  and appropriate trend and character of land, building and population
development. 
(Ord. § 1.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.002  INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter
shall be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the
public health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience or general welfare.  It is
not intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way to impair
or interfere with any existing provision of law or ordinance other than the
herein described zoning ordinance, or with any rules, regulations or permits
previously adopted or issued or which shall be adopted or issued pursuant to
the law relating to the use of buildings or premises; provided, however, that
where this chapter imposes a greater restriction than is required by existing
ordinance or by rules, regulations or permits, the provisions of this chapter
shall control.
   (B)   Where there may be conflicting sections in this chapter, the more
restrictive shall apply.
(Ord. § 31.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.003  VESTED RIGHT; SEVERABILITY; REPEAL OF PRIOR ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Vested right.  Nothing in this chapter should be interpreted or
construed to give rise to any permanent vested rights in the continuation of
any particular use, district, zoning classification or any permissible
activities therein; and they are hereby declared to be subject to subsequent
amendment, change or modification as may be necessary to the preservation or
protection of public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Severability.  This chapter and the various parts, sections,
subsections, provisions, sentences and clause therefore are hereby declared to
be severable.  If any part, section, subsection, provision, sentence or clause
is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid, it is hereby declared that the
remainder of this chapter shall not be affected thereby.
   (C)   Repeal of prior ordinances.  The zoning ordinance adopted by the
township, known as Ordinance No. 228 and all amendments thereto, are hereby
repealed.  The repeal of the above ordinance and its amendments does not affect
or impair any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or
acquired or liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred prior to the
time enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted.
(Ord. § 32.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.004  SCHEDULE OF FEES, CHARGES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   Fees, charges and expenses shall be assessed as part of the
application for special land use permits, variances, appeals, building permits,
site plans, certificates of zoning compliance and amendments to defray expenses
incurred in processing the applications and reviews.
   (B)   The Township Board shall establish a schedule of fees, charges and
expenses, which schedule is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in full
herein, and establish a procedure for their collection.  Copies of the current
schedule are available through township offices.
   (C)   No action shall be taken on any application or appeal until all
applicable fees, charges and expenses have been paid in full. 
(Ord. § 29.00, passed 5-22-1997; Res. 97-0911-02F, passed 2-12-2004)
§ 152.005  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Effective date of this zoning chapter is May 29, 1997.
(Ord. § 35.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.006  CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The following rules of construction apply to the text of this chapter:
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   (1)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary. 
      (2)   The word MAY is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used
in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural and the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   A BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof.
   (F)   The phrase USED FOR includes “arranged for,” “designed for,” “intended
for,” “maintained for” or “occupied for.”
   (G)   The word PERSON includes an individual, a corporation, a partnership,
an incorporated association or any other similar entity.
   (H)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves 2 or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the
conjunction AND, OR, EITHER...OR, the conjunction shall be interpreted as
follows:
      (1)   AND indicates that all the connected items, conditions, provisions,
or event shall apply.
      (2)   OR indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singly or in any combination.
      (3)   “Either...or” indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
(Ord. § 2.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.007  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING.  A supplemental building or structure, on the same lot,
designed for, occupied for or devoted to an accessory use.
   ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS.  Living quarters within an accessory building.
   ACCESSORY USE.  A use normally incidental to, or subordinate to and devoted
exclusively to, the main use of the land, structure or building.
   ACREAGE.  Any tract or parcel of land which has not been subdivided and
platted.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE CONGREGATE FACILITY.  A facility licensed under Public Act
218 of 1979 being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 through 400.737, to provide foster care
for more than 20 adults.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME.  A private residence licensed under Public
Act 218 of 1979 for 6 or fewer adults to be provided with foster care for 5 or
more days a week and for 2 or more consecutive weeks.  The ADULT FOSTER CARE
FAMILY HOME licensee is a member of the household and an occupant of the
residence.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE LARGE GROUP HOME.  A facility licensed under Public Act
218 of 1979 to provide foster care for at least 13 but not more than 20 adults.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE MEDIUM GROUP HOME.  A facility licensed under Public Act
218 of 1979 to provide foster care for at least 7 but not more than 12 adults.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE SMALL GROUP HOME.  A facility licensed under Public Act
218 of 1979 to provide foster care for 12 or fewer adults.
   AGRICULTURE.  The art or science of cultivating the ground; the production
of crops or livestock on a farm or activities classified as a bona fide
agricultural practice by the Michigan Department of Agriculture under the Right
to Farm Act; excluding commercial greenhouses, the sale of nursery stock,
riding stables, mink, fox and similar so-called fur farms, hog or poultry farms
using garbage as a feed, and processing of milk other than milk produced on the
farm on which the processing is located.
   AIRCRAFT LANDING FIELD (PRIVATE).  The use of land for the landing or taking
off of aircraft by a proprietor residing in a housing unit contiguous to the
site of the aircraft landing strip, and may include facilities for the shelter
of aircraft but does not include the boarding or care of aircraft owned by
other than occupants of the housing units in common ownership with the aircraft
landing strip.
   AIRPORT/AIRCRAFT TERMINAL.  The use of land for the landing or taking off of
aircraft, which provides facilities for shelter, supply or care of aircraft, or
for receiving or discharging passengers or cargo, and all appurtenant areas
used or acquired for airport buildings or other airport facilities.
   ALLEY.  A public thoroughfare or way, not over 30 feet in width, which
affords only secondary means of access to the abutting property.
   ALTERED.  Any change in the use of or in the supporting members of a
building, such as bearing walls, columns, posts, beams, girders and similar
components.
   APARTMENT UNIT.  One or more rooms with private bath and kitchen facilities
comprising an independent self-contained dwelling unit in a building containing
more than 2 dwelling units.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR.  The general repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame or
fender straightening and repair; overall painting and undercoating of
automobiles.
   BASEMENT.  That portion of a building partly below the average grade and so
located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor is
greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling.  A
BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story (see illustration).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/159acb839d33cbd1fc4d9f08bbc88ea2476e13ff/
IMAGES/0-0-0-983.jpg]
   BLOCK.  A piece of land bounded on all sides by transportation routes such
as streets or railroad lines, or corporate boundary lines of the municipality
or physical barriers such as water bodies or public open space.
   BUILDING.  Any structure (excluding fences) having a roof or walls and built
for, or capable of, the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE.  The ground area occupied or to be occupied by the
principal structure and any permissible detached accessory structure/building
which is or is intended to be placed on a building site, and including all
areas within the setbacks as found in §
152.100. For parcels without public sewer, the areas for septic systems
including any reserve areas, per County Health Department approval, shall be
exempted from the building envelope.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF.  The vertical distance from the grade at the center of
the front of the building to the highest point of the roof surface in a flat
roof, to the deck line for mansard roofs, and to the mean height level between
eaves and ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs (see illustration).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/159acb839d33cbd1fc4d9f08bbc88ea2476e13ff/
IMAGES/0-0-0-985.jpg]
   BUILDING INSPECTOR.  An administrative official designated by the governing
body with the responsibilities of administering and enforcing the Township
Building Code.
   BUILDING LINE.  A line formed by the face of the building, and for the
purposes of this chapter, a minimum BUILDING LINE is the same as a front
setback line (see illustration).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/159acb839d33cbd1fc4d9f08bbc88ea2476e13ff/
IMAGES/0-0-0-987.jpg]
   BUILDING SITE.  A lot of record/parcel of land or that portion of a site
condominium consisting of the condominium unit, and limited common element,
intended for the exclusive use of less than all the co-owners.
   BUTCHERING.  The killing and dressing of animals for meat.
   CHILDCARE CENTER.  A childcare facility other than a private home in which 1
or more children are received for care and supervision.
   CLINIC.  An establishment where human patients who are not lodged overnight
are admitted for examinations and treatment by a group of physicians, dentists
or similar professionals.
   CLINIC, VETERINARY (ANIMAL HOSPITAL).  A place where animals or pets are
given medical or surgical treatment and the boarding of animals is limited to
short-term care incidental to the hospital use.  These establishments may or
may not have outdoor run facilities present on-site for the animals.
   COMMON ELEMENTS.  Portions of the condominium project other than the
condominium units.
      (1)   GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS.  Means and includes:
         (a)   The land in the condominium project;
         (b)   The foundations, main walls, roofs, halls, lobbies, stairways,
entrances, exits or communication ways;
         (c)   The basements, flat roofs, yards and gardens, except as
otherwise provided or stipulated;
         (d)   The premises for the use of janitors or persons in charge of the
condominium project, including lodging, except as otherwise provided or
stipulated;
         (e)   The compartments or installations of central services such as
heating, power, light, gas, cold and hot water, refrigeration, air-
conditioning, reservoirs, water tanks, and pumps and the like;
         (f)   The elevators, incinerators and, in general, all devices or
installations existing for common use; and
         (g)   All other elements of the condominium project owned in common
and intended for common use or necessary to the existence, upkeep and safety of
the project.
      (2)   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS.  Means and includes those common elements
which are reserved in the master deed for the exclusive uses of less than all
of the co-owners.
   COMMUNITY BUILDING.  Any public or public utility building.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT.  Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM PROJECT.  A plan or project consisting of not less than 2
condominium units established in conformance with the Condominium Act.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN.  Site, survey, and utility plans; floor plans;
and sections, as appropriate showing the existing and proposed structures and
improvements, including the location thereof on the land.  The CONDOMINIUM
SUBDIVISION PLAN shall show the size, location, area, vertical boundaries and
volume for each unit comprised of enclosed air space.  A number shall be
assigned to each condominium unit.  The CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN shall
include the nature, location and approximate size of common elements.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT.  That portion of the condominium project designed and
intended for separate fee simple ownership and use, as described in the master
deed.
   CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME.  A nursing care facility, including a county
medical care facility, but excluding a hospital or a facility created by Public
Act 152 of 1985, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 36.1 to 36.12, which provides
organized nursing care and medical treatment to 7 or more unrelated individuals
suffering or recovering from illness, injury or infirmity.
   DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any substances or materials that, by
reason of their toxic, caustic, corrosive, abrasive, explosive or otherwise
injurious properties, may be detrimental or deleterious to the environment or
the health of any person handling or otherwise coming into contact with the
material or substance.
   DISTRICT.  Each part or parts of the unincorporated area of the township for
which specific zoning regulations are prescribed.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE.  A dwelling designed for occupancy by 3 or more families
living independently of each other and having separate cooking and kitchen
accommodations and sanitary facilities.
   DWELLING, ONE UNIT.  A dwelling occupied and so designed and arranged as to
provide living, cooking, sleeping and sanitary accommodations for 1 family.
   DWELLING, TWO UNIT.  A dwelling occupied and so designed and arranged as to
provide living, cooking, sleeping and sanitary accommodations for 2 families
living independently.
   DWELLING UNIT.  A building, or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by 1
family for residential purposes and having sanitary and cooking facilities.
   DWELLING UNIT, MANUFACTURED.  A dwelling unit which is substantially built,
constructed, assembled and finished off the premises upon which it is intended
to be located.
   DWELLING UNIT, SITE BUILT.  A dwelling unit which is substantially built,
constructed, assembled and finished on the premises which are intended to serve
as its final location.  SITE BUILT DWELLING UNITS shall include dwelling units
constructed of precut materials and panelized wall, roof and floor sections
when the sections require substantial assembly and finishing on the premises
which are intended to serve as its final location.
   EFFICIENCY APARTMENTS.  A dwelling which combines the bedroom, cooking, and
living area into 1 room, but which has its own private, separate bathroom.
   ERECTED.  Includes built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon or any
physical operation on the land required for building, including but not limited
to excavating, filling, draining and similar operations.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.  The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of underground or
overhead gas, electrical, steam or water transmission or communication, supply
or disposal systems, including poles, wires, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits,
cables, towers, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants
and other similar equipment and accessories in connection with, but not
including buildings.
   EXCAVATION OF GRAVEL, SAND, TOPSOIL, OR EARTH.  Premises from which any
rock, gravel, sand, topsoil or earth in excess of 50 cubic yards in any
calendar year is excavated or removed for the purpose of disposition away from
the premises except excavation in connection with the construction of a
building or within public highway rights-of-way.
   EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM.  A condominium project to which additional land may
be added pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with the condominium regulations of the zoning ordinance and the
Condominium Act.
   FAMILY.  Any number of persons living together in a room or rooms comprising
a single housekeeping unit and related by blood, marriage or adoption,
including the domestic employees thereof.  Any group of persons not so related,
but inhabiting a single housekeeping unit, shall be considered to constitute 1
FAMILY for each 6 persons, exclusive of domestic employees, contained in the
group.
   FAMILY DAYCARE HOME.  A private home licensed under Public Act 116 of 1973
in which up to 6 children are received for care and supervision for periods of
less than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except
children related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage, or
adoption. It includes a home that gives care to an unrelated child for more
than 4 weeks during a calendar year.
   FARM. A parcel of land that must consist of 10 acres or more in size with at
least 51% of property, per tax parcel, engaged in active agricultural.
(Am. Ord. 416, passed 2-9-2006)
   FARM BUILDINGS.  Any structure or building other than a dwelling used or
built on a farm.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS.  The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls
or from the centerline of walls separating 2 buildings.  The FLOOR AREA of a
building shall not include the basement floor area except when more than ½ of
the basement height is above grade.  FLOOR AREA shall include elevator shafts
and stairwells at each floor, floor space used for mechanical equipment (except
equipment, open or enclosed, located on the roof), attic space having headroom
of 7 feet, 10 inches or more, interior balconies and mezzanines.  Any space
devoted to off-street parking or loading shall not be included in FLOOR AREA.
   FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL.  For the purpose of computing the minimum allowable
floor area in a residential dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal areas of
each story of the building shall be measured from the exterior faces of the
exterior walls or from the centerline of walls separating 2 dwellings.  The
FLOOR AREA measurement is exclusive of areas of basements, unfinished attics,
attached garages, breezeways, and enclosed and unenclosed porches.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE.  That area used for or intended to be used for the sale
of merchandise or services, or for use to serve patrons, clients or customers. 
This FLOOR AREA which is used or intended to be used principally for the
storage or processing of merchandise, hallways or for utilities or sanitary
facilities, shall be excluded from this computation of USABLE FLOOR AREA. 
Measurement of USABLE FLOOR AREA shall be the sum of the horizontal areas of
the several floors of the building, measured from the interior faces of the
exterior walls (see illustration).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/159acb839d33cbd1fc4d9f08bbc88ea2476e13ff/
IMAGES/0-0-0-989.jpg]
   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A private home licensed under Public Act 116 of 1973 in
which 1 but not more than 4 minor children, who are not related to an adult
member of the household by blood, marriage, or adoption, are given care and
supervision for 24 hours a day, for 4 or more days a week, for 2 or more
consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A private home licensed by the Michigan Department
of Social Services in which more than 4 but less than 7 children, who are not
related to an adult member of the household by blood, marriage, or adoption,
are provided care for 24 hours a day, for 4 or more days a week, for 2 or more
consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
   FRONTAGE.  All the property fronting on 1 side of a street between
intersecting or intercepting streets, or between a street and right-of-way,
waterway, end of a dead-end street or township boundary measured along the
street line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE AND PUBLIC.  Any building for the storage of self-propelled
vehicles or trailer coaches, where no storage or servicing for hire is
conducted, is a PRIVATE GARAGE.  A PUBLIC GARAGE is one which is not a PRIVATE
GARAGE.
   GARAGE/YARD/BARN/MOVING/RUMMAGE SALE.  A temporary general sale of household
or personal belongings which shall be allowed to continue for a period of no
more than 7 continuous days, or 2 consecutive weekends, and shall be limited to
a maximum of 2 times per calendar year at the same location.
   GOLF COURSE.  An open area of fairways, greens and rough; a GOLF COURSE may
include clubhouse and related accessory uses, provided that all structures and
activities shall be an integral part of the intended main recreational land
use.  Further, all clubhouse, restaurant, pro–shop facilities and the like
shall be secondary in nature to the GOLF COURSE and may not be continued if the
principal GOLF COURSE activity shall cease or become the minor activity of the
facility.
   GRADE.  The ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of buildings.  The building GRADE shall be the
level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished grade
is level.  If the ground is not entirely level, the GRADE shall be determined
by averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the building.
   GROUP DAYCARE HOME.  A private home licensed under Public Act 116 of 1973 in
which more than 6 but not more than 12 minor children are given care and
supervision for periods of less than 24 hours a day unattended by a parent or
legal guardian, except children related to an adult member of the family by
blood, marriage, or adoption. Group child care home includes a home in which
care is given to an  unrelated minor child for more than 4 weeks during a
calendar year.
   HEALTH CARE FACILITY.  A facility or institution, whether public or private,
principally engaged in providing services for health maintenance, diagnosis and
treatment of human disease, pain, injury, deformity or physical condition
allowing overnight stay, including but not limited to a general hospital,
special hospital, mental hospital, public health center, diagnostic center,
treatment center, rehabilitation center, extended care facility, tuberculosis
hospital, chronic disease hospital, maternity hospital, out-patient clinic,
dispensary, home health care agency, and bioanalytical laboratory or central
services facility serving 1 or more such institutions, but excluding
institutions that provide healing solely by prayer, and clinic facilities of
physicians, dentists and optometrists, and other health practitioners.
   HOME FOR THE AGED (CONGREGATE CARE).  A supervised personal care facility,
other than a hotel, adult foster care facility, hospital, nursing home, or
county medical care facility, that provides room, board, and supervised
personal care to 21 or more unrelated, non-transient individuals 60 years of
age or older.  HOME FOR THE AGED includes a supervised personal care facility
for 20 or fewer individuals 60 years of age or older if the facility is
operated in conjunction with and as a distinct part of a licensed nursing home.
   HOME OCCUPATION.  An accessory use of a residence. It shall be clearly
secondary to the use of the parcel as a residence. The HOME OCCUPATION shall
take place within the primary structure and be limited to no more than 25% of
the total actual floor area. A resicent must be the primary employee.
   HOTEL.  A building or part of a building with a common entrance or
entrances, in which the dwelling units or rooming units are used primarily for
transient occupancy, and in which 1 or more of the following services are
offered:  maid service, furnishing of linen, telephone, secretarial or desk
service, and bellboy service.  A HOTEL may include a restaurant or cocktail
lounge, public banquet halls, ballrooms or meeting rooms.
   JUNKYARD.  The storage, selling or keeping of abandoned junk, including
scrap metals or other salvaged or scrap materials or items commonly known as
junk, or the dismantling, demolition or abandonment of automobiles or other
vehicles or machinery or parts thereof.  The keeping of more than 1 dismantled
or inoperative motor vehicle shall be deemed to be the maintenance of a
JUNKYARD.
   KENNEL.  The keeping of 4 or more dogs at least 4 months old by 1 family or
commercial establishment, except for veterinary clinics.
   LOADING SPACE.  An off–street space or berth on the same lot with a building
or contiguous to a group of buildings, for the temporary parking of a
commercial vehicle while loading or unloading merchandise or materials and
which abuts upon a street, alley or other appropriate means of access.
   LODGING HOUSE.  A building, other than a hotel, or cabin, where 4 or more
persons other than members of the family are lodged for compensation.
   LOT.  A parcel of land.
   LOT AREA.  The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
   LOT, CORNER.  A lot where the interior angle of 2 adjacent sides at the
intersection of 2 streets is less than 135 degrees.  A lot abutting upon a
curved street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT for the purposes of
this chapter if the arc is of radius less than 150 feet and the tangents to the
curve, at the 2 points where the lot lines meet the curve or the straight
street line extended, form an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
   LOT COVERAGE.  That part or percentage of the lot covered by buildings,
including accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH.  The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT, INTERIOR.  Any lot other than a corner lot.
   LOT LINES.  The lines bounding a lot as defined herein:
      (1)   FRONT PROPERTY LOT LINE (RIGHT-OF-WAY LINE). In the case of an
interior lot, that line separating the lot from the street.  In the case of a
corner lot or double frontage lot, it is that line separating the lot from
either street.
      (2)   REAR (PROPERTY) LOT LINE. That lot line opposite the front lot
line.  In the case of a lot pointed at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be an
imaginary line parallel to the front lot line, not less than 10 feet long lying
farthest from the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   SIDE (PROPERTY) LOT LINE.  Any lot line other than the front lot
line or rear lot line.  A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a
side street lot line.  A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or
lots is an interior SIDE LOT LINE.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot which actually exists in a subdivision plat as shown
on the records of the County Register of Deeds, or a lot or parcel described by
metes and bounds, the description of which has been so recorded.  Whenever an
owner has combined 2 or more lots as contained on any recorded plat into a
single building site, or combined 2 or more lots contained on any recorded plat
in the records of the Township Assessor or Treasurer, the combination of lots
shall be deemed to be a single LOT OF RECORD for the purposes of this chapter.
   LOT, REVERSE FRONTAGE.  A through lot which is not accessible from 1 of the
parallel or non- intersecting streets upon which it fronts.
   LOT, THROUGH.  Any interior lot having frontage on 2 more or less parallel
streets as distinguished from a corner lot.  In the case of a row of double
frontage lots, all yards of the lots adjacent to streets shall be considered
frontage, and front yard setbacks shall be provided as required.
   LOT WIDTH.  The horizontal straight line distance between the side lot
lines, measured between the 2 points where the front setback line intersects
the side lot lines (see illustration).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/159acb839d33cbd1fc4d9f08bbc88ea2476e13ff/
IMAGES/0-0-0-991.jpg]
   LOT, ZONING. 
      (1)   A single tract of land, located within a single block which, at the
time of filing for a building permit, is designated by its owner or developed
as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit, under single
ownership or control of property.
      (2)   A ZONING LOT shall satisfy this chapter with respect to area, size,
dimensions and frontage as required in the district in which the zoning lot is
located.  A ZONING LOT, therefore, may not coincide with a lot of record as
filed with the County Register of Deeds, but may include 1 or more lots of
record.
   MAIN BUILDING.  A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot upon which it is situated.
   MAIN USE (PRINCIPAL USE). The principal use to which the premises are
devoted and the principal purpose for which the premises exist.
   MASTER DEED.  The condominium document recording the condominium project, to
which is attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference, the approved
bylaws for the project and the approved condominium subdivision plan for the
project.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CLUB/COMPASSION CLUB.  A facility or organization that
offers patients and caregivers the opportunity to connect with others for the
purpose of providing referral services, education, community outreach, and use
of medical marijuana in a completely enclosed building allowed under the
Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008. This facility shall not be used for the
storage, dispensary, sale, growth, cultivation, processing, or packaging o
medical marijuana at any time.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARY.  A facility, jointly owned or operated by 1 or
more “primary caregivers”, with a maximum of 1 “primary caregiver” operating
for every 1,000 square feet of building, where marijuana is stored, dispensed,
or offered for sale to “qualifying patients” as defined under the Michigan
Medical Marijuana Act of 2008 or M.C.L.A. § 333.26421 and where marijuana may
also be grown, cultivated, processed and/or packaged. A “primary caregiver”,
“qualifying patient”, and marijuana shall have the meanings ascribed to them in
the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008 or M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26423 et seq.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITY.  A facility, owned or operated by 1 or
more “primary caregivers”, with a maximum of 1 “primary caregiver” operating
for every 1,000 square feet of building, where marijuana is grown, cultivated,
processed and/or packaged to “qualifying patients” as defined under the
Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008 or M.C.L.A. § 333.26421. A “primary
caregiver”, “qualifying patient”, and “marijuana” shall have the meanings
ascribed to them in the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008 or M.C.L.A. §
333.26423.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE (SELF-STORAGE FACILITY).  A facility consisting of a building
or a group of buildings in a controlled-access compound, where individual
stalls or lockers are rented out to different tenants for the dead storage of
customers’ goods and wares. 
   MOBILE HOME.  A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which is
built on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes
the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained in
the structure. 
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  A parcel or tract of land under the control of a person
upon which 3 or more mobile homes are located on a continual, nonrecreational
basis and which is offered to the public  for that purpose regardless of
whether a charge is made therefor, together with any building, structure,
enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended for use incidental to
the occupancy of a mobile home. 
   MOTEL.  A series of attached, semi-detached or detached rental units
containing a bedroom, bathroom and closet space which provide for overnight
lodging and are offered to the public for compensation and cater primarily to
the public traveling by motor vehicle.
   NONCONFORMING LOT.  Any lot, outlot or other parcel of land which does not
meet the land area or dimension requirements  of this chapter.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.  A structure conflicting with the regulations in
the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE.  The use of land or a structure for purposes which
conflict with the provisions of this chapter.
   NUISANCE FACTORS.  An offensive, annoying, unpleasant or obnoxious thing or
practice, a cause or source of annoyance, especially a continuing or repeating
invasion of any physical characteristics of activity or use across a property
line which can be perceived by or affects a human being, or the generation of
an excessive or concentrated movement of people or things, such as, but not
limited to:  sound; dust; smoke; odor; glare; fumes; flashes; vibration; shock
waves; heat; electronic or atomic radiation; objectionable effluent; sound of
congregation of people, particularly at night;  passenger traffic;  invasion of
nonabutting street frontage by traffic.  Excepted are bona fide agricultural
practices as provided for in the Right to Farm Act.
   OPEN AIR BUSINESS USE.  As used herein, shall be deemed to include any of
the following businesses when the business is not conducted from a wholly
enclosed building:
      (1)   Bicycle, trailer, motor vehicle, boats or home equipment sale or
rental services;
      (2)   Outdoor display and sale of garages, swimming pools and similar
uses;
      (3)   Retail sale of trees, fruits, vegetables, shrubbery, plants, seed,
topsoil, humus, fertilizer, trellis, lawn furniture, playground equipment, and
other home garden supplies and equipment;
      (4)   Tennis courts, archery courts, gun range, shuffleboard, horseshoe
courts, miniature golf, golf driving range, children’s amusement park or
similar recreation uses; and
      (5)   Flea market for the sale of a variety of new or used goods.
   PARKING SPACE, AUTOMOBILE.  Space within a parking area or building,
exclusive of driveways, ramps, columns, office and work area for the parking or
storage of 1 automobile.
   PARKING AREA, PUBLIC.  An area, other than a street, used for temporary
parking of more than 4 vehicles and available for public use, either free or
for compensation.
   PEN.  A structure used to house, shelter or enclose an animal associated
with a farm operation, either temporarily or permanently.
   PUBLIC UTILITY.  Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or
board duly authorized under municipal regulation to furnish and furnishing,
transportation, water, gas, electricity, telephone, steam, telegraph  sewage
disposal and other similar services to the public.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  A vehicle which moves 1 or more persons over the
ground, water, ice or snow, and which is either self-propelled or connects to a
vehicle which is self-propelled.  This definition of RECREATIONAL VEHICLE
includes but is not limited to snowmobiles, travel trailers, motor homes,
motorcycles, mini-bikes, go-carts, boats and ice-boats.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.  A campground designed to accommodate those
recreational vehicles which are used as a temporary dwelling and are not parked
more than 6 consecutive months in any 1 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK.
   RESTAURANT.
      (1)   CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT.  Any establishment whose principal business
is the sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready-
to-consume state, and whose design or  method of operation encourages the
consumption of food off–site or it may permit incidental consumption on the
premises.
      (2)   DRIVE-IN/DRIVE–THROUGH RESTAURANT.  Any establishment whose
principal business is the sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to the
customer in a ready-to-consume state, and whose design and method of operation,
includes 1 or both of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are served directly to the
customer in a motor vehicle, either by a carhop, or by other means which
eliminate the need for the customer to exit the motor vehicle; and/or
         (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts or beverages within a
motor vehicle parked upon the premises, or at other facilities on the premises
outside the restaurant building, is permitted.
      (3)   STANDARD RESTAURANT.  Any establishment whose principal business is
the sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state, and whose design or principal method of operation includes
consumption on the premises.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY.  A strip of land acquired by reservation, dedication, forced
dedication, prescription or condemnation and intended to be occupied, or
occupied by, a road, utility or other similar uses.
   ROADSIDE STAND.  A structure used solely by the owner, manager or tenant of
the land on which it is located for the sale of produce grown on the land. 
This does not allow the sale of produce or other commodities on state or county
road right-of-way; and provided that customers will not be permitted to stand
or park on the public right-of-way.
   SETBACK.  Distance from the right-of-way lines of streets or side or rear
property lines, to the building line, for the purpose of defining limits within
which no building or structure, or any part thereof, shall be erected or
permanently maintained.
   SIGN.  Any announcement, declaration, display, billboard, illustration and
insignia when designed and placed so as to attract general public attention,
and shall include the use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs or
trademarks by which anything is made known and visible to the general public,
such as are used to show an individual firm, profession, business, or business
location, and also any banner, bulbs or other lighting devices, streamer,
pennant, balloon, propeller, flag (other than the official flag of any nation
or state) and any similar device of any type or kind, whether bearing lettering
or not.
   SITE CONDOMINIUM.  A condominium development in which property rights in
land (rather than airspace) are divided under the authority of the Condominium
Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272.
   SPECIAL CONDITION USE.  Any use of land listed as a “principal use permitted
subject to special conditions” which, due to its potential effect on adjacent
lands, in particular, and the overall  township in general, requires approval
by the Township Board according to the standards as provided in this chapter.
   STORY.  That part of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor or roof next above.  When the distance from the
average established grade to the ceiling of a STORY partly below such grade
exceeds 50% of the total distance from the floor to the ceiling, then the
basement or cellar constituting the story partially below grade shall be
counted as a STORY.
   STORY, HALF.  A story which is situated within a sloping roof, the area of
which at a height 4 feet above the floor does not exceed 2/3 of the floor area
directly below it.
   STREET.  A public thoroughfare which affords a principal means of access to
abutting property.
   TOURIST HOME (BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENT).  Primarily a family dwelling
where lodging with or without meals is furnished for compensation, chiefly on
an overnight basis and mainly to transients, but not necessarily to anyone who
may apply, where:
      (1)   Not more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling unit is
used for bed and breakfast sleeping rooms;
      (2)   There are no separate cooking facilities used for the bed and
breakfast stay;
      (3)   Signs may be permitted in accordance with §
152.089, permitted signs in the residential and agricultural districts, for
professional signs or name plates.
   TOWNHOUSE.  Two, 3 or 4 single-family residences, attached by common walls,
each with its own separate exterior entrance.
   TRAVEL TRAILER.  Any vehicle used, or so constructed as to permit its being
used, as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways, and duly licensable
as such, so designed, constructed or added to by means of accessories in such
manner, as will permit the occupancy thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place
for 1 or more persons.
   UNDEFINED TERMS.  Any term not defined herein shall have the meaning of
common or standard use.
   USABLE FLOOR AREA.  For purposes of computing parking, that area used for or
intended to serve patrons, clients or customers.  That floor area which is used
or intended to be used principally for the storage or processing of
merchandise, or for utilities, shall be excluded from this computation of
USABLE FLOOR AREA.  Measurement of floor area shall be the sum of the gross
horizontal areas of the several floors of the building, measured from the
interior faces of the exterior walls.
   USE.  The purpose for which land structure, or building thereon is designed,
arranged or intended to be occupied for or used for, or for which it is
occupied or maintained.
   VARIANCE.  A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter granted
when strict enforcement of the zoning ordinance would cause practical
difficulties owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on which
the variance is granted.
   YARD.  A space, open to the sky and unoccupied or unobstructed, on the same
parcel with a building or structure.  YARD measurements shall be the minimum
horizontal distances.  In the case of corner lots, front yard shall be deemed
to exist along each street frontage.  In the determination of a land area where
a building is to be erected, altered or used, no road right-of-way shall be
included in the computation of the required minimum land area.
   YARD, FRONT PRIMARY.  The primary front yard shall front directly on a
public or private road upon which the property is addressed. Corner and through
(double frontage) lots shall be considered to have dual front yards. In the
case of flag-shaped or irregular-shaped lots, that property line that lies
parallel to, but does not directly front upon a public or private road, shall
be considered a primary front property line. PRIMARY FRONT YARDS shall be
regulated by the front yard setback per lot requirements of the §
152.100.
   YARD, FRONT SECONDARY.  The secondary front yard, in the case of corner or
through lots, shall front directly on a public or private road upon which the
property is not addressed. SECONDARY FRONT YARDS shall be regulated by the
front yard setback per lot requirements of §
152.100.
   YARD, REAR.  A yard extending across the full width of the lot between the
rear lot line and the nearest point of the main building.
   YARD, SIDE.  A yard extending from the front yard to the rear yard between
the side lot line and the nearest point of the main building or of an accessory
building attached thereto.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  An administrative official designated by the
governing body with the responsibilities of administering and enforcing this
chapter. 
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.  The Board of Zoning Appeals, as provided under
provisions of the Township Rural Zoning Act, being Public Act 184 of 1943,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 through 125.333, as amended, and as modified by
Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 through 125.333.
   ZONING DISTRICT.  A portion of the township within which, on a uniform
basis, certain uses of land and buildings are permitted and within which
contain yard, open spaces, lot area, and other requirements as established by
this chapter.
(Ord. Art. II, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 426, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 427,
passed 3-8-2007; Am. Ord. 430, passed 3-20-2007; Am. Ord. 431, passed 3-20-
2007; Am. Ord. 433, passed 3-13-2008; Am. Ord. 439, passed 11-10-2011; Am. Ord.
445, passed 9-12-2013; Am. Ord. 460, passed 8-14-2014)
Statutory reference:
   State laws cited in this section, including M.C.L.A. §§ 125.271 through
125.301, and 125.321 through 125.333, were repealed and replaced under the 2008
Michigan Planning Enabling Act; see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 through 125.3885
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 152.015  SCOPE.
   Except as elsewhere provided in this chapter, no building or structure, or
part thereof, shall hereafter be erected, constructed, reconstructed or altered
in a manner, and no building, structure, land, premises or part thereof shall
be used for a purpose, and no open space surrounding any building or structure
shall be reduced or encroached upon other than as permitted by the provisions
of this chapter or in the district in which the building, structure, land or
premises is located.  If a less restrictive category shall specifically permit
uses allowed in a more restrictive category, then the permission shall only
extend to those categories specifically named and none higher.
(Ord. § 3.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.016  BUILDING REGULATION.
   (A)   Except as hereafter provided, no building shall be erected or altered
to exceed in height the limit herein established for the district in which the
building is located. 
   (B)   No building shall be erected, nor shall an existing building be
altered, enlarged or rebuilt, nor shall any open space surrounding any building
be encroached upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity with the
regulations hereby established for the district in which the building is
located.  If a less restrictive category shall specifically permit a building
allowed in a more restrictive category, then the permission shall only extend
to those categories specifically named and none higher.
      (1)   Unlawful building.  In case any building or part thereof is used,
erected, occupied or altered contrary to law or the provisions of this chapter,
the building shall be deemed an unlawful structure and a nuisance and may be
required to be vacated, torn down or abated by any legal means, and shall not
be used or occupied until it has been made to conform to the provisions of this
chapter.  Public expenditures toward abating the nuisance shall become a lien
upon the land.
      (2)   Frontage and street access.  No building shall be erected on a lot,
unless the lot fronts its full width, as required by §
152.100, upon a street or road that has been dedicated to the public.
      (3)   One principal building.  In Single-Family Residential Districts,
only 1 principal building shall be placed on a lot of record.  Mobile home
parks, multiple-family developments, commercial shopping centers or office
parks need not front each structure within the development upon publicly
dedicated streets or roads provided that adequate interior vehicular
circulation and access can be assured in a site plan submitted for approval to
the township.
      (4)   Temporary building.  No temporary building shall be erected unless
a building permit has been issued for a permanent building or a new use of land
on the same site.  Any temporary building shall be removed from the site within
30 days of issuance of a certificate of occupancy or upon completion of the
project and failure to remove the building shall constitute an automatic
revocation of the certificate of occupancy.  No temporary building may be used
as a residence except as permitted in §§
152.029 and
152.030.
(Ord. § 3.01, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.017  CONFLICTING LAWS, ORDINANCES, REGULATIONS OR RESTRICTIONS.
   Conflicting laws of a more restrictive nature are not affected or repealed
by this chapter.  The provisions of this chapter shall be considered as
minimum.  Conflicting township ordinances of a less restrictive nature, or
those conflicting in other ways than degrees of restrictiveness are hereby
repealed, to the extent of that conflict and no further. 
(Ord. § 3.02, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.018  CONSTRUCTION OR CONTRACTS UNDER PERMITS PRIOR TO THIS CHAPTER.
   Any building or structure, for which a building permit has been issued and
construction of the whole or a part of which has been started, or for which a
contract or contracts have been entered into pursuant to a building permit
issued prior to the effective date of this chapter, may be completed and used
in accordance with the plans and applications on which the building permit was
granted.
(Ord. § 3.03, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.019  PERMITS.
   (A)   Before any excavations, construction or erection may be undertaken, a 
permit must be obtained from the township office.  Building permit fees for all
new construction or repair, alterations and additions to structures already
erected shall be according to the fee schedule as adopted by the Township
Board.  No required building permit for a construction project will be issued
to an applicant until an approved zoning permit has been issued or determined
not necessary.
   (B)   (1)   Expiration/renewal.  In the event that a building permit is not
issued, the fee so paid shall be returned to the payer thereof.  A building
permit shall become void unless operations are commenced within 6 months from
date of issuance unless the time is extended by the Building Inspector for
reasons that the construction was delayed by causes beyond the control of the
applicant.  All building permits shall expire 1 year after the date of issue;
provided that the Building Inspector may, on application, renew a permit for
not to exceed 1 additional year, without additional charge, if a satisfactory
degree of progress in construction is shown.  All permits or renewals thereof
shall be in writing.
      (2)   Violations and cancellation of permit.
         (a)   Should the Building Inspector determine that the construction is
not proceeding according to the application filed, or is in violation of any
provision of this chapter, he or she shall so notify the permit holder  and 
further construction shall be stayed until correction has been effected and 
approved by the Building Inspector, upon notice and request for reinspection
duly made.
         (b)   Should the permit holder fail to comply with any applicable
requirements, at any state of construction, the Building Inspector is hereby
empowered to cancel the building permit issued and shall cause notice of the
cancellation to be securely posted upon the construction and at a location of
ready visibility.  Posting of this notice shall be considered sufficient
notification to the permit holder of cancellation thereof.  No further work
shall be undertaken or permitted upon the construction until a new building
permit shall have been issued.
         (c)   Any permit holder whose construction shall have been stayed
under division (2)(a) above, or whose building permit shall have been canceled
under division (2)(b) above, shall not be granted any building permit for any
other construction of any type whatever, until correction has been effected and
approved as provided in division (2)(a) above, or until a new building permit
shall have been issued to replace the canceled building permit, as provided in
division (2)(b) above.
      (3)   Subdivision control act.  No building permit shall be issued for
the construction of any structure on any lot, tract or parcel of land
subdivided in violation of Michigan Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293, as amended (Land Division Act, Public Act 591 of
1996).
      (4)   Personal construction authority.  Nothing in this chapter shall be
construed as prohibiting an owner, tenant, occupant or land contract vendee
from doing his or her own building, erecting, altering, plumbing, electrical
installation, etc.
(Ord. § 3.04, passed 5-22-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.020  AREA REQUIREMENTS; GENERALLY.
   No portion of a lot used in complying with the provisions of this chapter
for yards, courts, lot area per family or percentage of lot occupancy in
connection with an existing or proposed building or structure, including mobile
homes shall again be used as part of the lot required in connection with any
other building or structure existing or proposed.
(Ord. § 3.05, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.021  SEWER AND WATER CONNECTION.
   Before any building permit shall be issued under terms of this chapter, the
applicant shall obtain the endorsement in writing of the Genesee County Health
Department or the Charter Township of Clayton Building Inspector, approving his
or her plans for sewage disposal and water supply, in accordance with the state
law, county regulation, or ordinance, whichever is the most restrictive.
   (A)   On-site sewage disposal.  Before any building permit shall be issued
under the terms of this chapter, the applicant shall obtain the endorsement in
writing from the Genesee County Health Department approving his or her plan for
any on-site sewage disposal system in accordance with state law, county
regulations, or township ordinance, whichever is the most restrictive, and in
accordance with the applicable regulations of the Genesee County Sewage
Disposal District.
   (B)   Water supply.
      (1)   Every building or structure hereafter erected or moved upon any
premises and used in whole or in part for dwelling, recreational, business,
commercial or industrial purposes shall be provided with a safe, adequate and
sanitary water supply.  All plumbing work relating to the water supply system
shall conform to the standards of material and installations set forth by the
Michigan State Plumbing Code, a copy of which is on file in the Township
Clerk’s office.
      (2)   Where a public water system is not available, each fixture from
which water for human consumption may be obtained shall be supplied from a
system which meets the minimum requirements of the State of Michigan, the
Genesee County Health Department and the Michigan State Department of Health.
   (C)   Toilets (water closets) required. 
      (1)   Every dwelling, business, church, school or any other place where
humans are present for longer than 4 hours a day shall be provided with, as an
integral part of a permanent structure, a toilet or toilets sufficient to
accommodate the number of persons normally using the area, structure or place,
including open land areas where humans congregate for longer than 4 hours. 
Numbers of toilets shall be in compliance with state laws and township plumbing
or building codes where applicable.  The toilet or toilets shall be wholly
within an enclosed room or rooms which are devoted to toilet use only and shall
include in the room or rooms hot and cold running water (not a hand pump),
sinks and plumbing for washing purposes, as well as plumbing to an outside
complete underground sewage disposal system, either a public sewage disposal
system or septic tank and underground effluent disposal field which meets all
regulations that are from time to time hereafter currently acceptable to the
county, state or township health regulations, whichever are most restrictive. 
No outdoor toilets, backhouses, privies, latrines, trenches or the like shall
be permitted anywhere in the township, except as hereinafter specifically
provided.  These restrictions are deemed to be of utmost concern to the public
health, safety and welfare of the citizens of the township and state, and the
nonconforming use provisions of this chapter shall not be applicable to this
provision.
      (2)   Approved water flush-type toilet facilities for the sanitary and
safe disposal of all human waste material shall be required where people
gather, work, live or otherwise frequent.  Where sanitary sewer is available,
the utilization of the public sewerage system shall be considered the only safe
and sanitary means for liquid waste disposal except as hereinafter specifically
provided.  Disposal of human waste material in any manner which could be a
hazard to the public health or create objectionable nuisance conditions is
prohibited.
   (D)   Temporary sanitary facilities.
      (1)   Temporary use of approved portable toilets not connected to
plumbing, or other temporary facilities, may be approved by the Building
Inspector under conditions where sewer and plumbing on construction or other
sites is not completed to the extent flush type facilities can be installed, or
for transient gatherings not exceeding 1 week; provided, however, that such
approval shall be granted for such transient gatherings at any 1 site no more
than 3 times in each calendar year.  No such portable facilities shall be
installed within the Charter Township of Clayton without first obtaining a
permit from the Building Department.  All other provisions of this chapter,
including but not limited to site plan review procedures, shall be applicable
and shall be deemed in pari materia herewith.
      (2)   Before granting any permit the Building Inspector or his or her
representative shall determine, with advice of the Genesee County Health
Department, that the use is necessary and shall require the following:
         (a)   The installation of sufficient numbers of such facilities to
accommodate the anticipated volume of usage in accordance with such county or
state regulations as may apply.  In the event applicable regulations do not
exist, the Building Inspector shall make such requirements as he or she deems
appropriate in the circumstances, subject to Planning Commission review.
         (b)   Portable toilets shall be constructed and maintained so as to
store all waste material in tight containers, free from leakage, which are
smooth and easily cleanable, which deny access to flies, rodents and other
vermin, are free of objectionable odors and meet any additional sanitary
requirements as may be deemed necessary by the Building Inspector.
         (c)   Construction shall be such as will enclose the portable toilet
and will furnish privacy to users, and the facility shall be kept clean.
         (d)   Servicing of portable toilets shall be performed as often as is
necessary to comply with divisions (2)(b)and (c) above, but at least weekly.
         (e)   Approved service vehicles shall be used and the individuals and
vehicles providing service shall be licensed under Public Act 243 of 1951, as
amended.
      (3)   The expiration date of all township permits issued hereunder shall
be the date of expiration of the state service license or the date of
termination of the request for use set forth in the permit application,
whichever comes first.
      (4)   Consideration may be given, by the Building Inspector, to the use
of latrines for certain specific primitive type gatherings (of less than 24
hours in duration) provided the intent for the request is in connection with
and for the sole purpose of teaching others how to survive in a primitive
environment (i.e., Boy or Girl Scout merit badge training).  In all instances,
each proposed site will be evaluated on its own merit and appropriate
safeguards implemented to ensure adequate protection of the groundwater, and in
no case shall latrines in such circumstances be approved more than 10 times in
a calendar year at any 1 site.
(Ord. § 3.06, passed 5-22-1997)
Local legislation reference:
   Similar provisions, see Resolution 98-514-02, passed 9-13-2001
§ 152.022  MOVING BUILDINGS.
   Any structure or building which is wholly or partially located within this
township or outside this township shall not be moved or placed within Charter
Township of Clayton before a building permit shall have been granted.
(Ord. § 3.07, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.023  GARBAGE CONTAINERS
   All garbage shall be stored in weatherproof and rodent-proof covered
containers.  Where permanent outdoor storage of containers is required, the
containers shall be provided with screening, subject to provisions of §
152.077. 
(Ord. § 3.08, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.024  DANGEROUS EXCAVATIONS OR HOLES PROHIBITED.
   The construction, maintenance or existence within the township of any
unprotected, unbarricaded, open or dangerous excavations, holes, pits or wells,
or of any excavations, holes or pits which constitute, or are reasonably likely
to constitute, a menace to the public health, safety or welfare, is hereby
prohibited.  This section shall not apply to excavations operated under a
special condition use permit issued pursuant to this chapter, or the Building
Code of the township, where the excavations are barricaded and warning signs
posted in a manner as may be approved by the Building Official, nor does this
section apply to lakes, streams or other natural bodies of water, or to
ditches, streams, reservoirs or other major bodies of water created or existing
by authority of the State of Michigan, Genesee County, Clayton Township or
other governmental agencies.
(Ord. § 3.09, passed 5-22-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.025  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Continuance.  Any lawful nonconforming use of land, structures or
buildings existing at the time of the effective date of this chapter may be
continued except as herein prohibited or restricted, provided that the
building, structure or use thereof shall not be structurally enlarged, altered
or changed in use, unless the alteration, enlargement or use shall conform to
the provisions of this chapter for the district in which it is located, except
as elsewhere provided.  No nonconforming use if changed to a conforming use
permitted in the district in which it is located shall be resumed or changed
back to a nonconforming use. 
      (1)   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership or management of any
existing nonconforming uses of land and/or structure.  Failure to continue to
use any land, building or structure, or part thereof, which is a nonconforming
use under this chapter, for a period of 1 year shall be held to be conclusive
proof of an intention to legally abandon any rights to maintain or reestablish
the nonconforming use.
      (2)   Persons who have enlisted or have been called into the U.S.
government service during periods of national emergency may discontinue the
nonconforming use of any land, building or structure for a period greater than
1 year during such emergencies.  The persons shall reestablish the
nonconforming use within 6 months of the end of the national emergency.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots.  In any district in which single-family dwellings
are permitted, notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this
chapter, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory building may be
erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter.  This provision shall apply even though the lot
fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally
applicable in the district, provided that yard dimensions and other
requirements not involving area or width, or both, of the lot shall conform to
the regulations for the district in which the lot is located.  Variance yard
requirements shall be obtained through approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Destruction of structures.  Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
restoration, repairing or rebuilding of any nonconforming building or structure
damaged by fire, explosion, act of God, or any act of the public enemy,
subsequent to the effective date of this chapter, or shall prevent the
continuance of the use of the building or part thereof, provided that the
restoration and resumption shall take place within 1 year of the time of the
damage or destruction.  Should the structure be destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than 75% of its replacement costs, exclusive of the foundation,
it shall be reconstructed only in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   Maintenance of structures.  Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
repair, reinforcement or maintenance of a nonconforming building, structure or
part thereof, existing at the effective date of this chapter, rendered
necessary by wear and tear, deterioration or depreciation, provided the cost of
the work shall not exceed 30% of the reproduction value of the building or
structure in any period of 12 consecutive months.
(Ord. § 3.10, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.026  YARD AND LOT AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   Where a lot abuts upon any alley, 1/2 of the width of the alley may be
considered a part of the lot for the purpose of computing the area of the lot
and the depth of any rear yard required under this chapter.  In determining lot
and yard requirements, no area shall be counted as accessory to more than 1
principal building or use, and no area necessary for compliance with the open
space requirements for 1 main building or use shall be included or counted in
the calculation of the open space accessory to any other main building or use. 
(Ord. § 3.11, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.027  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   The provisions of this section are designed to limit the amount of
obstructive and unsightly ground and area coverage on residentially zoned
property, while allowing the reasonable use of land.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY STRUCTURES. A building or structure located on the same lot as
the principal building or structure, the use of which is incidental or
secondary to the principal building or use.
   (B)   Accessory uses, buildings and structures that are customarily
incidental to that of the principal use of the parcel shall be permitted,
provided said accessory use, buildings, and structures are not otherwise
regulated by this section and are in compliance with the following:
      (1)   Attached accessory structure. Where the accessory building is
structurally attached to a main building, it shall be subject to, and must
conform to, all regulations of this section applicable to the main building.
      (2)   Vacant parcels. Accessory buildings/structures on a lot that does
not contain an existing domicile are allowed only if approved by the Zoning
Board of Appeals upon satisfactory showing of hardship.
      (3)   Comer lots. When an accessory building/structure is located on a
corner lot, the buildable area of the secondary front yard shall begin at the
front yard setback line, Thereafter, all setbacks as described in division (B)
(5) below apply.
      (4)   Front yard prohibition. No part of the primary front yard shall be
used for any accessory building, garage, or other similar accessory/ structure.
      (5)   Setbacks. In all residential zoning districts, detached accessory
buildings or structures shall not be located within the area required for the
setback requirements pursuant to this section, and shall be no closer than 10
feet from the principal building, and not closer than 10 feet from any lot line
for parcel of land.
      (6)   Lot coverage. The lot coverage created by accessory buildings when
added to the lot coverage created by principal buildings shall not exceed the
maximum lot coverage for each land development district as specified in §
152.100 of this chapter.
      (7)   Height of accessory buildings:
         (a)   For parcels .99 acre or less in size, the sidewalls of the
permitted accessory building shall not exceed 9 feet and shall have a minimum
roof pitch of 4/12.
         (b)   For parcels 1 - 4.99 acres in size, the height of the permitted
accessory building, as described in §
152.007, shall not exceed the height of the associated domicile or 20 feet,
whichever is lesser and shall have a minimum roof pitch of 4/12.
         (c)   For parcels of 5 - 49.99 acres in size, the height of the
permitted accessory building, as described in §
152.007, shall not exceed 25 feet and shall have a minimum roof pitch of 4/12.
      (8)   Number of accessory buildings permitted. The number of accessory
buildings or structures shall be dependent on the land area and use of the
principal parcel.
         (a)   For parcels of .499 acres or less: a single accessory building
of not more than 800 square feet in floor area shall be erected on a lot.
         (b)   For parcels of .5 to .999 acres in size: a single building of
not more than 1,000 square feet in floor area shall be erected on a lot.
         (c)   For parcels of 1 to 1.999 acres in size not more than 2
accessory buildings of no more than a total of 1,200 square feet in floor area
shall be erected on a lot.
         (d)   For parcels of 2 to 2.999 acres in size: not more than 3
accessory buildings of no more than a total of 2,400 square feet in floor area
shall be erected on a lot.
         (e)   For parcels of 3 to 4.999 acres in size: not more than 3
accessory buildings of no more than a total of 3,600 square feet in floor area
shall be erected on a lot.
         (f)   For parcels of 5 to 9.999 acres in size, not more than 3
accessory buildings with a floor area of no more than a total of 3% of the
square footage of the parcel shall be erected on a lot.
         (g)   For parcels of 10 to 19.999 acres in size, not more than 3
accessory buildings, with a floor area of no more than a total of 3% of the
square footage of the parcel shall be erected on a lot.
         (h)   For parcels of 20 acres in size or more, not more than 4
accessory buildings, with a floor area of no more than a total of 3% of the
square footage of the parcel shall be erected on a lot.
      (9)   Calculation of the number of accessory buildings permitted. Service
structures defined as, but not limited to, pump houses, wood burner enclosures,
wood storage structures, gazebos, and similar structures as approved by the
Township Zoning Administrator, shall NOT BE COUNTED as part of the number of
accessory buildings permitted on a parcel pursuant to division (B)(8) above,
but SHALL BE INCLUDED in the calculation of the total number of square footage
of allowable accessory structures for a specified parcel size.
(Ord. § 3.12a, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 415, passed 7-13-2006; Am. Ord. 428,
passed 3-8-2007; Am. Ord. 466, passed 8-14-2014; Am. Ord. 2019-480, passed 5-9-
2019)
§ 152.028  ACCESSORY LIVING QUARTERS PROHIBITED.
   The use of accessory structures as living quarters is prohibited except as
otherwise provided as a temporary dwelling in this chapter.
(Ord. § 3.13, passed 5-22-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.029  PROHIBITED TEMPORARY USES.
   Motor homes or travel trailers shall not be used as a place of human
habitation except as permitted in §
152.030 under temporary permit from the Zoning Board of Appeals.  No tent or
any other type of temporary structure shall be used for human habitation
temporarily or permanently, whether the tent or temporary structure shall have
been in existence prior to this chapter or not.  This provision is not intended
to prevent the recreational use of tents by residents on their own property.  A
mobile home shall not be permitted to be used as a temporary residence except
as outlined in §
152.030.
(Ord. § 3.14, passed 5-22-1997)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.030  TEMPORARY MOTOR HOME, TRAVEL TRAILER PARKING.
   (A)   No person shall park or cause to be parked any motor home or travel
trailer over 48 hours on any street, alley, highway or other public place.
   (B)   No motor home or travel trailer shall at any time be parked and lived
in between the established setback line and the curb line on any lot.
   (C)   No motor home or travel trailer shall be used or occupied unless there
is a clear unoccupied space of at least 10 feet on all sides thereof.
   (D)   No person shall park, or permit the parking of any occupied motor home
or travel trailer, or use, occupy or permit the use of occupancy of any motor
home or travel trailer on any site, lot, field or tract of land not
specifically licensed as a mobile home park in a Manufactured Housing Community
District, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (E)   Not more than 1 motor home or travel trailer may be parked
temporarily, used and occupied on the premises of any dwelling, and then only
if the occupants of the motor home or travel trailer have access to and the
unlimited use of the sanitary facilities of the dwelling on the premises.  This
provision applies to visitors who stay not more than 2 weeks in any calendar
year.
   (F)   In the event of loss of use of the main building or dwelling on a
given lot as a result of fire, wind, flood or other catastrophe, a temporary
permit to park, use and occupy a mobile home, motor home or travel trailer on
the lot may be granted until the main building or dwelling can be restored for
its normal use in accordance with all provisions of §
152.034.
   (G)   No person shall spill or drain any waste water or liquid waste of any
kind from a motor home or travel trailer upon the surface of the ground or upon
any paved area.
   (H)   No person shall remove or cause to be removed the wheels or tires from
any occupied motor home or travel trailer except for the purpose of repair, nor
shall any person elevate, block or stabilize any motor home or travel trailer
other than with jacks designed, provided and intended for that purpose.  No
parked motor home or travel trailer shall be occupied for sleeping purposes by
a greater number of persons in any one 24-hour period than the vehicle is
designed and arranged to accommodate at 1 time.
   (I)   The Township Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to enter at
any reasonable time any premises upon which a motor home or travel trailer is
parked, used or occupied, for the purpose of ascertaining that the owner,
operator or occupant thereof is complying with all the statutes, ordinances and
rules and regulations governing the same. 
(Ord. § 3.15, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.031  PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No use otherwise allowed shall be permitted within any use district which
does not conform to the following standards of use, occupancy and operation,
which standards are hereby established as the minimum requirements to be
maintained within the area.
   (A)   Smoke.  It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to
permit the emission of any smoke from any source whatever to a density greater
than that density described as No. 1 of the Ringlemann Chart; provided that the
following exceptions shall be permitted; smoke, the shade or appearance of
which is equal to but not darker than No. 2 of the Ringlemann Chart for a
period, or periods, aggregating 4 minutes in any 30 minutes.
   (B)   Method of measurement.  For the purpose of grading the density of
smoke, the Ringlemann Chart, as now published and used by the United States
Bureau of Mines, which is hereby made a part of this chapter, shall be the
standard.  However, the Umbrascope readings of smoke density may be used when
correlated with the Ringlemann Chart.
   (C)   Dust, dirt and ash.  No person, firm or corporation shall operate or
cause to be operated, maintain or cause to be maintained, any process for any
purpose, or furnace or combustion device for the burning of coal or other
natural or synthetic fuels, without maintaining and operating, while using the
process or furnace or combustion device or contrivance to reduce the quantity
of gas-borne or air-borne solids or fumes emitted into the open air, which is
operated in conjunction with the process, furnace or combustion device so that
the quantity of gas-borne or air-borne solids shall not exceed 0.20
grains per cubic foot of the carrying medium at a temperature of 500º
Fahrenheit, as measured by the A.S.M.E. Test Code for dust-separating
apparatus.
   (D)   Storage.  In all commercial and manufacturing districts, the open
storage, not including display, of any equipment, vehicles and all materials,
including wastes, shall be screened from public view, from a street and from
adjoining properties by an enclosure consisting of a wall equal in height to
the equipment, vehicles and all materials to be stored.  In no instance shall
the wall be less in height than 4 feet, 6 inches measured from the surface of
the adjacent building flooring.  In all residential districts, the storage of
dismantled vehicles shall be within completely enclosed accessory structures.
   (E)   Glare and radioactive materials.  Glare from any process (such as or
similar to arc welding or acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful rays
shall be performed in such a manner as not to extend beyond the property line,
and as not to create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines.  Radioactive
materials and wastes, and including electromagnetic radiation such as X-ray
machine operation, shall not be emitted to exceed quantities established as
safe by the U.S. Bureau of Standards, when measured at the property line.
   (F)   Noise.  At no point on the boundary of any nonindustrial district
shall the sound pressure level of any operation exceed the described levels in
the designated octave bands below:
Octave Band in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels
Octave Band in Cycles per Second Maximum Permitted Sound Level in Decibels
0 to 75                          72
75 to 150                        67
150 to 300                       59
300 to 600                       52
600 to 1,200                     46
1,200 to 2,400                   40
2,400 to 4,800                   34
Above 4,800                      32
 
   (G)   Vibrations.  No vibration which is discernable to the human sense of
feeling shall be perceptible without instruments at any point beyond the lot
line.
   (H)   Odor.  The emission of noxious, odorous matter in such quantities as
to be readily detectable at a point along any property line, when diluted in
the ratio of 1 volume of odorous air to 4 or more volumes of clean air, so as
to produce a public nuisance or hazard beyond lot lines is prohibited.
   (I)   Front yard parking.  No part of any front yard shall be used for any
accessory building, garage, or other structure, nor shall any motor vehicle be
parked in any front yard except upon a regularly constructed driveway.  In
addition, on a corner lot no motor vehicle shall be parked in the side yard
abutting public street except upon a regularly constructed driveway.
   (J)   Exterior lighting.  All lighting for parking areas or for the external
illumination of building or for the illumination of signs shall be directed
away from and shall be shielded from adjacent districts and shall also be so
arranged as to not adversely affect driver visibility on adjacent
thoroughfares.
   (K)   Corner clearance.  No fence, wall, shrubbery, sign or other
obstruction to vision above a height of 2-1/2 feet from the established street
grades shall be permitted within the triangular area formed at the intersection
of any street right-of-way lines by a straight line drawn between the right-of-
way lines at a distance along each line of 30 feet from their point of
intersection.
   (L)   Outdoor storage and waste disposal.
      (1)   No flammable or explosive liquids, solids or gases shall be stored
in bulk above ground; provided, however, that tanks or drums of fuel used for
farm operations or directly connecting with energy devices, heating devices or
appliances located on the same lot as the tanks or drums of fuel are excluded
from this provision.
      (2)   All outdoor storage facilities for fuel, raw materials and
products; and all fuel, all raw materials, and products stored outdoors shall
be enclosed by a fence adequate to conceal the facilities from any adjacent
properties.
      (3)   No materials or wastes shall be deposited upon a lot in a form or
manner that may be transferred off the lots by natural forces or causes.
      (4)   All material or wastes which might cause fumes or dust or which
constitute a fire hazard or which may be edible or otherwise be attractive to
rodents or insects shall be stored outdoors only in closed containers. 
(Ord. § 3.16, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.032  NUISANCE.
   (A)   No structure, excavation or land shall be permitted to become or to
remain in a dangerous, noxious, hazardous or offensive condition.
   (B)   The accumulation of junk, refuse, brush or weeds shall be a violation
of this chapter.
   (C)   No existing structure or land shall be permitted to deteriorate, fall
down, become in disrepair or in the event of damage not be put in repair so as
to become dangerous, hazardous or an unattractive nuisance.
   (D)   No structure which is unoccupied shall be left open or not securely
locked and closed against all unauthorized persons, and no such structure shall
be permitted to become an unattractive nuisance.
   (E)   Any continual sale of household or personal belongings (which may be
known as but are not limited to: garage sales, yard sales, barn sales, moving
sales,) lasting for a period of more than 7 continuous days, or 2 consecutive
weekends, held more than 2 times per year at the same location shall be a
violation of this section.
   (F)   The owner or occupant or person entitled to possession or any
principal or subcontractor contributing to any of the above described
conditions or under whose direction or control such conditions develop may each
or all or any of them be charged for violation of this section or this chapter.
   (G)   Continued failure to correct the condition shall constitute a separate
violation for each day that the conditions shall not be corrected.
   (H)   The Township Building Inspector or agent may, in event of violation of
this section, notify the owner or occupant of the premises described herein of
the violation and instruct the owner or occupant to correct the conditions
within 7 days.  In event of failure to correct the condition within the time
limited, the township may correct the condition itself and charge the cost
thereof to the owner or occupant or both.  In the event of failure to pay the
cost the township then may bring such action for the collection of the same
against the persons individually as it may deem necessary, or may assess the
cost against the land in the same manner as general property taxes, or take
both such remedies.  In event of assessment against the land, then the same
shall become a lien against the land in the same manner as provided for under
general tax assessment; provided, however, that notice as provided above shall
not be necessary before any of the above named persons may be charged for a
violation of this section.
   (I)   In addition to the above penalties the Township Building Inspector
may, whenever such conditions become applicable, attach to the structure a
notice of noncompliance with this chapter and no occupancy of any kind,
temporary or permanent, shall be permitted until the conditions are corrected. 
(Ord. § 3.17, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 433, passed 3-13-2008)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.033  SIZES OF DWELLINGS.
   All dwellings shall conform to the following minimum square foot
requirements:
 Type of Dwelling Area
       Type of Dwelling                 Area
   (Single-family dwellings:
      One story                        = 1,250 sq. ft.
      1-1/2 or 2- story (ground floor) = 1,000 sq. ft.
   (Multiple-family dwellings:
      Each 1 bedroom apartment         = 750 sq. ft.
      Each 2 bedroom apartment         = 950 sq. ft.
      Each 3 bedroom apartment         = 1,200 sq. ft.
      Each 4 bedroom apartment         = 1,300 sq. ft. 
 
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the minimum square feet of floor area
are as measured by outside wall dimensions designated for and used for living
area.  Cellars, porches, breezeways, garages, common hallways, and common
laundry or storage areas shall not count as living area. 
(Ord. § 3.18, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.034  ONE-FAMILY DWELLING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.  Single-family dwellings, as well as any additions or
alterations thereto, whether mobile homes, manufactured homes, modular homes or
site (“stick”) built homes, which are located outside a mobile park, shall
conform to the standards of this section, in addition to the Charter Township
of Clayton Building Code.  The standards herein are designed and intended to
prevent the placement of “grossly dissimilar” dwellings which would have the
potential to adversely affect the value of dwellings in the surrounding area;
adversely affect the desirability of an area, from the perspective of existing
or prospective homeowners; impair the stability of the neighborhood
environment; prevent the most appropriate use of real estate in the involved
area of the township; and lessen the opportunity to realize the development
pattern envisioned in the Charter Township of Clayton Community Master Plan.
   (B)   Compliance.  Residential buildings shall be constructed in compliance
with all applicable state, federal, or local laws or ordinances.  All dwellings
shall meet or exceed all applicable roof snow load and strength requirements. 
Where there are conflicting applicable regulations the more stringent standard
shall apply.  In the case of a mobile home, all construction, plumbing,
electrical apparatus and insulation within and connected to the mobile home
shall be either:
      (1)   New and certified by the manufacturer or an appropriate inspection
agency as meeting the “Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards” as
promulgated by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development
(24 C.F.R. 3280, as amended); or
      (2)   Used and certified by the manufacturer and/or appropriate
inspection agency as meeting the standards referenced in division (B)(1) above,
and found on inspection by the Building Department to be in excellent condition
and safe and fit for residential occupancy.
   (C)  Building permit.  All construction and/or structure placement, allowed
under this chapter, shall be commenced only after a building permit has been
obtained in accordance with the Township Building Code and other building
regulations.  All buildings shall be constructed in compliance with the
Building Code adopted by Clayton Township.
   (D)   Foundation.  Each dwelling unit shall be firmly attached to a
permanent foundation system, constructed on the site, in accordance with the
township’s Building Code and shall have an outside dimension substantially
equivalent to the same perimeter dimensions of the dwelling, allowing for
cantilever and/or similar design.  The foundation shall be constructed of such
materials and type as required in the applicable Building Code for single-
family dwellings.  In the event that the dwelling is a mobile home, as defined
herein, the dwelling shall be installed pursuant to the manufacturer’s setup
instructions and shall be secured to the foundation by an anchoring system or
device complying with the manufacturers standards and details to prevent
displacement during windstorms.
   (E)   Undercarriage.  In the event that a dwelling is a mobile home as
defined herein, the mobile home shall be installed with the wheels removed. 
Additionally, no dwelling shall have any exposed towing mechanism,
undercarriage or chassis.  Foundation or perimeter masonry skirting shall fully
enclose the undercarriage and the chassis, with provision being allowed for
access panels on the rear and/or side of the dwelling.
   (F)   Water and sewer facilities.  Each dwelling unit shall be connected to
a public sewer and water supply, if available, or if not available, to private
facilities approved by the Genesee County Health Department, in accord with the
Charter Township of Clayton water and sewer supply policy.
   (G)   Dimensional standards.  Each dwelling unit shall comply with all
pertinent zoning, subdivision and other ordinances regulating use, floor area,
lot area and width, setbacks, yards, building height and the like, which are
applicable to the zoning district in which the dwelling is to be located.
   (H)   Architectural compatibility.  Each home shall be aesthetically
compatible in design and appearance with other residences in similar zoning
districts in the surrounding neighborhood.  The NEIGHBORHOOD area shall be
defined as being comprised of those single-family residential dwelling units
that are located within 2,000 feet in all directions, and which are located
within residential districts.  Measurements made in this regard shall be
calculated from the boundary of the involved lot/parcel in all directions.
      (1)   In a highly and/or densely populated area, the neighborhood range
may be reduced to the closest 20 single-family residential units, for purposes
of defining the applicable neighborhood area to be considered.
      (2)   The type of material used in the proposed dwelling shall not be
grossly dissimilar to the type of materials used in single-family homes in the
surrounding area, and the reflection from the exterior surface shall be no
greater than from white semi-gloss exterior enamel. The term GROSSLY DISSIMILAR
means an immediately obvious difference in the exterior design and appearance
compared to existing single-family homes in the defined neighborhood area,
which is apparent to professionals in the building trade, neighbors and
potential residents.
      (3)   The minimum width across the front elevation shall be 34 feet and
the minimum dimension along any side or rear elevation shall be 24 feet.
      (4)   The dwelling shall have a combination of roof overhang and pitch
comparable to the overhang and pitch of homes typically found in the
neighborhood in which it is to be located, but in no instance shall the pitch
be less than 5/12 except on decorative or cosmetic areas where the roof pitch
may be no less than 4/12.  Single-family dwelling units constructed prior to
the effective date of this amendment are exempt from this requirement.
      (5)   The dwelling shall have steps and/or porches which provide access
to exterior doors,  which are permanently attached to the ground and/or to the
structure, and which are comparable to steps and/or porches of homes typically
found in the neighborhood in which it is to be located as required in the local
Building Code.
      (6)   The dwelling and roof shall be covered with a material which is, in
composition, color, texture, malleability, direction of joints, and method of
fastening to the structure, not grossly dissimilar to those found in the
neighborhood in which it is to be located.
      (7)   Each such dwelling unit shall contain a storage area equal to 10%
of the square footage of the dwelling or a 16 foot by 20 foot accessory
building (320 square feet), whichever is greater.  This storage area shall
consist of a basement, attic (minimum 2,200 cubic feet), attached garage, or a
separate detached accessory structure which conforms to the standards of this
zoning chapter regarding accessory buildings and structures.  The intent of
these standards is to limit the extent of outdoor storage.
      (8)   The above standards shall not be construed to prohibit innovative
design concepts involving such matters as solar energy, view, unique land
contour, or variation from the common or standard designed home.  An applicant
may appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals within a  period of 15 days from the
receipt of notice of the Zoning Administrator’s adverse decision.
      (9)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home located in
a licensed mobile home park except to the extent required by state or federal
law or otherwise specifically required in this chapter and pertaining to such
parks.  Mobile homes which do not conform to the standards of this section
shall not be used for dwelling purposes within the township unless located
within a mobile home park or a mobile home subdivision district for those uses,
or unless used as a temporary residence as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. § 3.19, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 383, passed 11-24-1998; Am. Ord.
383.1, passed 3-9-2000; Am. Ord. 429, passed 3-20-2007)
§ 152.035  ZONING DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter all of the unincorporated area of Charter
Township of Clayton is divided into the following Use Zoning Districts:
Abbreviation District Name
Abbreviation District Name
RA           Residential Agricultural District
RSF          Residential Suburban Farm District
RE           Residential Rural Estate District
FS           Single-Family District
FM           Multiple-Family District
MHC          Manufactured Housing Community District
O            Office District
LC           Local Commercial District
GC           General Commercial District
M-1          Industrial District
FPZ          Floodplain Zone
PUD          Planned Unit Development Zoning District
 
(Ord. § 3.20, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.036  ZONING DISTRICT MAP; ADOPTED.
   The land areas and sizes of dwellings assigned to these districts, the
designation of same, and the boundaries of the districts are shown on the map
attached to the ordinance establishing this chapter and hereby adopted and made
part of this chapter, the map being designated as the Zoning District Map,
showing use districts and building districts in the unincorporated portions of
the Charter Township of Clayton, Genesee County, State of Michigan, and the map
and the proper notations, references and other information shown thereon shall
be as much a part of this chapter as if the matters and information set forth
by the map were all fully described herein.
(Ord. § 3.21, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.037  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   District boundaries shall originally be shown on the Zoning District Map
attached to this zoning ordinance and, where insofar as is practicable and
reasonable, they shall follow property lines of recorded surveys, recorded
deeds and other recorded instruments affecting title, centerlines of streets
and alleys.  Future changes shall follow similar lines to the extent that it is
reasonable and practicable.
(Ord. § 3.22, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.038  PERMISSIVE ZONING CONCEPT.
   Land uses are specifically permitted in the various zoning districts of this
chapter.  Where not specifically permitted, uses are thereby specifically
prohibited.  No land contained within any zoning district shall be used for any
purpose other than those uses specifically permitted in the district in which
the building or land is located, except as otherwise provided herein.
(Ord. § 3.23, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.039  WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of the Charter Township of Clayton to conform
to the federal and state of Michigan laws and administrative rules governing
the installation and operation of wireless communications facilities and
equipment including, but not limited to, the Federal Communications Act of 1996
(47 USC 151) and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act (MCL 125.3514). It is further
the intent of the Charter Township of Clayton to set forth regulations and
procedures for the installation and location of wireless communication
equipment and facilities in the Charter Township of Clayton in compliance with
all applicable federal and state statutes.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purposes of this section, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this division:
      ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES. Wireless communication
facilities affixed lo existing structures, including but not limited to
existing buildings, lowers, water tanks, or utility poles.
      COLLOCATION. Location by 2 or more wireless communication providers of
wireless communication facilities on a common structure, tower or building, to
reduce the overall number of structures required to support wireless
communication antennas within the township.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES. All equipment, support structures, and
accessory facilities relating to the use of the radio frequency spectrum for
the purpose of transmitting or receiving radio signals. This may include, but
shall not be limited, to radio towers, television towers, telephone devices,
personal communication transmission equipment and exchanges, microwave relay
lowers, telephone transmission equipment building, and commercial mobile radio
service facilities. This definition does not include a reception antenna for an
individual lot as otherwise defined and regulated in this zoning chapter.
Support structures within this definition shall be limited lo a monopole.
   (C)   Application and approval process for wireless communication
facilities.
      (1)   Zoning approval. Wireless communication facilities may be located
within the Charter Township of Clayton pursuant to the guidelines set forth
herein and considered an accessory structure.
      (2)   Application requirements. The following information shall be
submitted to the township in accordance with §
152.131:
         (a)   A site plan prepared showing the location, size, screening, and
design of all buildings and structures, including fences, and the location and
size of outdoor equipment, and the location, number, and species of proposed
landscaping, and as-built drawings for all proposed attached wireless
communication facilities and/or wireless communication support structures.
         (b)   A disclosure of what is proposed, demonstrating the need for the
proposed wireless communication facility to be located as proposed based upon
the presence of 1 or more of the following factors:
            1.   Proximity to an interstate highway or major thoroughfare;
            2.   Areas of population concentration;
            3.   Concentration of commercial, industrial, and/or other business
centers;\
            4.   Areas where signal interference has occurred due to tall
buildings, masses of trees, or other obstructions;
            5.   Topography of the proposed facility location in relation to
other facilities within which the proposed facility is to operate; and
            6.   Other specifically identified reason(s) creating need for the
facility.
         (c)   The reason or purpose for the placement, construction, or
modification with specific reference to the providers' coverage, capacity and/
or quality needs, goals, and objectives;
         (d)   The existing form of technology being used and any changes
proposed lo that technology;
         (e)   As applicable, the planned or proposed and existing service area
of the facility and the attached wireless communication facility, and wireless
communication support structure height and type, and signal power expressed in
ERP upon which the service area has been planned;
         (f)   The nature and extent of the provider/applicant's ownership or
lease interest in the property, building, or structure upon which facilities
are proposed for placement, construction, or modification;
         (g)   The identity and address of all owners and other person with a
real property interest in the property, building, or structure upon which
facilities are proposed for placement, construction, or modification;
         (h)   A map showing existing and known proposed wireless communication
facilities with the Charter Township of Clayton, and within areas surrounding
the borders of the township. The map shall also show existing buildings and/or
other structures of the same approximate height within a 1 mile radius of the
proposed site which could accommodate a feasible co-location of the applicant's
proposed attached wireless communication facility;
         (i)   An illustration and description of the fall zone for the
structure, including certification by a State of Michigan licensed and
registered professional engineer to be utilized, along with other criteria such
as applicable regulations for the district in question, to determine
appropriate setbacks to be required for the structure and other facilities;
         (j)   The site plan shall include a landscape plan to demonstrate
landscaping will provide screening for the wireless communication support
structure base, accessory buildings, and enclosures;
         (k)   Elevations of the wireless communication facility and all
accessory structures;
         (l)   Evidence of site plan approval from the Federal Aviation
Administration, if required due to the site's proximity to an airport, or
evidence that such approval is not required;
         (m)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person to contact
for engineering, maintenance, and other notice purposes. This information shall
be continuously updated during all limes the facility is on the premises;
         (n)   A description of the security to be posted at the lime of
receiving a building permit for the wireless communication facility to ensure
removal of the structure when it has been abandoned or is no longer needed. The
security shall be in the form of a surely bond. A written statement shall be
required from the applicant and owner of the property that the facility will be
removed in a timely manner as required under this section, with the further
provision that the applicant and owner shall be responsible for the payment of
any costs and attorney fees incurred by the Charter Township of Clayton in
securing the removal;
   (D)   Wireless communications equipment allowed as a permitted use. Pursuant
to MCL 125.3514 and as set forth herein, the installation all wireless
communication equipment shall be a permitted use of properly and does not
require a special land use permit if all of the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The wireless communications equipment will be collocated on an
existing wireless communications support structure or in existing facilities.
      (2)   The existing wireless communications support structure and
facilities were previously approved by the Charter Township of Clayton Planning
Commission and the Charter Township of Clayton Board of Trustees and is in
compliance with all Charter Township of Clayton Zoning Ordinances.
      (3)   The proposed collocation of wireless communications equipment meets
all of the following requirements:
         (a)   The collocation of the wireless communication equipment will not
increase the overall height of the wireless communications support structure by
more than 20 feet or 10% of its original height, whichever is greater.
         (b)   The collocation of the wireless communications equipment will
not increase the width of the wireless communications support structure by more
than the minimum necessary to permit collocation.
         (c)   The collocation of the wireless communications equipment will
not increase the area of the existing equipment compound to greater than 2,500
square feet.
      (4)   The proposed collocation complies with the terms and conditions of
any previous final approval of the wireless communications support structure or
equipment compound by the Charter Township of Clayton Planning Commission and
the Charter Township of Clayton Board of Trustees.
   (E)   Wireless communications equipment subject to special land use
approval. Pursuant to MCL 125.3514 and as set forth herein, the proposed
installation all wireless communication equipment that does not meet the
requirements of division (D)(l) - (4) as set forth herein, shall be subject to
approval of a special land use permit by the Charter Township of Clayton
Planning Commission and approved by the Charter Township of Clayton Board of
Trustees. The following site and developmental requirements shall apply to the
installation of all wireless communication facilities, equipment, or support
structures that require a special land use permit:
      (1)   A special land use permit must be granted by the Charter Township
of Clayton Planning Commission.
      (2)   All support structures and facilities must be located on a minimum
of 2 acres.
      (3)   A security deposit in the form of a surety bond must be submitted
by the owner of the wireless communications facility in an amount deemed
appropriate by the Charter Township of Clayton Township Board of Trustees to
cover the cost of removal of the facility once abandoned.
      (4)   The applicant shall provide an existing cell coverage map, a
proposed cell coverage map, and a map of existing towers with a 1-mile radius
of the proposed site. The maps will assist in identification of void areas of
coverage and allow Clayton Township and the applicant to locale the tower on or
near the most appropriate site in order to minimize gaps in coverage.
      (5)   Wireless communication support structures shall be located
according to prioritized locations:
         (a)   Co-location on existing wireless communications structures.
         (b)   Charter Township of Clayton property.
         (c)   Industrial zoned districts.
         (d)   Commercial districts.
         (e)   Agriculture districts.
         (f)   Residential farm districts.
         (g)   Residential suburban districts.
      (6)   All freestanding wireless communications towers shall be of
monopole construction.
      (7)   All freestanding wireless communications towers shall not exceed
150 feet in height above final grade level.
      (8)   A minimum of 2,600 feet of separation shall exist between
freestanding lowers.
      (9)   There shall be an unobstructed access to the wireless communication
facility for operation, maintenance, repair, and inspection purposes which may
be provided through an easement.
      (10)   The applicant shall demonstrate that the requested height of the
new or modified support structure and antenna shall be the minimum height
necessary for reasonable communication by the applicant, including additional
height to accommodate future co-location where appropriate.
      (11)   No occupied building shall be located within the designated fall
zone of the wireless communications tower.
      (12)   Where a wireless communication facility is proposed on the roof of
a building, the equipment enclosure, if proposed, shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained to be architecturally compatible with the principal
building. The equipment enclosure may be located within the principal building
or may be an accessory building, provided that it conforms to all district
requirements for accessory building, including yard setbacks and building
height.
      (13)   All wireless communication facilities shall be constructed in
accordance with all applicable building codes and shall include the submission
of a professional soil report from a geotechnieal engineer licensed in the
State of Michigan.
      (14)   All wireless communications facilities and support structures
shall comply with all landscaping and screening requirements as set forth in
Clayton Township §
152.078.
      (15)   All wireless communication facilities shall comply with all Bishop
International Airport permit requirements.
      (16)   A maintenance plan and any applicable maintenance agreement shall
be presented as part of the site plan for the proposed facility.
      (17)   The minimum setbacks for all new or modified wireless
communications facilities shall be as follows:
         (a)   Adjacent to any residential district: the height of the
structure plus 25 feet. This setback may be reduced upon determination that no
residential use exists or is expected on the adjacent site.
         (b)   Adjacent to any existing or proposed rights-of-way or other
publicly traveled roads or non-motorized improved pathways: half of the height
of the structure, plus 25 feet.
         (c)   Adjacent to any existing or proposed county road rights-of-way:
500 feet.
         (d)   Adjacent to any nonresidential district: half of the height of
the structure, plus 10 feet.
      (18)   Setbacks may be reduced as determined by the Charter Township of
Clayton Planning Commission upon demonstration and certification by a
registered professional engineer, to the satisfaction of the Clayton Township
Engineer, that the wireless communication facility or support structure has a
shorter fall zone distance due to self-collapsing. Documentation must be
provided that the setback area can accommodate the structure should it fall or
break. A reasonable buffer area shall be provided in the event the structure
fails.
      (19)   Accessory structures are limited to uses associated with the
operation of the tower and may not be located any closer to front or side
properly lines than 30 feet.
      (20)   The base of the wireless communication support structure and wire
cable supports shall be fenced with a minimum 6 foot high fence which is also
equipped with barbed or razor wire at the top of the fence.
      (21)   Accessory buildings shall be a maximum of 14 feet high and shall
be set back in accordance with the requirements for principal buildings in the
zoning district.
      (22)   All wireless communication support structures shall be equipped
with an anti-climbing device lo prevent unauthorized access.
      (23)   The plans of the wireless communication support structure
construction shall be certified by a registered structural engineer.
      (24)   The applicant shall provide verification that the antennas,
mounts, and structure have been reviewed and approved by a professional
engineer and that the installation is in compliance with all applicable codes.
      (25)   All wireless communication support structures and facilities must
meet the standards of the Federal Aviation Administration and the Federal
Communications Commission.
      (26)   No part of any wireless communication support structure or antenna
shall be constructed, located, or maintained at any time, permanently or
temporarily, on or upon any required setback area for the district in which the
antenna or tower is to be located. In no case shall a wireless communication
support structure or antenna be located within 30 feet of a front or side
property line.
      (27)   Metal wireless communication support structures shall be
constructed of, or treated with, corrosive resistant material.
      (28)   Antenna and metal wireless communication support structures shall
be grounded for protection against a direct strike by lightning and shall
comply as to electrical wiring and connections with all applicable local
statutes, regulations, and standards.
      (29)   Wireless communication support structures with antennas shall be
designed to withstand a uniform wind loading as prescribed in the applicable
building code.
      (30)   All signals and remote control conductors of low energy extending
substantially horizontally above the ground between a wireless communication
support structure or antenna and a structure, or between towers, shall be at
least 8 feet above the ground at all points, unless buried underground.
      (31)   Wireless communication support structures shall be located so that
they do not  interfere with television or radio reception in nearby residential
areas.
      (32)   Wireless communication support structures shall be located so
there is appropriate clearance for vehicles conducting maintenance to maneuver
on the property owned and/or leased by the applicant.
      (33)   Wireless communication support structures shall not be
artificially lighted unless required by the Federal Aviation Administration.
      (34)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum
extent possible.
      (35)   There shall not be displayed advertising or identification of any
kind intended to be visible from the ground or other structures, except as
required for emergency purposes.
      (36)   Wireless communication support structures shall be subject to any
state and federal regulation concerning non-ionizing electromagnetic radiation.
Should additional state or federal regulations be adopted in the future, the
wireless communications facility shall be made to conform to the extent
required by the standard of the special use. Approval will be subject to
revocation by the Clayton Township Planning Commission. Costs for testing and
verification of compliance shall be paid by the operator and/or owner of the
wireless communications facility.
      (37)   There shall be no employees located on the site on a permanent
basis to service or maintain the wireless communication support structure or
antenna. Occasional or temporary repair and service activities are excluded
from this restriction.
      (38)   Collocation shall be required where deemed feasible by the Charter
Township of Clayton:
         (a)   Collocation shall be deemed feasible when the following
conditions are met:
            1.   The wireless communications provider or properly owner where
co-location is proposed will accept market rent or other market compensation
for co-location and the wireless communication provider seeking the facility
will pay the rates;
            2.   The site on which co-location is being considered, taking into
consideration reasonable modification or replacement of a facility, is able to
provide structural support; and
            3.   The collocation being considered is technically reasonable.
         (b)   Newly constructed wireless communications towers shall have a
minimum of 3 times the capacity of intended use in order that secondary users
may lease remaining capacity of the wireless communications tower.
         (c)   The applicant must include a statement in the application and an
affidavit stating space on a proposed tower will be made available to future
users when technically possible; and
         (d)   The applicant shall send a written notice via certified mail to
all potential users of the new wireless communications tower offering an
opportunity for co-location.
            1.   The list of potential users shall be provided by the township
based on those entities who have requested approval of wireless communication
towers in the past, current FCC license holders, and any other entities
requesting to be included on the list.
            2.   The applicant shall accommodate the request for co-location by
potential users, unless co-location is not reasonably possible based on the
criteria of this section.
         (e)   If a party who owns or otherwise controls a wireless
communication facility shall fail or refuse to alter a structure to accommodate
a proposed and otherwise feasible co-location, the facility shall be deemed to
be a non-conforming structure and use, and shall not be altered, expanded, or
extended in any respect.
      (39)   Annual license. An annual license from the Charter Township of
Clayton is required. The license fee will be determined by a fee schedule set
forth by resolution of the Charter Township of Clayton Board of Trustees. The
operator is responsible for filing an annual application for license renewal.
The township shall find that the standards set forth by this section have
continued to be met, and may require an inspection by a licensed engineer or
other qualified inspector.
      (40)   Removal. The wireless communication facility shall be removed
within 6 months by the property owner or lessee under any of the following
conditions:
         (a)   The wireless communications facility is abandoned. The wireless
communication facility shall be deemed abandoned when the facility has not been
used for 180 days or longer.
         (b)   New technology is available at reasonable cost, as determined by
the Charter Township of Clayton which permits the operation of the
communication system without the requirement of the support structure or
facility. Clayton Township shall give the wireless communication provider the
opportunity to submit information that the facility remains necessary and shall
give such information due consideration in rendering a decision.
         (c)   If removal is required pursuant to the provisions of this
section, the property owner(s) shall immediately apply for and secure all
necessary permits from the Charter Township of Clayton for the demolition or
removal of the wireless communications facility and shall restore the property
to an acceptable condition as reasonably determined by the Clayton Township
Building and Zoning Administrators.
         (d)   If the removal of the wireless communication facility, as
determined necessary by Clayton Township officials, is not completed within 180
days after a written notice is provided by Clayton Township to the owner of the
facility, Clayton Township may remove or secure the removal of the wireless
communications facility with actual costs and reasonable administrative costs
to be collected from the security deposit provided by the owner at the time of
application for construction of the facility.
   (F)   Processing of application for special land use permit. Pursuant to MCL
125.3514 and as set forth herein, an application submitted to the Charter
Township of Clayton for a special land use permit for the installation of
wireless communications equipment shall be subject to the following process and
conditions:
      (1)   The Clayton Township Zoning Administrator shall determine whether
the application is administratively complete.
      (2)   The application shall be considered administratively complete if
the Clayton Township Zoning Administrator does not notify the applicant within
14 business days of submission of the application of any necessary information
or fees required to complete the application.
      (3)   The Clayton Township Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant within 14 business days of the submission of the application if the
application is not administratively complete and shall specify the information
necessary to make the application administratively complete.
      (4)   The Clayton Township Zoning Administrator shall notify the
applicant within 14 business day of the submission of the application if a fee
that is required to accompany the application has not been paid and shall
notify the applicant of the amount of the fee to be paid.
      (5)   If the applicant is notified by the Clayton Township Zoning
Administrator that further information or fees are necessary to complete the
application the 14 business day period shall be tolled until the applicant
submits to the Clayton Township Zoning Administrator the specified information
or fee amount due.
      (6)   Any notice provided by the Clayton Township Zoning Administrator to
the applicant requesting further information or fees shall be given in writing
or by electronic notification.
      (7)   Any fee required with the application for the installation of the
wireless communications equipment subject to the approval of a special land use
permit shall not exceed the Charter Township of Clayton's actual, reasonable
costs to review and process the application or $1,000.00, whichever is less.
      (8)   The Charter Township of Clayton Planning Commission and the Charter
of Clayton Township Board of Trustees shall approve or deny the application for
the installation of wireless communications equipment not more than 60 days
after the application is considered to be administratively complete.
      (9)   If the application is for the installation of wireless
communications equipment that will not be collocated or for the installation of
a new wireless communications support structure or tower, the Charter Township
of Clayton Planning Commission and the Charter Township of Clayton Board of
Trustees shall approve or deny the application within 90 days after the
application is considered to be administratively complete.
(Ord. § 3.24, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 380, passed 9-9-1999; Am. Ord. 380.1,
passed 8-17-2000; Am. Ord. 469, passed 5-14-2015)
§ 152.040  ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Site plan review shall be required for all structures vital to essential
services, as defined in §
152.007, excluding structures measuring 6 feet or less in height and/or 100
square feet or less in area. (Example of maximum size excluded:  10 feet by 10
feet by 6 feet).
(Ord. 417, passed 2-9-2006)
§ 152.041  MEDICAL MARIJUANA DISPENSARIES, MEDICAL MARIJUANA CLUBS, COMPASSION
CLUBS, AND MEDICAL MARIJUANA GROWING FACILITIES.
   It is the intent of this section to regulate any medical marijuana
dispensary, medical marijuana club, compassion club, and medical marijuana
growing facility by the following requirements.
   (A)   Operation limitation.
      (1)   A medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana club, compassion
club, or medical marijuana growing facility shall only operate between 8:00
a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday and 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. Sunday.
      (2)   Medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana club, compassion
club, or medical marijuana growing facility shall comply at all times with each
and every provision of the Michigan Marijuana Act of 2008 (M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq.).
      (3)   Marijuana or cannabis shall only be grown, manufactured, harvested,
or used inside a fully enclosed structure or building that is kept secured with
locks to prevent unintended or uninvited access.
      (4)   Persons under the age of 18 years of age are not permitted to be on
the premises of any medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana club,
compassion club, or medical marijuana growing facility unless they possess a
valid medical marijuana registry card issued by the State of Michigan or other
state.
      (5)   All employees of a medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana
club, compassion club, or medical marijuana growing facility shall have a valid
primary caregiver’s card or valid qualifying patient card issued by the State
of Michigan.
      (6)   A facility that is limited to selling or dispensing medical
marijuana shall maintain detailed records regarding the growing facility from
which it receives its stock of medical marijuana and illustrating lawful
connection between the source product grower and the dispensary’s primary
caregivers.
      (7)   The owner of a medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana
club, compassion club, or medical marijuana growing facility who violates these
sections shall be liable for all costs associated with the investigation,
prosecution, and enforcement of the violation.
   (B)   Site plan requirements. Any medical marijuana dispensary, medical
marijuana club, compassion club, or  medical marijuana growing facility shall
submit a site plan for review to the Charter Township of Clayton as set forth
in and showing §§
152.131 through
152.134 and showing compliance with required location limitations as set forth
in §§
152.131(C)(18) and (C)(19), and
152.114(C)(17), (C)(18), and (C)(19) as they apply, and which shall include the
following:
      (1)   Security system details which shall include, at the minimum,
audible and silent alarms and video surveillance cameras;
      (2)   Details regarding the building electrical system, power demands of
specialized lighting and other necessary equipment, and method proposed to
prevent excessive heat build-up and risk of fire within the building;
      (3)   Ventilation equipment details, including fresh air intake and
filtration of exhaust air to prevent offensive odors from leaving the site;
      (4)   Proposed methods for controlling insects within the building and
preventing insects from becoming a nuisance or health hazard off the site; and
      (5)   A description of the operation of the dispensary, growing facility,
or club in sufficient detail to permit the Charter Township of Clayton to
determine if the operation, as described would be lawful and fully compliant
with the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008 (M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et
seq.).
   (C)   Periodic inspections and fees.
      (1)   An application and review fee, as established and from time to time
amended by resolution of the Charter Township of Clayton Board of Trustees,
shall accompany each application for approval of a medical marijuana
dispensary, medical marijuana club, compassion club, or medical marijuana
growing facility.
      (2)   Any approved medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana club,
compassion club, or medical marijuana growing facility shall submit annual
permit renewal in amounts set by the Charter Township of Clayton Board of
Trustees and from time to time amended by resolution.
      (3)   Any approved medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana club,
compassion club, or medical marijuana growing facility shall submit an annual
permit authorizing the Charter Township of Clayton zoning and building
inspection and/or law enforcement personnel to make unannounced, periodic
inspections for purposes of verifying compliance with all requirements of the
Michigan Medical Marijuana Act of 2008 (M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.), this
section, and any reasonable conditions placed upon the special land use permit
by the Charter Township of Clayton Board of Trustees.
(Ord. 439, passed 11-10-2011)
§ 152.042  PROHIBITION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 333.27951 et seq. (the "Act") was passed by Michigan voters on November 6,
2018. Pursuant to M.C.L.A § 333.27956.1, the establishment or operation of any
and all marihuana establishments are prohibited within the Charter Township of
Clayton in all zoning districts.
   (B)   A marihuana establishment shall not be permitted as a home occupation
within any zoning district in the township.
   (C)   A marihuana establishment shall be defined as any establishment as set
forth in M.C.L.A. § 333.27953.
   (D)   Any marihuana establishment authorized and defined by the Act created
or operating prior to the enactment of this section shall be prohibited and
shall not be entitled to claim a legal nonconforming
status under any provision of the this Code of Ordinances.
   (E)   The prohibition against the establishment or operation of marihuana
establishments in the township shall not interfere with the rights of a person
to lawfully possess, transport, or consume marihuana as set forth in the
provisions of the Act or any Michigan statute providing for or regulating
marihuana for medical use.
   (F)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and subject to penalties as set forth in §
150.70 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-479, passed 5-9-2019)
§ 152.043  SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The Charter Township of Clayton promotes the use of solar
energy as a clean alternative energy source. Commercial and personal use of
ground-mounted or structure-mounted solar energy systems will be permitted
subject to the regulations set forth herein to protect the public health,
safety, and welfare of the residents of the township.
   (B)   Definitions. For purposes of this section the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      BUILDING-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM.  Solar energy collector(s) attached
to a structure on the roof, wall, or window of a structure. Building-mounted
solar energy collectors shall include solar roofing shingles.
      COMMERCIAL SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Commonly referred to as a SOLAR FARM. A
utility scale or commercial operation facility of solar energy systems for the
primary purpose of wholesale or retail sales of generated electricity.
      GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM. Solar energy collector(s) not
attached to a structure and separate from any building on the parcel of land
where the solar collector is located.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR.  A panel or panels or combination of devices or
equipment, structure,  that collect, store, distribute, or transforms solar,
radiant energy into thermal, chemical, or electrical energy.
      SOLAR COLLECTOR RACKING SYSTEM.  Any structure or building material used
to mount a solar collector or solar energy system.
      SOLAR ENERGY.  Direct, diffuse, and reflected radiant energy received
from the sun.
      SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM.  A structure comprised of a solar collector and all
other equipment that is designed to collect, distribute, or store solar energy
for the purpose of generating electrical power for principal use on the land on
which the solar energy system is located or for the sale and distribution of
excess available electricity to an authorized public utility.
      SOLAR SHINGLES. Any roofing product or roofing material manufactured and
installed to collect solar energy and convert the solar energy into thermal,
chemical, or electrical energy.
   (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   All solar energy systems.
         (a)   A building permit issued by the township Building Department to
the parcel owner and/or the owner of a solar energy system shall be obtained as
a requisite to the installation of any solar energy system in any township
zoning district.
         (b)   A solar energy system site plan and applicable fee pursuant to
the township fee schedule shall be submitted by the owner of any parcel upon
which a proposed solar energy system will be installed.
         (c)   A solar energy system shall comply with all industry standards,
including, but not limited to, the standards set forth by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI).
         (d)   A solar energy system shall comply with all township ordinances.
         (e)   A solar energy system shall comply with all applicable local,
state, and federal building codes and shall require the approval of the
township Building Official.
         (f)   The installation and inspection of all solar energy systems
shall only be performed by properly licensed and certified personnel that are
in compliance with all local, state, and federal statutes and regulations.
         (g)   A solar collector racking system shall be constructed from
material that is dull or dark in color, non-glossy, and non-reflective and
shall not create a nuisance to adjacent properties.
         (h)   The installation of a solar energy system shall not alter the
existing parcel topography.
         (i)   A solar energy system shall be installed, maintained, and
operated according to the strict directions of the manufacturer. A copy of the
manufacturer's instructions on the installation and operation of the solar
energy system shall be submitted to the township Building Official with a
building permit application.
         (j)   The building permit application for a solar energy system shall
be reviewed by all applicable township inspectors.
         (k)   A solar energy system site plan shall provide that all solar
panels are properly secured to the solar collector racking system and that the
racking system will properly support the solar energy system.
         (l)   A solar energy system shall be comprised of tempered, non-
reflective materials and surfaces.
         (m)   The installation of any solar energy system shall not negatively
impact adjacent properties, including, but not limited to, additional or
excessive storm water runoff or drainage.
         (n)   The noise level for any solar energy system shall not exceed 40
dBA as measured at any property line for the solar energy system.
         (o)   A solar energy system that is damaged and in disrepair shall be
repaired to operational condition within 90 days of being damaged or it shall
be deemed by township to be abandoned.
         (p)   A solar energy system shall be considered abandoned if it has
not operated for a continuous period of 90 days or longer.
         (q)   A solar energy system that is abandoned shall be removed and the
structure or parcel shall be restored to its previous condition prior to the
installation of the solar energy system within 90 days of the solar energy
system deemed abandoned.
      (2)   Building-mounted solar energy systems.
         (a)   A building-mounted solar energy system shall be allowed in all
township zoning districts subject to a special conditional use permit and all
provisions set in §§ 150.150 through 150.152 of this Code of Ordinances.
         (b)   All building-mounted solar energy systems shall only be
installed on the roof, wall, or window of an existing structure.
         (c)   All building-mounted solar energy systems shall be permanently
attached to the structure.
         (d)   All building-mounted solar energy systems shall not be located
within 3 feet of a peak, eave, or valley of the structure.
         (e)   All building-mounted solar energy systems shall be constructed
of material and of such a weight that the system is safely supported by the
structure and approved by the township Building Official.
         (f)   All building-mounted solar energy systems shall comply with all
township building height regulations and shall not project more above the
highest point of a roof on the structure that the building-mounted solar energy
system will be installed.
         (g)   All building-mounted solar energy systems shall not project
higher than the existing building roof line if installed on the wall of a
structure.
         (h)   A building-mounted solar energy system shall not exceed a
maximum of 40% of the total square feet of the surface of the structure.
         (i)   A building-mounted solar energy system may be attached to a sign
and shall not exceed a maximum of 40% of the total square feet of one side of
the sign.
      (3)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems.
         (a)   A ground-mounted solar energy system shall be allowed in all
township zoning districts subject to a special conditional use permit and all
provisions set forth in §§ 150.150 through 150.152 of this Code of Ordinances.
         (b)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall only be installed in
rear or side yards and shall not be installed in any parcel setback. The
installation of all ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be subject to all
township setback ordinances.
         (c)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed 9 feet in
height as measured from the ground at the base of the system to the highest
point of the system.
         (d)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall be subject to and
regulated by the township accessory building ordinances.
         (e)   Ground-mounted solar energy systems shall not exceed a maximum
of 40% of the total square feet allowed in the township accessory building
ordinances.
      (4)   Commercial solar energy systems.
         (a)   Commercial solar energy systems shall only be constructed in the
township Residential Agricultural District (RA) subject to a special
conditional use permit and all provisions set forth in §§ 150.150 through
150.152 of this Code of Ordinances.
         (b)   Commercial solar energy systems shall only be constructed on
Residential Agricultural District (RA) parcels with a minimum of 20 acres.
         (c)   Commercial solar energy systems shall be subject to all township
zoning ordinances, including, but not limited to, setback requirements,
screening and landscaping requirements, and all site plan requirements.
         (d)   Commercial solar energy system site plans shall be subject to
all requirements set forth in §§
152.130 through
152.138, site development, in addition to all requirements set forth herein.
         (e)   The site plan for a commercial solar energy system shall include
verification that adequate infrastructure exists to transport the electricity
generated into the grid system.
         (f)   Commercial solar energy systems shall be installed a minimum of
100 feet from the property line or right-of-way line.
         (g)   Commercial solar energy systems shall be screened from
residential dwelling units and/or residential zoning districts as detennined by
the township Building Official and the township Planning Commission.
         (h)   All screening and landscaping shall be properly maintained.
         (i)   Power and communication lines in the commercial solar energy
system between solar panels may be placed above ground provided that the lines
are installed no higher than the top of the system structure.
         (j)   Power and communication lines in the commercial solar energy
system to electric substations or interconnections with buildings shall be
buried underground unless otherwise approved by the township Planning
Commission.
         (k)   If the commercial solar energy system is located within 2 miles
of an airport, the applicant must provide approval from the FAA and/or local
airport authority for the project.
         (l)   The applicant for a commercial solar energy system and all
subsequent owners of the solar energy system or the property on which the solar
energy system is installed shall notify the township Building Official in
writing within 30 days of any change in the ownership of the property or the
solar energy system.
         (m)   The applicant for a commercial solar energy system shall submit
a decommission plan for the removal of the commercial solar energy system once
deemed abandoned. The decommission plan shall include, but is not limited to,
provisions for the removal of all structures, foundations, electrical
equipment, internal or perimeter access roads, restoration of soil and
vegetation, and evidence that financial resources are available to fully
decommission the site.
         (n)   The applicant for a commercial solar energy system shall submit
a construction bond to guarantee removal of the commercial solar energy system
equal to 125% of the cost to decommission and restore the site if the system is
deemed abandoned. The township Planning Commission shall determine the
appropriate amount of the construction bond tluough the site plan approval
process.
   (D)   Penalties.
      (1)   Failure to repair or remove a solar energy system within 90 days of
the damage or the system being deemed abandoned shall subject the parcel owner
and/or the owner of a solar energy system to a township civil municipal civil
infraction and all applicable remedies, including fines and costs, as set forth
in §§
150.65 through
150.72 of this Code of Ordinances.
      (2)   A violation of any provision of this ordinance shall subject the
parcel owner and/or the owner of a solar energy system to a township civil
municipal civil infraction and all applicable remedies, including fines and
costs, as set forth in §§
150.65 through
150.72 of this Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 2019-483, passed 12-12-2019)
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
§ 152.050  VOTING PLACE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to interfere
with the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with
municipal or other public elections.
(Ord. § 4.01, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.051  HEIGHT LIMIT.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to farm buildings,
chimneys, church spires, flag poles, public monuments or wireless transmission
towers. 
(Ord. § 4.02, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.052  YARD REGULATIONS.
   When yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied with, as in the case of
a planned development in the Multiple-Family District, or where their
application cannot be determined on lots existing and of record at the time of
the effective date of this chapter, and on lots of peculiar shape, topography,
or due to architectural or site arrangement, the regulations may be modified or
determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. § 4.03, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.053  MULTIPLE-DWELLING SIDE YARDS.
   For the purpose of side yard regulations, a 2-family, a terrace, a row house
or a multiple dwelling shall be considered as 1 building occupying 1 lot. 
(Ord. § 4.04, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.054  TERRACES.
   An open, unenclosed paved terrace may project into a required front yard for
a distance not exceeding 10 feet, but this shall be interpreted to include or
permit fixed canopies. 
(Ord. § 4.05, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.055  PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   Architectural features, not including vertical projections, may extend or
project into a required side yard not more than 4 inches for each 1 foot front
yard or rear yard, but not more than 3 feet.  Architectural features shall not
include those details which are nominally demountable. 
(Ord. § 4.06, passed 5-22-1997)
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING AREA
§ 152.065  OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   There shall be provided in all districts at the time of erection or
enlargement of any main building or structure, automobile off-street parking
space with adequate access to all spaces.  The number of off-street parking
spaces, in conjunction with all land or building uses shall be provided, prior
to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, as hereinafter prescribed:
   (A)   Off-street parking spaces may be located within a nonrequired side or
rear yard and within the rear yard setback unless otherwise provided in this
chapter.  Off-street parking shall not be permitted within a front yard or a
side yard setback unless otherwise provided in this chapter, including the
exceptions permitted in commercial zones by footnote (o) of §
152.100.
   (B)   Off-street parking for other than residential use shall be either on
the same lot or within 300 feet of the building it is intended to serve,
measured from the nearest point of the building to the nearest point of the
off-street parking lot.  Ownership shall be shown of all lots or parcels
intended for use as parking by the applicant.
   (C)   Required residential off-street parking spaces shall consist of a
parking strip, parking bay, driveway, garage or combination thereof and shall
be located on the premises they are intended to serve, and subject to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall never be
changed to any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided
elsewhere.
   (E)   Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this chapter, in
connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be
reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building
or new use.
   (F)   Two or more buildings or uses may collectively provide the required
off-street parking in which case the required number of parking spaces shall
not be less than the sum of the requirements for the several individual uses
computed separately.
   (G)   In the instance of 2 or more uses sharing off-street parking spaces
where operating hours of buildings do not overlap, the Zoning Board of Appeals
may grant an exception.
   (H)   The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, trucks or the
repair of vehicles is prohibited in commercial or industrial areas.
   (I)   For those uses not specifically mentioned, the requirements for off-
street parking facilities shall be in accord with a use which the Planning
Commission considers is similar in type.
   (J)   When units or measurements determining the number of required parking
spaces result in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up to and
including ½ shall be disregarded and fractions over ½ shall require 1 parking
space.
   (K)   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces required,
the definition of usable floor area shall govern.
   (L)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces by type of use shall
be determined in accordance with the following schedule:
Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per Unit of Measure
Use                                                                             Number of Minimum Parking Spaces per Unit of Measure
(1) Residential
   (a)  Residential, 1-family and 2-family                                     2 for each dwelling unit
   (b)  Residential, multiple-family                                           2 for each dwelling unit
   (c)  Multiple housing for senior citizens                                   1 for each dwelling unit.  Should units revert to general occupancy, then 2
                                                                                spaces per unit shall be provided
   (d)  Mobile home park                                                       2 for each mobile home site and 1 for each employee of the mobile home park
(2) Institutional
   (a)  Churches or temples                                                    1 for each 3 seats or 6 feet of pews in the main unit of worship
   (b)  Hospitals                                                              1 for each 1 bed
   (c)  Homes for the aged and convalescent homes                              1 for each 2 beds
   (d)  Elementary and junior high schools                                     1 for each 1 teacher, employee or administrator, in addition to the
                                                                                requirements of the auditorium
                                                                                1 for each 1 teacher, employee or administrator, and 1 for each 5 students,
   (e)  Senior high schools                                                    in addition to the requirements of the auditorium or gymnasium, whichever is
                                                                                greater
   (f)  Commercial, vocational and adult instructional institutions            1 for each student and 1 for each employee, administrator or instructor
   (g)  Private clubs or lodge halls                                           1 for each 3 persons allowed within the maximum occupancy load as
                                                                                established by local, county or state fire, building or health codes
   (h)  Private golf clubs, swimming pool clubs, tennis clubs or other similar 1 for each 2 member families or individuals plus spaces required for each
         uses                                                                   accessory use, such as a restaurant or bar
   (i)  Golf courses open to the general public, except miniature or “par-3" 6 for each 1 golf hole and 1 for each 1 employee, plus spaces required for
         course                                                                 each accessory use, such as a restaurant or bar
   (j)  Fraternity or sorority                                                 1 for each 5 permitted active members or 1 for each 1 bed, whichever is
                                                                                greater
   (k)  Stadium, sports arena or similar place of outdoor assembly             1 for each 3 seats or 6 feet of benches
   (l)  Theaters and auditoriums                                               1 for each 3 seats plus 1 for each 2 employees
   (m)  Nursery school, day nurseries or childcare centers                     1 for each 150 square feet of usable floor space
(3) Business and Commercial
   (a)  Planned commercial or shopping center                                  1 for each 100 square feet of usable floor area
                                                                                1 for each 1 employee.  In addition, reservoir parking spaces equal in
                                                                                number to 5 times the maximum capacity of the auto wash. Maximum capacity of
   (b)  Auto wash (automatic)                                                  the auto wash shall mean the greatest number of automobiles possible
                                                                                undergoing some phase of washing at the same time, which shall be determined
                                                                                by dividing the length in feet of each wash line by 20
   (c)  Auto wash (self-service or coin-operated)                              5 for each washing stall in addition to the stall itself
   (d)  Beauty parlor or barber shop                                           3 spaces for each of the first 2 beauty or barber chairs, and 1-1/2 spaces
                                                                                for each additional chair
   (e)  Bowling alleys                                                         5 for each 1 bowling lane plus accessory uses
   (f)  Dance halls, pool or billiard parlors, roller or skating rinks,        1 for each 2 persons allowed within the maximum occupancy load as
         exhibition halls and assembly halls without fixed seats                established by local, county or state fire, building or health codes
         Establishment for sale and consumption on the premises of beverages,   1 for each 75 square feet of usable floor space or 1 for each 2 persons
   (g)  food or refreshments                                                   allowed within the maximum occupancy load as established by local, county or
                                                                                state fire, building or health codes
         Furniture and appliance, household equipment and repair shops;         1 for each 800 square feet of usable floor area.  (For that floor area used
   (h)  showroom of a plumber, decorator, electrician or similar trade; shoe   in processing, 1 additional space shall be provided for each 2 persons
         repair, and other similar uses                                         employed therein)
   (i)  Gasoline service stations for each gasoline pump                       2 for each lubrication stall, rack, or pit; and 1 for each gasoline pump
   (j)  Laundromats and coin-operated dry cleaners                             1 for each 2 washing and/or dry cleaning machines
   (k)  Miniature or “par-3" golf courses                                    3 for each 1 hole plus 1 for each 1 employee
   (l)  Mortuary establishments                                                1 for each 50 square feet of usable floor space
   (m)  Motel, hotel or other commercial lodging establishments                1 for each 1 occupancy unit plus 1 for each 1 employee
   (n)  Motor vehicle sales and service establishments                         1 for each 200 square feet of usable floor space of sales room and 1 for
                                                                                each 1 auto service stall in the service room
   (o)  Retail stores, except as otherwise specified herein                    1 for each 150 square feet of floor space
(4) Offices
   (a) Banks                                                                  1 for each 100 square feet of usable floor space
   (b)  Business offices or professional offices, except as indicated in the   1 for each 200 square feet of usable floor space
         following item (c)
   (c)  Professional offices of doctors, dentists or similar professions       1 for each 100 square feet of usable floor area in waiting rooms, and 1 for
                                                                                each examining room, dental chair or similar use area
(5) Industrial
                                                                                5 plus 1 for every 1-1/2 employees in the largest working shift.  Space on-
   (a)  Industrial or research establishments, and related accessory offices   site shall also be provided for all construction workers during periods of
                                                                                plant construction
   (b)  Warehouses and wholesale establishments and related accessory offices  5 plus 1 for every 1 employee in the largest working shift, or 1 for every
                                                                                1,700 square feet of usable floor space, whichever is greater
 
   (M)   (1)   Each parking lot that services a building entrance, except
single- or 2-family residential or temporary structures, shall have a number of
level parking spaces for the physically handicapped as set forth in the
following table, and identified by above-grade signs as reserved for physically
handicapped persons.
Total Spaces in Parking Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Total Spaces in Parking Lot Required Number of Accessible Spaces
Up to 25                    1
26 to 50                    2
51 to 75                    3
76 to 100                   4
101 to 150                  5
151 to 200                  6
201 to 300                  7
301 to 400                  8
401 to 500                  9
501 to 1,000                2% of total
Over 1,000                  20 plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
      (2)   Parking spaces for the physically handicapped shall be a minimum of
12 feet wide and must meet all other applicable requirements as to size as set
forth in this section.
(Ord. § 5.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.066  OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE LAYOUT, STANDARDS, CONSTRUCTION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   Wherever the off-street parking requirements in this chapter require the
building of an off-street parking facility, the off-street parking lots shall
be laid out, constructed and maintained in accordance with the following
standards and regulations:
   (A)   No parking lot shall be constructed unless and until a permit is
issued by the Zoning Administrator.  Applications for a permit shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator in such form as may be determined by the
Zoning Administrator  and shall be accompanied with 2 sets of site plans for
the development and construction of the parking lot showing that the provisions
of this section will be fully complied with.
   (B)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accord with the following minimum requirements (see also parking layout in the
following table):
 
                                                    Total Width  Total Width
Parking       Maneuvering Parking     Parking Space of 1 Tier of of 2 Tiers of
Pattern       Lane Width  Space Width Length        Spaces plus  Spaces plus
                                                    Maneuvering  Maneuvering
                                                    Lane         Lane
0º (parallel 12 ft.      8 ft.       28 ft.        20 ft.       28 ft.
parking)
30º to 53º  15 ft.      9 ft.       20 ft.        35 ft.       55 ft.
54º to 74º  18 ft.      9 ft.       20 ft.        38 ft.       58 ft.
75º to 90º  22 ft.      10 ft.      20 ft.        42 ft.       62 ft.
 
   (C)   All spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of maneuvering
lanes.  Backing directly onto a street shall be prohibited.
   (D)   (1)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of
clearly limited and defined 25- foot wide drives shall be provided for all
vehicles.
      (2)   Ingress and egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for
other than single-family residential use shall not be across land zoned for
single-family residential use.
   (E)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit 1-way traffic movement,
except that the 90º pattern may permit 2-way movement.
   (F)   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot located
in an area zoned for other than single-family residential use shall be at least
25 feet distant from adjacent property located in any single-family residential
district.
   (G)   (1)   Except for those serving single- and 2-family dwellings, all
off-street parking areas shall be screened from view from any adjoining
residential property.  The screening shall consist of earth berms, permanent
walls, or evergreen landscaping subject to approval of the Planning Commission
and in accordance with the provisions set forth in §
152.076.
      (2)   When a front yard setback is required, all land between the
screening and the front property line or street right-of-way line shall be kept
free from refuse and shall be landscaped with deciduous shrubs, evergreen
material and ornamental trees.  The ground area shall be planted and kept in
lawn.  All the landscaping and planting shall be maintained in a healthy,
livable condition, neat and orderly in appearance.
   (H)   (1)   The entire parking area, including parking spaces and
maneuvering lanes, required under this section shall be provided with asphaltic
or concrete surfacing in accordance with specifications approved by the
Township Zoning Administrator, except for off-street parking required for
single-family and duplex residences.
      (2)   Off-street parking areas and maneuvering lanes shall be drained so
as to dispose of all surface water accumulated in the parking area in such a
way as to preclude drainage of water onto adjacent property or toward
buildings.
   (I)   All lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
so installed as to be confined within and directed only onto the parking area.
   (J)   Except for those serving single- and 2-family dwellings, all parking
lots shall be provided with wheel stops or bumper guards so located that no
part of parked vehicles will extend beyond the property line or into required
landscaped areas.
   (K)   Plans for the layout of the parking lot shall show the dimensions
across tiers of spaces and maneuvering lanes.
(Ord. § 5.01, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.067  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   There shall be provided on the same land with every building,
structure or part thereof erected or occupied for manufacture, storage, display
of goods for retail sales, or for a hotel, hospital, school, funeral home,
laundry, dry cleaning establishments or other use involving the receipt or
distribution by vehicles of materials or merchandise incidental to that
activity, sufficient space for standing, loading and unloading vehicles to
avoid undue interference with public streets.  The space shall be no less than
10 by 25 feet for each 10,000 square feet of floor area or part thereof with a
minimum height clearance of 14 feet.  The space is not to be a part of any area
provided for off-street parking area, and further there shall be a door no less
than 3 feet 6 inches by 6 feet 8 inches adjoining the loading area.
   (B)   All loading spaces shall be located and designed to avoid creating
traffic hazard to public use of all public rights-of-way.  Also, the site plan
showing the loading area layout and dimensional requirements shall display the
area. 
(Ord. § 5.02, passed 5-22-1997)
WALLS, FENCES, SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING
§ 152.075  FENCES AND WALLS.
   Fences and walls are permitted, or required subject to the following:
   (A)   Fences or walls on all lots of record in all platted residential
districts which enclose property shall not exceed 6 feet in height, measured
from the surface of the ground.
   (B)   Fences located in the front yard of a parcel closer than 200 feet as
measured from the center of the roadway shall be constructed from approved
transparent material.
   (C)   Fences located in the front yard of a parcel more than 200 feet as
measured from the center of the roadway may be constructed from approved
obscuring material.
   (D)   Fences on platted residential lots of record shall not contain
electric current or charge of electricity.
   (E)   Fences or walls which enclose public or institutional parks,
playgrounds or public landscaped areas, situated within an area developed with
recorded lots, shall not exceed 8 feet in height, measured from the surface of
the ground and shall not obstruct vision to an extent greater than 25% of their
total area.
   (F)   On a corner lot, in all residential districts, no fence or other
obstruction to vision above a height of 6 feet above the centerline grades of
the intersecting streets shall be erected, placed or maintained within the
triangular yard space formed by the intersecting street lines and a line
joining points on the street lines 30 feet from the point of the street lines.
   (G)   All fences and walls shall comply with the requirements of the
Building Code as it applies to fence and wall installation and materials.
(Ord. § 6.00, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 2017-471, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 152.076  OBSCURING WALLS AND FENCES.
Fences and wall are permitted or required subject to the following:
   (A)   Obscuring walls and fences shall be provided and maintained at a
height of between 5-1/2 feet and 8 feet above the ground where commercial and
industrial uses, including the screening of required parking areas, are
adjacent to and abut side and rear yards of residential uses and districts,
unless this chapter requires a taller wall or fence.
   (B)   Required walls and fences shall be located on the lot line except
where underground utilities interfere.  Upon review of the site plan, the
Planning Commission may approve an alternate location for the wall or fence or
may modify the wall or fence requirement by approving either an earth berm or
evergreen screen in its place.  The Planning Commission may also waive the wall
or fence requirement if in specific cases where cause can be shown that no good
purpose would be served by the screening requirement.
(Ord. § 6.01, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 2017-472, passed 9-14-2017)
§ 152.077  SCREENING OF TRASH STORAGE AREAS.
   (A)   In all O, C, GC and M-1 Districts, there shall be provided an outdoor
trash storage area.  Any such area shall be limited to normal refuse which is
collected on a regular basis and shall be maintained in a neat, orderly and
sanitary condition.  The requirement for such a trash storage area may be
waived by the Planning Commission upon a finding that it is unnecessary due to
the nature of the use, or owing to provisions for indoor trash storage.
   (B)   In no instance shall any such refuse be visible above the required
screening.
   (C)   A screen wall 6 feet in height shall enclose 3 sides of the storage
area.  Bollards and/or other protective devices shall be installed at the
opening and to the rear of any storage area to prevent damage to the screening
walls.  The surface under any such storage area shall be constructed of
concrete which complies with local building requirements.
   (D)   Any such storage area shall be located in a rear yard and/or be so
located and arranged as to minimize its visibility from adjacent streets and
uses.  The Planning Commission may require an obscuring gate when the
visibility of the storage area, from a public street or adjacent use, is deemed
to render an adverse influence.  In no instance shall any such area be located
in a front yard.
   (E)   All trash storage areas and/or enclosures shall be located a minimum
of 10 feet from any building or structure.
(Ord. § 6.02, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.078  LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   Intent.  Landscaping, greenbelts and screening are necessary for the
protection and enhancement of the environment and for the continued vitality of
all land uses in the township.  Landscaping and greenbelts are capable of
enhancing the visual environment, preserving natural features, improving
property values, and alleviating the impact of noise, traffic and visual
disruption related to intensive uses.  Screening is important to protect less
intensive uses from the noise, light, traffic, litter and other impacts of the
intensive uses.  The purpose of this section is to set minimum standards for
the protection and enhancement of the environment through requirements for the
design and use of landscaping, greenbelts and screening.
   (B)   General provisions.
      (1)   Scope of application. 
         (a)   The requirements set forth in this section shall apply to all
developments which are initiated or expanded following the effective date of
this chapter and which require site plan review or plat approval.  No site
plan/plat shall be approved unless the site plan shows landscaping consistent
with the provisions of this section.  Furthermore, where landscaping is
required, a building permit shall not be issued until the required landscape
plan is approved, and a certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless
provisions set forth in this section have been met or a performance bond has
been posted in accordance with the provisions set forth in §
152.182.
         (b)   The requirements of this section are minimum requirements, and
nothing herein shall preclude a developer and the township from agreeing to
more extensive landscaping.
      (2)   Plant materials.  All plant materials shall be hardy to the
township, be free of disease and insects, conform to the American Standard for
Nursery Stock of the American Nurserymen and sized in accordance with ANSI 260-
1(1996), which may include, but are not limited to, the following plant
materials:
         (a)   Trees permitted. The following includes, but may not be limited
to, trees that are generally permitted as they are considered to be suited to
the township/Michigan environment:
Deciduous/Canopy Trees
Deciduous/Canopy Trees
Ash
Beech
Birch
Bradford Pear
Hard Maple
Honey Locust (without thorns)
Linden
Oak
Plane Tree (Sycamore)
Sweet Gum
Zelcova
 
 
Evergreen Trees
Douglas Fir
Fir
Hemlock
Juniper
Pine
Spruce
 
Narrow Evergreen Trees
Narrow Evergreen Trees
Blue Columnar Chinese Juniper
Columnar Giant Arborvitae
Columnar Honoki Cypress
Douglas Arborbitae
Irish Yew
Pyramidal Red Cedar
Pyramidal White Pine
Swiss Stone Pine
 
Ornamental Trees (2 = 1 Canopy Tree)
Ornamental Trees (2 = 1 Canopy Tree)
Dogwood
Flowering Crab
Hawthorn
Hornbeam
Japanese Cherry
Magnolia
Mountain Ash
Red Bud
Serviceberry
 
         (b)   Trees not permitted. The following trees are not permitted as
they split easily, their wood is brittle, their roots clog drains and sewers
and they are unusually susceptible to disease or insects:
Black Locust
Box Elder
Catalpa
Cottonwood
Elm
Ginkgo (female)
Honey Locust (with thorns)
Horse Chestnut (nut bearing)
Mulberry
Poplar
Soft Maple (Red, Silver)
Tree of Heaven
Willow
 
         (c)   Minimum sizes and spacing. The minimum plant sizes and spacing
shall be provided in accordance with the following:
 
                       Minimum Plant Sizes    Spacing Requirements
Deciduous canopy trees 2" caliper             25' on-center
Ornamental trees       2" caliper             15' on-center
                       6' height (clump form)
Evergreen trees        8' height              8' on-center
Narrow evergreen trees 5' height              6' on-center
Wherever screening is required, screening shall consist of closely spaced
evergreen tree plantings which can be reasonably expected to form a complete
visual barrier. Deciduous plant material may be used for variety to
supplement evergreen tree plantings.
 
         (d)   Mixing of species.  The overall landscape plan shall not contain
more than 33% of any 1 plant species. The use of native species and mixture of
trees from the same species association is strongly encouraged.
      (3)   Incentives to preserve existing trees.  The standards listed below
are intended to encourage the preservation of quality and mature trees by
providing credits toward landscape components. 
         (a)   All trees over 6 caliper inches must be identified on the site
plan.  Trees intended to be preserved shall be indicated on the site plan with
a distinctive symbol and protected during construction.  Identified trees shall
not include those trees not permitted as listed in (B)(2)(b) of this section.
         (b)   To obtain credit, the preserved trees shall be in good health,
as confirmed by the township, and at least 2-1/2 inches caliper in size.  Any
quality tree between 2-1/2 inches and 8 inches caliper (evergreens between 5
feet and 8 feet) shall be calculated as 1 required tree, trees greater than 8
inches caliper (evergreens greater than 8 feet) shall be credited as 2 required
trees.
         (c)   The landscape plan shall include a matrix that lists required
trees and credits for preserved trees.
         (d)   Prior to any site work, tree protection fence or other
appropriate method shall be placed at the drip-line of the tree (drip line is
measured vertically from the edge of the furthest branches, i.e., the tree
canopy).  The ground area within the fence line shall be maintained with mulch
or pervious surface cover.  Storage of soils or other materials during or after
construction within the dripline is prohibited.
         (e)   If trees are found to be unhealthy, damaged or removed within 2
years after completion of the construction, the property owner shall replace
with new trees equal to the number of tree credits granted.
         (f)   Tree credits may account for up to 50% of the trees required by
this section.
      (4)   Minimum standards for installation, irrigation and maintenance.
         (a)   Timing of planting.  All required plant materials shall be
planted prior to issuing a final certificate of occupancy. In the event that
the project is completed during a time of year where planting is impractical, a
financial guarantee in the amount of the remaining improvements shall be
provided per §
152.182.
         (b)   Completion of improvements.  Tree stakes, guy wires and tree
wrap shall be removed after completion of the initial growing season.
         (c)   Irrigation.  The Planning Commission shall require the source of
a readily available water source for irrigation of plant material. An
underground irrigation system may be required in instances where the location
or design of the landscape plan requires such system in order to properly
maintain plant materials.
         (d)   Maintenance.  Landscaped areas and plant materials required by
this section shall be kept free from refuse and debris. Plant materials,
including lawn, shall be maintained in a healthy growing condition, neat and
orderly in appearance in accordance with the approved site plan. If any plant
material dies or becomes diseased, it shall be replaced within 30 days written
notice from the township or within an extended time period as specified in said
notice.
      (5)   Buffer/transition zone requirements.
         (a)   A buffer/transition zone shall be provided within the setback
between the subject site and all adjacent parcels, except where a greenbelt
along a right-of-way is required, according to the table below.  The Planning
Commission shall determine whether landscaping, a wall, a berm or a combination
is needed to attain the screening intended by this section.
         (b)   A buffer/transition zone may include preservation of existing
woodlands or slopes, plus the addition of landscaping to provide an effective
screen.
Zoning of Adjacent Site
Zoning or Use Single- Multiple- Manufactured
of Subject    Family* Family    Housing      Office Commercial Industrial
Site                            Development
Zoning of Adjacent Site
Zoning or Use  Single- Multiple- Manufactured
of Subject     Family* Family    Housing       Office Commercial Industrial
Site                             Development
Single-Family  none    none      none          B      A           A
Residential
Multiple-
Family         B       none      B             B      A           A
Residential
Manufactured
Housing        B       B         none          A      A           A
development
Offices        B       B         B             none   none        none
Commercial     A       A         A             B      none        none
Industrial     A       A         A             B      B           none
Public utility
buildings in   B       B         B             B      B           B
any district
Parking lots   Minimum setback of 25 feet,     Minimum setback of 10 feet with
in any zoning  wall and/or landscaped berms    canopy trees, evergreens used
district       sufficient to screen headlights within the setback
               (min. 4 feet high)
 
 
Buffer Zone Minimum Width Wall/Berm a              Minimum Plant Materials
                                                   1 canopy tree, 2 evergreen
A           30 feet       6-foot high continuous   trees per each 20 linear
                          wall or 4-foot high berm feet along the property
                                                   line, rounded upward
                                                   1 canopy tree, 1 evergreen
B           20 feet       6-foot high continuous   trees per each 30 linear
                          wall or 3-foot high berm feet along the property
                                                   line, rounded upward
Note:
a   Berms shall have a maximum slope of 1 foot of vertical rise to 3 feet of
horizontal distance (1:3) with a crest area at least 4 feet wide.
 
      (6)   Detention/retention pond landscaping.  Ponds shall be located
outside required setbacks.  Detention and retention ponds shall be provided in
accordance with the following standards:
         (a)   Side slopes shall not exceed requirements that require the
perimeter of the pond to be fenced.
         (b)   One canopy or evergreen tree is required per 50 feet of pond
perimeter, as measured along the top of the bank elevation.  The required
landscaping shall be planted in a random pattern, not limited to the top of the
pond bank.
      (7)   Standards for compliance for pre-existing sites.  In any case where
the building and/or parking area is being increased by at least 25% over the
originally approved site plan or is being changed to a more intense use as
determined by the Planning Commission, the site shall be brought into full
compliance with the landscape standards herein.  In instances where the
increase in building and/or parking area is less than 25% over the original
site plan, the extent of new landscaping shall be equal to 4% of compliance for
every 1% of increase in building or parking footprint.  For example, a building
or parking area increase of 10% requires 40% compliance with the landscape
standards.
      (8)   Surety bonds. Where the installation of landscaping is deferred
until after occupancy of the project, the township shall require a performance
guarantee for tree planting.
   (C)   Residential developments.  The selection, size, spacing and planting
of all landscaping within a residential development shall comply with the
landscaping standards of this chapter and the following standards:
      (1)   General standards.
         (a)   Tree species should be selected, per division (B)(2) of this
section, for tolerance of the harsh roadside conditions in southeast Michigan,
for compliance with sight distance requirements, to ensure maintenance of
accessibility to fire hydrants, to provide a minimum overhead clearance of 15
feet over any roadway and 8 feet over a sidewalk or bike path, and to avoid
interference with overhead or underground utility lines.
         (b)   Plantings within 15 feet of a fire hydrant shall be no taller
than 6 inches.
         (c)   The development and planting of required landscaping shall be
the responsibility of the proprietor, not the individual lot owner.
         (d)   The Planning Commission, may approve fewer trees if the
proprietor provides evidence that existing healthy trees over 2.5 inch caliper
per division (B)(2)(c) of this section.
         (e)   All landscaping within the county road rights-of-way/easements
shall require an approval from the county agencies.
      (2)   Greenbelt.
         (a)   When a residential development borders a major thoroughfare, and
wherever a rear yard abuts a public street or private road, an easement for
construction of a 35-foot wide landscape greenbelt shall be provided, in
addition to the required rear yard setback, measured from the interior setback
line.
         (b)   Greenbelts shall include living materials and planting beds,
except for approved sidewalks, bike paths, signs, driveways, and essential
services.
         (c)   The greenbelt shall contain a minimum of 1 canopy tree or
evergreen tree per 30 linear feet, or fraction thereof, of road frontage
including any openings for driveways, pathways or easements. The Planning
Commission may require the substitution of evergreen trees due to site
conditions.
         (d)   Ornamental trees may be used to diversify greenbelt planting
requirements, provided 2 ornamental trees shall be provided for each 1 required
canopy tree or evergreen tree.
         (e)   Existing natural features shall be retained wherever possible to
promote a natural appearance and to protect the existing ecosystem within the
greenbelt.
         (f)   Where a freeform berm is used as part of the landscape
greenbelt, the minimum height shall be 2 feet, 6 inches.
         (g)   The maximum slope of the berm facing the primary road shall be
6:1 and the maximum slope of the berm facing the inside of the lot shall be 3:
1.
         (h)   The construction of the greenbelt and its plantings shall be the
responsibility of the developer and not the individual lot owner(s).
      (3)   Transitional or buffer zone.  The Planning Commission may require
landscaping along the periphery of the residential development to serve as a
buffer zone from adjacent uses. A buffer zone may include trees, berms or a
combination. A transition zone may include preservation of existing woodlands,
slopes, or the addition of landscaping to provide an effective screen.
      (4)   Street trees.
         (a)   The minimum size of all street trees shall be 2-inch caliper.
         (b)   One canopy tree shall be planted for every 40 linear feet within
a median boulevard and other open areas abutting street frontages.
         (c)   Street trees shall be planted so that each lot has at least 2
canopy trees and each corner lot has at least 3 canopy trees. Street trees
shall be placed to avoid any future driveway locations.
         (d)   Street trees shall be at least 50 feet from the intersection of
2 street right-of-way lines or access easements.
         (e)   Street trees shall be planted between the curb and sidewalk;
where curbs or sidewalks do not exist, trees shall be located between the front
property line and the edge of the pavement but outside of areas needed for open
ditches or potential future sidewalks. Where tree location in the public right-
of-way is not possible due to conflicts with overhead or underground utility
lines or restrictions of the County Road Commission, street trees may be
located on private property within 5 feet of the road right-of-way or utility
easements. Trees shall be within 5 feet of the road right-of-way or easement
and shall not interfere with sight distance required by the County Road
Commission.
         (f)   The lowest branch of any canopy tree shall provide a minimum 15-
foot clearance over a public street or private road, and a minimum 8 feet above
grade from a sidewalk or bike path. Greater clearances shall be provided if
required by the County Road Commission.
         (g)   The Planning Commission may allow existing trees 2-1/2 inch
caliper or greater, preserved in good condition, to be counted towards meeting
the above requirements per division (B)(2)(c) of this section.
      (5)   Landscaping in cul-de-sacs.  Where a cul-de-sac contains an island,
the island must be mounded to a height of between 1 foot, 6 inches and 2 feet,
6 inches and planted with grass or ground cover.
      (6)   Subdivision/site condominium entrances.
         (a)   Subdivision entrances may include landscaping, lighting,
identification signs, wrought iron fences or other architectural features. All
features shall comply with the Zoning Code. A detail of the entranceway shall
be submitted with the site plan/plat.
         (b)   The lighting for entryway signs must be ground-mounted with no
more than two 125 watt bulbs directed toward each face of a sign. In no case
shall high pressure sodium or other non-standard bulbs be utilized.
         (c)   Any features proposed to be placed within the county road right-
of-way must meet County Road Commission design and sight distance standards.
         (d)   Any features proposed to be placed outside of the county road
right-of-way must be located within an easement recorded for the maintenance of
such features by the subdivision/ condominium association.
   (D)   Commercial/industrial developments.
      (1)   Design standards; roadside greenbelts.  A greenbelt shall be
planted or preserved along public right-of-ways and designated frontage roads.
The greenbelt is intended to provide a transition between the roadway and an
existing or proposed land use. Greenbelts shall be provided in accordance with
the following requirements:
         (a)   The width of the greenbelt shall be a minimum of 35 feet.
         (b)   Greenbelts shall include living materials and planting beds,
except for approved sidewalks, bike paths, signs, driveways, and essential
services.
         (c)   The greenbelt shall contain a minimum of 1 canopy tree or
evergreen tree per 30 linear feet, or fraction thereof, of road frontage
including any openings for driveways, pathways or easements. The Planning
Commission may require the substitution of evergreen trees due to site
conditions.
         (d)   Ornamental trees may be used to diversify greenbelt planting
requirements, provided 2 ornamental trees shall be provided for each 1 required
canopy tree or evergreen tree.
         (e)   Greenbelt plantings may be arranged to simulate a natural
setting such as massing or staggered rows.
         (f)   Greenbelts shall be designed to ensure adequate sight visibility
for motorists, adequate clearance for pedestrians and vehicles, clearance from
overhead utility lines, adequate separation from underground utilities and
accessibility to fire hydrants. Where such conditions prohibit full compliance,
the Planning Commission may adjust the location of the required materials so as
long as the design intent is met.
      (2)   Buffer zones.  All buffer zones shall comply with the general
provisions of this section.
      (3)   Parking lot landscaping (see also §
152.066).  Parking lot landscaping shall require at least 1 canopy tree or
evergreen tree to be provided per 8 parking spaces.
   (E)   Waiver or modification of landscaping and screening requirements.
During site plan or subdivision plat review, the Planning Commission may
determine that existing plant material would provide adequate landscaping,
screening, or conditions unique to the subject parcel would prevent development
of required landscape components. If such a determination is made, the Planning
Commission may waive or modify the landscape provisions of this section in
consideration of, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Existing vegetation;
      (2)   Topography and grade changes;
      (3)   Conflicts with utilities;
      (4)   Presences of existing wetlands;
      (5)   Type of and distance to adjacent land uses;
      (6)   Tree sizes proposed are larger than the minimum requirements;
      (7)   Required landscaping would impose greater drainage impacts on
adjacent lands than an alternative design;
      (8)   Existing zero lot line development pattern in the central business
district; and
      (9)   Future land use designation proposed in the Township Master Plan.
(Ord. § 6.03, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 394, passed 1-11-2001; Am. Ord. 424,
passed 12-14-2006)
SIGNS
§ 152.085  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a set of standards for the
fabrication, creation, and use of signs, symbols, marking or adverting devices
within the township to protect public safety, health and welfare; minimize
abundance and size of signs to reduce motorist distraction and loss of sight
distance; promote public convenience; preserve property values; support and
complement objectives of the township master plan, and this chapter; and
enhance the aesthetic appearance within the township. The standards contained
in this subchapter are intended to be content neutral. These objectives are
accomplished by establishing the minimum amount of regulations necessary
concerning the size, placement, construction, illumination and other aspects of
signs in the township to:
   (A)   Recognize that the proliferation of signs is distracting to motorists
and non-motorized travelers, reduces the effectiveness of signs that provide
safety directions and warnings to the public, causes confusion, reduces desired
uniform traffic flow, and creates potential for accidents.
   (B)   Reduce visual pollution caused by a proliferation of signs that
negatively influence the township’s appearance, quality of life and,
ultimately, property values.
   (C)   Prevent signs that are potentially dangerous to the public due to
structural deficiencies, disrepair, and distraction for motorists, limitations
on sight distance or close proximity to roads.
   (D)   Eliminate potential conflicts between business signs and traffic
control signs that could create confusion and hazardous consequences.
   (E)   Recognize that the principal intent of commercial signs, to meet the
purpose of these standards and serve the public interest, should be to identify
an establishment on the premises, and not for advertising special events, brand
names or off-premises activities, as these can be advertised more appropriately
by other methods.
   (F)   Enable the public to locate goods, services and facilities without
excessive difficulty and confusion by restricting the number and placement of
signs.
   (G)   Prevent placement of signs that will conceal or obscure signs of
adjacent uses.
   (H)   Protect the public right to receive messages, such as religious,
political, economic, social, philosophical and other types of information
protects by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution.
   (I)   Prevent off-premises signs from conflicting with land uses.
   (J)   Maintain and improve the image of the township by encouraging signs of
consistent size that are compatible with and complementary to related buildings
and uses, and harmonious with their surroundings.
   (K)   Restrict the use of portable commercial signs for use only to announce
a grand opening or a specific event in recognition of the significant negative
impact on traffic safety and aesthetics caused by a proliferation or more
frequent use of use signs.
   (L)   Where other more general provisions of this subchapter may conflict
with the specific requirements of this subchapter, the requirements of this
subchapter shall supersede the general requirements.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 152.086  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN.  A sign that advertises a product that is no longer made, a
business that is closed, or a past event.
   AGRIBUSINESS.  A sign that identifies a permitted agribusiness such as, but
not limited to, a greenhouse, dog kennel, orchard, nursery, or other
specialized use or recreational use such as, but not limited to, a golf course,
ski club, riding stable.
   AWNING/CANOPY SIGN.  A non-rigid or rigid fabric marquee or awning-type
structure that is attached to the building by supporting framework, which
includes a business identification message, symbol and/or logo attached
directly to, or painted or otherwise inscribed upon an awning or canopy.
   BANNER SIGN.  A fabric, plastic, or other sign made of non-rigid material
without an enclosed structural framework.
   BILLBOARD.  See also OFF-PREMISE SIGN. A structure for the permanent display
of off-premises advertising. Off-premise advertising is any commercial message
referring or relating to an enterprise or business that is not conducted on the
premises where the sign is located.
   BUSINESS CENTER.  A grouping of 2 or more business establishments on 1 or
more parcels of land that may share parking and access and be linked
architecturally or otherwise present the appearance of a unified grouping of
businesses. A BUSINESS CENTER shall be considered on use for the purposes  of
determination of the maximum number of freestanding signs. A vehicle dealership
shall be considered a business center regardless of the number or type of
models or different manufacturer’s vehicles available. However, used vehicle
sale lots shall be considered a separate use in determining the maximum number
of freestanding signs, provide that the used sales section of the lot includes
at least 25% of the available sales area.
   CANOPY SIGN.  See AWNING SIGN.
   BUSINESS FRONTAGE.  See FRONT OF BUILDING.
   CHANGEABLE MESSAGE/READER BOARD/MESSAGE BOARD SIGN.  That portion of a sign
on which copy is changed manually or electronically. Electronic reader boards
(ERB) are defined as a changeable message sign and further include dynamic
message signs (DMS), electronic billboards (EBB) light emitting diode (LED)
displays, and other similar signs.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE SIGN.  A commercial vehicle that displays a sign and is
parked on a non-residential lot in a manner and duration intended to have it
serve as a sign.
   COMMUNITY IDENTIFICATION SIGN.  A sign placed at or near the entrance to a
unified residential development consisting of at least 5 dwellings and
displaying the name of the residential community or other unified development
such as an apartment complex, condominium community, senior housing complex,
mobile home park or similar residential use.
   COMMUNITY SPECIAL EVENT SIGN.  Signs and banners, including decorations and
displays celebrating a traditionally-accepted patriotic or religious holiday,
or special municipal or school activities.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN.  A sign identifying the name(s) of project owners,
contractors, developers, architects, designers, engineers, landscape architects
and financiers of a project being constructed or improved but not including
advertising of any product or announcement of space availability.
   CURB LINE.  The back line of a curb.
   DAY.  A calendar day rather than a business day.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN.  A sign that assists motorists in determining or
confirming a correct route; specifically, “enter” or “exit” and parking signs.
   DIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN.  A sign illuminated with a light source that is
not shielded.
   FLASHING SIGN.  Any illuminated sign on which the artificial light is not
maintained stationary or constant in intensity and color at all times when such
is in use. Any moving, illuminated sign shall be considered a FLASHING SIGN.
   FREESTANDING/POLE/PYLON SIGN.  A sign which is erected upon or supported by
the ground on 1 or more poles, uprights or braces which do not have the
appearance of a solid base.
   FRONT OF BUILDING/BUSINESS FRONTAGE.  The wall of the building fronting on
the road which is the address of the premises.
   GROUND/MONUMENT SIGN.  A 3-dimensional, self-supporting, base-mounted
freestanding sign, consisting of 2 or more sides extending up from the base,
and upon which a message, business, group of businesses or center name is
affixed.
   INCIDENTAL/NON-COMMERCIAL SIGN.  A small sign, emblem, or decal informing
the public of goods, facilities, or services available on the premises.
Examples of incidental signs include credit card signs, signs indicating the
hours of business, no smoking signs, signs used to designate bathrooms, and
signs providing information on business affiliations, political or religious
philosophy or opinion.
   INDIRECTLY ILLUMINATED SIGN.  A sign illuminated with a light source so
shielded as to illuminate only the surface of the sign.
   INSTITUTIONAL SIGN.  A sign, which by symbol or name identifies an
institutional use permitted within a residential zoning district.
   MARQUEE SIGN.  A permanent structure constructed of rigid materials that
project from the exterior wall of a building upon which a sign is attached
directly or is painted or otherwise inscribed upon a marquee.
   MESSAGE BOARD.  See CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN.
   MURAL.  A design or representation painted or drawn on a wall, which does
not advertise an establishment, product, service, or activity.
   NAMEPLATE.  A non-electronic on-premises identification sign giving only the
name, address, and/or occupation of an occupant or group of occupants.
   NON-COMMERCIAL SIGN.  See INCIDENTAL SIGN.
   OBSOLETE SIGN.  See ABANDONED SIGN.
   OFF-PREMISE SIGN.  A sign which identifies a use or advertises products and
services not available on the site or parcel on which the sign is located (such
as, billboards, garage sale signs, residential open house signs, business or
institutional signs that are not located on the premises of the identified
function). Also, signs that direct travelers or provides a message unrelated to
the site where the sign is located.
   ON-PREMISE SIGN.  A sign advertising a business, service, or product sold or
produced on the same site or parcel.
   POLE SIGN.  See FREESTANDING SIGN.
   POLITICAL SIGN.  A temporary sign used in connection with an expression of a
political opinion or message or an official township, school district, county,
state, or federal election or referendum sign.
   PORTABLE SIGN.  A sign designed to be moved easily and not permanently
attached to the ground, structure, or a building, including signs with wheels,
A-frame signs, signs mounted on vehicles for advertising purposes, hot-air and
gas filled balloons, pennants, streamers, ribbons, pinwheels, non-governmental
flags and searchlights.
   POSTER PANEL SIGNS.  A portable advertising or business ground sign
constructed in such a manner as to form an “A” or tent-like shape, hinged or
not hinged at the top; each angular face held at an appropriate distance by a
supporting member.
   PREMISES.  A unit of contiguous property under common ownership.
   PROJECTED SIGN.  A sign, other than a wall sign, that is affixed to any
building wall surface and the leading edge of the sign extends more than 12
inches beyond the building wall surface.
   PYLON SIGN.  See FREESTANDING SIGN.
   READER BOARD.  See CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN.  An on-premise temporary sign advertising the availability
of property or structures for sale, lease or rent.
   REGULATORY SIGN.  A sign installed by a public agency to direct traffic
flow, regulate traffic operations and provide information that conforms with
the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN.  See COMMUNITY IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   RESIDENTIAL IDENTIFICATION SIGN.  A sign identifying the name of the
occupant, excluding the street address.
   ROOF SIGN.  A sign mounted on the roof of a building, lying either flat
against the roof or upright at an angle to the roof pitch.
   SIGN.  Any object, structure, fixture, figure, banner, pennant, flag,
balloon or placard that consists of written copy, symbols, logos and/or
graphics; used to identify, advertise, display, direct or attract attention to
an object, establishment, institution organization, product, goods, services or
other message to the general public by means which may include words, letters,
figures, symbols, colors, illuminated or projected images.
   SPECIAL EVENT SIGN.  Temporary and portable signs containing public messages
concerning special events sponsored by governmental agencies, nonprofit
organizations, or by businesses for events such as, but not limited to, grand
openings, sidewalk sales, seasonal displays and/or special programs.
   SUBDIVISION ENTRANCE/RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT SIGN.  See COMMUNITY
IDENTIFICATION SIGN.
   TEMPORARY SIGN.  A sign, banner or other advertising device with or without
a structural frame, or any other sign intended for a limited period of display,
but not including decorative display for holidays, or public demonstration.
   WALL SIGN.  A sign placed or painted flat on the wall surface of a building.
This definition does not include roof signs as separately defined herein.
   WINDOW SIGN.  A sign installed on or inside a window and intended to be
viewed from the outside.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 152.087  ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Review and approval.  No sign, permanent or temporary, shall be
erected, structurally altered, or relocated, except as otherwise provided in
this subchapter, without review and approval of the Building Department.
   (B)   Application.  The application for building permit shall be provided by
the Building Department and shall contain the proposed location of the sign,
the name and address of the sign owner and the sign erector, the name and
address of the owner of the business and of the property if different from that
of the sign owner, drawings and/or sketches showing the design and location of
the sign, and any other information as required by the Building Department to
ensure compliance with this subchapter and other ordinances of the township.
   (C)   Fees.  All permit fees for signs shall be established by resolution of
the Board of Trustees.
   (D)   Nullification.  A sign permit shall become null and void if the work
for which the permit was issued has not been completed within 6 months after
the date of the permit.
   (E)   Cost of enforcement.  Any costs or expenses incurred by the township
in enforcing this subchapter shall be paid by the owner of the sign found to be
in violation of this subchapter; or upon default thereof, by the owner of the
sign or the owner of the property to reimburse the township for costs and
expenses incurred in such enforcement, the owner of the property shall be
billed for such costs and expenses in the same manner as other taxes.
   (F)   Exceptions.  The following shall not require a sign permit:
      (1)   Replacing copy. The changing of the advertising copy or message on
an approved painted or printed sign, on a theater marquee and on similar
approved signs which are specifically designed for the use of replaceable copy;
and
      (2)   Maintenance. Painting, repainting, cleaning or other normal
maintenance or repair of a sign or a sign structure, unless a structural change
is made.
   (G)   Certificate of compliance/occupancy.  All signs shall require a final
inspection and the issuance of a certificate of compliance/occupancy from the
Building Department. The property owner shall notify the Building Department
immediately upon erecting the sign to request the final inspection.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 152.088  REGULATIONS.
   The Michigan Basic Building Code, as adopted by the Board of Trustees, is
the code of the township for the engineering, design, construction and
installation specifications for signs regulated by the terms of this
subchapter.
   (A)   Measurement of allowable sign area.
      (1)   The allowable area for signs shall be measured by calculating the
square footage of the sign face as measured by enclosing the most protruding
points or edges of a sign within a triangle, circle, parallelogram or rectangle
including any frame.
      (2)   Where a sign has 2 or more faces, the area of only the larger face
shall be considered when calculating maximum size, provided all faces are part
of the same structure, back-to-back, the same size, contain the same message
and are separated by no more than 2 feet.
      (3)   For the purposes of calculating sign area allowed as wall sign, the
wall sign square footage shall de determined by measuring a parallelogram (box)
that includes the portion of the canopy that contains a message symbol and/or
logo.
   (B)   Height.
      (1)   The permitted height of all signs supported by the ground shall be
measured from the level of the ground adjacent to the sign if the finished
grade is level.
      (2)   If the ground adjacent to the sign is not level, the height of the
sign shall be measured from the average elevation of the ground in the general
area surrounding the sign.
      (3)   The permitted height of signs shall not be measured from an area of
the ground that has been built-up or constructed in a manner that would have
the effect of allowing a higher sign height than permitted by this subchapter
(such as, the height of signs erected on a berm shall be measured from the
finished grade adjacent to the berm).
   (C)   Location.  No sign, except those established by the township, county,
or state or federal governments shall be located in, project or overhang into
any public right-of-way or dedicated easement.
   (D)   Sign setbacks.
      (1)   All permanent signs, shall be set back a minimum of 10 feet from
any public street right-of-way line, except residential identification signs
allowed by this subchapter that are not required to set back from the public or
private street right-of-way. The required setback distance for all other signs
shall be measured from the nearest edge of the sign, measured at a vertical
line perpendicular to the ground to the street right-of-way.
      (2)   Side yard setbacks for signs shall be the same as that required for
the main structure or building, provided that all non-residential signs shall
be setback at least 100 feet from any residential district.
   (E)   Design and construction.
      (1)   Signs shall not have light reflecting backgrounds but may use light
reflecting lettering.
      (2)   All ground signs must be planted with a combination of low
shrubbery and perennial/annual plantings.
      (3)   The maximum distance between parallel sign faces on a double-faced
sign shall be 20 inches.
      (4)   The background of a multiple tenant commercial or shopping center
signs, including individual sign panels within the sign, shall be 1 color.
However, individual businesses may have different colored lettering or
advertising.
      (5)   All portable signs shall be constructed and maintained by the owner
in such a manner and of such materials so that they withstand environmental
conditions.
   (F)   Materials.  As permitted in the various zoning districts, signs shall
be designed to be compatible with the character of building materials and
landscaping to promote an overall unified and aesthetic effect in accordance
with the standards set forth herein. Signs shall not be constructed from
materials that are remnants or manufactured for a different purpose. Natural
materials, such as wood and natural stone are encouraged.
   (G)   Illumination.
      (1)   Signs shall be illuminated only by steady, stationary, shielded
light sources directed solely at the sign or internal to it.
      (2)   Use of glaring undiffused lights or bulbs shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Lights shall be shaded so as not to project onto adjoining
properties or thoroughfares.
      (4)   Underground wiring shall be required for all illuminated signs not
attached to a building.
   (H)   Safety.  Every sign shall be constructed and maintained in a manner
consistent with the applicable building code provisions; maintained in good
structural condition at all times; and of such materials so that they shall be
able to withstand wind pressure of at least 20 pounds per square foot, and able
to withstand other environmental concerns. All signs, including any cables, guy
wires or supports shall have a minimum clearance of 4 feet from any electric
fixture, street light or other public utility pole or standard. All signs shall
be kept neatly painted, stained, sealed or preserved including all metal, wood,
plastic, and other parts and supports.
   (I)   Clear vision zone.  In order to ensure adequate sight distance for
motorists, bicyclists and pedestrians, a minimum clear vision area shall be
maintained between a height of 2 feet and 6 feet within a triangular area
measured 25 feet back from the point of intersection of public or private road
right-of-way lines or at a commercial driveway or private road. Greater clear
vision areas may be required by the Michigan Department of Transportation or
the County Road Commission in particular areas. Furthermore, signs shall not be
permitted where they obstruct motorist vision of regulatory signs, traffic
control devices of street signs.
   (J)   Change of sign message or business.  The Zoning Administrator may
authorize a change in the lettering or business advertised on a sign if no
additional surface area or change in location is proposed for an existing sign.
   (K)   Bonus.  The Planning Commission may permit up to a 10% increase in the
maximum permitted free-standing sign area, at the sole discretion of the
Commission, if extensive landscaping and a decorative base, consistent with the
materials of the principal building or overall site plan, are provided.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 152.089  SPECIFIC SIGN TYPE REQUIREMENTS.
   The following signs are permitted provided that all standards are met in
addition to obtaining applicable permits from the Building Department:
   (A)   Agribusiness or recreational use signs.
      (1)   Shall be allowed 1 permanent sign identifying a permitted
agribusiness, such as but not limited to: greenhouses, dog kennels, orchards,
nurseries, golf courses, riding stables, or other specialized use or
recreational use; and
      (2)   Shall not exceed an area of 50 square feet with a maximum height of
6 feet.
   (B)   Billboards/off-premise signs.
      (1)   Shall only be allowed in commercial or industrial zones;
      (2)   Shall be permitted only within 300 feet of I-69, M-21 (Corunna
Road), or M-13 (Sheridan Avenue) rights-of-way;
      (3)   Shall be located a maximum of 1,000 feet from residentially zoned
land.
      (4)   Shall be separated by at least 2,000 linear feet from any other
billboard/off-premise sign;
      (5)   Shall not exceed an area of 1,200 square feet with a maximum height
of 35 feet as measured from the elevation of I-69, or M-21, or M-13 directly
opposite the lot on which the sign is located; and
      (6)   Shall also be regulated by the Highway Advertising Act, P.A. 106 of
1972, as amended.
   (C)   Changeable message/reader board signs (all). 
      (1)   Shall be allowed only on ground signs in non-residential zones;
      (2)   Shall not exceed more than 40% of total sign area;
      (3)   Shall be allowed with a single background color and a single text
color;
      (4)   Gasoline price signs may be permitted as part of a ground sign, but
the price signs shall not to exceed 20 square feet in area;
      (5)   Theater marquee signs are not to exceed 100 square feet in area;
and
      (6)   Electronic boards shall:
         (a)   Not be less than 1 minute in duration;
         (b)   Not be programmed with any animated, scrolling or flashing
messages, symbols, logos, or other graphics. Only text and static logos are
permissible;
         (c)   Have a minimum separation distance of 200 feet from any other
reader board;
         (d)   Shall comply within the following thresholds for luminance:
 
Day   60 – 1,000 cd/m 2
Night 100 – 350/m2
The day/night transition shall occur within 1/2-half hour of the official
sunrise/sunset
 
         (e)   Be maintained in good repair at all times. If any part of the
message display is not functioning properly, the use of the reader board sign
will be discontinued until sufficient repairs are made.
   (D)   Church signs.
      (1)   Shall be allowed in all districts for the purpose of identifying
the church or church affiliated school, parsonage, or other facility (for signs
including a message or bulletin-type face also see institutional bulletin board
signs);
      (2)   Shall be allowed 1 sign per parcel, except on a corner parcel,
where 2 signs shall be permitted facing respective streets. One additional sign
shall be permitted for each school, parsonage, or other related facility;
      (3)   Shall not exceed 32 square feet with a maximum height of 6 feet (an
area of 50 square feet allowed when used in conjunction with institutional
bulletin board); and
      (4)   Shall comply with all setback requirements for the district in
which they are located.
   (E)   Community identification signs.
      (1)   Shall be allowed 1 permanent sign per entrance to a residential
development;
      (2)   Shall not exceed an area of 64 square feet with a maximum height of
6 feet;
      (3)   Shall be allowed 2 signs in a wing-wall arrangement facing opposite
directions on opposite sides of an entrance drive may be permitted by the
Planning Commission in cases where it is demonstrated that a single 2-sided
sign could not be seen by approaching traffic from both directions on a single
road or where the 2-sided sign will create a traffic hazard.
   (F)   Freestanding/pole/pylon signs.
      (1)   Shall be allowed 1 sign per business or shopping/business center
advertising name of establishment or center;
      (2)   Shall not exceed a total display area of 200 square feet with a
maximum height of 30 feet. Wall or canopy signs shall be permitted for
individual businesses in a shopping/business center. Individual business shall
not be permitted to establish free-standing signs; and
      (3)   Shall be set back a minimum of 10 feet from all road rights-of-way
or easement lines.
   (G)   Institutional bulletin board signs for churches, schools, municipal
buildings, museums, or libraries.
      (1)   Shall be permanent signs;
      (2)   Shall not exceed an area of 50 square feet with a maximum height of
6 feet; and
      (3)   Shall be setback a minimum of 10 feet from the road right-of-way.
   (H)   Menu board signs.
      (1)   Shall be allowed only in commercial zones where conforming use
includes a drive-through facility;
      (2)   Shall be allowed 2 signs per location. The menu board may contain a
communication system for placing orders for food or other merchandise;
      (3)   Shall not exceed an area of 24 square feet;
      (4)   Shall not be located between the front wall of the principal
structure on the site and the street.
   (I)   Real estate development sales/construction signs.
      (1)   Shall be allowed in all zoning districts;
      (2)   Shall be allowed 1 sign per site, erected during the construction
period and shall be removed 14 days after final occupancy permit is issued;
      (3)   Shall not exceed an area of 32 square fee with a maximum height of
6 feet;
      (4)   Shall be set back a minimum of 10 feet from any property line or
right-of-way.
   (J)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Shall be flat signs attached and parallel to the face of the
building wall;
      (2)   Shall be allowed 1 sign per street on each parcel;
         (a)   Buildings adjacent to I-69 shall be permitted 1 additional wall
sign facing I-69;
         (b)   Shopping centers or multi-tenant buildings shall be permitted 1
wall sign per tenant. Tenants occupying a corner space shall be permitted to
have 1 sign per side of building. Where several tenants share a common entrance
only 1 wall sign shall be permitted, with the total sign area allocated among
the tenants;
      (4)   Shall not exceed 90% of width of wall to which sign is attached
with a maximum height of 10 feet;
      (5)   Shall extend no greater than 15 inches from the exterior face of
the wall to which it is attached;
      (6)   Shall be a minimum of 8 feet above the ground level or sidewalk,
whichever is greater; and
      (7)   Shall not extend or project above the highest elevation of the wall
to which it is attached.
   (K)   Window signs.
      (1)   Shall be allowed 1 sign per window;
      (2)   Shall not cover more than 25% of the window;
      (3)   Shall count towards permitted wall sign area; and
      (4)   Shall not be illuminated by a direct light source.
   (L)   Political signs. Other than official government signs or warning signs
required by law, no campaign sign shall be permitted without complying with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Posting. A campaign sign posted on private property must have
permission of the property owner before placing a sign in the yard; even if the
person is a known supporter.
      (2)   Time frame. Campaign signs may be posted 30 days prior to the
election date and must be removed within 10 days after the election.
      (3)   Location.
         (a)   Campaign signs cannot be posted in a place that blocks the
public right-of-way. For example, signs cannot be set in a place which
obstructs the view of cars and/or pedestrians.
         (b)   Campaign signs cannot be posted on any municipal or governmental
properties.
      (4)   Size. Campaign sign dimensions may range between 2 feet by 2 feet
[2' x 2'] and 4 feet by 8 feet [4' x 8'].
      (5)   Style. Style is subject to the sponsor but must not violate the
provisions outlined in §
152.091, Prohibited Signs.
      (6)   Compliance. Campaign signs not meeting the aforementioned criteria
must be removed. Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation, who violates,
disobeys, omits, neglects, or refuses to comply or who resists the enforcement
of any of the provisions of Title XV,
Chapter 152, §
152.089(L), political sign ordinance, shall be deemed responsible for a civil
municipal infraction subject to the terms and penalties set forth in §§
150.65 through
150.72.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008; Am. Ord. 444, passed 9-12-2013)
§ 152.090  EXEMPT SIGNS.
   (A)   Construction signs.  Construction signs are subject to height and
clearance limitation applicable to the premises for a permanent sign, and
subject to the following:
      (1)   Signs in residential districts provided that they do not exceed 16
square feet in surface area per face and are set back at least 15 feet from the
road right-of-way.
      (2)   Signs in all other districts provided they do not exceed 192 square
feet in surface area and are set back at least 5 feet from the nearest property
line, and shall be erected in such a manner as not to create a traffic vision
hazard.
      (3)   Construction signs shall not be permitted in any district for more
than 10 days after issuance of the occupancy permit.
   (B)   Flags.  Flags which are decorative or bear the official design of a
nation, state, municipality, educational institution, or non-profit
organization.
   (C)   Garage sale/estate sale signs.  Garage sale/estate sale signs provided
that they are not attached to public utility poles and/or and do not exceed 6
square feet in area; and that they are erected no more than 10 days before the
sale day and are removed within 1 day after the announced sale.
   (D)   Gas station pump island signs. Gas station pump island signs located
on the structural supports identifying “self-serve” and “full-serve”
operations, provided that there is no business identification or advertising
copy on the signs, that there are no more than 2 signs per pump island and that
the signs do not exceed 4 square feet in area.
   (E)   Help wanted signs. Help wanted signs soliciting employees for a place
of business provided that the maximum area for all such signs shall be 6 square
feet in area and posted at the place of business.
   (F)   Historical designation signs. Historical designation signs designating
a building as a historic structure and/or a designation as a centennial farm,
such signs shall not exceed 16 square feet in area.
   (G)   Integral signs.  Integral signs are memorial signs or tablets names of
buildings and date of erection, monumental citations, commemorative tablets
when carved into stone, concrete or similar material or made of bronze,
aluminum or other non-combustible material and made an integral part of the
structure and not exceeding 25 square feet in area.
   (H)   Menu and order boards.  Menu and order boards for drive-through
facilities provided the signs shall be located on the interior of the lot and
not legible from adjacent properties. The placement, size, content, manner of
illumination and sound level of the signs shall not constitute a traffic or
pedestrian hazard and shall not be located in a front yard.
   (I)   Miscellaneous signs.
      (1)   Gas station pumps, vending machines, and ice containers. Gas
station pumps, vending machines, and ice containers placards, not to exceed 2
square feet in area, located on top of gas station pumps, vending machines, and
ice containers which indicate the contents and/or announcing on-premises sales.
      (2)   Non-commercial sign. Non-commercial sign provided the signs do not
exceed 2 square feet in area.
      (3)   Sign in enclosed building.  Any sign which is located completely
within an enclosed building and not visible from outside the building.
   (J)   Nameplates.  Nameplates identifying the occupants of the building
shall not exceed 2 square feet. A limit of 1 nameplate sign per lot shall be
permitted per residence or business. In the case of a corner lot, a maximum of
2 nameplate signs may be permitted per residence or business.
   (K)   Real estate related signs.
      (1)   Real estate signs.  Real estate signs advertising a single lot or
residence not exceeding an area of 8 square feet.
      (2)   Portable real estate “open house” signs.  Portable real estate
“open house” signs with an area no greater than 4 square feet.
      (3)   Model signs.  Model signs which are temporary signs directing the
public to a model home or unit, such signs shall not exceed 6 square feet in
area.
      (4)   Rental office directional sign.  Rental office directional sign, up
to 2 signs identifying or directing motorists to a rental or management office
in a multiple family development, provided that such signs are a maximum of 4
feet in height, are set back a minimum of 10 feet from any property line or
public right-of-way, and do not exceed 3 square feet in area.
   (L)   Residential identification signs.  Residential identification signs
identifying the address and occupant of a residence of a total height no
greater than 6 inches for residences and 18 inches for businesses. A limit of 1
sign per lot shall be permitted per residence or business. In the case of a
corner lot, a maximum of 2 address signs may be permitted per residence or
business. Address numbers on mailboxes are excluded from these requirements.
   (M)   Seasonal decorations and community event signs. Seasonal decorations
and community event signs which advertise public entertainment or events of
public interest, providing the sign be erected not more than 21 days before and
7 days after the event and may not exceed 32 square feet in area.
   (N)   Traffic related signs.
      (1)   Regulatory, directional and street signs.  Regulatory, directional
and street signs erected by a public agency in compliance with Michigan Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices Manual, and the Uniform Federal
Accessibility Standards and Michigan Barrier-Free Manual and other signs
erected to comply with other governmental regulations.
      (2)   Private traffic control signs.  Private traffic control signs which
conform to the requirements of the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control
Devices.
      (3)   Parking lot signs.  Parking lot signs indicating restriction on
parking, when placed within a permitted parking lot, shall be a maximum of 6
feet in height, and shall not exceed 6 square feet in area.
      (4)   Driveway directional signs.  Driveway directional signs no more
than 1 directional sign shall be permitted per approved driveway, with a
maximum sign area of 4 square feet per sign, and a maximum height of 3 feet.
Any area of a directional sign that includes a business name, symbol or logo
shall be calculated as part of the allowable business sign square footage, as
specified.
   (O)   Vehicle signs.  Vehicle signs on a bus, truck, trailer, or other
vehicle while operated and used for transport in the normal course of a
business.
   (P)   Warning signs.  Warning signs not exceeding 6 square feet in area
where only 1 sign is used or 2 square feet where 2 or more signs are used which
include, but are not limited to, warning of electrical currents, “No
Trespassing”, “No Hunting”, “Beware of Dog” and “No Dumping” signs, such signs
shall be spaced no closer than necessary to alert the public of the
restriction.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008; Am. Ord. 443, passed 9-12-2013)
§ 152.091  PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   (A)   Any sign not expressly permitted.
   (B)   Any sign or sign structure which:
      (1)   Is structurally unsafe;
      (2)   Constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation, or abandonment;
      (3)   Constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of blocking
views;
      (4)   Is capable of causing electric shock to a person who comes in
contact with it;
      (5)   Is unlawfully installed, erected, or maintained;
      (6)   Is located in a public street or utility right-of-way, except where
expressly permitted herein; or
      (7)   Is not kept in good repair, such that it has broken parts, missing
letters, or non-operational lights.
   (C)   Abandoned/obsolete signs.
   (D)   Real estate signs no longer valid due to the sale, rental, or lease of
the property.
   (E)   Signs with flashing or moving lights.
   (F)   Moving signs, including any sign which has visible moving parts,
visible revolving parts, visible mechanical movement, or other visible movement
achieved by electrical, electronic, or mechanical means, including intermittent
electric pulsations or movement caused by normal wind current, excludes barber
poles and electronic time/temperature signs that do not contain business
messages.
   (G)   Signs that simulate or could in any way be confused with the lighting
of emergency vehicles or traffic signals.
   (H)   Any sign which makes use of the words “stop”, “look”, or “danger”, or
any other words, phrases, symbols, or characters, in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic.
   (I)   Any signs which contains obscene, indecent, or immoral matter.
   (J)   Any sign erected within 10 feet of a fire hydrant.
   (K)   Any sign which obstructs vision or free access to or egress from a
required door, window, fire escape, or other required exit from a building or
structure.
   (L)   Balloons, pennants, festoons, inflatable figures, spinners, and
streamers, unless specifically permitted by this subchapter.
   (M)   String lights used for commercial purposes, other than holiday
decorations. Holiday decorations are admissible only 45 days per calendar year
per holiday.
   (N)   Any sign erected on a tree or utility pole, except government or
utility signs of a government or utility.
   (O)   Portable signs, except where expressly permitted by this subchapter.
   (P)   Signs affixed to a parked vehicle or truck trailer which is being used
principally for advertising purposes, rather than for transportation purposes,
and parked close to a street in a large commercial parking lot.
   (Q)   Business logos on directional signs.
   (R)   Billboards/off-premises signs, unless provided for in this subchapter
or covered under the State Highway Act.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 152.092  TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   Temporary signs are permitted in any commercial or industrial district,
provided all other standards of this subchapter are met and permits for the
sign have been obtained from the Building Department. The temporary signs may
be double-faced and shall not exceed 32 square feet in surface display area per
face and shall not exceed 6 feet in height. Wind-blown devices, such as
pennants, spinners, and streamers shall also be allowed on the site of the
business during a grand opening or business special event. All temporary signs
and wind-blown devices shall be located on the site where the business is
located and shall be set back not less than 10 feet from all road rights-of
way.
   (A)   Temporary grand opening signs. One temporary grand opening sign shall
be permitted on a site for a period not to exceed 21 days for those businesses
that are new to a particular location. In the event new owners acquire the
business and the business name changes when the new owners begin operation, the
business shall be considered to be “new” for the purposes of enforcement of
this division.
   (B)   Business or institutional special event signs. Each business, school,
church or other institution may advertise special events such as sidewalk
sales, seasonal displays and special programs for a period not to exceed 30
days in any calendar year. Signs for special events shall be subject to the
review and approval of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 152.093  INSPECTIONS, MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Inspections.  Signs for which a permit is required may be inspected
periodically by the Building Official, or his/her designee, for compliance with
this subchapter and with other ordinances of the township.
   (B)   Maintenance.  All signs and components thereof shall be kept in good
repair and in a safe, neat, clean and attractive condition.
   (C)   Removal.
      (1)   The Building Official may order the removal of any permanent sign
and its supporting structure erected or maintained in violation of this
subchapter. The Building Official shall give 30 days notice in writing, to the
owner of such sign and its supporting structure to bring it into compliance.
Any sign erected of a temporary nature shall require written notice of only 3
days.
      (2)   Upon failure to comply with this notice, the Building Department
representative may remove the sign and its supporting structure. The Building
Department representative may remove a sign and its supporting structure
immediately and without notice if, in his or her opinion, the condition of the
sign and its supporting structure presents an immediate threat to the safety of
the public. The cost of removal by the township shall be assessed against the
owner of such sign or the owner of the building, structure or premises and the
cost of this work will be placed on the tax roll.
   (D)   Obsolete signs.
      (1)   An obsolete sign and its supporting structure shall be removed by
the property owner or lessee of the premises upon which the sign is located
when the business which it advertises is no longer conducted on the premises.
If the property owner or lessee fails to remove it within 60 days of the date
that the business becomes inactive, the Building Official may remove the sign
and it supporting structure and the cost of this work will be placed on the tax
roll.
      (2)   Where a successor to an inactive business agrees, within 30 days of
the date of written notice by the Building Official, to maintain the sign as
provided for in this subchapter, this removal requirement shall not apply,
provided that the existing sign and structure conforms to all current sign
requirements.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008)
§ 152.094  VARIANCES.
   The Zoning Board of Appeals may hear requests for variances from the
regulations set forth in this subchapter. Requests for variance shall be
reviewed for compliance with the following:
   (A)   Variances may be granted for any 1 of the following conditions:
      (1)   The applicant has demonstrated a variance is needed due to a
practical difficulty on the site, such as varied topography, horizontal or
vertical road curvature, or presence of structures or desired trees that limit
visibility of a sign on the premises compared to similar sites with conforming
signs in the same zoning district;
      (2)   A variance is warranted due to the relatively large size of the
site, frontage or building in comparison to other establishments in the same
zoning district; or
      (3)   A variance would significantly improve the conformity of an
existing sign.
   (B)   To grant a variance for 1 of the conditions specified above, all of
the following standards must be met:
      (1)   The inability to conform with the requirements of this subchapter
is due to a hardship or practical difficulty; and
      (2)   That the alleged hardships or practical difficulties, or both, are
exceptional and peculiar to the property of the person who requested the
variance, and result from conditions which do not exist generally throughout
the township.
(Ord. 434, passed 7-10-2008)
HEIGHT, BULK, DENSITY, AREA AND PLACEMENT BY ZONING DISTRICT
§ 152.100  SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS.
HEIGHT, BULK, DENSITY, AREA AND PLACEMENT, BY ZONING DISTRICT
   (A)   The following regulations regarding lot sizes, yards, setbacks,
building heights and densities apply within the zoning districts as indicated,
including the regulations contained in the footnotes in division (B) below.  No
building shall be erected, nor shall an existing building be altered, enlarged
or rebuilt, nor shall any open spaces surrounding any building be encroached
upon or reduced in any manner, except in conformity with the regulations hereby
established for the district in which the building is located.  No portion of a
lot used in complying with the provisions of this chapter for yards, courts,
lot area occupancy, in connection with any existing or projected building or
structure, shall again be used to quality or justify any other building or
structure existing or intended to exist at the same time.
District Minimum Lot   Maximum Height Minimum Yard Setback
         Size/Unit     of Structure   per Lot (Feet)
                                                            *Minimum
              Width                   Front                 Livable  Maximum %
         Area (x       Stories Feet   (f)(g) Sides** Rear** Floor    of Lot
              Length)                 (h)                   Area i)  Coverage
              (Feet)                                        (Square
                                                            Feet)
                             Minimum Lot Size/  Maximum
District                     Unit               Height of    Minimum Yard Setback per Lot (Feet)
                                                Structure
                                        Width                Front                                                                                         *Minimum       Maximum
                             Area       (x      Stories Feet (f)   Sides**                                     Rear**                                      Livable Floor  % of Lot
                                        Length)              (g)                                                                                           Area i)        Coverage
                                        (Feet)               (h)                                                                                           (Square Feet)
                             2 acres;
                             Density of                 35   (a)
RA – Residential Agricultur1 unit per 200     2.5     (j)  (w)2  20 feet per side                            25 feet                                     1,250          20 (d)
                             10 acres
                             (u)
                             2 acres;
RSF – Residential Suburban Density of                      (a)
Farms                        1 unit per 200     2.5     35   (w)2  20 feet per side                            25 feet                                     1,250          15
                             5 acres
                             (v)
                             2 acres
RE – Residential Rural     1 acre     200     2.5     35   (a)   20 feet per side                            25 feet                                     1,250          15
Estate                       sewer &    150                  (w)2
                             water
                             30,000 (e) 150 x
                             17,500     200 100                    20 feet per side
FS – Single- Family        sewer      x 175   2.5     35   (a)   15 feet per side                            25 feet                                     1250           15 (d)
                             13,500     100 x                (w)2  15 feet per side
                             sewer &    135
                             water
                                                             50                                                                                            1 BDR. – 750
FM – Multi–Family        21,000 (k) 120 x   2.5     25   (t)   15 ft., 50 ft., from single–family dist.  30 ft., 50 ft., from single–family dist.  2 BDR. – 950 30 (d)
                             (e)        175                  (w)2  (l)                                         (l)                                         3 BDR. – 1,200
                                                                                                                                                           4 BDR. – 1,300
RMH — Residential Mobile      (m) (95      1       20   (a)   30                                          50 ft. (25 ft. between units)               —            —
Home                                                         (w)2
                                                             30
                                                             (o)
O — Office                 —        120     3       35   (p)   15 ft., 50 ft. from single- family dist.    30 ft., 50 ft. from single- family dist.    —            —
                                                             (q)
                                                             (w)2
                                                             35
                                                             min.
                                                             (a)
C — Local Commercial       —        120     3       35   (o)   Side adjacent to streets same as front      30 ft., 50 ft. from residential dist.       —            —
                                                             (p)   yard, adjacent to res. district 25 ft.
                                                             (q)
                                                             (s),
                                                             (w)2
                                                             40
                                                             min.
                                                             (a)   Sides adjacent to streets same as front
GC — General Commercial    —        120     3       35   (o)   yard, adjacent to residential dist. 50 ft.  30 ft., 50 ft. from residential dist.       —            —
                                                             (p)   (b)
                                                             (q)
                                                             (s)
                                                             (w)2
                                                             50
                                                             (q)
M-1 — Industrial           —        (c)     —     50   (r)   20 ft., 150 ft. from residential district   50 ft., 150 ft. from residential dist.      —            —
                                                             (s)
                                                             (w)2
NOTE:
**   For accessory buildings=10 feet for all setbacks and from principal building (see §
152.027) 
*   Also see §
152.033 
 
(Ord. § 8.00, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 404, passed 10-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-
481, passed 5-9-2019)
   (B)   Notes to schedule:
      a.   Front yard setback determined by following schedule:
         State highways      50 feet
         Section line roads       40 feet (including the entire length of
Seymour Road)
         Quarter line roads      30 feet
         Local streets         25 feet
      b.   No yards are required along the interior side lot lines of the
district, except as specified in the Building Code.
      c.   Determined by setbacks and required parking and loading area.
      d.   Maximum area of all structures.
      e.   A lot depth to lot width ratio of 4:1 shall be the maximum permitted
for the FS, FM, RE and RSF Districts on lots 150 feet or less in width.  In the
case of irregularly shaped lots, the minimum frontage may be measured on the
front building line rather than the front lot line, but minimum lot areas must
be maintained.
      f.   Minimum front yard setback is measured from the edge of the right-
of-way, based upon information and standards set forth by the Genesee County
Road Commission.
      g.   In all residential and industrial districts, the required front yard
setback shall not be used for off-street parking, loading or unloading, and
shall remain as open space unoccupied and unobstructed from the ground upward
except for landscaping, plant materials or vehicle access drives.
      h.   All yards abutting upon a public street shall be considered as front
yard for setback purposes.
      i.   The minimum floor area per dwelling unit shall not include area of
basements, breezeways, porches or attached garages.
      j.   The maximum height permitted for general and specialized farm
buildings and structures shall not exceed 100 feet.
      k.   Development within the FM District requires availability of both
municipal water and sewer service.  The minimum land area required for each
dwelling unit in the FM District shall be in accordance with the following
schedule:
   Every lot or parcel of land upon which a multiple-family dwelling (3 or more
dwelling units) is to be erected, altered or used shall contain not less than
21,000 square feet of area, nor less than 120 feet of frontage.  In the case of
irregularly shaped lots, the minimum frontage may be measured on the front
building line rather than the front lot line, but the minimum lot areas must be
maintained, for the first 2 dwelling units plus not less than additional land
area for each additional dwelling unit in excess of 2 dwelling units in
accordance with the following schedule:
         One bedroom dwelling unit:         1,800 square feet - and not more
than 12 units/acre
         Two bedroom dwelling unit:         2,700 square feet - and not more
than 10 units/acre
         Three bedroom dwelling unit:         3,700 square feet - and not more
than 8 units/acre
         Four or more bedroom dwelling unit:      4,700 square feet - and not
more than 7 units/acre
   The land area used for computing densities shall exclude the rights-of-way
for all roads, whether public or private.
      l.   Each side yard shall be a minimum of 15 feet, and this space shall
be increased beyond 15 feet by 2 feet for each 10 feet or part thereof by which
the dwelling structure exceeds 40 feet in overall dimension along the adjoining
lot line.  Maximum building length shall not exceed 200 feet.  In no instance
shall a multiple-family structure be located closer than 50 feet to an abutting
single-family residential district.
   Where 2, 3 or 4 townhouse dwelling structures are erected on the same lot or
parcel, a minimum distance between any 2 structures shall be 30 feet, with a
maximum building coverage not to exceed 30% of the land area.
      m.   Mobile home park developments are subject to the minimum
requirements and standards as established in the Mobile Home Commission Act,
Public Act 419 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., and any and all
rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to Act 419, as may be amended.
      n.   Sites for the placement and occupancy of mobile home units within a
mobile home park developed under Public Act 419 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.2301 et seq., shall average 6,050 square feet.  The 6,050 square foot
requirement may be reduced by up to 20%, provided that the individual site
shall include a minimum of 5,000 square feet; and further provided that land
area in an amount equal to that gained by reduction of a site(s) below 6,050
square feet shall be dedicated as open space.  In no instance, however, shall
required open space and spatial separation between units be less than that
required under R125.1941, Rule 941; R125.1944, Rule 944; and R125.1946, Rule
946 of the Michigan Administration Code.
      o.   Off-street parking shall be permitted to occupy a portion of the
required front yard, provided that there shall be maintained a minimum
unobstructed and landscaped setback of 10 feet between the nearest point of the
off-street parking area, exclusive of access driveway, and the nearest edge of
the proposed right-of-way line.  The plantings in the setback shall meet those
of a greenbelt buffer described in §
152.078.
      p.   Loading space shall be provided in the rear yard in the ratio of at
least 10 square feet per front foot of building and shall be computed
separately from the off-street parking requirements.
      q.   Off-street parking shall be permitted in a required side yard
setback provided that there shall be maintained a screening wall between the
nearest point of the off-street parking area and the side lot line, when the
property line abuts any residential district.
      r.   No building shall be located closer than 50 feet to the outer
perimeter (property line) of the district when the property line abuts any
residential district.
      s.   All storage shall be in the rear yard and shall be completely
screened with an obscuring wall or fence, not less than 6 feet high, or with a
chain link type fence and a greenbelt planting so as to obscure all view from
any adjacent residential, business district or from a public street.
      t.   Multiple-family dwellings that provide individual driveways and
attached garages such as townhouses shall meet the front yard setback
requirements outlined in footnote (a) above.
      u.   The total number of single-family residences that may be permitted
in the RA District is determined by the configuration of parcels as they
existed on the effective date of this chapter.  Each parcel in existence on
that date will be permitted 1 additional single-family residence per 10 acres
or fraction thereof of parcel area.  For example, a 20-acre parcel with an
existing residence could have 2 lots split off it for additional single-family
residential building sites.  A 21-acre parcel could have 3.  A 20-acre site
that was vacant as of the effective date of this chapter would permitted 2
building sites, which could involve splitting off 2 buildable lots off the
original 20 acres or splitting of 1 buildable lot and using the remaining
acreage for the second building site.
   When lots are split in the RA District, the deed or land contract must
identify the number of buildable sites that are being transferred with it.  For
example, if an individual owned a parcel that was 80 acres at the effective
date of this chapter, 8 single-family residences could be built on those 80
acres.  If the property owner sold 20 acres, he or she could transfer the right
to 1 or all 8 building sites to the buyer of that 20 acres. 
      v.   The density control provisions for the RSF District are the same as
for the RA District outlined in footnote (u) above, with the exception that the
density permitted in this district will be 1 unit per 5 acres.
      w.   Front yard setbacks for all zoning districts along the M-13/Sheridan
Road Corridor and M-21/Corunna Road Corridor shall be a minimum of 150 feet.
(Ord. § 8.01, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 404, passed 10-10-2002; Am. Ord. 2019-
481, passed 5-9-2019)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 152.105  RESIDENTIAL AGRICULTURAL DISTRICT (RA).
   (A)   Purpose. This district is composed of those areas of the township
whose principal use is and ought to be farming. The regulations of this
district arc designed to conserve, stabilize, enhance and develop farming and
related resource utilization activities, to minimize conflicting uses of
parcels, lots, buildings and structures detrimental to or incompatible with
these activities, and to prohibit uses of parcels, lots, buildings and
structures which requires streets, drainage and other public facilities and
services of a different type and quantity than those normally required by these
activities. The district, in preserving areas for agricultural uses, is also
designed to prevent proliferation of residential subdivision and urban sprawl.
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or structure or part thereof shall be
erected, altered or used and no land shall be used except for 1 or more of the
following:
      (1)    General or specialized farming, truck gardening, greenhouses, and
nurseries, provided that no commercial butchering shall be done on the farm
other than of animals raised on the farm. Further, farms devoted to the housing
or breeding of horses, including horse training facilities and other farm
animals including cattle, swine, sheep or goats, shall have a minimum often 10
acres. For parcels having an area of less than 20 acres, the kennels or pens
shall not be closer than 200 feet from all other residences. In cases where
there is no residence on the adjacent parcel, the kennels or pens location
shall be based on the assumption that the residence would be located at the
minimum side yard setback line (see illustration). Farmers are permitted to
pasteurize milk from their own farms and from not more than 3 other farms;
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/159acb839d33cbd1fc4d9f08bbc88ea2476e13ff/
IMAGES/0-0-0-981.jpg]
      (2)   Detached single family dwelling;
      (3)   Adult foster care family home;
      (4)   Adult foster care small group home;
      (5)   Family day care home;
      (6)   Foster family home;
      (7)   Foster family group home;
      (8)   A roadside stand may be built to the front property line, provided:
         (a)   That the structure shall be used solely by the owner, manager or
tenant of the land on which it is located for the sale of produce grown on said
land. No produce shall be sold on the state or county road right-of-way.
         (b)   That adequate off-street parking shall be provided and the owner
or operator of the stand will not permit the customers to stand or park on the
public right-of-way.
      (9)   Home occupations; and
      (10)   Accessory buildings when located in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with §§
152.130 through
152.136 and §§
152.150 through
152.152.
      (1)   Migrant farm camps;
      (2)   Retail establishments designed to cater to the touring public and
including such uses as cider mills, antique dealers, woodworking and quilt
shops, and collectibles and craft stores;
      (3)   Campgrounds;
      (4)   Small aircraft airports;
      (5)   Private landing fields;
      (6)   Adult foster care large group homes and congregate care facilities;
      (7)   Two-unit dwellings;
      (8)   Veterinary clinics with outdoor runs;
      (9)   Kennels;
      (10)   Child care facilities;
      (11)   Group daycare home;
      (12)   Golf driving ranges;
      (13)   Golf courses;
      (14)   Excavation of gravel and sand;
      (15)   Temporary residence/structure;
      (16)   Raising farm animals on lots less than 10 acres in area;
      (17)   Temporary outdoor sales;
      (18)   Churches;
      (19)   Public, parochial, and private elementary, intermediate and/or
high schools, and institutions of higher learning, offering courses in general
education;
      (20)   Public libraries, cemeteries, governmental museums, fire stations,
municipal buildings and essential services;
      (21)   Bed and breakfast operations; and
      (22)   Any other use which is determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as, and compatible with, the above permitted
uses.
   (D)   Additional standards and regulations. The following list preferences
includes additional standards and regulations applicable to any proposed use in
this district:
      (1)   §
152.100 Schedule of Regulations;
      (2)   §
152.031 Performance Standards;
      (3)   §§
152.065 and
152.067 Off-Street Parking and Loading;
      (4)   §§
152.075 and
152.076 Fences and Walls;
      (5)   §
152.077 Screening of Trash Storage Areas;
      (6)   §
152.078 Landscaping; and
      (7)   §
152.085 Signs.
(Ord. Art. IX, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 446, passed 9-12-2013; Am. Ord. 464,
passed 8-14-2014)
Local legislation reference:
   Farm animals as permitted use, see also Resolution 98-0312-01A, passed 3-12-
1998
§ 152.106  RESIDENTIAL SUBURBAN FARMS DISTRICT (RSF).
   (A)   Purpose. The residential suburban farms district is intended to
provide open land area for orderly residential growth, continued agricultural
use and residential activities of a rural character in areas that are presently
without public water and sewerage facilities and are likely to remain without
such services for an extended period of time. Such areas have significant
natural features and unique natural resources that should be preserved and
enforced in the interest of property values and the tax base of the township.
This district is also established to provide transition between areas developed
as farms and farm residences and more urban land use patterns.
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered, or used, and no land shall be used except for 1 or more of
the following:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling;
      (2)   General or specialized farming, truck gardening, greenhouses, and
nurseries, provided that no commercial butchering shall be done on the farm
other than of animals raised on the farm. Further, farms devoted to the housing
or breeding of horses, including horse training facilities and other farm
animals including cattle, swine, sheep or goats, shall have a minimum of 10
acres. For parcels having an area of less than 20 acres, the kennels or pens
shall not be closer than 200 feet from all other residences. In cases where
there is no residence on the adjacent parcel, the kennels or pens location
shall be based on the assumption that the residence would be located at the
minimum side yard setback line (see illustration in §
152.105). Farmers are permitted to pasteurize milk from their own farms and
that from not more than 3 other farms;
      (3)   A roadside stand may be built to the front property line, provided:
         (a)   That the structure shall be used solely by the owner, manager or
tenant of the land on which it is located for the sale of produce grown on the
land. No produce shall be sold on the state or county road right-of-way; and
         (b)   That adequate off-street parking shall be provided and the owner
or operator of the stand will not permit the customers to stand or park on the
public right-of-way.
      (4)   Adult foster care family home;
      (5)   Adult foster care small group home;
      (6)   Family day care home;
      (7)   Foster family home;
      (8)   Foster family group home;
      (9)   Home occupations; and
      (10)   Accessory buildings when located in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with §§
152.130 through
152.136 and §§
152.150 through
152.152.
      (1)   Greenhouses;
      (2)   Tree and shrub nurseries;
      (3)   Adult foster care, large group homes and congregate cave
facilities;
      (4)   Group day care home;
      (5)   Small aircraft airports and landing fields;
      (6)   Two-unit dwellings;
      (7)   Child care facilities;
      (8)   Golf courses;
      (9)   Temporary residence/structure;
      (10)   Public libraries, cemeteries, governmental museums, fire stations,
municipal buildings;
      (11)   Public, parochial, and private elementary, intermediate and/or
high schools, and institutions of higher learning, offering courses in general
education;
      (12)   Churches;
      (13)   Bed and breakfast operations;
      (14)   Any other use which is determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as, and compatible with, the above permitted
uses.
   (D)   Additional standards and regulations. The following list of references
includes additional standards and regulations applicable to any proposed use in
this district:
      (1)   §
152.100 Schedule of Regulations;
      (2)   §
152.031 Performance Standards;
      (3)   §§
152.065 and
152.067 Off-Street Parking and Loading;
      (4)   §§
152.075 and
152.076 Fences and Walls;
      (5)   §
152.077 Screening of Trash Storage Areas;
      (6)   §
152.078 Landscaping; and
      (7)   §
152.085 Signs.
(Ord. Art. X, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 454, passed 10-10-2013; Am. Ord. 462,
passed 8-14-2014)
Local legislation reference:
   Farm animals as permitted use, see also Resolution 98-0312-01A, passed 3-12-
1998
§ 152.107  RESIDENTIAL RURAL ESTATE DISTRICT (RE).
   (A)   Purpose. The rural estates district is intended to provide open land
area for orderly residential growth, continued agricultural use and residential
activities of a semi-rural character in areas that are presently without public
water and sewerage facilities and are likely to remain without such services
for an extended period of time. It is further intended that the district
protect and stabilize the essential characteristics of these areas in order to
promote and encourage suitable environments for low density, family life, and
to maintain and to preserve the semi-rural character of the township.
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
erected, altered, or used, and no land shall be used, except for 1 or more of
the following:
      (1)   Single-family detached dwelling;
      (2)   General or specialized farming, truck gardening, greenhouses, and
nurseries, provided that no commercial butchering shall be done on the farm
other than of animals raised on the farm. Further, farms devoted to the housing
or breeding of horses, including horse training facilities and other farm
animals including cattle, swine, sheep or goats, shall have a minimum of 10
acres. For parcels having an area of less than 20 acres, the kennels or pens
shall not be closer than 200 feet from all other residences. In cases where
there is no residence on the adjacent parcel, the kennels or pens location
shall be based on the assumption that the residence would be located at the
minimum side yard setback line (see illustration in §
152.105). Farmers are permitted to pasteurize milk from their own farm or farms
and that from not more than three other farms;
      (3)   A roadside stand may be built to the front property line, provided:
         (a)   That the structure shall be used solely by the owner, manager,
or tenant of the land on which it is located for the sale of produce grown on
said land. No produce shall be sold on the state or county road right-of-way;
         (b)   That adequate off-street parking shall be provided and the owner
or operator of the stand will not permit the customers to stand or park on the
public right-of-way.
      (4)   Adult foster care small group home;
      (5)   Adult foster cave family home;
      (6)   Family day care home;
      (7)   Foster family home;
      (8)   Foster family group home;
      (9)   Home occupations; and
      (10)   Accessory buildings when located in accordance with the
requirements of this section.
   (C)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with §§
152.130 through
152.136 Site Plan Review, and §§
152.150 through
152.152.
      (1)   Greenhouses;
      (2)   Tree and shrub nurseries;
      (3)   Child care facilities;
      (4)   Group day care home;
      (5)   Two-unit dwellings;
      (6)   Adult foster care large homes and congregate care facilities;
      (7)   Golf courses;
      (8)   Temporary residence/structure;
      (9)   Kennels;
      (10)   Public libraries, cemeteries, governmental museums, tire stations,
municipal buildings and essential services;
      (11)   Public, parochial, and private elementary, intermediate and/or
high schools, and institutions of higher learning, offering courses in general
education;
      (12)   Churches;
      (13)   Bed and breakfast operations; and
      (14)   Any other use which is determined by the Planning Commission to be
of the same general character as, and compatible with, the above permitted
uses.
   (D)   Additional standards and regulations. The following list of references
includes additional standards and regulations applicable to any proposed use in
this district:
      (1)   §
152.100 Schedule of Regulations;
      (2)   §
152.031 Performance Standards;
      (3)   §§
152.065 and
152.067 Off-Street Parking and Loading;
      (4)   §§
152.075 and
152.076 Fences and Walls;
      (5)   §
152.077 Screening of Trash Storage Areas;
      (6)   §
152.078 Landscaping; and
      (7)   §
152.085 Signs.
(Ord. Art. XI, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 455, passed 10-10-2013; Am. Ord. 463,
passed 8-14-2014)
Local legislation reference:
   Farm animals as permitted use, see also Resolution 98-0312-01A, passed 3-12-
1998
§ 152.108  SINGLE-FAMILY DISTRICT (FS).
   (A)   Purpose. The single family district, as heroin established, is
intended to be the most restrictive of the residential districts. The intent is
to provide for an environment of predominantly low-density, 1-family detached
dwellings along with other residentially related facilities which serve the
residents in the district. In specific, the intent is:
      (1)   To encourage the construction of, and the continued use of the land
for 1-family dwellings;
      (2)   To prohibit business, commercial or industrial use of the land, and
to prohibit any other use which would substantially interfere with development
or continuation of single-family dwellings in the district;
      (3)   To encourage the discontinuance of existing uses that would not be
permitted as new uses under the provisions of this chapter;
      (4)   To discourage any land use which would generate traffic on minor or
local streets other than normal traffic to serve the residences on those
streets;
      (5)   To discourage any use which, because of its character or size,
would create requirements and costs for public services, such as fire and
police protection, water supply and sewerage, substantially in excess of such
requirements and costs if the district were developed solely for 1-family
dwellings;
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or structure, or part thereof shall be
erected, altered, or used, and no land shall be used except for one or more of
the following:
      (1)   Detached 1-family dwelling;
      (2)   Adult foster care small group home;
      (3)   Adult foster care family home;
      (4)   Family day care home;
      (5)   Foster family home;
      (6)   Foster family group home;
      (7)   Home occupations; and
      (8)   Accessory buildings when located in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Principal uses permittee subject to special conditions. The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with §§
152.130 through
152.136 Site Plan Review, and §§
152.150 through
152.152.
      (1)   Churches;
      (2)   Public, parochial, and private elementary, intermediate and/or high
schools, and institutions of higher learning, offering courses in general
education;
      (3)   Child care facilities;
      (4)   Group day care home;
      (5)   Private noncommercial recreational areas, institutional or
community recreation centers, and nonprofit swimming pool clubs;
      (6)   Public libraries, cemeteries, governmental museums, fire stations
municipal buildings, and essential services;
      (7)   Two-unit dwelling;
      (8)   Temporary residence/structure;
      (9)   General or specialized farming, truck gardening, greenhouses, and
nurseries, provided that no commercial butchering shall be done on the farm
other than of animals raised on the farm. Further, farms devoted to the housing
or breeding of horses, including horse training facilities and other farm
animals including cattle, swine, sheep or goats, shall have a minimum of 10
acres. For parcels having an area of less than 20 acres, the kennels or pens
shall not be closer than 200 feet from all other residences. In cases where
there is no residence on the adjacent parcel, the kennels or pens location
shall be based on the assumption that the residence would be located at the
minimum side yard setback line (see illustration in §
152.105). Farmers are permitted to pasteurize milk from their own farms and
that from not more than three other farms; and
      (10)   Any other use which is determined by the Planning Commission, to
be of the same general character as, and compatible with, the above permitted
uses.
   (D)   Areas and yards.
      (1)   Land area where a building is to be erected, altered or used shall
not be less than 30,000 square feet nor have a width of less than 150 foot
frontage where the property is not serviced and connected to either public
sewer or public water. Where the property is serviced and connected to a public
sewer, but not public water, shall be not less than 17,500 square feet with a
minimum frontage of 100 feet. Where the property is serviced and connected to
both public sewer and public water, the minimum land area shall be 13,500
square feet with a minimum frontage of 100 by depth of 135 feet. In the case of
irregular shaped lots, the minimum frontage may be measured on front building
line rather than the front lot line, but minimum lot areas must be maintained.
      (2)   Front yard setbacks shall be based on the requirements of §
152.100, footnote (a). When 50% percent of the lots arc built upon that block
at the passage of this section the front yard setback shall be the mean average
of the buildings in that block not to exceed 25 feet.
      (3)   Any lot which is less than 150 feet in width shall not be deeper
than 4 times its width.
      (4)   Land areas where a building is to be erected, altered or used for
2-family dwellings shall be not less than 30,000 square feet with not less than
150 feet of frontage.
(Ord. Art. XII, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 404, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 456,
passed 10-10-2013; Am. Ord. 461, passed 8-14-2014)
Local legislation reference:
   Farm animals as permitted use, see also Resolution 98-0312-01A, passed 3-12-
1998
§ 152.109  MULTIPLE-FAMILY DISTRICT (FM).
   (A)   Purpose. The multiple-family residential district is designed to
provide sites for multiple-family dwelling structures, and related uses, which
will generally serve as the zones of transition between lower density 1-family
districts and nonresidential districts. The multiple-family district is further
provided to serve the limited needs for the apartment type of unit in an
otherwise medium density, 1-family community.
   (B)   Uses permitted. No building or structure, or part thereof shall be
erected, altered or used, and no land shall be used except for one or more of
the following:
      (1)   All uses permitted in the FS residential district. The standards
applicable to the FS district shall apply as minimum standards when one-family
detached dwellings are erected.
      (2)   Boarding and lodging house (not over 5 guest rooms).
      (3)   Two-family dwellings.
      (4)   Multiple-family dwellings.
      (5)   Accessory buildings when located in accordance with the
requirements of this section.
   (C)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions. The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with §§
152.130 through
152.136 and §§
152.150 through
152.152.
      (1)   All special condition uses in the FS District.
      (2)   Home for the aged (congregate care facility).
      (3)   Temporary residence/structure.
      (4)   Any other use which is determined by the Planning Commission, to be
of the same general character as, and compatible with, the above permitted
uses.
   (D)   Areas, yards and heights.
      (1)   Land areas where a building is to be erected, altered or used for
two family dwellings shall be not less than 21,000 square feet with not less
than 120 feet of frontage.
      (2)   For multiple dwelling uses, other than those that provide
individual driveways and attached garages such as townhouses, required front
yards shall not be used for vehicular parking or driveways but shall be
maintained as a green yard area. This front yard area may not be used as any
portion of the recreation area required except any portion thereof located more
distant than 25 feet from said edge of the front roadway which may be used in
computing required recreational areas if an open green area and no buildings,
drives or parking area are located thereon.
      (3)   A 10-foot wide green, landscaped area shall be proved around all
multi-family structures, free of streets, other than those that provide
individual driveways and attached garages such as townhouses driveways or
parking areas.
      (4)   No structure containing multi-family dwelling units shall be
located closer than 30 feet from any other structure containing dwelling units.
   (E)   Recreation areas. All lots or parcels used for multiple family
dwellings shall provide usable recreational areas equal to not less than 10% of
the areas occupied by buildings. These recreational areas shall not have any
driveways, parking areas, garages or other structures of any kind situated
thereon, and front yard areas or side yard areas as above described may not be
used in the computation of space for recreational area. No area which is less
than 10 feet in width free from all driveways, parking areas, structures or
sidewalks shall be used in the computation of recreational area.
   (F)   Public improvements required.
      (1)   No multiple family development shall be developed unless all
streets and off street parking areas are paved in accordance with township
standards.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued unless adequate provision is made for
sewer and water for the development.
   (G)   Additional standards and regulations. The following list of references
includes additional standards and regulations applicable to any proposed use in
this district:
      (1)   §
152.100 Schedule of Regulations;
      (2)   §
152.031 Performance Standards;
      (3)   §§
152.065 and
152.067 Off-Street Parking and Loading;
      (4)   §§
152.075 and
152.076 Fences and Walls;
      (5)   §
152.077 Screening of Trash Storage Areas;
      (6)   §
152.078 Landscaping; and
      (7)   §
152.085 Signs.
(Ord. Art. XIII, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 465, passed 8-14-2014)
§ 152.110  MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY DISTRICT (MHC).
   (A)   Intent. 
      (1)   The intent of the Manufactured Housing Community District is to
provide an affordable housing alternative where placement of such a development
would be appropriate and consistent with the general character of the
township.  The standards required in this district are intended to be
consistent with the adopted standards for other types of housing in the
township.  In addition to the standards of this chapter, all manufactured
housing developments shall comply with Michigan Public Act 96 of 1987, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, as amended.  However, some standards of
this chapter are more stringent than the typical standards promoted by the
Michigan Manufactured Housing Commission.  These more stringent standards
reflect the overall nature of Charter Township of Clayton, in contrast with
some other areas of Michigan where the universal rules of the Manufactured
Housing Commission may be appropriate.  These adopted standards are designed to
foster and encourage development which complements and protects the investment
on adjacent properties, and promotes preservation of important natural
features.
      (2)   Since the characteristics, densities and impacts of a manufactured
housing development typically simulate those of multiple-family residential
developments, and because they typically are served by private streets and
utility systems which intercept the local street and utility systems,
manufactured housing parks are not necessarily considered to be completely
compatible with other types of single-family neighborhoods.  Therefore,
manufactured housing developments are intended to serve as a transitional use
between residential and nonresidential districts, similar to the manner and
fashion in which multiple-family districts are to be utilized.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted.  In a Manufactured Housing Community
District, no building, structure or land shall be used, and no building or
structure shall be erected, except for 1 or more of the following specified
uses unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   Manufactured housing developments, which conform to the
requirements of this section, and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) standards, or A.N.S.I standards;
      (2)   Community accessory uses, building and structures, including 1
management office building, utility/laundry buildings, auxiliary storage space
for manufactured housing development tenants, community buildings for use by
the tenants, recreation areas, playgrounds and recycling stations.  All such
accessory uses and structures shall meet the standards provided in this
section.  Swimming pools shall also meet the specific standards listed in
division (E)(19) below;
      (3)   State-licensed adult and childcare facilities in a manufactured
home which are permitted in the single-family zoning districts, subject to the
approval of the development management;
      (4)   Accessory structures on manufactured home sites including decks,
private garages, carports and enclosed or screened storage areas which meet the
standards of this section and the Rules and Regulations promulgated by the
Michigan Manufactured Housing Commission, or its successor;
      (5)   The business of selling new or used manufactured homes in the
development, which are to remain on-site, may be sold by the resident, owner or
a licensed dealer or broker, provided the manufactured housing development
management permits the sale;
      (6)   All electrical, telephone, cable TV and gas lines, located within
the development, as an available service in the park, shall be placed
underground, and shall be subject to the other related definitional and use
provisions of this chapter; and
      (7)   Uses not specifically noted above are prohibited as permitted
principal uses.
   (C)   Special land uses.
      (1)   Schools, school-related facilities, churches, temples and similar
places of worship, connected with the operation of a licensed manufactured
housing development or similar uses not included in this division;
      (2)   Adult and childcare facilities in a manufactured home or community
building which are listed as special land uses in the Single-Family Zoning
Districts, subject to the approval of the development management; and
      (3)   Golf courses.
   (D)   Required conditions.  Manufactured housing developments shall be
subject to the review and approval of a site plan by the Planning Commission. 
The site plan shall consist of a manufactured housing development preliminary
plan, as described in § 11 of the Mobile Home Act, Public Act 96 of 1987, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, as amended.  Such review of the site
plan is required in order to minimize the possibility of adverse effects upon
adjacent property; and furthermore to find proper relationships in the
development features as they relate to traffic safety, service roads,
driveways, parking areas; accessory buildings and uses, and planned open space.
   (E)   Design standards for overall development.
      (1)   Minimum development size.  Manufactured housing developments shall
be at least 15 acres in area, excluding adjacent parcels which may be proposed
for expansion.
      (2)   Access. 
         (a)   The main entrance to the development shall have access to a
public thoroughfare or shall be connected to a paved collector or arterial road
by a hard surfaced road in a permanent easement which shall be recorded by the
developers.  Sole access to the development via an alley is prohibited.
         (b)   Entranceway structures, including but not limited to walls,
columns and gates marking the entrance to a manufactured housing development,
may be permitted, and may be located in a required yard, except as provided in
this division (E).  Such entranceway structures shall be designed to maintain a
Clear Vision Zone as described in division (E)(2)(c) below, to permit
unobstructed access by all emergency equipment,  and the allowance for “clear
vision” shall otherwise comply with all codes and ordinances of the township
and county.  Sight distance from points of ingress and egress shall be approved
by the Genesee County Road Commission.  The structure and roadway location
shall also be approved by the Charter Township of Clayton.
         (c)   The clear vision zone is an unobstructed triangular area
described as follows:  the area formed at the intersection of 2 road right-of-
way lines where the 2 sides of the triangular area are 25 feet long measured
along abutting public rights-of-way lines, and the base of the triangle is a
line connecting the 2 end points of the triangle’s sides; also, the area formed
at the intersection of a road right-of-way line and a driveway where the 2
sides of the triangle are 10 feet long measured along the abutting public
rights-of-way line and the edge of the driveway, and the base of the triangle
is a line connecting the 2 end points of the triangle’s sides.
      (3)   Overall park setback along perimeter.  Manufactured homes shall be
set back at least 50 feet from any public street right-of-way line.  The
setback shall include a minimum 20-foot wide greenbelt, which includes minimum
screening, as outlined in division (E)(4)(b) of this section.
      (4)   Landscaping, screening and ground cover.  A landscape and screening
plan shall be incorporated in the preliminary plans submitted for site plan
review to the Township Planning Commission.  The plan shall indicate the type
and size of landscape planting and screening  improvements to be completed in
the proposed manufactured housing development. Manufactured housing
developments shall be landscaped and screened as follows:
         (a)   Exposed surfaces.  Exposed ground surfaces in all parts of the
manufactured housing development shall be paved or covered with stone or other
solid material or protected with grass, trees or shrubs that are capable of
preventing soil erosion.  The ground surface in all parts of every manufactured
housing development shall be graded and equipped to drain all surface water in
a safe, efficient manner.
            1.   If the manufactured housing development abuts an existing
residential development, the development shall be required to provide a 20-foot
wide greenbelt screening along the development boundary abutting the existing
residential development, as outlined in division (E)(2) of this section.  If
the manufactured housing development abuts a nonresidential development, the
developer need not provide screening.
            2.   In all cases, however, a manufactured housing development
shall provide screening along the park boundary abutting a public right-of-way.
         (b)   Perimeter screening.  All manufactured housing development shall
be screened from existing adjacent residences by either a 6-foot screen wall or
a densely planted landscaped screen.
            1.   Screen wall option.  If provided, screen walls shall be
constructed of masonry material that is constructed of face brick, decorative
block or poured concrete with a simulated brick or stone pattern.  Required
walls shall be placed inside and adjacent to the lot line except where
underground utilities would interfere with the placement of the wall or where
the wall would unreasonably obstruct the use of adjacent property, in which
case the wall may be set back in the manufactured housing development from the
property line a sufficient distance to resolve such concerns.
            2.   Landscape screen option.  The landscaping screening shall
consist of evergreen trees or shrubs and berming of 6 feet in combined height. 
The trees shall be a minimum of 3 feet in  height, at the time of planting, and
which are spaced and/or staggered so they provide a continuous screen at
maturity, consistent with standards set forth in division (E)(3) of this
section.  Slopes for the berm shall not exceed a 4 to 1 slope with a minimum of
a 2-foot flat surface on the top of the berm.  Alternative screening devices,
subject to prior Township Planning Commission approval, may be utilized if they
conceal the manufactured housing development as effectively as the required
landscaping described above, and provided the alternative screening is kept in
good repair.
         (c)   Landscaping adjacent to road.  A landscaped berm measuring 2-1/
2 to 3 feet in height shall be constructed along the public roads on which the
manufactured housing development  fronts.  The berm shall be constructed with
slopes no steeper than 1 foot vertical rise for each 4 feet horizontal run. 
Landscaping adjacent to the road shall comply with the following requirements,
consistent with landscaping required for other types of development in Clayton
Township.
 
Size               Type                          Requirements
                   Deciduous street tree (such   One per 40 lineal feet of road
2-3 inches caliper as red or Norway maple,       frontage
                   linden)
18-24 inches       Deciduous or evergreen shrubs One per 3 lineal feet of road
                                                 frontage
5 feet             Evergreen trees               One per 40 lineal feet of road
                                                 frontage
 
         (d)   Site landscaping.  A minimum of 1 deciduous or evergreen tree
shall be planted per 2 manufactured home sites.
         (e)   Parking lot landscaping.  Off-street parking lots containing
more than 15 spaces shall be provided with at least 10 square feet of interior
parking lot landscaping per space.  Such areas shall measure at least 150
square feet and shall be covered by grass, ground cover, shrubs or other live
plant material.  At least 1 deciduous tree shall be planted per parking lot
landscaped area.
         (f)   Perpetual maintenance.  Dead, damaged and/or diseased screening
shall be replaced, within a reasonable time frame, so as to maintain the
approved and/or allowed screening technique originally put in place.
      (5)   Required open recreation space.  A minimum of 2% of the
development’s gross acreage shall be dedicated to well drained, useable open
space, provided that a minimum of 25,000 square feet of open space shall be
provided.  This open space may be developed with appropriate recreational
facilities and play equipment.  The location, shape and development plan for
the recreational area shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission, but in no case shall any required open space area be longer than
1.5 times its width.  At least half of the open space area shall be graded,
developed and sodded to provide recreation for the residents of the
manufactured housing development.  Open space shall be maintained by the
manufactured housing development management, and shall be relatively accessible
to all areas of the development.
      (6)   Street layout.  Maximum cul-de-sac length shall be 1,000 feet.  A
dead-end road shall terminate with an adequate turning area which is to be
approved by the local fire authorities.  A blunt-end road is prohibited. 
Adequate sight distance shall be provided at all intersections, in accordance
with clear vision standards applicable to all areas of the township, and those
set forth in division (E)(2)(c) above.
      (7)   Street width.  Streets or drives within the manufactured housing
development shall be constructed to in accordance with the general standards
set forth by the Manufactured Housing Commission.  In addition, 2-way
circulation shall be required, with a minimum width of 21 feet with no on-
street parking, 31 feet where parallel parking is permitted on 1 side and 41
feet where parallel parking is permitted on both sides.  Streets not permitting
parking shall be clearly marked or signed.
      (8)   Street names/signs.  All streets and roads shall be clearly marked
with appropriate identification and traffic-control signs.  For the protection
of the public safety, an orderly street name system and numbering system shall
be established by the manufactured housing development owner and a plan of this
system shall be verified and approved by the Township Fire Department. 
Manufactured home space numbers shall be located uniformly on each space,
manufactured home unit or identification marker throughout the manufactured
housing development, and street names shall be adequately marked.
      (9)   Street geometry.  The alignment and gradient of a street shall be
graded for its full width to drain surface water.  Specific standards
promulgated by MDEQ for the Manufactured Housing Commission shall be strictly
adhered to.
      (10)   Street materials.  All streets and drives shall be constructed
with materials suitable for subgrades and hard surface in compliance with the
standards of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials, adopted herein by reference.  Curbing may be installed on service
drives.  The development roadways shall be constructed as follows:
         (a)   Streets shall be crowned with drainage directed to gutters or
outside edges;
         (b)   Centerline drainage shall be prohibited;
         (c)   Curbing shall be concrete, if used;
         (d)   If integral valley curbing and gutter or mountable curb and
gutter is used, the height of the curb measured from the gutter line shall be
between 3 and 5 inches; and
         (e)   Crosswalks shall conform to Public Act 8 of 1973, being M.C.L.A.
§ 125.1361.
      (11)   Sidewalks. A 5-foot wide concrete sidewalk shall be constructed
along the public road(s) on which the manufactured housing development fronts. 
The sidewalk shall be located within the road right-of-way or easement,
beginning 1 foot inside the right-of-way or easement line.  Additionally,
should the developer choose to employ internal sidewalk systems, the sidewalk
systems shall conform to the Manufactured Housing Commission standards, as
promulgated.   
      (12)   Accessory buildings and facilities.  Any accessory buildings and
facilities constructed within the manufactured housing development shall be
designated and serviced consistent with the following requirements:
         (a)   Accessory buildings and structures, including development
management offices and public works facilities, storage building, laundry
facilities, recreation or community facilities, and other accessory facilities,
shall be designed and operated for use by only residents, guests and employees
of the manufactured housing development.
         (b)   Site-built buildings within a manufactured housing development
shall be constructed in compliance with the Charter Township of Clayton
Building Code and shall require all applicable permits.  Any addition to a
manufactured housing unit that does not comply with the standards of the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development for manufactured homes shall comply
with the Charter Township of Clayton Building Codes.  Site plan approval shall
be required prior to construction of any on-site building within a manufactured
home development, except for storage sheds or garages for individual
manufactured homes.  Storage sheds and garages shall require a building permit
from the township prior to construction.
         (c)   Each manufactured home shall be permitted 1 storage shed and 1
garage.  The installation of any such shed or garage shall comply with codes
and ordinances of Charter Township of Clayton and shall require a building
permit.  Storage underneath a manufactured home or unscreened outdoor storage
on any manufactured home site is prohibited.  Storage sheds need not be
supplied by the owner of the manufactured housing development.  A storage shed
shall not exceed a floor area greater than 144 square feet.  A carport or
garage shall not exceed 576 square feet.
      (13)   Building height.  Maximum height of any community accessory
buildings and structures shall be 30 feet.
      (14)   Storage.  If the owner of the manufactured housing development
shall permit storage of boats, motorcycles, recreation vehicles and similar
equipment in the manufactured housing development, common areas for the storage
of that equipment shall be provided by the owner within the development.  Such
storage shall be limited to use only by residents of the manufactured housing
development.  If proposed, the location of such storage areas shall be shown on
the preliminary site plan.  No part of any such storage area shall be located
in a required yard on the perimeter of the manufactured housing development. 
The storage area shall be screened from view from existing residences adjacent
to the manufactured housing development in accordance with the screening
provisions described in division (E)(4) above.  Manufactured housing
development owners who prohibit storage of boats, off-the-road motorcycles,
recreation vehicles and similar equipment are not required to construct common
areas for storage.
      (15)   Drainage.  The manufactured housing development shall provide
sufficient stormwater facilities, independent of sanitary sewers, to prevent
flooding of streets, lot or recreation areas.  On-site stormwater detention
facilities, if provided, may be required to be fenced for safety reasons.  The
street drainage system shall be designed in such a way so as to minimize
ponding and icing conditions.  All stormwater drainage improvements shall be
subject to review and approval by the Genesee County Drain Commissioner, the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, in accordance with MDEQ
Manufactured Home Park Standards, pursuant to Public Act 96 of 1987, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 through 125.2350, as amended.
      (16)   Waste receptacles.  Waste receptacles shall be provided unless
curbside pickup is provided.  An on-site recycling station for residents may be
provided at a location approved by the Planning Commission and the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality.  Adequate screening shall be provided, as
required for the placement of outdoor storage areas.
      (17)   Underground wiring.  All local distribution lines for franchised
utilities (telephones, electric service, cable television) shall be placed
entirely underground throughout the manufactured housing development area. 
Mainlines and perimeter feed lines located on a Section or Quarter Section Line
may be above ground if they are configured or installed within the State
Electrical Code guidelines.  Conduits or cables shall be placed within private
easements provided to the service companies by the proprietor and/or developer
or within public ways.  Those telephones and electrical facilities placed in
dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other
underground utilities.  All telephones and electrical facilities shall be
constructed in accordance with standards of construction approved by the
Michigan Public Service Commission.
      (18)   Mailbox clusters.  The United States Postal Service may require
that manufactured housing development be served by clusters of mailboxes
servicing several sites rather than individual mailboxes serving individual
sites.  If mailbox clusters are required, they shall be located at least 200
feet from any intersection of an manufactured housing development road with a
public road.
      (19)   Swimming pool.
         (a)   Definition.  SWIMMING POOL shall mean any permanent, nonportable
structure or container located either above or below grade designed to allow
holding of water to a depth of greater than 24 inches, intended for swimming,
bathing or relaxation.  The definition includes spa, hot tubs and similar
devices. 
         (b)   Requirement for fence.  A fence or similar enclosure shall be
erected and maintained around any swimming pool.  The fence or enclosure shall
be constructed of durable, weather resistant wood and/or chain link material
and shall be approved by the Township Building Department and the manufactured
housing development management. 
         (c)   Setback.  A swimming pool fence shall not be closer than 25 feet
to any occupied dwelling if placed on a residential lot.
         (d)   Restriction from front yard.  Freestanding swimming pools, spas,
hot tubs and similar devices shall not be located between any home and roadway.
         (e)   Surrounding walk.  All community swimming pools shall be
surrounded by a slip- resistant walk, at least 4 feet wide.
         (f)   Permits.  Permits shall be applied for and issued from the
Township Building Department and State Health Department prior to excavation or
construction of any swimming pool requiring a fence as noted in divisions (19)
(a) and (b) above.  The application shall be accompanied by a complete set of
plans and specifications.  A final inspection and approval from the Township
Building Department must be obtained prior to use of the swimming pool.
      (20)   School bus stops.  School bus stops shall be located in an area
that is acceptable to the school district and the manufactured housing
development developer.
   (F)   Design standards for individual lots/dwelling units.  No manufactured
home or mobile home shall be permitted to occupy any site or lot in the
manufactured housing development if the home is either longer or wider than
would permit compliance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Site size.  The manufactured home development shall be developed
with sites averaging 5,500 square feet per manufactured home unit.  This 5,500
square feet for any 1 site may be reduced by up to 20%, provided that the
individual site shall be equal to at least 4,400 square feet.  For each square
foot of land gained through the reduction of a site below 5,500 square feet, at
least an equal amount of land shall be dedicated as open space.  This open
space shall be in addition to that required under R125.1946, Rule 946 and
R125.1941 and R125.1944, Rules 941 and 944 of the Michigan Administrative Code.
      (2)   Setbacks and spacing.  Each manufactured home site shall have the
following yard requirements:
         (a)   For a home not sited parallel to an internal road, 20 feet from
any part of an attached structure of an adjacent home that is used for living
purposes;
         (b)   For a home sited parallel to an internal road, 15 feet from any
part of an attached structure of an adjacent home that is used for living
purposes if the adjacent home is sited next to a home on the same internal road
or an intersecting internal road;
         (c)   Ten feet from any attached or detached accessory structure of an
adjacent manufactured home;
         (d)   Fifty feet from any permanent building;
         (e)   One hundred feet from any baseball, softball or similar
recreational field;
         (f)   Ten feet from the edge of an internal road, provided that the
road is not dedicated to the public.  Manufactured homes and other structures
in the MHC District shall be set back from the right-of-way line of a dedicated
public road within the manufactured housing development, in compliance with
Genesee County Road Commission requirements and standards;
         (g)   Seven feet from any parking bay;
         (h)   Seven feet from a common sidewalk;
         (i)   All manufactured homes, accessory buildings and parking shall be
set back not less than 20 feet from any manufactured housing development
boundary line, except that a minimum setback of 50 feet shall be provided from
existing right-of-way lines of abutting streets and highways; and
         (j)   Fifty feet from the edge of any railroad right-of-way.
      (3)   Maximum height.  The maximum height of a manufactured home shall be
1 story or 25 feet.  However, storage sheds shall not exceed 1 story or the
height of the manufactured home they are intended to serve.
      (4)   Water meters.  If connected to a municipal water system, a
manufactured housing development master meter shall be required and individual
site metering may be utilized.
      (5)   Storage areas.  No personal property shall be stored outside, under
any manufactured home, or within carports which are open on any side.  Storage
sheds with a maximum area of 144 square feet may be placed on any individual
manufactured home site.
      (6)   Standards for accessory structures.  All accessory structures on a
lot or site shall meet the following:
         (a)   Accessory buildings or structures shall not be permitted in the
front yard of any site (that is, they must be placed behind the front building
line);
         (b)   Attached accessory buildings and structures shall consist of
materials similar to the principal building and shall be approved by
management;
         (c)   All detached accessory buildings shall be at least 10 feet from
an adjacent residential unit;
         (d)   All accessory buildings and structures shall require a permit
issued by the township and shall be secured and anchored; and
         (e)   Sheds and other detached structures shall be anchored.
      (7)   Parking.
         (a)   Each residential unit shall have a minimum of 2 on- or off-
street parking spaces which do not block circulation along sidewalks.
         (b)   In addition, a minimum of 1 parking space for every 3
manufactured home sites shall be provided for visitor parking located
convenient to the area served.  Visitor parking spaces shall be counted and
designated separately from all other parking spaces, including those spaces
required for employees and any community facility.
         (c)   In addition, parking in an amount determined by the Planning
Commission, consistent with other zoning regulations which apply to public
access buildings in Charter Township of Clayton shall be provided adjacent to
any community buildings recreational facilities or office/maintenance
buildings.
      (8)   Vehicle repair/inoperative vehicle storage.  No major vehicular
repair, changing of oil or use of other potentially hazardous materials or
procedures is permitted within the development.  Further, no vehicles which are
inoperative for a period of 72 consecutive hours shall be stored and/or remain
in any outdoor area associated with the developed property.
   (G)   Review standards.  The Planning Commission shall consider the
following when reviewing a rezoning application for a manufactured housing
development:
      (1)   Whether the proposed development meets the design standards of this
section and the Rules of the Michigan Manufactured Housing Commission;
      (2)   Whether the proposed development is adequately served by public,
municipally maintained and operated infrastructure systems for sanitary sewer
and drinking water;
      (3)   The township may require the submission of a traffic impact study,
if the expected traffic would have a perceived adverse impact on the roadway
system and/or the surrounding areas.
      (4)   Whether there is a demonstrated and documented regional and/or
township demand for additional manufactured housing, taking into account such
things as occupancy/vacancy rates in the parks located in Genesee County; the
possibility for expansion of an existing park; and parks and pads under
construction and/or expansion.
(Ord. Art. XIV, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 382, passed 11-12-1998)
§ 152.111  OFFICE DISTRICT (O).
   (A)   Purpose.  The Office (O) District is intended to provide locations of
the low-intensity, office- type professional and administrative services
necessary for the normal conduct of a community’s activities.  These districts
have the following characteristics:  allowable activities take place in
attractive buildings in landscaped settings; they generally operate during
normal daytime business hours; they produce a minimum amount of traffic; and
their use characteristics make them compatible with adjacent residential uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted.  No building or structure, or part thereof shall be
erected, altered or used, and no land shall be used except for 1 or more of the
following:
      (1)   Office buildings for any of the following occupations:  executive,
administrative, professional, occupations such as real estate, insurance,
engineering and the like;
      (2)   Medical and dental offices, including clinics;
      (3)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, and similar
uses; drive-in facilities as an accessory use only;
      (4)   Personal services such as barber or beauty parlors, photographic
studios and the like;
      (5)   Other uses similar to the above uses; or
      (6)   Accessory structures when located in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions.  The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with Section 16(b) of
the Township Rural Zoning Act, as amended, and §§
152.130,
152.131 and
152.150 through
152.152.
      (1)   Additional parking areas as may be required in any commercial
district for customers and employees;
      (2)   Churches and governmental offices;
   (D)   General regulations.
      (1)   The outdoor storage of goods or material shall be prohibited.
      (2)   Any exterior signs must be related to the retail establishment and
must be affixed to the building and must not block the view of adjacent
properties.
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements.  See §
152.100, limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lots,
yards, setbacks and maximum density permitted by land use.
(Ord. Art. XV, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.112  LOCAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (LC).
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   The LC Local Commercial District, as herein established, is
designed to meet the day-to- day convenience shopping and service needs of
persons residing in adjacent residential areas and to encourage the planned
concentration of such activities in locations where analysis of the residential
population within a radius of generally 1 mile demonstrates a need for such a
facility.
      (2)   The following regulations shall apply in all LC districts.
Buildings, structures or premises, except as otherwise provided in this
section, shall not be erected, altered or used except for 1 or more of the
specified uses. Site plan review, as defined in §§
152.131 through
152.136, shall be required for all uses in the LC District.
   (B)   Uses permitted.  No building or structure, or part thereof shall be
erected, altered or used, and no land shall be used except for 1 or more of the
following:
      (1)   Any use permitted in the Office District (O);
      (2)   Generally recognized retail businesses which supply commodities on
the premises, such as but not limited to: groceries, meats, dairy products,
baked goods or other foods, pharmaceutical, dry goods, clothing and notions or
hardware;
      (3)   Any service establishment of an office, showroom or workshop nature
such as  electrician, decorator, dressmaker, tailor, baker, painter,
upholsterer or an establishment doing radio or home appliance repair,
photographic reproduction, and similar service establishments that require a
retail adjunct;
      (4)   Standard restaurants;
      (5)   Laundry or cleaning agency or pick-up store;
      (6)   Mortuary or funeral parlors;
      (7)   Private schools, music conservatory; and
      (8)   Antique shop, selling or offering for sale articles predominantly
over 25  years old, entirely within a completely enclosed building.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. Buildings, structures, and uses customarily
accessory to any permitted principal uses shall be permitted as approved during
site plan review, in accordance with this section.
   (D)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions.  The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with §§
152.130 Site Development,
152.131 through
152.136 Site Plan Review, and
152.150 through
152.152 Special Condition Uses.
      (1)   All special condition uses in the Office District (O);
      (2)   Ice delivery station and ice storage of not over 5 ton capacity;
      (3)   Hospitals;
      (4)   Convalescent homes;
      (5)   Private clubs, fraternal organizations and lodge halls;
      (6)   Veterinary clinics, including indoor boarding facilities only;
      (7)   Dancing studios; and
      (8)   Temporary outdoor sales. Grand openings, tent sales, special sales
or special events may be permitted and shall be subject to the following
conditions and considerations:
         (a)   The use shall be temporary. A permit for the temporary sales may
be ratified for a period not to exceed 14 days. A permit shall not be issued
more than 2 times per year for any 1 business.
         (b)   All merchandise offered for sale shall be a products(s) normally
offered or sold by the principal business or occupant of the subject business.
      (9)   Storage facilities for building materials, sand, gravel, stone,
lumber and storage of contractor’s equipment and supplies, provided such is
enclosed within a building or within an obscuring wall or fence on those sides
abutting all residential or commercial districts, and on any yard abutting a
public thoroughfare.
      (10)   Automobile service station.
      (11)   Uses of the same nature or class as uses listed in this district
as either a permitted principla use or a special land use as determined by the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   General regulations.
      (1)   Merchandise may be displayed or stored up to the minimum front and
side setback lines but not on public property.
      (2)   Warehouse or indoor storage of goods and materials, beyond that
normally incident to the above permitted uses, shall be prohibited.
   (F)   Additional standards and regulations. The following list of references
includes additional standards and regulations applicable to any proposed use in
this district:
      (1)   Section
152.100 Schedule of Regulations;
      (2)   Section
152.031 Performance Standards;
      (3)   Section
152.065 and
152.067 Off-street Parking and loading;
      (4)   Section
152.075 and
152.076 Fences and Walls;
      (5)   Section
152.077 Screening of Trash Storage Areas;
      (6)   Section
152.078 Landscaping; and
      (7)   Section
152.085 Signs.
(Ord. Art. XVI, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 457, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 152.113  GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT (GC).
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)    The GC General Commercial District, is designed to provide sites
for more diversified business types which would often be incompatible with the
pedestrian movement in the Local Commercial District and which are oriented to
serving the needs of “passer-by” traffic.  Many of the business types permitted
also generate greater volumes of traffic and activities which must be specially
considered to minimize adverse effects on adjacent properties.
      (2)   The following regulation shall apply in all GC districts.
Buildings, structures or premises, except as otherwise provided in this
section, shall not be erected, altered or used except for 1 or more of the
specified uses. Site plan review, as defined in §§
152.131 through
152.136, shall be required for all uses in the GC District.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted.  No building or structure or part thereof
shall be altered or used, and no land shall be used except for 1 or more of the
following:
      (1)   Any uses permitted in Office District (O) or Local Commercial
District (LC), including small local service shopping centers and malls;
      (2)   Catering halls and/or establishments;
      (3)   Pet shops or taxidermist;
      (4)   Veterinary clinics, including indoor boarding facilities only;
      (5)   Printing, lithographing, publishing, blueprinting;
      (6)   Public parking area for compensation;
      (7)   Sign painting shop, within building;
      (8)   Motels and hotels subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Each unit shall contain not less than 250 square feet of floor
area; and
         (b)   No guest shall establish permanent residence at a motel for more
than 30 days within any calendar year.
      (9)   Health and racquet clubs;
      (10)   Mini-warehouses subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   All storage of goods and materials shall be enclosed within a
building; and
         (b)   At no time are any dangerous or hazardous materials to be
stored.
   (C)   Permitted accessory uses. Buildings, structures, and uses customarily
accessory to any permitted principal uses shall be permitted as approved during
site plan review, in accordance with this section.
   (D)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions.  The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with §§
152.130 Site Development,
152.131 through
152.136 Site Plan Review, and
152.150 through
152.152 Special Condition Uses.
      (1)   All special condition uses permitted in the Office District (O) or
Local Commercial (LC) District;
      (2)   Express office;
      (3)   Farm implement, feed and fuel sales lots and stores;
      (4)   Pawn shops;
      (5)   Auto wash when completely enclosed in a building;
      (6)   New and used car/or other vehicle salesroom, showroom or office,
including outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of new or secondhand
automobiles, mobile homes, or rental of automobiles, all subject to the
following:
         (a)   The lot or area shall be provided with a permanent, durable and
hard surface, and drained as to dispose of all surface water accumulated within
the area;
         (b)   Access to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60 feet from
the intersection of any 2 streets;
         (c)   All major repair or major refinishing shall be done in an
enclosed building; and
         (d)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential
districts.
      (7)   Business in the character of a drive-in/drive-through restaurant or
open front store, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   A setback of at least 60 feet from the right-of-way line of any
existing or proposed street must be maintained;
         (b)   Access points shall be located at least 60 feet from the
intersection of any 2 streets; and
         (c)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential
districts.
      (8)   Gasoline and automobile service stations for the sale of gasoline,
oil and minor accessories only, and auto repair;
      (9)   Radio or television broadcasting or recording studio and/or
transmission station;
      (10)   Cleaning establishment using not over 2 cleaning units, neither of
which shall be rated more than 40-pound capacity and using cleaning fluid of
nonexplosive and nonflammable nature at temperatures below 138ºF;
      (11)   Amusement enterprises, bowling alleys, pool halls, boxing arena,
dance hall or theater, when conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building;
      (12)   Public auditoriums;
      (13)   Golf driving ranges;
      (14)   Stadiums, skating arenas;
      (15)   Unattended relay transmission towers such as cellular telephone
towers;
      (16)   Temporary outdoor sales. Grand openings, tent sales, special sales
or special events may be permitted and shall be subject to the following
conditions and considerations:
         (a)   The use shall be temporary. A permit for the temporary sales may
be granted for a period not to exceed 14 days. A permit shall not be issued
more than 2 times per year for any 1 business.
         (b)   All merchandise offered for sale shall be a products(s) normally
offered or sold by the principal business or occupant of the subject business.
      (17)   Public parking areas for compensation, and the open storage of
vehicles, including recreational vehicles and boats.
      (18)   Medical marijuana dispensary, provided that the dispensary that
stores and sells or dispenses medical marijuana shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the subject
property, of any other medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana club,
compassion club, or medical marijuana growing facility;
         (b)   Within 250 feet, as measured from the nearest point of the
building or tenant space in which the medical marijuana dispensary is located
to the nearest point of the closest home in any residential district
surrounding the property where the medical marijuana dispensary is located;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the
subject property, of any school, nursery, licensed day care center or other
building used for the care or instruction of children under 18 years of age;
         (d)   Within 500 feet, as measured from the nearest point of the
building or tenant space in which the medical marijuana dispensary is located
to the nearest point of any church, house of worship, or other religious
facility or institution surrounding the property where the medical marijuana
dispensary is located;
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the
subject property, of any public or municipal park; and
         (f)   A medical marijuana dispensary shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §§ 151.131 through 151.134 of this code for site
plan review.
      (19)   Medical marijuana club (compassion club), provided that the club
shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 500 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the subject
property, of any other medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana club,
compassion club, or medical marijuana growing facility;
         (b)   Within 250 feet, as measured from the nearest point of the
building or tenant space in which the medical marijuana club is located to the
nearest point of the closest home in any residential district surrounding the
property where the medical marijuana club is located;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the
subject property, of any school, nursery, licensed day care center or other
building used for the care or instruction of children under 18 years of age;
         (d)   Within 500 feet, as measured from the nearest point of the
building or tenant space in which the medical marijuana club is located to the
nearest point of any church, house of worship, or other religious facility or
institution surrounding the property where the medical marijuana club is
located;
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the
subject property, of any public or municipal park; and
         (f)   A medical marijuana dispensary shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §§ 151.131 through 151.134 of this code for site
plan review.
      (20)   Medical marijuana growing facility that does not sell or dispense
medical marijuan to qualifying patient shall not be permitted:
         (a)   Within 1,00 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the subject
property, of any other medical marijuana dispensary, medical marijuana club,
compassion club, or medical marijuana growing facility;
         (b)   Within 250 feet, as measured from the nearest point of the
building or tenant space in which the medical marijuana growing facility is
located to the nearest point of the closest home in any residential district
surrounding the property where the medical marijuana club is located;
         (c)   Within 1,000 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the
subject property, of any school, nursery, licensed day care center or other
building used for the care or instruction of children under 18 years of age;
         (d)   Within 500 feet, as measured from the nearest point of the
building or tenant space in which the medical marijuana growing facility is
located to the nearest point of any church, house of worship, or other
religious facility or institution surrounding the property where the medical
marijuana club is located;
         (e)   Within 1,000 feet, as measured from the boundaries of the
subject property, of any public or municipal park; and
         (f)   A medical marijuana growing facility shall be subject to all
requirements as set forth in §§ 151.131 through 151.134 of this code for site
plan review.
      (21)   Warehousing and wholesale establishments, and trucking facilities;
provided all products are enclosed within a building.
      (22)   Retail uses which have an industrial character in terms of either
their outdoor storage requirements or activities (such as, but not limited to:
lumber yard, building materials outlet, outdoor sales of boats, house trailers,
or agricultural implements) or serve convenience needs (such as, but not
limited to: eating and drinking establishments, bank, savings and loan
association, credit union, motel or bowling alley, trade or industrial school
or industrial clinic).
      (23)   Open air display area for the sale of manufactured products, such
as similar to garden furniture, earthenware, hardware items or nursery stock,
flea market or the rental of manufactured products or equipment such as
household equipment, small tools, trailers, and similar products and equipment.
      (24)   Uses of the same nature or class as uses listed in this district
as either a permitted principal use or a special land use as determined by the
Planning Commission.
   (E)   Additional standards and regulations. The following list of references
includes additional standards and regulations applicable to any proposed use in
this district:
      (1)   Section
152.100 Schedule of Regulations;
      (2)   Section
152.031 Performance Standards;
      (3)   Section
152.065 and
152.067 Off-Street Parking and Loading;
      (4)   Section
152.075 and
152.076 Fences and Walls;
      (5)   Section
152.077 Screening of Trash Storage Areas;
      (6)   Section
152.078 Landscaping; and
      (7)   Section
152.085 Signs.
(Ord. Art. XVII, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 439, passed 11-10-2011; Am. Ord.
458, passed 2-13-2014)
§ 152.114  INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT (M-1).
   (A)   Purpose.  The M-1 Industrial District is designed so as to primarily
accommodate a mix of light and heavy industrial uses including wholesale
activities, warehouses, manufacturing, fabrication assembly and industrial
operations whose external, physical effects are restricted to the area of the
district and in no manner affect in a detrimental way any of the surrounding
districts.  The M-l District is so structured as to permit, along with any
specified uses, the manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, assembly
and/or treatment of finished or semi-finished products from previously prepared
material.  It is further intended that the processing of raw material for
shipment in bulk form, to be used in an industrial operation at another
location, not be permitted without adequate safeguards for the surrounding
areas.
   (B)   Uses permitted.  In an M-1 Industrial District, no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be erected except for 1 or more of the
following specified uses unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (1)   Any use charged with the principal function of basic research,
design and pilot or experimental product development when conducted within a
completely enclosed building;
      (2)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
products such as but not limited to:  bakery goods, candy, cosmetics,
pharmaceuticals, toiletries, food products, hardware and cutlery, tool, die,
gauge and machine shops;
      (3)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles
or merchandise from previously prepared materials: bone, canvas, cellophane,
cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fibre, fur, glass, hair, horn, leather, paper,
rubber, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, sheet metal, shell,
textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood and yarns;
      (4)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
      (5)   Manufacture or assembly of musical instruments, toys, rubber
products, electrical appliances, light sheet metal products, signs or similar
products;
      (6)   Tool and die shops; metal working machine shops involving the use
of grinding or cutting tools, such as manufacturing tools, dies, jigs and
fixtures; publishing, printing or forming of box, carton and cardboard
products;
      (7)   Central dry cleaning plants or laundries, provided that the plants
shall not deal directly with consumer at retail;
      (8)   All public utilities, including buildings, necessary structures,
storage yards and other related uses;
      (9)   Mini-storage facilities provided that all parking and storage areas
within the site have a paved surface;
      (10)   All types of race tracks including horse, automobile and so-called
“go-cart” tracks, provided that no race track shall be operated or maintained
on any parcel of land of less than 20 acres, no part of which parcel shall be
within 1,000 feet of any residential structure existing prior to the
commencement of construction of the race track facilities;
      (11)   Other uses similar to the above uses; and
      (12)   Accessory structures when located in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Principal uses permitted subject to special conditions.  The following
special condition uses shall be permitted subject to review and approval by the
Planning Commission and Township Board, and further subject to any and all
reasonable conditions which may be imposed in accordance with § 16(b) of the
Township Rural Zoning Act, as amended, and §§
152.130,
152.131 and
152.150 through
152.152.
      (1)   Warehousing and wholesale establishments, and trucking facilities,
provided all products are enclosed within a building;
      (2)   Warehouse, storage and transfer and electric and gas service
buildings and yards; public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings,
electrical transformer stations and substations, and gas regulator stations;
water supply and sewage disposal plants; water and gas tank holders; railroad
transfer and storage tracks; railroad rights-of-way; and freight terminals;
      (3)   Storage facilities for building materials, sand, gravel, stone,
lumber and storage of contractor’s equipment and supplies, provided such is
enclosed within a building or within an obscuring wall or fence on those sides
abutting all residential or commercial districts, and on any yard abutting a
public thoroughfare;
      (4)   Retail uses which have an industrial character in terms of either
their outdoor storage requirements or activities (such as but not limited to
lumber yard, building materials outlet, outdoor sales of boats, house trailers,
automobile garages or agricultural implements) or serve convenience needs of
the industrial district (such as but not limited to eating and drinking
establishments, bank, savings and loan association, credit union, automobile
service stations, motel or bowling alley, trade or industrial school or
industrial clinic);
      (5)   Amusement enterprises, including but not limited to merry-go-
rounds, arcades, go-cart tracks, pony riding ring, ferris wheel and similar
uses;
      (6)   Open air display area for the sale of manufactured products, such
as similar to garden furniture, earthenware, hardware items or nursery stock,
flea market or the rental of manufactured products or equipment, such as
household equipment, small tools, trailers, and similar products and equipment;
      (7)   Restaurants and cafeteria facilities for employees;
      (8)   Business and technical schools which provide education in skills
which are commonly used in industrial districts, such as schools for the
training of engineering technicians, machine operators and vehicle mechanics;
      (9)   The assembly and/or manufacture of automobiles, automobile bodies,
parts and accessories, and similar products;
      (10)   Manufacture of corrosive acid or alkali, cement, lime, gypsum or
plaster of paris, brick, chemicals, plastic, asphalt or similar compounds;
      (11)   Petroleum or other inflammable liquids, production, refining or
storage; including well sites;
      (12)   Heating and electric power generating plants;
      (13)   Any of the following production or manufacturing uses (not
including storage of finished products) provided that they are located not less
than 800 feet distant from any residential district and not less than 300 feet
distant from any other district:
         (a)   Junkyards, provided they are entirely enclosed within a building
or within an 8-foot obscuring wall and provided further that 1 property line
abuts a railroad right-of-way;
         (b)   Incineration of garbage or refuse when conducted within an
approved and enclosed incinerator plant;  and
         (c)   Blast furnace, steel furnace, blooming or rolling mill.
      (14)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles
or merchandise from previously prepared materials:  elastomers, plastics or
other toxic material;
      (15)   Breweries, bump shops, distilleries, machine shops, metal buffing,
plastering and polishing shops, metal and plastic molding and extrusion shops,
millwork lumber and planing mills, painting and varnishing shops; and
      (16)   Adult book or supply stores, adult motion picture theaters, adult
live stage performing theaters, adult outdoor motion picture theaters, group A
cabarets, and massage parlors or massage establishments.
         (a)   In the development and execution of this chapter and this
section, it is recognized that there are certain uses which, because of their
very nature, have serious objectionable characteristics, particularly when
several of them are concentrated under certain circumstances, thereby having a
deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas.  The special regulations in this
section are intended to prevent a concentration of these uses in any 1 area, so
as to prevent the blighting, deterioration or downgrading of an area.  The
following requirements are intended to accomplish these purposes:
            1.   The establishment of the types of adult regulated uses listed
below shall be prohibited if the establishment of that use will constitute the
second such use within a 1,500 foot radius (that is, not more than 1 such
establishment within 1,500 feet of another such establishment).  The distance
between uses shall be measured between the nearest property lines.
               a.   Adult book or supply stores;
               b.   Adult motion picture theaters;
               c.   Adult motion picture arcade;
               d.   Adult motel;
               e.   Adult model studio;
               f.   Adult live stage performing theaters;
               g.   Adult outdoor motion picture theaters;
               h.   Group A cabarets;  and
               i.   Massage parlors or massage establishments.
            2.   It shall be unlawful to hereafter establish any adult
regulated use if the proposed regulated use will be within a 1,500 foot radius
of the following.  The distance between uses shall be measured between the
nearest property lines:
               a.   Any Class C establishment licensed by the Michigan Liquor
Control Commission;
               b.   Pool or billiard halls;
               c.   Coin-operated amusement centers;
               d.   Disco or dance centers which typically cater to teens;
               e.   Ice or roller skating rinks;
               f.   Pawn shops;
               g.   Indoor or drive-in movie theaters;
               h.   Public and private parks, playgrounds or other recreation
uses;
               i.   Churches, convents, monasteries, synagogues or similar
religious institutions;
               j.   Daycare centers or nurseries;
               k.   Any public, private or parochial nursery, primary or
secondary school, and all school bus stops; and
               l.   Any residentially zoned land in the Charter Township of
Clayton, including land that is zoned RA, RSF, RE, FS, FM or MHC.
            3.   The building and premises shall be designed and constructed so
that material depicting, describing or relating to specified anatomical areas
(as defined in this chapter) cannot be observed by pedestrians or from vehicles
on any public right-of-way.  This provision shall apply to any display,
decoration, sign, show window or other opening.
            4.   There shall be absolute and strict compliance with the
township adult entertainment use ordinance, relating to licensing and other
matters.
         (b)   For adult regulated uses as used in this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply:
            1.   ADULT BOOK OR SUPPLY STORE.  An establishment having 10% or
more of usable interior, retail, wholesale or warehouse space devoted to the
distribution, display, storage of books, magazines and other periodicals and/or
photographs, drawings, slides, films, video tapes, recording tapes and/or
novelty items which are distinguished or characterized by their emphasis on
matters depicting, describing or relating to specific sexual activity or
specified anatomical areas (as defined herein) or an establishment with a
segment section devoted to the sale or display of such material in an
establishment which is customarily open to the public generally, excluding
minors by reason of age.
            2.   ADULT MODEL STUDIO. Any place where models who display
specified anatomical areas (as defined herein) are present to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
persons who pay some form of consideration or gratuity.  This definition shall
not apply to any bonafide art school or similar educational institution.
            3.   ADULT MOTEL.  A motel wherein visual displays, graphic
materials, or activities are presented which depict, describe, or relate to
specified sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (as defined herein).
            4.   ADULT MOTION PICTURE ARCADE.  Any place where motion picture
machines, projectors, or other image producing devices are maintained to show
images to 5 or fewer persons per machine at any 1 time, and where the images
displayed depict, describe or relate to specified sexual activities or
specified anatomical areas.
            5.   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER OR ADULT LIVE STAGE PERFORMING
THEATER. An enclosed building used for presenting material distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
specific sexual activities or specified anatomical areas (as defined herein)
for observation by more than 5 patrons therein.  Such an establishment is
customarily open to the public generally, excluding any minor by reason of age.
            6.   ADULT OUTDOOR MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A drive-in theater used
for presenting material distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas (as defined herein) for observation by patron of the theater. 
Such establishment is customarily open to the public generally, excluding any
minor by reason of age.
            7.   GROUP A CABARET. An establishment which features any of the
following:  topless dancers and/or bottomless dancers, go-go dancers,
strippers, male and/or female impersonators, similar entertainers, or topless
and/or bottomless wait persons or employees.
            8.   MASSAGE PARLOR OR MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. A place where
manipulated massage or manipulated exercises are practiced for pay upon the
human body by anyone using mechanical, therapeutic, or bathing devices or
techniques, other than the following:  a duly licensed physician, osteopath or
chiropractor; or a registered or practical nurse operating under a physician’s
directions.  A MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT may include but is not limited to
establishments commonly known as MASSAGE PARLORS, health spas, sauna baths,
Turkish
bathhouses and steam baths.  MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS, as defined herein, shall
not include properly-licensed hospitals, medical clinics or nursing homes, or
beauty salons or barber shops in which massages are administered only to the
scalp, the face, the neck or shoulders.
            9.   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.  Portions of the human body
defined as follows:
               a.   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals,
pubic region, buttocks, or female breast below the point immediately above the
top of the areola; and
               b.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
            10.   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.  The explicit display of 1 or
more of the following:
               a.   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
               b.   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
or
               c.   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breast.
(Am. Ord. 413, passed 7-14-2005)
   (D)   Areas and yards.
      (1)   Areas.  There shall be no side or rear lot areas required when
adjacent to a commercially or industrially zoned parcel.  When adjacent to a
residentially zoned parcel the appropriate side or rear lot area requirements
of that residential category shall be required on any portion of the property
bordering the residential district.
      (2)   Yards.  That portion of the land used for open storage facilities
for materials or equipment used in the manufacturing, compounding or processing
shall be totally obscured by a wall on those sides abutting any residential or
commercial district.
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements.  See §
152.100, limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lots,
yards, setbacks and maximum density permitted by land use.
   (F)   Performance standards.  All uses established or placed into operation
within this district shall comply at all times with performance standards as
set forth in §
152.031.
(Ord. Art. XVIII, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.115  FLOODPLAIN ZONE (FPZ).
   (A)   Intent.  It is the intent of this section to significantly reduce
hazards to persons and damage to property as a result of flood conditions in
the township, and to comply with provisions and requirements of the National
Flood Insurance Program.
   (B)   Definitions.  Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used
in this chapter shall be interpreted so as to give them the meaning they have
in common usage and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
      AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land areas of 100-year flood; base
flood elevations and flood hazard factors are determined; areas zoned A1-A30 of
the Flood Insurance Rate  Map.
      BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year.
      DEVELOPMENT.  Any manmade change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, mobile home placement, excavation or drilling
operations located within the area of special flood hazard.
      FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood
hazards, and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
      FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  The official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration that includes flood profiles, flood boundary-floodway
map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
      VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
   (C)   Basis for establishing the Areas of Special Flood Hazard.  The areas
of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for the
Township of Clayton,” dated February, 1980 with an accompanying flood insurance
rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps is hereby adopted by reference and
declared to be a part of this section.  The flood insurance study is on file at
the office of the Township Clerk. 
   (D)   Designation and duties of the Administrator.  The Zoning Administrator
shall review all development and subdivision proposals to ensure compliance
with this section. 
   (E)   Development prohibition.  All development shall be prohibited within
areas of special flood hazard as established in division (C) above.
   (F)   Variance procedure.  The Zoning Board of Appeals of Charter Township
of Clayton shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances from the
requirements of this chapter consistent with the standards of 44 CFR 60.3(d)
and 60.5(a) of the rules and regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program (44 C.F.R. § 59 and the like). 
(Ord. Art. XIX, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.116  PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT ZONING DISTRICT (PUD).
   (A)   Purpose.  The purpose of this section is to offer an alternative to
traditional development by providing the opportunity to mix compatible uses or
residential types through coordinated development, as authorized by § 16(c) of
the Township Zoning Act (Public Act 184 of 1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321
through 125.333, as amended).  It is the intent of the Planned Unit Development
District to promote and encourage development on parcels of land which are
suitable in size, location and character for the uses and structures proposed
while ensuring compatibility with adjacent land uses.
      (1)   The PUD Zoning District standards are provided as a design option
to permit flexibility in the regulation of land development; to encourage
innovation in land use in terms of variety, design, layout and type of
structures constructed; to preserve and protect significant natural features
and open space; to promote efficient provision of public services and
utilities; to minimize adverse traffic impacts; to provide adequate housing and
employment; to encourage development of convenient recreational facilities; and
to encourage the use and improvement of existing sites.
      (2)   A Planned Unit Development District must be consistent with the
Charter Township of Clayton Master Land Use Plan and in accordance with the
purpose of the zoning regulations contained in this chapter.
   (B)   Qualifying conditions.  The following conditions shall apply to all
Planned Unit Development Districts:
      (1)   Unified control.  The Planned Unit Development District shall be
under the control of 1 owner or group of owners and shall be capable of being
planned and developed as 1 integral unit. 
      (2)   Size.  A minimum size of 10 acres of contiguous land.
      (3)   Recognizable benefits.  The benefits of a PUD District can be
provided through site design elements in excess of the requirements of this
chapter, such as:  unique site design features; high quality architectural
design; extensive landscaping; efficient consolidation of poorly dimensioned
parcels; sensitivity to adjacent residential land uses; unified access; and the
preservation of open space and significant natural features, including the
natural topography, woodlands, wetlands, drains, creeks and streams.  The
proposed development shall provide at least 1 of the following benefits:
         (a)   Significant natural assets.  The site contains significant
natural assets such as woodlands, rolling topography with grades exceeding 15%,
significant views, natural drainage ways, water bodies, floodplains, regulated
or nonregulated wetlands, or natural corridors that connect quality wildlife
habitats;
         (b)   Recreation facilities.  If the site lacks natural features, it
can qualify if the development will preserve an existing recreation facility or
provide new recreation facilities to which all residents of the development
shall have reasonable access.  Such recreation facilities include areas such as
a neighborhood park, golf course, passive recreational facilities, soccer
fields, ball fields, bikepaths or similar facilities which provide a feature of
community-wide significance and enhance residential development; or
         (c)   Mixed use.  A site can qualify if the development will provide a
complementary and integrated mixture of uses, residential densities and/or
housing types.  A mixed use project shall be considered a project which
proposes a combination of single-family detached and multiple-family housing or
a mixture of compatible residential, commercial and industrial uses. 
      (4)   Public utilities.  All uses within the PUD District shall be served
by public water and sewer systems.
   (C)   Types of PUD Districts.  A property meeting the qualifying conditions
may be rezoned to an appropriate PUD District, based on the standards shown in
the following table and appropriate standards contained elsewhere in this
zoning chapter.  The PUD district designation shall be noted in the
application, and on the official zoning map upon approval.
 
PUD District        Permitted Uses      Special Land Uses  Additional
                                                           Provisions
                                                           Maximum density,
                                                           minimum floor area
                                                           and maximum height
                                                           shall comply with
                                                           the Dimensional
                                                           Standards of the
                                                           underlying zoning
                                                           district, but the
                                                           lot area, setback
                                                           and width
                                                           requirements may be
                                                           reduced by up to 20%
                                                           with the resultant
                    One or more types                      area preserved as
                    of residential                         useable open space.
RPUD                uses; cluster       Special land uses  The overall density
Residential Planned housing             of the underlying  may be increased by
Unit Development    developments; and   zoning district    up to 10% for sites
                    open space                             of at least 100
                                                           acres where the
                                                           Planning Commission
                                                           determines
                                                           significant natural
                                                           resources and open
                                                           space will be
                                                           preserved in a
                                                           natural state in
                                                           comparison with a
                                                           conventional plan,
                                                           and the project
                                                           offers numerous
                                                           recreational and
                                                           design amenities
                    A mixture of        Special land uses
PUD                 public,             of the zoning
Mixed Use Planned   residential,        districts           
Unit Development    commercial,         applicable to each
                    recreational and/or PUD component
                    open space uses
PID                 Uses permitted in   Special land uses
Planned Industrial  the Industrial and  of the Industrial   
Park                Office Districts    and Office
                                        Districts
 
   (D)   Area and bulk regulations.  The height, bulk and area conditions set
forth in §
152.100 shall be used as guidelines for the use areas set forth in the PUD
plan.  However, to encourage flexibility and creativity consistent with the
intent of the PUD regulations, the Planning Commission may permit specific
departures from the requirements of this chapter for yards and lots as a part
of the approval process.  Any regulatory modification shall be approved through
a finding by the Planning Commission that the deviation shall result in a
higher quality of development than would be possible using conventional zoning
standards.
   (E)   Development regulations.
      (1)    Architectural and site design standards.
         (a)   Residential architecture.  Residential façades shall not be
dominated by garages; at least 40% of residential units shall have side entry
garages or recessed garages where the front of the garage is at least 5 feet
behind the front line of the living portion of the principal dwelling.  The
intent of encouraging recessed or side entry garages is to enhance the
aesthetic appearance of the development and minimize the aesthetic impact
resulting from the close clustering of units allowed under these regulations.
         (b)   Nonresidential architecture.  Nonresidential buildings shall
provide distinct and prominent architectural features that create a positive
visual landmark.  Walls facing the street shall include windows and
architectural features customarily found on the front façade of a building,
such as awnings, cornice work, edge detailing or other decorative finish
materials.  Blank walls shall not face the street.  Single-story buildings
shall have pitched roofs.  Flat roofs shall be allowed on nonresidential 2-
story buildings, provided the roof is enclosed by parapets and a decorative
cornice.
         (c)   Site elements.  Signs, lighting, entryway features, landscaping,
building materials for the exterior of all structures, and other features of
the project shall be designed and completed with the objective of achieving an
integrated and cohesive development, consistent with the character of the
community, surrounding development and natural features of the area.
         (d)   Landscaping.
            1.   Landscaping shall meet standards contained in §
152.078, the subdivision regulations and other applicable township ordinances:
            2.   Detention areas.  Detention areas may comprise up to 25% of
the required open space only if designed to provide a natural appearance such
as slopes no greater than 6:1, variable shape, natural arrangement of landscape
materials, aerated fountains, and use of boulder accent walls or other similar
design features.
         (e)   Transition areas.  Where a PUD District abuts a residential
district, a transition area must be provided as determined by the Planning
Commission.  The Planning Commission shall determine whether landscaping, a
wall, a berm or a combination of these improvements are needed to attain the
intended screening based on use, setbacks, topography and existing features.
         (f)   Parking lots.
            1.   Parking requirement.  The number and dimensions of off-street
parking shall be sufficient to meet the minimum required by the ordinances of
the township.  However, where warranted by overlapping or shared parking
arrangements, the Planning Commission may reduce the required number of parking
spaces by up to 20%.
            2.   Parking lot islands.  Parking lot islands shall be curbed and
be at least 100 square feet in area.  Islands within parking lots having less
than 100 spaces may be a minimum of 10 feet in width; parking areas with more
than 100 spaces shall have islands at least 20 feet in width.  The depth of the
island shall be 2 feet shorter than an adjacent parking space.
            3.   Parking lot trees.  Landscaping shall be provided within
parking lot landscape islands or surrounding the parking lot at a rate of 1
deciduous tree for every 8 parking spaces.  Only shrubs, grass or other living
ground cover shall be used to supplement trees within parking lot islands.
         (g)   Lighting.
            1.   Ornamental lighting.  The Planning Commission may require a
consistent type of pedestrian scale ornamental lighting along all streets and
sidewalks and within any off-street parking lots.
            2.   Limitations on intensity.  Exterior lighting shall be
restrained and excessive brightness avoided to help ensure compatibility with
adjacent land uses.  All lighting shall be limited to 20 feet in height.  The
intensity of light fixtures shall be limited to 250 watts.  Any lighting other
than ornamental street lights shall be downward-directed cut-off type
fixtures.  Floodlight type fixtures shall not be permitted except for building
accent and sign lighting approved by the Planning Commission.
         (h)   Signs.  Unless otherwise provided in the PUD development
agreement, signs shall comply with the standards of §§
152.085 through
152.094, provided sign types and materials shall be a consistent with the
overall architectural design of the PUD, and all freestanding signs shall be
monument type with a base to match the building materials and landscaping
around the sign integrated into the overall landscape plan.  The Planning
Commission may approve an additional sign or height and an area increase of up
to 10% if the sign is integrated with an architectural or landscape feature. 
Wall and monument signs shall be channel-cut letters on nonilluminated
background panels.  Temporary window signs shall be prohibited for commercial
uses.
         (i)   Access.
            1.   Access shall be limited to 1 major entrance along any arterial
road.  Additional access points shall only be considered if spaced at least 500
feet apart and a traffic impact study by the applicant’s qualified consultant
and approved by the township and road agency demonstrates overall traffic
operations and safety will be improved.
            2.   Access points shall be at least 600 feet from the intersection
of arterial roadways or interchange ramps, provided the spacing may modified by
the township, with input from road agency staff, to minimize conflicts with
traffic operations at intersections or existing access points, or to meet
signal spacing standards if it is determined the access may require
signalization.
            3.   Interior drives shall provide circulation between uses.
            4.   Additional right-of-way shall be provided to accommodate
improvements to the existing arterial roadway system that are planned or
required to mitigate traffic associated with the PUD.
   (F)   Approval procedure.
      (1)   Qualification and conceptual plan (PUD plan).
         (a)   Any applicant interested in pursuing a PUD development may
request an optional pre-application meeting with township staff, township
consultants and appropriate agency representatives to review the proposed
development.
         (b)   Prior to submitting an application, the applicant may conduct an
introductory meeting with the Township Board to present the concept plan for
informal comment.  This session may occur at a joint meeting of the Planning
Commission and Board of Trustees.
         (c)   The following information shall be submitted to the Township
Building and Planning Administrator in accordance with §
152.135 as part of the PUD qualification and conceptual PUD plan:
            1.   Application form and review fee;
            2.   Proof of ownership and sworn statement indicating the date of
acquisition of the parcel by the present landowner, or authorization from the
landowner to submit the proposal for review;
            3.   Impact assessment and traffic impact study;
            4.   Documentation and a concept plan (PUD plan) (scale not smaller
than 1 inch equals 200 hundred feet) indicating how the criteria for
qualification for the specific development option are or shall be met.  The
concept plan shall illustrate the location of intended land uses; building
footprints or lots;  the relationship between land use areas; type and density
of dwelling units; type and layout of pedestrian and nonmotorized facilities;
layout of streets, roads, drives and parking areas;  an indication of whether
public or private roads are intended; open space areas; general landscaping
plans; indication of natural features to be preserved; description of the
transition technique provided adjacent to existing single-family developments
or residentially zoned areas; location and types of recreational facilities
proposed; general stormwater management facilities; and conceptual layout for
sanitary sewer and public water;
            5.   A site analysis map (scale: not smaller than 1 inch equals 200
feet) illustrating existing woodlands and trees, wetland boundaries
(documentation by a qualified wetland consultant may be required); water
bodies; natural drainage patterns (shown with arrows); sight distance
limitations; driveways and intersections on both sides of the street within 250
feet of any locations; description of general soil conditions based on the U.S.
Soil Conservation Service Soil Survey of Genesee County; unbuildable areas due
to site conditions; existing buildings and structures; existing easements and
rights-of-way; and adjacent land uses.  The site analysis map shall be drawn
with a contour interval no greater than 2 feet with general topography shown
100 feet into adjacent lands;
            6.   A development plan under current zoning ordinance standards at
the same scale as the PUD concept plan and site analysis, showing the
development possible based on the current zoning district standards used to
determine density and dimensional standards and all other applicable design
standards;
            7.   A table which details all deviations from the established
zoning district uses; area, height and setback requirements; off-street parking
regulations; general provisions; or subdivision regulations which would
otherwise be applicable to the uses and development proposed in the absence of
this PUD section.  The table shall clearly identity the allowed regulation in
comparison to the requested deviation;
            8.   The Planning Commission or Township Board may request a market
study or fiscal impact analysis be provided by the applicant at the applicant’s
expense to demonstrate support for 1 or more of the uses proposed or evaluate
the financial impact on the township; and
            9.   A draft PUD development agreement that describes the project,
any approved deviations from the zoning ordinance, and public improvements
agreed to by the developer, specific requirements or landscaping and other
obligations of either party.  The draft agreement shall be reviewed by the
Township Attorney and approved by the Board prior to final approval.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall review the development request,
offer comments and set a public hearing date.
         (e)   The applicant is also encouraged to meet with neighborhood
associations and land owners prior to the Planning Commission public hearing on
the proposed project.
         (f)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the
proposal after notice given.
         (g)   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
report its findings and make its recommendation to the Township Board.  The
Planning Commission recommendation shall be based on the following:
            1.   Whether the proposal meets the criteria for qualification of
the PUD and promotes the land use goals and objectives of the Township Master
Plan;
            2.   Whether all applicable provisions of this section and this
chapter shall be met.  If any provision of this section shall be in conflict
with the provisions of any other section of this chapter, the provisions of
this section shall apply to the lands embraced within PUD;
            3.   Whether there is, or will be at the time of development,
adequate facilities to accommodate the sanitary sewage, stormwater, solid
waste, water supply needs and traffic generated by the proposed project; and
            4.   Whether it has been demonstrated that the PUD concept plan
preserves key natural features and is preferable to a traditional development
plan.
         (h)   If any new information or changes to the concept plan or
development agreement were a condition of an approval recommendation, revised
information shall be submitted for review prior to distribution to the Township
Board.
         (i)   The recommendation of the Planning Commission shall be forwarded
to the Township Board.  The Board shall also receive additional copies of the
application, with appropriate review fees.  Upon receipt of the report and
recommendation of the Planning Commission, the Township Board shall review all
findings and shall, by resolution, either approve or disapprove of the
request.  Approval shall be granted only upon the Township Board determining
that all provisions of this chapter have been met and that the proposed
development will not adversely affect the public health, safety and welfare. 
         (j)   If the Township Board approves the PUD plan, the rezoning shall
be concurrent with this approval.  The applicant shall then submit a final
development agreement stating the conditions upon which approval is based, for
review and approval by the Township Attorney.  This agreement, after review by
the Planning Commission and approval by the Township Board, shall be entered
into between the township and the applicant and be recorded with the Genesee
County Register of Deeds at the expense of the applicant.  Approval shall be
effective upon recording.  The agreement shall provide:
            1.   A survey of the acreage comprising the proposed development;
            2.   The manner of ownership of the developed land;
            3.   The manner of the ownership and of dedication or mechanism to
protect any areas designated as common areas or open space;
            4.   Provision assuring that those open space areas shown on the
plan for use by the public or residents of the development will be or have been
irrevocably committed for that purpose.  The township may require conveyances
or other documents to be placed in escrow to accomplish this;
            5.   Satisfactory provisions have been made to provide for the
future financing of any improvements shown on the plan for site improvements,
open space areas and common areas which are to be included within the
development and that maintenance of such improvements is assured by a means
satisfactory to the Township Board;
            6.   The cost of installing and maintaining all streets and the
necessary utilities has been assured by a means satisfactory to the Township
Board;
            7.   Provisions to ensure adequate protection of natural features;
and
            8.   The PUD plan shall be incorporated by reference and attached
as an exhibit.
      (2)   Submission of site plans or subdivision plans to the Planning
Commission.
         (a)   Preliminary and final site plans shall be submitted in
accordance with §§
152.131et seq. or preliminary subdivision plan in accordance with §§
151.020 through
151.029 of the Land Division chapter for an area embraced within the PUD
District within 2 years following approval of the concept plan (PUD plan) by
the Township Board.  If preliminary and final site plans or preliminary
subdivision plans for at least the first phase of the project are not submitted
and approved during this 2- year period, the right to develop under the
approved concept plan shall terminate and a new application must then be filed
and processed.
         (b)   In reviewing site plans and subdivision plans, the following
standards shall apply:
            1.   Site plans or subdivision plats shall be in substantial
conformance with the approved PUD plan;
            2.   Each site plan or subdivision plat shall either individually
or in combination with previously approved contiguous project areas, meet the
standards of this section and the approved plan regarding layout, density, open
space and land use;
            3.   Each plan submission shall include a map illustrating  the
site or phase in relation to previously approved plans and the overall PUD
plan; and
            4.   Any amendment requested to the agreement approved by the
Township Board shall be submitted for review by the Township Attorney and
approved by the Township Board.
      (3)   Phasing.  In the development of the PUD District, the area devoted
to residential development under construction shall be at least in the same
proportion to the percentage of area being developed with nonresidential
development, unless a different phasing is approved by the township.
      (4)   Extensions.  Approval of the PUD plan shall be effective for a
period of 2 years.  Further submittals under the procedures for the above
development options shall be accepted for review upon a showing of substantial
progress in development of previously approved phases, or upon a showing of
good cause for not having made such progress.  The expiration and extensions
for site plan shall be in accordance with §§
152.131et seq.
      (5)   Amendments and deviations from approved plans.  Approval of the
concept plan and site plans confers upon the Township Zoning and Building
Administrator the authority to approve certain minor deviations when an
applicant or landowner who was granted final site plan approval notifies the
Zoning and Building Administrator of the proposed amendment to the approved
site plan in writing, accompanied by a site plan illustrating the proposed
change. The request shall be received prior to initiation of any construction
in conflict with the approved PUD plan.
         (a)   Procedure.  Within 14 days of receipt of a request to amend the
final site plan, the Zoning and Building Administrator shall determine whether
the change is major, warranting review by the Planning Commission, or minor,
allowing administrative approval, as noted below.
         (b)   Minor changes.  The Zoning and Building Administrator may
approve the proposed revision upon finding the change would not alter the
approved design or provisions of the agreement, would not reduce the area
devoted to open space, and all applicable zoning ordinance regulations will be
met.  The Zoning and Building Administrator shall inform the Planning
Commission of such approval in writing.  The Zoning and Building Administrator
shall consider the following when determining a change to be minor:
            1.   For residential buildings, the square footage of structures
may be reduced by 3%; or increased by 3%, provided the overall density of units
does not increase, the minimum square footage and parking requirements are met
and the building(s) do not extend into any required open space or required
setbacks;
            2.   Gross floor area of nonresidential buildings may be decreased;
or increased by up to 3% or 2,000 square feet, whichever is smaller, provided
parking requirements are met and the building does not extend into any required
setback or open space;
            3.   Floor plans may be changed if consistent with the character of
the use;
            4.   Relocation of a building by up to 5 feet, if consistent with
required setbacks, open space and other standards;
            5.   Height of buildings may be lowered;
            6.   Designated woodlands or areas not to be disturbed may be
increased;
            7.   Plantings on the approved landscape plan may be replaced by
similar types of landscaping on a 1-to-1 or greater basis.  Any regulated trees
lost during construction shall be replaced on a caliper-per-caliper basis on
the site;
            8.   Improvements or slight relocation of site access or
circulation, such as inclusion of deceleration lanes, boulevards, curbing or
pedestrian/bicycle paths, with documentation from Genesee County, where
appropriate;
            9.   Changes of building materials to another of higher quality, or
a slight change in the color of the exterior material, as determined by the
Zoning and Building Administrator;
            10.   Grade change of up to 1 foot, reviewed by the Township
Engineer;
            11.   Modification of entry design, sign placement or reduction in
size of signage, which is consistent with the intent of this section and the
approved PUD plan;
            12.   Internal rearrangement of parking lots which does not affect
the number of parking spaces or alter access locations or design;
            13.   Changes to the location of accessory buildings and structures
only when the new location will be consistent with the building envelope
identified on the approved plan; and/or
            14.   Changes required or requested by the township, county or
state for safety reasons.
         (c)   Major changes.  Where the Zoning and Building Administrator
determines a requested amendment to the approved site plan is major,
resubmittal to the Planning Commission shall be required. Should the Planning
Commission determine that the modifications are inconsistent with the PUD plan
a revised conceptual PUD plan shall be submitted according to the procedures
outlined in this section.
         (d)   In general.  In all cases, a change in use to a more intensive
use than approved in the PUD plan shall be considered major and require
resubmission of a PUD concept plan.
      (6)   Fees.  Fees for review of plans shall be established by resolution
of the Township Board.  Costs for the review of plans, studies and the like as
required by the Planning Commission or Township Board shall be the
responsibility of the applicant and shall be paid in advance of any review.
      (7)   Appeals, modifications and variances.  Modifications to the amount
of open space, setbacks, minimum lot area and other design standards for an
approved PUD project are not subject to variance approval of the Zoning Board
of Appeals until the project or phase is completed; such modifications shall be
processed as a major or minor change as described in division (5) above.  An
exception however, is that once a home has been occupied, an individual
homeowner may request a dimensional variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals
as outlined in §§
152.165 through
152.167, provided the common open space and other conditions of approval are
not affected.  The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have the authority to
interpret compliance with the standards herein nor with the written development
agreement; that authority lies solely with the Board of Trustees.
      (8)   Violations.  A violation of a plan or agreement shall be considered
a violation of this chapter.  Further, any such deviation shall invalidate the
PUD District designation.
(Ord. Art. XX, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 389, passed 1-27-2000; Am. Ord. 424,
passed 12-14-2006)  Penalty, see §
152.999
SITE DEVELOPMENT
§ 152.130  SITE DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS; GENERAL REGULATIONS BY TYPE.
   Those uses permitted and principal uses permitted subject to special
conditions enumerated in any zoning district shall be subject to the site
development requirements and conditions specified below:
   (A)   Amusements.  Amusement enterprises, including amusement parks,
miniature golf, circuses and similar facilities, but excluding race tracks.
      (1)   All parking shall be provided as off-street parking within the
boundaries of the development.
      (2)   All access to the parking areas shall be provided only to a major
thoroughfare.
      (3)   All sides of the development abutting any residential zoning
district or existing residential development shall maintain a greenbelt buffer
between the residential area and the proposed development and all activity
areas shall be set back at least 1,000 feet from a residential district.
   (B)   Auction sales establishments.
      (1)   All parking shall be provided as off-street parking within the
boundaries of the development.
      (2)   There shall be maintained a minimum landscaped greenbelt buffer per
§
152.078(D) of this chapter between any part of the development and any
residential development or district.
   (C)   Automobile service station, paint and body shop, muffler shop,
transmission repair shop.  All necessary steps shall be taken to ensure that
any resulting dust, flushing, fumes, gas, noise, odor, smoke, vapor or
vibration does not create a condition more detrimental to the surrounding area
(s) than would result from other permitted uses.  The following special
requirements and regulations governing the erection of automobile repair
garages are hereby established.
      (1)   The use shall always be located on a plot of ground having street/
road frontage of not less than 150 feet and having a minimum area of not less
than 2 acres.
      (2)   All repair work must be carried out within an enclosed building.
      (3)   No automobile repair garage shall be erected within a 200-foot
radius of any residential district.
      (4)   Outdoor storage of rubbish, junked equipment or parts is prohibited
unless the rubbish, junked equipment or parts is stored adjacent to the
principal building in an obscure location that is enclosed with a masonry
screening wall.  When this screening is provided, the rubbish, junked equipment
or parts shall not be stacked or heaped higher than the height of the screening
wall.  The screening wall shall not be higher than 5 feet.
      (5)   An automobile repair garage use shall not include the parking or
storage of dismantled, nonlicensed or nonrepairable vehicles of any kind,
unless ordered by a law enforcement agency.  The storage, sale or rental of
mechanical equipment, new or used cars, motorcycles, minibikes or similar
vehicles, wrecked or otherwise, shall not be considered a use or accessory use
to an automobile repair garage.
      (6)   All temporary outdoor storage of vehicles for repair shall not be
located within 50 feet of a public right-of-way or a residential district.
   (D)   Bed and breakfast operations.  A use which is subordinate to the
principal use of a dwelling unit as a single-family dwelling unit and a use in
which transient guests are provided a sleeping room and board in return for
payment where:
      (1)   Not more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling unit
shall be used for bed and breakfast sleeping rooms; and
      (2)   There shall be no separate cooking facilities used for the bed and
breakfast stay.
   (E)   Business and technical schools.
      (1)   Necessary steps shall be taken to ensure that any resulting dust,
flushing, fumes, gas, noise, odor, smoke, vapor or vibration does not create a
condition detrimental to the surrounding area.
      (2)   Any outdoor storage of rubbish, junked equipment or parts is
prohibited unless it is properly screened with a 5-foot masonry wall.  The
material being stored shall not be stacked higher than the screening wall.
      (3)   In the case of vehicle mechanics, any temporary outdoor storage of
vehicles for repair shall not be located within 50 feet of a public right-of-
way or a residential district.
   (F)   Campgrounds.  Campgrounds shall be developed only in accordance with
Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as may be amended
and Administrative Rules and Regulations promulgated subsequent to the Act, as
may be amended and the following local regulations:
      (1)   Minimum parcel size shall be 10 acres.  The term  PARCEL shall mean
the entire campground or travel trailer park.
      (2)   The parcel shall provide direct vehicular access only to a major
thoroughfare.
      (3)   Each parcel shall be provided with at least 1 public telephone.
   (G)   Carry-out restaurant or drive-in/drive-through restaurant.
      (1)   No drive-in, drive-through or carry-out restaurant shall be located
within 500 feet from an elementary, junior or senior high school or from a
public park.
      (2)   Points of vehicular ingress and egress shall be limited to an
adjacent major thoroughfare only and site plans shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission for location and design of curb cuts and driveways and for
layout of parking lots.
      (3)   The minimum width of driveways at the property line shall be 24
feet, and not greater than 30 feet.
      (4)   The minimum distance of any driveway to property line shall be 7
feet.
      (5)   The minimum distance between driveways on the site shall be 75 feet
measured from the 2 closest driveways’ curbs.
      (6)   The minimum distance a driveway into the site shall be from a
street intersection shall be 60 feet measured from the intersection of the
street right-of-way to the nearest end of the curb radius.
      (7)   Motor vehicle-oriented businesses adjacent to or integrated in a
shopping center or cluster of commercial facilities shall use the common access
with other business establishments in that center.
      (8)   The entire parking area shall be paved with a permanent surface of
concrete or asphalt and shall be graded and drained in accordance with township
standards.  Any unpaved area of the site shall be landscaped with lawn or other
landscaping materials, maintained in a neat and orderly fashion at all times
and separated from the paved parking or driveway area by a raised curb or other
equivalent barrier.
      (9)   Concrete curbing, 6 inches in height, shall be properly placed and
maintained along or parallel to all property lines, except where bumper guards
are required and except across approved driveways, so as to prevent vehicular
encroachment onto or over the public right-of-way and to prevent vehicular
encroachment onto or over the adjoining property, or vehicular damage to the
adjoining buildings.
      (10)   All outside trash receptacles, except those intended for use by
the customer, shall be located within an enclosure constructed of opaque
masonry materials of 6 feet in height and shall be provided with opaque gates
of the same height.
      (11)   During the period when a freestanding drive-in/drive-through
restaurant or carry-out restaurant is vacated, closed or otherwise not opened
for business for more than 30 consecutive days, the owner, franchise holder or
lessee shall be subject to complying with the following regulations:
         (a)   Vehicular parking and storage shall be prohibited at all times
anywhere on the premises;
         (b)   The ground shall be kept free of rubbish and debris, and the
grass, if any, shall be well kept and cut as necessary so as to present a neat
and attractive appearance at all times; and
         (c)   Within 60 days of the closing, all curb cuts across driveway
entrances and all other points of ingress and egress to the premises shall be
closed to vehicular traffic by properly placed and secured precast concrete
wheel stops or the equivalent, as may be approved by the appropriate township
agency.
   (H)   Cemeteries.
      (1)   Cemeteries shall have a minimum lot size of 10 acres and a minimum
frontage on a major thoroughfare of 300 feet.
      (2)   All ingress and egress shall be from a paved major thoroughfare.
      (3)   All buildings and structures shall be located no less than 200 feet
from the property lines.
   (I)   Childcare centers, nursery schools, day nurseries.
      (1)   For each child cared for, there shall be provided, equipped and
maintained, on the premises, a minimum of 150 square feet of usable outdoor
play area (minimum total area of 5,000 square feet per facility).
      (2)   The outdoor play area shall be enclosed with a 6 foot high fence/
wall and a greenbelt buffer, per §
152.078 of this chapter, from any abutting residential uses.
      (3)   The facility shall have frontage and direct access to a major
thoroughfare.
   (J)   Churches and synagogues.
      (1)   Minimum lot width shall be 150 feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot area shall be 3 acres.
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be prohibited within the front setback
area and within 20 feet of the rear or side property line.
      (4)   A greenbelt buffer shall be provided between the parking area and
the side property lines, per §
152.078 of this chapter.
      (5)   The property shall have frontage on and direct access to a major
thoroughfare.
   (K)   Clubs and fraternal organizations.
      (1)   The uses shall front upon and have direct access to a major
thoroughfare.
      (2)   A minimum site size of 3 acres shall be required.
      (3)   Only commercial uses ancillary to the club function shall be
permitted.
      (4)   Land not utilized for buildings, parking and the like shall be
landscaped.
      (5)   All parking shall be located in the side or rear yard.
   (L)   Colleges, universities and other institutions of higher learning.
      (1)   Any use permitted herein shall be developed only on sites of at
least 40 acres in area, and shall not be permitted on any portion of a recorded
subdivision plat.
      (2)   All vehicular access to the site shall be from a major
thoroughfare.
      (3)   No building shall be closer than 80 feet to any property line.
   (M)   Congregate care facility (home for the aged) or adult foster care for
more than 6 adults.
      (1)   The building height shall not exceed a height of 2.5 stories, or 35
feet.
      (2)   No building shall be located closer than 50 feet to any property
line.
      (3)   The site shall be so located as to have at least 1 property line
abutting a major thoroughfare.  All ingress and egress to the off-street
parking area, for guests, employees and staff, as well as other users of the
facility, shall be directly from a major thoroughfare.
      (4)   The facility shall be designed to provide a minimum of 1,500 square
feet of open space for every bed used or intended to be used.  This open space
shall be landscaped and may not include off-street parking areas, driveways,
and accessory uses or areas.
      (5)   An obscuring landscaped greenbelt not less than 10 feet wide shall
be provided in those yards abutting a residential zone, or the Planning
Commission may require that a masonry or other permanent wall 5 feet in height
shall be provided and maintained along the entire property line abutting that
zone.  In those instances where the yard abuts a major thoroughfare, the
centerline of which forms the boundary of the zones, no greenbelt buffer or
fence/wall is required.  Required yard space may be used for parking.
      (6)   Off-street parking shall be permitted to occupy a portion of the
required front yard provided that there shall be maintained an obscuring
landscaped greenbelt buffer of not less than 10 feet wide between the nearest
point of the off-street parking area, exclusive of access driveways, and the
right-of- way line.
   (N)   Drive-in theater.
      (1)   The lot location shall be such that at least 1 property line abuts
a major thoroughfare and shall be at least 500 feet from any residential
district.  There shall be at least 1 exit and 1 entrance to the lot which shall
be directly onto the major thoroughfare.  Access to any residential street
shall not be provided.
      (2)   The premises shall be enclosed with a solid screen fence 8 feet in
height.  The solid screen fence shall be of a permanent material of metal,
brick or masonry.
      (3)   All points of entrance or exit shall be located no closer than 250
feet to any street or road intersection (as measured to the nearest
intersection right-of-way line).
      (4)   Space shall be provided, on premises, for 50 waiting vehicles to
stand at the entrance to the facility.
      (5)   The theater screen shall not be placed closer than 100 feet from
any public street right-of-way and shall be so constructed as to not be visible
to a major thoroughfare or any residential district.
      (6)   The use shall be located on a parcel of at least 20 acres in size.
      (7)   The projected internal design shall receive approval from the
Building Official as to adequacy of drainage, lighting and other technical
aspects.
      (8)   Ingress and egress drives shall be paved.
   (O)   Excavation of gravel and sand.
      (1)   No topsoil, earth or sand shall be removed and no excavation shall
be conducted on a parcel of less than 5 acres in area, or within 200 feet of
any public thoroughfare, or within a distance of 100 feet, plus the measurement
of the depth of the cut, of any adjoining private property line.
      (2)   Water, ice or other unsatisfactory matter shall not be permitted to
stand or accumulate in any excavation during the conduct, or following the
completion of the excavation operations, unless an impoundment of water has
been previously approved by the Township Board as a part of restoration
operations as described in division (O)(4), below.
      (3)   (a)   Each permitted excavation in excess of 4 feet in depth shall
be barricaded with a fence 6 feet in height, constructed of wire mesh, or other
suitable material, to afford protection to persons and property, with warning
signs, lights and watchman provided where found by the Township Board to be
reasonably necessary based on the conditions involved.
         (b)   In any event, the slopes of the excavation shall not exceed a
ratio of 4 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical, except where an impoundment of
water has been previously approved by the Township Board as a part of
restoration operations (as described in division (4) immediately below). 
Slopes at a ratio of 7 feet horizontal to 1 foot vertical shall be maintained
for all areas lying below the proposed water surface.
      (4)   Where a permit for excavation specifies grading, or filling and
grading, as a special condition of the permit, the applicant, within 90 days
after completion of the removal or excavation operation, shall commence and
complete with all due dispatch the grading, or filling and grading, as
required.  Only proper fill deposited in the proper manner shall be
permissible.  Grading shall be on the basis of an average grade at least 12
inches above the crown of the lowest road or highway adjacent to or abutting
the land, and the land shall be leveled so as to provide drainage suitable for
growing of turf or for other land uses permitted under this chapter, except
that filling the land to an average grade higher than that which existed prior
to the removal of the topsoil, earth or sand from the land shall not be
required.
      (5)   The township, through its duly authorized agents, shall have the
right to enter upon any land issued a permit for the purposes of making
inspections, and for causing compliance with the terms of this chapter in the
event the permit holder shall fail to do so.  It shall be the duty of the
Building Official or his or her duly authorized agents to make periodic
inspections of all land for which permits have been issued, and to report any
violation of the terms hereof to the Township Board.
      (6)   (a)   All areas within any excavation site operating under a single
permit shall be restored progressively.  Restoration shall be in accordance
with a plan approved by the Township Board prior to the issuance of a special
condition use permit.  Restoration shall be to a condition as to leave the
surface of the land at a grade which blends with the general surrounding
terrain so as to appear reasonably natural and to permit the establishment of
other land uses allowed in the district in which the excavation or filling
occurs.
         (b)   The Township Building Official shall conduct inspections
hereunder, and shall notify the owner and/or operator in writing of any
portions of the site that is deemed abandoned or ready for restoration.  Upon
receipt of the written notification, the owner and/or operator shall have the
areas restored within 90 days, or within 30 days supply the Township Board with
a written reply indicating the date restoration is anticipated.  The Township
Board may accept or reject the dates.  If the date is accepted, it shall be
binding on both parties.  If the date is rejected, the Township Board shall set
a new date which shall be final. 
   (P)   Gasoline, filling station.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 20,000 square feet for automobile service
and filling stations.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be not less than 150 feet for automobile
service and filling stations.
      (3)   Buildings shall be located not less than 25 feet from any side or
rear lot line.
      (4)   Ingress and egress drives shall not be more than 30 feet in width.
      (5)   No more than 1 curb opening shall be permitted for every 75 feet of
frontage (or major fraction thereof) along any street.
      (6)   No drive or curb opening shall be located nearer than 25 feet to
any intersection or adjacent residential property line.  No drive shall be
located nearer than 30 feet, as measured along the property line, to any other
drive on the premises.  Curb cuts shall not be permitted where, in the opinion
of the Planning Commission, it may produce a safety hazard to adjacent
pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      (7)   A raised curb of 6 inches in height shall be constructed along all
street frontages at the right-of-way line, except for drive openings.
      (8)   The entire lot, excluding the area occupied by a building, shall be
hard surfaced with concrete or a plant mixed bituminous material except
landscaped areas which shall be protected from all paved areas by a low barrier
or curb with a minimum height of 6 inches.
      (9)   All lubrication equipment, motor vehicle washing equipment,
hydraulic hoists and pits shall be enclosed entirely within a building.  All
gasoline pumps shall be located not less than 20 feet from any lot line, and
shall be arranged so that motor vehicles shall not be supplied with gasoline or
serviced while parked upon or overhanging any public sidewalk, street or right-
of-way.
      (10)   All outside storage areas for trash, used tires, auto parts and
similar items shall be enclosed by a 6-foot masonry wall and shall comply with
requirements for location of accessory buildings.  No storage may be extended
above the height of the wall.  Outside storage or parking of disabled, wrecked
or partially dismantled vehicles shall not be permitted unless ordered by a law
enforcement agency.
      (11)   The storage, sale or rental of new or used cars, trucks, trailers
and any other vehicles on the premises is expressly prohibited.
      (12)   Any lot lines adjacent to a residential zone shall be screened by
use of an obscuring fence or wall.
   (Q)   Golf courses which may or may not be operated for profit.
      (1)   Minimum site size shall be 65 acres for a 9-hole course and 180
acres for an 18-hole course.
      (2)   A shelter building with toilet facilities shall be provided which
meets all requirements of the County Health Department and the Township
Building Code.
      (3)   The site shall be so planned as to provide all access directly onto
or from a major thoroughfare.
      (4)   The site plan shall be laid out to achieve a relationship between
the major thoroughfare and any proposed service roads, entrances, driveways and
parking areas which will encourage pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety.
      (5)   Development features including the principal and accessory
buildings and structures shall be so located and related as to minimize the
possibilities of any adverse affects upon adjacent property.  This shall mean
that all principal or accessory buildings and structures shall be not less than
200 feet from any property line abutting residentially zoned lands; provided
that where topographic conditions are such that buildings would be screened
from view, the Planning Commission may modify this requirement.
      (6)   Whenever a swimming pool is to be provided the pool shall be
provided with a protective fence 6 feet in height, and entry shall be by means
of a controlled gate.
      (7)   The main and accessory buildings shall be set back at least 75 feet
from all property lines.
   (R)   Golf driving ranges.
      (1)   All parking shall be provided as off-street parking within the
boundaries of the development.
      (2)   There must be maintained a minimum open green space of 50 feet
between the property line and any adjacent district.  In addition, on those
sides abutting a residential district, there shall be provided and maintained a
greenbelt buffer consisting of evergreen trees 8 feet in height or greater, or
fencing sufficient to contain golf balls on the site.
   (S)   Greenhouses (including facilities for sale to the public).
      (1)   The parking area shall be designed so as not to disrupt abutting
residential development with noise or headlights.
      (2)   There shall be side yard setbacks of at least 35 feet on either
side of the greenhouse.
      (3)   All loading and parking shall be provided off-street.
      (4)   The storage or display of any materials shall conform to all
building setback requirements of a structure.
   (T)   Home for the aged (congregate care).
      (1)   All congregate care housing shall be constructed on parcels of at
least 3 acres and may provide for the following:
         (a)   Cottage type 1-story dwellings and/or apartment type dwelling
units; and
         (b)   Common service areas, containing but not limited to central
dining rooms, recreational rooms, central lounge and workshops.
      (2)   Minimum dwelling unit size shall be 350 square feet per unit (not
including kitchen and sanitary facilities).
      (3)   Total coverage of all buildings (including dwelling units and
related service buildings) shall not exceed 25% of the total site not including
any dedicated public right-of-way.
   (U)   Home occupation.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of allowing home occupations is to enhance
economic opportunities for residents without significantly detracting from the
quality of the neighborhood community.
         (a)   The following are examples of permitted home occupations:
            1.   Tailoring, sewing, and dressmaking;
            2.   Painting, sculpturing, or writing;
            3.   Telephone answering and/or calling;
            4.   Home crafts, including, but not limited to, model making,
weaving, quilting, and cabinet making;
            5.   Tutoring, limited to 2 students;
            6.   Computer programing;
            7.   Research; and
            8.   Clerical, billing, and recordkeeping.
         (b)   The following are examples of prohibited home occupations:
            1.   On-site automotive repair and/or services;
            2.   Food preparation;
            3.   Massage;
            4.   Medical services;
            5.   Vehicle painting and/or detailing;
            6.   Chemical storage; for example, pest control, lawn treatments,
and the like;
            7.   Veterinary service;
            8.   Any limited liability corporation and/or any other
corporations or any business otherwise classified as “commercial”;
            9.   Storage of or parking of items outside the residence of any
kind; and
            10.   Any use which violates any Charter Township of Clayton
ordinance.
      (2)   Home.
         (a)   The home occupation is not to be carried on by more than 2
persons at least 1 of which shall be a resident of the property.
         (b)   Business hours for customer service and deliveries are limited
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
         (c)   Such residences shall be maintained in appearance as a residence
provided further that not over 25% of the total actual floor area of any story
is used for home occupation purposes.
         (d)   No home occupation shall be conducted in any accessory
structure.
         (e)   There shall be no sale of any goods manufactured elsewhere in
connection with such home occupation.
         (f)   No traffic shall be generated by such home occupation in greater
volumes than would normally be expected in a residential neighborhood, and any
need for parking generated by the conduct of such home occupation shall be
provided by an off-street area, located other than in a required front yard.
         (g)   No equipment or process shall be used in such home occupation
which creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odors, or electrical interference
detectable to the normal senses of persons off the lot. In the case of
electrical interference, no non-FCC licensed equipment or process shall be used
which creates visual or audible interference with any radio or television
receivers off the premises, or causes fluctuations in line voltage off the
premises.
         (h)   An expansion of the activity or violation of the terms of such
land use shall constitute a violation of the township zoning ordinance.
         (i)   Signs no larger than 4 square feet commercially printed, self-
supporting and consistent with §
152.085 of the Charter Township of Clayton Code of Ordinances. Illuminated and/
or flashing signs are not permitted. Further, sign location shall not be placed
off property or on the right-of-way. Any sign abandoned for more than 1 year
will be considered abandoned and removed at the cost of the resident. No more
than 1 sign containing the name and occupation shall be displayed.
      (3)   Data required.
         (a)   Procedure.
            1.   Home occupation shall be permitted by applying at the Charter
Township of Clayton offices. An application for home occupation shall be
completed and presented for authorization. The Zoning Official will notify you
within 2 weeks of the status of your application. An initial fee will be
required with the application pursuant to the fee schedule adopted by
resolution through the Clayton Township Board of Trustees. An annual renewal
fee will be required pursuant to the fee schedule adopted by resolution through
the Clayton Township Board of Trustees. If desired, your physical address,
email address, phone number, website address, and/or company logo submissions
will be included on the Clayton Township website upon acceptance of your
application.
            2.   Application renewal shall be January 1. Payment shall be
rendered no later than January 31. Failure to comply shall require applicant to
reapply.
            3.   Permits shall be prominently displayed at all times in the
area devoted to such occupation. Permits shall remain in force until revoked or
until enlargement or cessation of the occupation. Reissue of permits shall
require payment of the permit fee.
      (4)   Expiration. Termination for 1 year or longer shall constitute
presumption of abandonment.
   (V)   Hospitals.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 10 acres.
      (2)   The lot location shall be such that at least 1 property line abuts
a major thoroughfare.  The ingress and egress for off-street parking facilities
for guests and patients shall be directly from the major thoroughfare.
      (3)   The building height of hospital, shall be no more than 4 stories or
45 feet.
      (4)   Minimum main and accessory building setback shall be 100 feet from
any property line.
   (W)   Junk yards.
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 10 acres.
      (2)   The setback from the front property line to the area upon which
junk materials are stored shall be not less than 50 feet and shall be provided
with a greenbelt buffer.
      (3)   Junk yards shall be screened from the roadway and from any
adjoining property by an obscuring fence 8 feet in height.  The fence shall be
kept uniformly painted, neat in appearance, and shall not have any signs or
symbols painted on it.  A solid masonry wall at least 8 feet in height shall be
required when adjacent to a street or highway.
      (4)   All activities and materials shall be kept within the enclosed area
formed by the obscuring fence.  Material shall not be stacked or piled above
the plane established by the top of the obscuring fence.
      (5)   All structures, off-street parking, fencing and used material
storage yards shall be set back not less than 50 feet from any street or
highway right-of-way.
      (6)   All roads, driveways and parking lots used by the general public
shall be paved, and loading and unloading areas within any junk yard shall be
paved, oiled, watered or chemically treated so as to limit for adjoining lots
and public roads, the nuisance caused by wind-borne dust.
   (X)   Kennels and veterinary clinics with outdoor runs.
      (1)   Kennels shall comply with all applicable county and state
regulations.
      (2)   The minimum lot size shall be 5 acres for the first 10 dogs, and an
additional 1/2 acre for each 1 additional dog.
      (3)   Buildings wherein animals are kept, animal runs, and/or exercise
areas shall not be located nearer than 100 feet to any adjacent occupied
dwelling or any adjacent building used by the public, and shall not be located
in any required front, rear, or side yard setback area.
      (4)   The entire shelter area and any related runs or accessory
facilities shall be screened from view by a sight-obstructing and sound-
reducing wall or fence so as to reduce any possible nuisance to neighboring
residences.
      (5)   No dog shall be kept which emanates frequent or extended noise
which shall disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose of any reasonable persons in
the vicinity or that violates §
91.30 of the Charter Township of Clayton Code of Ordinances.
   (Y)   Landing strip (private).
      (1)   Minimum parcel size and lot dimension configuration must be
adequate to permit a runway easement of at least 250 feet by 2,000 feet.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall be assured that there is a clear and
unobstructed glide slope approach to the landing strip.
   (Z)   Lumber, building material, planing mills and storage yards.
      (1)   The open storage of material shall be setback at least 50 feet from
any public road right-of- way.
      (2)   Open storage shall be screened on all sides by an opaque fence of
at least 8 feet in height and all outdoor stored material shall not be piled or
stored so as to exceed the height of the opaque fence.
      (3)   Lumber yards and planning mills shall be located in the interior of
the district so that no property line shall form the exterior boundary of a
residential district.
   (AA)   Migrant farm camps.
      (1)   All provided shelters shall be of single-story construction and not
exceed 25 feet in height.
      (2)   All provided shelter shall be located in the rear yard and located
at least 200 feet distant from all property lines.
      (3)   The use of trailers, tents and vehicles as sleeping or living
quarters at an agricultural camp is strictly prohibited; however, mobile homes
constructed in accordance with the Mobile Home Commission Act, Public Act 419
of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq., and any and all rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant to Act 419, as may be amended, will be
permitted.
      (4)   Agricultural labor camps shall comply with the minimum requirements
and standards as established under the provision of Public Act 368 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., of the State of Michigan, as may be
amended, relating to agricultural labor camps, and any and all rules and
regulations promulgated pursuant to Part 124 of Public Act 368 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 - 333.25211, as amended.
   (BB)   Mini-warehouse self-storage facility.
      (1)   The minimum size of the site devoted to the use shall not be less
than 3 acres.
      (2)   Building setbacks shall be as follows:  front yard not less than 20
feet; side and rear yard not less than 10 feet.
      (3)   Building separation between self-storage buildings on the same site
shall be 15 feet, as measured from side to side or front to rear, or equal to
the building height, whichever is greater.
      (4)   The total lot coverage of all structures shall be limited to 50% of
the total lot area.
      (5)   A sight-proof barrier shall be provided around the rear and side
perimeter of the development.  This barrier shall be located at the setback
line and may consist of either the solid façades of the storage structures or a
fence.  If a fence is provided, it shall be a minimum of 6 feet in height and
shall be constructed of brick, stone, masonry units or wood products which are
determined by the Building Inspector to be durable and weather-resistant.
      (6)   A 10-foot landscaped greenbelt buffer shall be provided between the
property line and required barrier along all street frontages.  A 5-foot
landscaped green belt shall be provided between the property line and barrier
where the site abuts any residential district.  All materials shall be planted
in conformance with §
152.078.
      (7)   Parking shall be provided in the ratio of 1 space for each 2,000
square feet of gross building area.  At a minimum, 2 parking spaces must be
assigned to, and located conveniently to, each individual storage building.  In
addition, 2 spaces for the resident manager, and 1 additional space for each
additional employee shall be provided adjacent to the rental office.
      (8)   Internal driveway aisles shall be a minimum of 24 feet in width.
      (9)   All off-street parking areas and driveways shall be hard surfaced
and drained in accordance with §§
152.065 through
152.067.
      (10)   All ingress and egress from this site shall be directly onto a
collector or major thoroughfare.
      (11)   Building height shall not exceed 1 story or 15 feet, except that a
caretaker or resident manager’s unit may be allowed a building height of 2
stories 25 feet.
      (12)   No single storage building shall exceed 5,000 square feet.
      (13)   All storage on the property shall be kept within an enclosed
building.
      (14)   The use of the premises shall be limited to storage only, and
shall not be used for any auction, or sales, or storage and transfer business;
for the servicing, repair or fabrication of any vehicle, boat, trailer,
appliance or similar item; or for the operation of power tools, compressors,
kilns or similar equipment.
      (15)   Limited sales to tenants of products and supplies incidental to
the principal use, such as packing materials, identification labels, rope,
locks, tape and the like shall be permitted on the site devoted to this use.
      (16)   The storage of combustible or flammable liquids, combustible
fibers or explosive materials, as defined in the fire protection code, or toxic
materials are expressly prohibited.
   (CC)   Mortuary establishments.
      (1)   Adequate assembly area shall be provided off-street for vehicles to
be used in the funeral procession.
      (2)   This assembly area will be in addition to required off-street
parking.
      (3)   A caretaker’s residence may be provided within the main building of
the mortuary establishment.
   (DD)   Motels and hotels.
      (1)   Each unit shall contain not less than 250 square feet of floor
area.
      (2)   No guest shall establish permanent residence at a motel for more
than 30 days within any calendar year.
   (EE)   Multiple-family residential developments.
      (1)   No building shall exceed 200 feet in length.
      (2)   Dual paved access throughout a multiple-family site is required for
emergency vehicle access.  A boulevard may be utilized for dual access,
provided the median strip is a minimum of 25 feet in width.  No dead-end street
shall be more than 300 feet in length and a suitable turning space shall be
provided for vehicles at the terminus of all dead-end streets.  Entrances to
private roadways shall not have locked gates or barricades that would impede
fire and safety vehicle apparatus response.
      (3)   All main access drives in a multiple-family site shall be free of
on-street parking.  The minimum width of pavement on an access drive shall be
24 feet.
      (4)   Parking within the required side and rear yards shall be permitted,
except that parking lots or access drives adjacent to single-family districts
must be located a minimum of 5 feet from the property line.
      (5)   No building shall be located closer than 25 feet from internal
access roads, nor shall the longer dimension of a building be located closer
than 20 feet from parking areas or parking service drives.  The shorter
dimension of a building or an end wall without windows or doors may be located
no less than 5 feet of parking areas or drives.
      (6)   All dwelling units shall be readily accessible by fire and
emergency vehicles from a paved public street, paved private access road or an
approved paved area.  Private roadways dedicated as fire lanes shall be posted
with signs indicating “Fire Lane, No Parking.”
      (7)   No entrance to a dwelling unit or building shall be more than 150
feet from a parking lot, measured along the sidewalk leading to the parking
lot.
      (8)   Where multiple-family zones abut a limited-access freeway and/or
railroad rights-of-way, a visual and noise buffer composed of 1 of the
following must be provided:
         (a)   A combination of dense evergreen plantings and earth mounding,
both totaling a minimum of 11 feet in height, shall be provided.  Plantings
shall be placed so as to reach their prescribed height and create a continuous
unpierced buffer within 2 growing seasons;
         (b)   An 11-foot masonry wall shall be erected as a noise buffer; or
         (c)   A living unit shall not be constructed within 200 feet of a
freeway or railroad right-of-way.
      (9)   Any community building located on a multiple-family site shall have
1 parking space per each 10 dwelling units.
      (10)   Internal site sidewalks shall be provided and located 5 feet from
and parallel to access drives, and also located to provide convenient access to
community buildings and parking areas from dwelling units.  The size of
sidewalks shall be 5 feet wide.
      (11)   Street and yard lights, attached to standards approved by the
township, shall be provided in sufficient number and intensity to permit the
safe movement of vehicles and pedestrians at night, and shall be effectively
related to buildings, trees, walks, steps and ramps.  These lights shall be
utilized at least during the period of 1 hour after sundown to 1 hour before
sunrise.
   (FF)   Municipal buildings.  Municipal administration buildings used
predominately for the general conduct of government.  Such buildings include
but are not limited to township halls and other headquarters of government
where the governing body regularly meets, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   All vehicular access to the site shall be from a major
thoroughfare.
      (2)   The off-street parking area shall be provided with a continuous and
obscuring solid fence/wall not less than 6 feet in height measured from the
surface of the parking area.  This fence/wall shall be provided on all sides
when the next zoning district is designated as a residential district.  The
Planning Commission may waive the fence/wall requirement and instead, approve a
greenbelt buffer, upon a showing that the landscaped screening barrier would
effectively obscure the parking area from public view. The requirement for a
screening barrier between off-street parking areas and any abutting residential
districts shall not be required when such areas are located more than 200 feet
distant from such abutting Residential District.
         (a)   The Planning Commission may waive the wall requirement and
instead approve a greenbelt buffer, upon a showing that the landscaped
screening barrier would effectively obscure the parking area from public view.
         (b)   The requirement for a screening barrier between off-street
parking areas and any abutting residential districts shall not be required when
the areas are located more than 200 feet distant from the abutting residential
district.
      (3)   Pedestrian sidewalks and walkways shall be provided on the site as
may be required by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   All loading and unloading shall be off-street in the rear yard, and
be so designed as to avoid undue interference with public use of off-street
parking areas.
      (5)   The principal buildings on the site shall be set back from abutting
properties zoned for residential use and public rights-of-way not less than 75
feet.
      (6)   Buildings of greater than the maximum height allowed in §
152.100 may be allowed provided front, side and rear yards are increase above
the minimum required yards by 1 foot for each foot of building height that
exceeds the maximum height allowed.
   (GG)   Nurseries (plant material sales establishments).
      (1)   The storage or display of any materials shall conform to all
building setback requirements of a structure.
      (2)   All loading and parking shall be provided off-street.
      (3)   The storage of any soil, fertilizer or other loose, unpackaged
materials shall be contained so as to prevent any affects on adjacent uses.
   (HH)   Nursing homes.
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 3 acres.
      (2)   The lot location shall be such that at least 1 property line abuts
a major thoroughfare.  The ingress and egress for off-street parking areas for
guests and patients shall be directly from the major thoroughfare.
      (3)   The main and accessory buildings shall have a greenbelt of at least
75 feet from all property lines.
      (4)   There shall be provided on the site not less than 1,500 square feet
of open space for each bed in the care facility.  The 1,500 square feet of land
area shall provide for landscape setbacks, off-street parking, service drives,
loading space, yard requirements and space request for accessory uses, but
shall not include the area covered by the principal building.
   (II)   Outdoor storage.  All outdoor storage of building, contracting or
plumbing materials, sand, gravel, stone, lumber, equipment and other supplies
shall be located within an area not closer than 150 feet from any street right-
of-way line.  The storage of lumber, coal or other combustible material shall
not be less than 20 feet from any interior lot line, and a roadway shall be
provided, graded, surfaced, and maintained from the street to the rear of the
property to permit free access of fire trucks at any time.  All this open
storage shall be screened from all streets, and on all sides which abut any
residential or commercial district, by a solid 8-foot permanent wall or fence,
and all stored materials shall not be piled higher than the fence.
   (JJ)   Permanent open air display area for the sale of products.
      (1)   Minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   Minimum lot width shall be 100 feet.
      (3)   Lighting shall be installed in such a manner which will not create
a traffic hazard on abutting streets or which will cause a glare or direct
illumination to be cast onto adjacent properties, residential or otherwise.
      (4)   In the case of retail car sales, house trailers or boat lots:
         (a)   All areas subject to vehicular use shall be paved with a durable
dust-free surfacing, and shall be graded and drained to dispose of all surface
water accumulated within the area.  Appropriate bumper guards shall be supplied
where needed.
         (b)   Lighted parking areas shall not create a nuisance for nearby
properties.
         (c)   Access to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60 feet from
the intersection of any 2 streets as measured from the right-of-way line.
         (d)   All repair or refinishing shall be done in an enclosed building.
   (KK)   Private noncommercial recreation areas; institutional or community
recreation center; nonprofit swimming pool clubs.
      (1)   The proposed site for any of the uses permitted herein which would
attract persons from or are intended to serve areas beyond the immediate
neighborhood shall have at least 1 property line abutting a major thoroughfare,
and the site shall be so planned as to provide all vehicular access onto a
major thoroughfare or a collector road.
      (2)   Front, side and rear yards shall be at least 80 feet wide, and
shall be landscaped.  All the landscaping shall be maintained in a healthy
condition.  There shall be no parking or structures permitted in these yards,
except required entrance drives and those fences/walls used to obscure the use
from abutting residential districts.
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided so as to accommodate not less
than ½ of the member families and/or individual members.  The Planning
Commission may modify the off-street parking requirements in those instances
wherein it is specifically determined that the users will originate from the
immediately adjacent areas, and will therefore be pedestrian.  Prior to the
issuance of a building permit or zoning compliance permit, bylaws of the
organization shall be provided in order to establish the membership involved
for computing the off-street parking requirements.  In those cases wherein the
proposed use or organization does not have bylaws or formal membership, the
off-street parking requirement shall be determined by the Planning Commission
on the basis of usage.
      (4)   Whenever a swimming pool is constructed under this chapter, the
pool area shall be provided with a protective fence, 6 feet in height, and
entry shall be provided by means of a controlled gate.
   (LL)   Public and private elementary schools.
      (1)   An elementary school shall have 5 acres plus 1 acre for every 100
students.
      (2)   An elementary school shall be located on a paved road with an
existing or proposed right- of-way of 86 feet or greater.
      (3)   The principal building shall be located no less than 75 feet from
all property lines.
   (MM)   Race tracks (including horse, automobile and go-cart).
      (1)   Because race tracks develop concentrations of vehicular traffic in
terms of ingress and egress from their parking area and cause noise levels
which may project beyond the property so used, they shall be permitted only in
the M-1 District when located adjacent to a major thoroughfare and shall be
located on a parcel of land which is abutting land zoned for industrial
purposes on all sides, and shall be subject further to the following conditions
and such other controls as deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to
promote health, safety and general welfare:
         (a)   All parking shall be dust free and be provided as off-street
parking within the boundaries of the development.
         (b)   All access to the parking areas shall be provided only to a dust
free major thoroughfare.
         (c)   All sides of the development not abutting a major thoroughfare
shall be provided with a 20-foot greenbelt planting as to obscure from view all
activities within the development.
      (2)   Minimum size of parcel shall be 20 acres.
      (3)   No part of parcel shall be within 1,000 feet of any residential
structure existing prior to the commencement of construction of the race track
facilities.
   (NN)   Radio and television towers, broadcasting and recording studios and
cellular telephone towers.
      (1)   Commercial and public radio and television towers shall have
setbacks for each tower from adjacent rights-of-way and/or property lines of
not less than 1 times the height of each tower above the ground.  An open weave
wire fence 6 feet in height shall be constructed on the boundary property
lines.
      (2)   Residential radio towers, citizens band radios, ham operations and/
or all citizens residential radios and attendant facilities shall be permitted
in the RA, RSF, RE, FS, and FM Residential Districts only if the uses comply
with the area maximum height requirements when attached to the roof of any
principal residence.  Freestanding towers shall be located centrally on the lot
with a dimension of not less than 1 times the height of the attendant tower as
measured from the base to all points of each property line.
      (3)   In the case of recording studios:
         (a)   All structures and parking areas shall be located 50 feet from
any adjacent residential district.
         (b)   There shall be maintained between the side property line and any
structure or parking area an obscuring buffer zone as per §
152.078 of this chapter.
   (OO)   Riding stable.
      (1)   The rearing and housing of horses, mules, ponies and other similar
equine animals, where permitted, shall be required to provide a land area of at
least 10 acres.
      (2)   Animals shall be confined in a suitable fenced area, or paddock, to
preclude their approaching nearer than 60 feet to any dwelling on adjacent
premises.
      (3)   The facility shall be so constructed and maintained that odor,
dust, noise or drainage shall not constitute a nuisance or hazard to adjoining
premises.
      (4)   Buildings where the horses are kept shall be no closer than 200
feet from any residential lot line.
   (PP)   Roadside stand, seasonal sales, temporary outdoor sales.  Sales of
items (excludes garage/yard/and the like sales as defined by this definition),
which may include but are not limited to: garden produce, Michigan-legal
fireworks (see additional regulations below), Christmas trees, pumpkins, and
firewood may be permitted under the following conditions:
      (1)   The gross floor area of the temporary building shall be not less
than 50 square feet but not more than 250 square feet.
      (2)   Covered containers for rubbish shall be placed on the premises for
public use.
      (3)   The temporary building shall be located not less than 25 feet from
the public road right-of-way.  Its height shall be no more than 1 story.
   (QQ)   Small aircraft airport/landing field.
      (1)   Minimum area required for commercial airport/landing field and/or
facilities improvements shall not be less than 160 acres.
      (2)   The area shall have its principal means of access to a paved public
street and the pavement cover shall extend to the principal urbanized areas
being served by the airport/landing field.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall be assured that there is a clear and
unobstructed 50:1 glide slope approach to all landing strips and that no
obstruction falls within the required approach zones.
   (RR)   Temporary outdoor sales.  Temporary outdoor sales of Christmas trees,
pumpkins, firewood and similar uses may be permitted under the following
conditions:
      (1)   No temporary permit may be issued for a period longer than 3
months.
      (2)   No parcel may be issued a temporary permit more than once per 12-
month period.
      (3)   Adequate off-street parking shall be provided.  In determining the
adequacy of parking, the township shall consider the parking requirements for
similar permanent uses in this chapter and past experience with similar
temporary uses.
      (4)   No permanent structures shall be erected as part of the approved
use.
      (5)   All signs shall comply with the requirements of the district they
are located.
   (SS)   Temporary residence/structure.  In the event of loss of use of the
main building or dwelling on a given lot as a result of fire, wind, flood or
other catastrophe, a temporary special land use permit to park, use and occupy
a mobile home, motor home or travel trailer on the lot may be granted until the
main building or dwelling can be restored for its normal use.
      (1)   Issuance of the initial 6-month permit may be granted by the Zoning
Administrator after the applicant has obtained a building permit to repair or
replace the damage and the Genesee County Health Department shall approve all
provisions of water and sewer service.
      (2)   Extensions of up to 12 months must be approved by the Planning
Commission only after they have determined that a good-faith effort to complete
repairs or replace the damaged structure has taken place.
   (TT)   Tourist oriented retail establishments.  Establishments such as but
not limited to cider mills, antique dealers, woodworking, quilt shops and craft
stores:
      (1)   All parking shall be hard surfaced with either asphalt or concrete
and be provided as off-street parking within the boundaries of the development.
      (2)   All structures and parking areas shall maintain a 50-foot setback
from adjoining residential districts.
      (3)   A greenbelt buffer shall be established per §
152.078 of this chapter.
      (4)   The parking area shall be designed so as not to cause any
detrimental effects to nearby residential development such as from noise or
headlights.
   (UU)   Truck terminal.
      (1)   Shall have direct access solely to a major thoroughfare.
      (2)   Parking shall not be allowed in the front yard setback.
      (3)   No loading shall be permitted in the front yard.
   (VV)   Two-unit dwellings.
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 3 acres, or that required for the
district in which it is located, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Minimum gross floor area shall be 2,500 square feet.
      (3)   The smaller unit shall contain a minimum livable floor area of 950
square feet.
      (4)   The units shall be separated by a common wall without any point of
access between the units.
   (WW)   Vehicle wash establishments.
      (1)   Minimum lot size shall be 10,000 square feet.
      (2)   All washing activities must be carried on within a building.
      (3)   Vacuuming activities may be carried out only in the rear yard and
at least 50 feet distant from any adjoining residential use.
      (4)   The entrances and exits of the facility shall be from within the
lot and not directly to or from an adjoining street or alley.  A street or
alley shall not be used as maneuvering or parking spaces for vehicles to be
serviced by the subject facility.
      (5)   Provision shall be made for the drying of the automobiles’
undercarriage during sub- freezing weather prior to entering the public
thoroughfare.
      (6)   There shall be provided 2 vehicle stacking spaces for each self-
serve wash stall.
      (7)   There shall be provided 15 stacking spaces for each mechanical wash
lane.
      (8)   All off-street parking areas and maneuvering lanes shall be drained
so as to preclude drainage of water onto adjacent property and public rights-
of-way.
   (XX)   Veterinary clinic (without outdoor runs).
      (1)   All activities shall be within an enclosed building.
      (2)   All buildings shall be set back a minimum of 100 feet from abutting
or nearby residential district.
   (YY)   Welding shop.
      (1)   Outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
      (2)   The use shall conform with §
152.031.
   (ZZ)   Wholesale items for retail sales.  Items such as but not limited to a
furniture warehouse which sells a small amount of its stock from the warehouse.
      (1)   The designated retail sales area within the wholesale establishment
shall be no larger than 25% of the usable floor area of the wholesale
establishment.
      (2)   Off-street parking for customers, over and above the number of
spaces required for the wholesale establishment may be permitted within the
required front yard provided that the off-street parking is not located within
20 feet of the front lot line.  All landscaping shall comply with §
152.078 of this chapter.
      (3)   All parking shall be maintained on site.
(Ord. Art. XXII, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 424, passed 12-14-2006; Am. Ord.
426, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 433, passed - -; Am. Ord. 447, passed 9-12-2013; Am.
Ord. 448, passed 9-12-2013)
§ 152.131  SITE PLAN REVIEW; INTENT.
   These site plan review procedures are instituted to provide an opportunity
for the Planning Commission to review the proposed use of a site in relation to
drawings, pedestrian and vehicular circulation, off-street parking, structural
relationships, public utilities, landscaping, accessibility and other site
design elements which may have an adverse effect upon the public health,
safety, and general welfare, as well as to provide for the best interests of
the property owner and adjacent property owners.  (Ord. § 23.00, passed 5-22-
1997)
§ 152.132  APPLICATION.
   A building permit shall not be issued for the construction of any building
or structure and/or modification of any building or structure unless and until
a site plan review has been submitted to and approved by the Planning
Commission; provided, however, that the submission and approval shall not be
required for construction, alteration or modification in the following
instances:
   (A)   Detached single-family dwelling units plus only 1 ancillary building
of no more than 1 story of height and of no more than 600 square feet;
   (B)   Farm buildings and structures used only for agricultural purposes;
   (C)   Swimming pools;
   (D)   When the proposed new construction or remodeling constitutes an
addition to an existing building or use, site plan review procedures may be
modified, at the discretion of the Building Official, to provide for an
administrative review by the Building Official in lieu of a more formal review
by the Planning Commission.  The Building Official may conduct an
administrative review provided both of the following are true:
      (1)   No variances to the chapter are required; and
      (2)   The proposed new construction would not increase the total
buildable area in square feet by more than 25% or 1,000 square feet, whichever
is less.
   (E)   For those cases requiring site plan review solely as a result of
building reoccupancy, site plan review procedures may be modified, at the
discretion of the Building Official, to provide for an administrative review by
the Building Official in lieu of a more formal review by the Planning
Commission.  The Building Official may conduct an administrative review
provided all of the following are true:
      (1)   No variances to the ordinance are required;
      (2)   The use is conducted within a completely enclosed building;
      (3)   Reoccupancy does not create additional parking demands, beyond 10%
of that which exists; and
      (4)   Reoccupancy does not substantially alter the character of the site.
   (F)   Every site plan submitted for review shall be in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter.  Administrative review procedures are not
intended to modify any ordinance, regulation or development standard.
(Ord. § 23.01, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.133  FEES REQUIRED.
   Fees for the review of site plans shall be established by resolution of the
Township Board.
(Ord. § 23.02, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.134  SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before any building permit shall be issued, a site plan drawn to a
scale of 1 inch = 20 feet for sites 5 acres or less, or up to 1 inch = 100 feet
for sites over 5 acres, and placed on a standard sheet shall be submitted to
the Township Clerk. 
   (B)   The site plan shall contain the following information:
      (1)   Statistical data including: number of dwelling units, bedroom
composition (e.g., 1-bedroom, 2-bedroom and 3-bedroom), if any, and total
acreage involved in the project.  In the case of mobile home parks, the size
and location of each mobile home site shall be shown.  In all other cases, the
location, type, horsepower, fuel, dimension and other data of all machinery to
be used on the proposed site;
      (2)   The location of principal and accessory buildings on the lot and
the relationship of each structure to another; including setbacks;
      (3)   Vehicular traffic and pedestrian circulation features within and
without the site, including the location of driveways and streets within 150
feet of the site;
      (4)   The location and dimension of all off-street parking areas
including maneuvering lanes, off-street loading spaces, and other service areas
within the development;
      (5)   The location, dimensions and proposed use of all on-site recreation
areas, if any;
      (6)   The location of all proposed landscaping, fences or walls. 
Landscape plan may be required;
      (7)   The height and dimensions of all structures, and a typical floor
plan;
      (8)   Front, rear and side elevation of any typical structure proposed
for development;
      (9)   The location and capacity of private or public water, drainage and
sanitary sewer services and solid waste disposal facilities servicing the
site.  The point of discharge for all drains and pipes shall be specified;
      (10)   The location, dimensions and lighting of all signs;
      (11)   The location, intensity and orientation of outdoor lighting;
      (12)   A location map at a larger scale, indicating the relationship of
the site to the surrounding land use;
      (13)   A topographic map showing existing elevations at 2-foot contour
intervals, which also identifies boundary lines and all natural features of the
site.  U.S.G.S. or Genesee County datum may be acceptable;
      (14)   Sufficient drainage information to permit the evaluation of
drainage from the site to its nearest drainage course; and
      (15)   Information related to hazardous materials, including:
         (a)   Any areas or structures to be used for the storage, use,
loading/unloading, recycling or disposal of hazardous substances;
         (b)   Location of any underground and above-ground storage tanks for
such uses as fuel storage, waste oil holding tanks, chemical storage, hazardous
waste storage, collection of contaminated stormwater or wash water, and all
similar uses;
         (c)   Delineation of areas on the site which are known or suspected to
be contaminated, together with a report on the status of site cleanup;
         (d)   Submission of the Hazardous Substance Reporting Form for Site
Plan Review; and
         (e)   Submission of the State/County Environmental Permits Checklist. 
(Ord. § 23.03, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.135  REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The site plan shall be referred after receipt by the Township Clerk to
the Planning Commission for its review and evaluation at its next regularly
scheduled and published meeting as long as submitted not less than 30 days
prior to the meeting.  A special meeting may be called at the request of the
petitioner, in which case the petitioner shall reimburse the township for all
costs connected therewith.
   (B)   An approved site plan shall meet the following standards:
      (1)   The location and design of driveways in relation to access streets
and other driveways and in relation to pedestrian traffic, shall be designed to
minimize turning conflicts, acceleration/deceleration problems and pedestrian/
vehicle conflicts;
      (2)   The vehicular and pedestrian traffic circulation within the site
and the location of automobile parking areas will be designed to promote safety
and conveniences of both vehicular and pedestrian traffic, and the satisfactory
and harmonious relations between the development on the site and the existing
and prospective development of contiguous land and adjacent neighborhoods;
      (3)   The township will document the adequacy of essential public
facilities and services, such as highways, streets, police and fire protection,
drainage structures, refuse disposal, utilities and schools to serve the site;
      (4)   The site plan demonstrates the desirability and stability of the
proposed development in order to assure that contiguous property will not be
unreasonably affected;
      (5)   Adequate landscaping, fences and walls are provided to achieve the
objectives of this chapter and assurances for the continued maintenance of any
such facility to which they are appurtenant;
      (6)   Conformity with all state and local laws and ordinances is
demonstrated;
      (7)   Protection of groundwater resources by assuring:
         (a)   Sites at which hazardous substances are stored, used or
generated shall be designed to prevent spills and discharges to the air,
surface of the ground, groundwater, lakes, streams, rivers or wetlands;
         (b)   Secondary containment for above-ground areas where hazardous
substances are stored or used shall be provided with sufficient area to store
the substance for the maximum anticipated period of time necessary for the
recovery of any released substance;
         (c)   General purpose floor drains shall only be allowed if they are
approved by the responsible agency for connection to a public sewer system, an
on-site holding tank (not a septic system!), or regulated through a State of
Michigan groundwater discharge permit; and
         (d)   State and federal agency requirements for storage, spill
prevention, record keeping, emergency response, transport and disposal of
hazardous substances shall be met.  No discharge to groundwater, including
direct and indirect discharges shall be allowed without required permits and
approvals.
      (8)   To facilitate fire protection during site preparation and
construction of buildings, the following shall be required:
         (a)   Water mains and fire hydrants shall be installed prior to
construction above the foundation;
         (b)   Prior to construction of multiple residential buildings and
other large structures, a hard and sufficient roadbed shall be provided to
accommodate access of heavy firefighting equipment to the immediate job site at
the start of construction and maintained until all construction is completed;
         (c)   Free access from the street to fire hydrants and to outside
connections for standpipes, sprinklers, or other fire extinguishing equipment,
whether permanent or temporary, shall be provided and  maintained at all times;
         (d)   The contractor shall provide scheduled daily cleanup of scrap
lumber, paper products, corrugated cardboard and other debris caused by his or
her construction.  If debris is stored in a pile, it shall be located at a
distance well away from the structure; and
         (e)   Special attention should be given to temporary storage buildings
and field offices because of combustible loading and generally poor
housekeeping.  Temporary buildings shall not be grouped together, and a
reasonable separation shall be provided to minimize the fire exposure
probability.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall review and communicate its approval or
recommended site plan modifications to the applicant and the Township Board
within not more than 10 days after review of the site plan.  In cases where
modifications have been recommended, the applicant shall resubmit a site plan
incorporating those modifications to the Planning Commission for its review.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall approve a site plan only upon a
finding that the proposed use will not, upon the facts known at the time of
submission of the site plan, cause undue hardship, or create unsafe or
hazardous health or safety conditions, or create a nuisance condition to the
detriment of adjoining land users or the general public.
      (2)   Any required modification shall be directed to the specific
elimination of unsafe or hazardous health or safety conditions or the
prevention of nuisance conditions or nonconformity with provisions of this
chapter and shall be so noted.
   (D)   Upon receipt of the modified site plan, the Township Planning
Commission shall evaluate the changes which have been made and if deemed
acceptable shall communicate its approval of the site plan to the applicant and
the Township Board within not more than 30 days after receipt of the modified
site plan. 
(Ord. § 23.04, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.136  EXPIRATION. 
   The approval of a site plan shall expire 1 calendar year from the date of
the approval unless construction has begun in accordance with the plan. 
(Ord. § 23.05, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.137  REVIEW AND APPROVAL OF CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   Initial information.  Concurrently with notice required to be given
the Charter Township of Clayton, pursuant to § 71 of the Condominium Act,
Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through 559.272, as amended, a
person, firm or corporation intending to develop a condominium development in
the township shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of:
         (a)   All persons, firms or corporations with an ownership interest in
the land on which the condominium development will be located, together with a
description of the nature of each entity’s interest (for example, fee owner,
optionee or land contract vendee);
         (b)   All engineers, attorneys, architects or registered land
surveyors associated with the project; and
         (c)   The developer or proprietor of the condominium development.
      (2)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium
development will be developed together with any proposed expansion plans and
appropriate tax identification numbers;
      (3)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium
development will be developed;
      (4)   The purpose of the development (for example, residential,
commercial, industrial and the like);
      (5)   Approximate number of condominium units to be developed on the
subject parcel;
      (6)   Whether or not a public water system is contemplated; and
      (7)   Whether or not a public sewer system is contemplated.
   (B)   Information to be kept current.  The information shall be furnished to
the Township Building Official and shall be kept updated until such time as a
certificate of occupancy has been issued.
   (C)   Site plans for new projects.  Prior to recording of the Master Deed
required by § 72 of Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended, the condominium development shall undergo site plan review
and approval pursuant to §§
152.131et seq.  In addition, the township shall require appropriate engineering
plans and inspections prior to the issuance of any certificates of occupancy.
   (D)   Site plans for expandable or convertible projects.  Prior to expansion
or conversion of a condominium development to additional land, the new phase of
the project shall undergo site plan review and approval pursuant to §§
152.131et seq.  The conversion of any development to the condominium form of
ownership shall require all standards and requirements of the ordinance
regarding condominiums to be met.
   (E)   Master Deed, restrictive covenants and “as-built” survey to be
furnished.  The condominium development developer or proprietor shall furnish
the Township Building Official with the following:  1 copy of the recorded
Master Deed, 1 copy of all restrictive covenants, and 2 copies of an “as-built”
survey.  The “as-built” survey shall be reviewed by the Township Building
Official for compliance with township ordinances.  Fees for this review shall
be established by resolution of the Township Board.
   (F)   Monuments required.  All condominium developments, which consist in
whole or in part of condominium units which are building sites, mobile home
sites or recreational sites, shall be marked with monuments as provided in this
division.
      (1)   All monuments used shall be made of solid iron or steel bars at
least ½ inch in diameter and 36 inches long and completely encased in concrete
at least 4 inches in diameter.
      (2)   Monuments shall be located in the ground at all angles in the
boundaries of the condominium development; at the intersection lines of streets
and at the intersection of the lines of streets with the boundaries of the
condominium development and at the intersection of alleys with the boundaries
of the condominium development; at all points of curvature, points of tangency,
points of compound curvature, points of reverse curvature and angle points in
the side lines of streets and alleys and at all angles of an intermediate
traverse line.  It is not intended or required that monuments be placed within
the traveled portion of a street to mark angles in the boundary of the
condominium development if the angle points can be readily reestablished by
reference to monuments along the sidelines of the streets.
      (3)   If the required location of a monument is an inaccessible place, or
where the locating of a monument would be clearly impracticable, it is
sufficient to place a reference monument nearby and the precise location
thereof be clearly indicated on the plans and referenced to the true point.
      (4)   If a point required to be monumented is on a bedrock outcropping, a
steel rod, at least ½ inch in diameter shall be drilled and grouted into solid
rock to a depth of at least 8 inches.
      (5)   All required monuments shall be placed flush with the ground where
practicable.
      (6)   All unit corners and the intersection of all limited common
elements and all common elements shall be monumented in the field by iron or
steel bars or iron pipes at least 18 inches long and ½ inch in diameter, or
other approved markers.
      (7)   The Township Board may waive the placing of any of the required
monuments and markers for a reasonable time, not to exceed 1 year, on the
condition that the proprietor deposits with the Township Clerk cash or a
certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit to the Charter Township
of Clayton, whichever the proprietor selects, in an amount to be established by
the Township Board by resolution.  The cash, certified check or irrevocable
bank letter of credit shall be returned to the proprietor upon receipt of a
certificate by a surveyor that the monuments and markers have been placed as
required within the time specified.
   (G)   Compliance with federal, state and local law.  All condominium
developments shall comply with federal and state statutes and local ordinances.
   (H)   Occupancy of condominium development.  The Building Official may allow
occupancy of the condominium development before all improvements required by
this chapter are installed provided that cash, a certified check or an
irrevocable bank letter of credit is submitted sufficient in amount and type to
provide for the installation of improvements before the expiration of the
temporary occupancy permit without expense to the township.
   (I)   Single-family detached condominiums (site condominiums).
      (1)   Single-family detached condominium project shall be subject to all
requirements and standards of the applicable RA through FM Residential
Districts.
      (2)   Connection to a sanitary sewer system shall be required in
accordance with the terms and provisions of Chapter 51 of this code of
ordinances, as may be amended.
      (3)   Connection to water supply system shall be required in accordance
with the terms and provisions of Chapter 50 of this code of ordinances, as may
be amended.
      (4)   All pavement shall be asphalt or concrete pavement with concrete
curbs and gutters on each side in accordance with the standards prescribed by
the Genesee County Road Commission.
      (5)   An adequate storm drainage system including necessary storm sewers,
catch basins, manholes, culverts, bridges and other appurtenances shall be
required in all developments.
      (6)   The proprietor shall make arrangements for all lines for telephone,
electric, television and other similar services distributed by wire or cable to
be placed underground entirely throughout the development area, and such
conduits or cable shall be placed within private easements provided to the
service companies by the developer or within dedicated public ways, provided
only that overhead lines may be permitted upon written recommendation of the
Township Building Official and the approval of the Planning Commission at the
time of site plan approval where it is determined that overhead lines will not
constitute a detriment to the health, safety, general welfare, design and
character of the development.  All these facilities placed in dedicated public
ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground utilities. 
All these facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of
construction approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission.  All drainage
and underground utility installations which traverse privately held property
shall be protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
(Ord. § 23.06, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.138  SITE PLAN APPROVAL FOR SPECIAL CONDITION USES.
   All approvals for site plans reviewed in companion with a special condition
use application shall be conditioned upon the approval of the special condition
use by the Township Board.
(Ord. § 23.07, passed 5-22-1997)
SPECIAL CONDITION USES
§ 152.150  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The uses identified as special condition uses are recognized as
possessing characteristics of such unique and special nature (relative to
location, design, size, public utilities needs and other similar
characteristics) as necessitating individual standards and conditions in order
to safeguard the general health, safety and welfare of the community.
   (B)   The Township Board, as provided herein, shall have the authority to
approve special condition use permits, subject to such conditions of design,
operation and appropriate and reasonable safeguards as the township may require
for any special condition use included in the various provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. § 24.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.151  DATA REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application for any special condition use permit as provided under the
provisions of this chapter shall be made to the Township Building Official by
filing an official special condition use permit application form; submitting
required data, exhibits, and information; and depositing the required fee as
established by resolution of the Township Board, and as may be amended from
time to time.  No portion of the fee shall be reimbursable to the applicant.
   (B)   An application for a special condition use permit shall contain the
following:
      (1)   Applicant’s name, address and telephone number;
      (2)   Address and tax description number of the subject parcel;
      (3)   A signed statement that the applicant is the owner of the subject
parcel, or is acting as the owner’s representative;
      (4)   A certified survey drawing of the subject parcel;
      (5)   A complete site plan containing all of the applicable data outlined
in §§
152.131 through
152.138; and
      (6)   Supporting statements, evidence, data, information and exhibits
which address those standards and requirements for assessing special condition
use permit applications outlined in §
152.152.
(Ord. § 24.01, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.152  STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the particular circumstances and
facts applicable to each proposed special condition use in terms of the
following standards and requirements and shall make a determination as to
whether the use proposed to be developed on the subject parcel meets the
following standards and requirements:
      (1)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives of the Future Land Use Plan;
      (2)   Will be designed, constructed, operated and maintained, in harmony
with existing and intended character of the general vicinity and so that the
use will not change the essential character of that area;
      (3)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses;
      (4)   Will represent a substantial improvement to property in the
immediate vicinity and to the community as a whole;
      (5)   Will be served adequately by essential public services and
facilities, such as highways, streets, drainage structures, police and fire
protection and refuse disposal, or persons or agencies responsible for the
establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately for these
services;
      (6)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services, and will not be detrimental to the economic
welfare of the community;
      (7)   Will not involve uses, activities, processes, materials, equipment
and conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property,
or the general welfare by reason of excessive smoke, fumes, glare, noise,
vibration or odors; and
      (8)   Will be consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter.
   (B)   If the facts regarding the special condition use being reviewed do not
establish by a preponderance of the evidence that the standards and
requirements set forth in this chapter will be met by the proposed use, the
Planning Commission shall not recommend special condition approval to the
Township Board.
      (1)   In recommending approval of a special condition use permit to the
Township Board, the Planning Commission shall recommend imposition of such
reasonable conditions of use as it deems necessary to protect the best
interests of the township and the general vicinity, to achieve the objectives
of this chapter and to assure that the general public health, safety and
welfare will not be infringed upon.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may recommend denial, approval or approval
with conditions of a request for special condition use approval.  The
recommendation on a special condition use shall be incorporated in a statement
containing the conclusions relative to the special condition use under
consideration which specifies the basis for the decision and any conditions
recommended.
   (C)   (1)   Upon holding a public hearing and review of the special
condition use request, the Planning Commission shall within 30 days forward to
the Township Board its finding and recommendation.  The finding shall include a
record of those conditions which are recommended to be imposed.  The Township
Board, upon receipt of the finding and recommendation, may deny, approve or
approve with conditions any request for a special condition use approval.  Any
decision on such a request shall state the findings of fact and specify the
conclusions drawn therefrom and any conditions imposed thereon.  Any conditions
imposed shall remain unchanged except upon the mutual consent of a majority of
the Township Board and the landowner, and the Township Board shall maintain a
record of all conditions that are changed.  All records of proceedings
hereunder shall be kept and made available to the public.
      (2)   A special condition use permit shall be issued by the Township
Board upon approval.  The Township Board shall forward a copy of the permit to
the owner/applicant, Clerk and Building Official.  The Building Official shall
not issue a building permit until he or she has received a copy of the special
condition use permit approved by the Township Board.
   (D)   Any special condition use permit granted under this chapter shall
become null and void and all fees forfeited unless construction and/or use is
commenced within 12 months of the date of issuance of the special condition use
permit, except that the Township Board may at its discretion, upon application
by the owner and for cause shown, provide for up to 2 successive 12-month
extensions.
   (E)   A violation of any requirement, condition or safeguard imposed
hereunder shall be considered a violation of this chapter and constitute
grounds for termination of a previously granted special condition use permit.
   (F)   The special condition use review and site plan review may occur
concurrently with the mutual consent of the landowner and the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. § 24.03, passed 5-22-1997)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 152.165  ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment.  There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals
which shall perform the duties and exercise the powers assigned to it under
this chapter and under Public Act 184 of 1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321
through 125.333, as amended.
   (B)   Members.  The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of 5 members.  The
first member shall be a member of the Township Planning Commission and shall
serve as long as his or her term on the Planning Commission continues, the
second shall be a member of the Township Board appointed by the Township Board
and shall serve for 2 years or with the tenure of his or her township office;
the remaining members shall be selected and appointed by the Township Board
from among the electors residing in the township and serve for 3 years;
provided, that no elected officer of the township, nor any employee of the
Township Board, may serve simultaneously as a member of or as an employee of
the Township Zoning Board of Appeals.  Each appointment thereafter shall be for
3 years. 
      (1)   The Township Board shall provide annually in advance for the total
amount allowed for the Zoning Board of Appeals for the ensuing year on a per
diem basis or as expenses actually incurred in the discharge of their duties. 
Members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be removable by the Township Board
for nonperformance of duty or misconduct in office upon written charges and
after public hearing. 
      (2)   The Township Board shall appoint up to 2 alternate members of the
Zoning Board of Appeals, under the same terms as regular members.  The
alternate member may be called to sit as a regular member in the absence of a
regular member who is unable to attend for 2 or more consecutive meetings or
for more than 30 consecutive days.  The alternate may also be called to sit
when a regular member abstains due to conflict of interest.  The alternate
member shall sit on a case until a final decision is made.
   (C)   Meetings, Chairperson and records.  Meetings of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times as
the Board in its rules of procedure may specify; provided 1 meeting shall be
held each quarter.  The Chairperson, or in his or her absence the acting
Chairperson, may administer oaths and compel the attendance of witnesses.  All
meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be open to the public.  The Board
shall maintain a record of its proceedings, which shall be filed in the office
of the Township Clerk and shall be a public record. 
(Ord. § 25.00, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 397, passed 10-11-2001; Am. Ord. 425,
passed - -; Am. Ord. 435, passed 7-9-2009)
§ 152.166  APPEAL.
   (A)   Appeals shall be taken within such time as shall be prescribed by the
Zoning Board of Appeals by general rule, by the filing with the officer from
whom the appeal is taken, and with the Zoning Board of Appeals of a notice of
appeal, specifying the grounds thereof.  The officer from whom the appeal is
taken shall forthwith transmit to the Board all the papers constituting the
record upon which the action appealed was taken.
   (B)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed,
unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the Township
Zoning Board of Appeals after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with
him or her, that by reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in
his or her opinion cause imminent peril to life or property, in which case
proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a restraining order which may
be granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by the Circuit Court, on
application, on notice to the officer from whom the appeal is taken and on due
cause shown.
   (C)   The Township Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for
the hearing of the appeal and give notice as required in §
152.165 to the parties, and decide the same within a reasonable time.  Upon the
hearing, any party may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.  The Zoning
Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify the
order, requirement, decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be
made in the premises, and to that end shall have all the powers of the officer
from whom the appeal is taken and may issue or direct the issuance of a
permit.  Where there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships in the
way of carrying out the strict letter of this chapter, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall have power in passing upon appeals to vary or modify any of its
rules, regulations or provisions so that the spirit of the ordinance shall be
observed, public safety secured and substantial justice done.  The decision of
the Board shall be final, but any person having an interest affected by any
such ordinance shall have the right to appeal to the Circuit Court on questions
of law and fact.
   (D)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirements, decision or
determination of any such administrative official or to approve any
application, permit, petition and the like, upon which they are required to
pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation in this chapter.  The Board
shall state its grounds for each determination.  Appeals may be taken by any
person aggrieved or by any officer, department, board or bureau of the
township, county or state.
(Ord. § 25.01, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 397, passed 10-11-2001)
§ 152.167  JURISDICTION. 
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have the power to alter or
change the zoning district classification of any property, except as
specifically provided for in this section, nor to make any changes in the terms
of this chapter, but does have the power to act on those matters where this
chapter provides for an administrative review, or interpretation, and to
authorize a variance as defined in this section and laws of the State of
Michigan. 
   (B)   These powers include:
      (1)   Administrative review.  To hear and decide appeals where it is
alleged by the appellant that there is an error in any order, requirement,
permit, decision or refusal made by the Building Official or
any other administrative official in carrying out or enforcing any provisions
of this chapter.
      (2)   Interpretation.  To hear and decide in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter:
         (a)   Appeals for the interpretation of the provisions of this
chapter; and
         (b)   Requests to determine the precise location of the boundary lines
between the zoning districts as they are displayed on the zoning map, when
there is dissatisfaction with the decision on the subject.
      (3)   Variances.  The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to
authorize, upon appeal, specific variances from such dimensional requirements
as lot area and width regulations, building height and square foot regulations,
yard width and depth regulations, such requirements as off-street parking and
loading space and sign regulations, and other similar requirements as specified
in the ordinance.  To obtain a variance, the applicant must show “practical
difficulty,” by demonstrating:
         (a)   Whether strict compliance with area, setbacks, frontage, height,
bulk or density would unreasonably prevent the owner from using the property
for a permitted purpose, or would render the conformity unnecessarily
burdensome;
         (b)   Whether a variance would do substantial justice to the
applicant, as well as to other property owners in the district, or whether a
lesser relaxation would give substantial relief and be more consistent with
justice to others;
         (c)   Whether the plight of the owner is due to the unique
circumstances of the property; and
         (d)   Whether the problem is self-created.
      (4)   Appeals of Planning Commission decisions on site plan review and
special condition use requests.
         (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals is authorized to hear appeals of
decisions by the Planning Commission on site plans and the Township Board on
special condition use requests.
         (b)   The Zoning Board of Appeals’ authority is limited to review to
determine if the Planning Commission or Township Board properly applied the
zoning ordinance requirements to the application as presented to them.  For
this purpose, the Zoning Board of Appeals should base its considerations on the
record created by the body the appeal is taken from, although the Zoning Board
of Appeals may supplement that record with additional testimony if necessary.
      (5)   Miscellaneous permits.  The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant
permits for temporary uses and activities, where authorized in this chapter and
subject to the requirements stated therein, after full consideration of the
general intent of this chapter.  Permits shall be required for but not limited
to the holding of circuses, carnivals and special events generating large
crowds.
      (6)   Exceptions and other special approvals.  The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall review and take action on exceptions and special approvals listed
below:
         (a)   Permit reconstruction of a nonconforming single-family home in
any zoning district as permitted in §§
152.105,
152.106,
152.107 and
152.108.  The Zoning Board of Appeals may establish setbacks based on the
relationship of the subject site to surrounding uses and buildings;
         (b)   Permit construction of accessory structures as permitted in §
152.027 for any nonconforming single-family home site in any zoning district;
and
         (c)   Permit an extension of approved plans affected by amendments to
this chapter for up to 1 year.
(Ord. § 25.02, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 397, passed 10-11-2001)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.180  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be hereby appointed by the Township
Board of Trustees as the enforcement officer for this chapter, and it shall be
his or her duty to perform all of the acts necessary and appropriate for the
enforcement of this chapter. 
   (B)   The Township Zoning Administrator, under authority provided by the
township zoning ordinance shall, through site inspection, ascertain that
implementation of any development undertaken is in accordance with the approved
site plan and other provisions of this chapter, and notify the Township Board
and the applicant in writing of any discrepancies therewith.
   (C)   The Township Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for
investigating complaints regarding violations of the zoning ordinance and
preparing a report on that investigation to the Planning Commission, Township
Zoning Board of Appeals, Township Board  and the complainant, and enforcing
identified ordinance violations.
(Ord. § 26.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.181  OCCUPANCY AND ZONING PERMITS.
   (A)   No land, structure or building hereafter erected, altered or changed
in use, shall be occupied until a certificate of occupancy and zoning permit
shall have been issued by the Zoning Administrator  stating that the land,
structure or building complies with the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Certificate of occupancy and zoning permit shall be applied for with
the application for a building permit, or before the change in the use of the
land is started if no building permit is required, and shall be issued within 3
days, not including Saturday, Sunday or holidays, after the erection or
alteration of the building or change in the use of land shall have been
completed in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.  A record of all
such certificates shall be kept on file in the office of the Zoning
Administrator and copies shall be furnished on request to any person having an
interest in the property involved.  No fee shall be charged for an original
certificate applied for coincident with the application for a permit; fees for
all other certificates, or for copies of any original certificates shall be
determined by resolution of the Township Board. 
(Ord. § 26.01, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.182  SURETY BOND.
   (A)   (1)   A surety bond, cash deposit or irrevocable bank letter of credit
approved by the Township Board may be required by the Planning Commission or
Zoning Board of Appeals to ensure the complete construction of necessary
improvements such as streets, lighting, utilities, walks, screening, drainage
or structures to protect natural resources or the health, safety and welfare of
township residents, or to abate nuisances as described herein, in accordance
with the site plan as proposed and approved and for which a building permit is
required.  This bond, deposit or letter of credit may be up to an amount equal
to the estimated cost of the site improvement, and may be reduced in proportion
to the amount of work accomplished and accepted by the Township Building
Inspector.  The bond, deposit or letter of credit shall run to the benefit of
the township and shall require that the project shall be completed in
accordance with the conditions of permit and any conditions thereof.  In the
event of failure of the developer to complete the project in accordance with
the approved site plan, the township may utilize the bond, deposit or letter of
credit to employ others to wholly or partially complete the project in any
manner deemed appropriate to render the project safe and usable.  In that
event, the Board shall not be required to complete the project according to the
original plan but may use such means as it shall determine most reasonable and
feasible to render the project safe and usable, or the Board may elect to use
such other means to compel the developer to complete the project in accordance
with the plan of development and may utilize that portion of the bond, deposit
or letter of credit to pay any costs incurred in compelling compliance with the
development plan. 
      (2)   Notice of noncompliance with the development plan may be given by
addressing a letter to the developer or successor to the developer at the last-
known address of the developer 7 days prior to commencement of exercise of the
rights of the Board to perform such works itself or by contract with others,
and the developer shall be entitled to a hearing thereon if, within 7 days
following mailing of the notice, he or she shall in writing request a hearing. 
The date, time and place of the hearing is to be determined by the Board.  In
the event of the developer permitting a dangerous condition to develop or to
remain, then the Board may immediately take any corrective measures deemed
necessary to correct or protect the public from that condition without prior
notice of any kind and the bond, deposit or letter of credit may be used for
that purpose.  The determination of the Board of the Township shall have no
obligation to correct, render safe or complete, wholly or partially any such
project or condition but shall have the privilege of doing so at its judgment
and discretion.  The liability of the developer to complete or correct the
project in accordance with the approved plan shall not be limited to the bond,
deposit or letter of credit.
   (B)   The surety bond, cash or letter of credit, if required, shall be
returnable in full upon issuance of a certificate of occupancy and compliance
less any sums thereof used to correct or complete the project in accordance
with the plan or costs incurred to require compliance with the plan or render
the project safe.
(Ord. § 26.02, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.183  PUBLIC HEARING NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Upon receipt of an application for rezoning, special conditional use, or to
the Zoning Board of Appeals, the following notification process shall be
followed:
   (A)   The Township Clerk shall publish at least one notice of the request in
a newspaper of general circulation in the township not less than 15 days before
the date of the public hearing.
   (B)   Notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the owners of property for
which approval is be considered not less than 15 days before the date of the
public hearing.
   (C)   Notice shall be sent by first-class mail to all persons to whom real
property is assessed within 300 feet of the property and to the occupants of
all structures within 300 feet of the property regardless of whether the
property or occupant is located in the zoning jurisdiction not less than 15
days before the date of the public hearing.
   (D)   If the name of the occupant is not known, the term “occupant” may be
used in making notification under this division.
   (D)   The notice shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Describe the nature of the request.
      (2)   Indicated the property that is the subject of the request.
      (3)   The notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses
within the property. Street addresses do not need to be created and listed if
no such addresses currently exist within the property. If there are no street
addresses, other means of identification may be used.
      (4)   State when and where the request will be considered.
      (5)   Indicated when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request.
(Ord. 425, passed - -)
§ 152.184  NUISANCE PER SE.
   Uses of land and dwellings, buildings or structures, including tents,
campers and motor homes, used, erected, altered, razed or converted in
violation of any provision of this chapter or any regulation adopted pursuant
to this chapter are hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.  The Court shall
order the nuisance abated.
(Ord. § 27.00 passed 5-22-1997) 
AMENDMENTS
§ 152.195  AMENDMENT BY TOWNSHIP BOARD.
   In accordance with the provisions of Public Act 184 of 1943, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.321 through 125.333, as amended, the Township Board of the Charter
Township of Clayton may from time to time amend, or change by ordinance, the
number, shape or area of districts established on the zoning map or the
regulations set forth in the ordinance; but no such amendment or change shall
become effective unless the ordinance proposing the amendment or change shall
first be submitted to the Township Planning Commission for approval,
disapproval or suggestions.  The Township Planning Commission may also initiate
an amendment to the zoning ordinance.
(Ord. § 30.00, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.196  AMENDMENT APPLICATION BY PROPERTY OWNER OR RESIDENT.
   Any person or persons desiring a change in the township zoning ordinance
text or map shall make application to the Township Clerk.  In case of a zoning
ordinance text amendment, a letter shall be submitted which shall contain the
requested change and the reason for the change; in case of a desired zoning map
change a petition shall be submitted which shall describe the property
involved, the zone change desired and the reason for the change.  With either
type of request there shall be an accompanying fee, based on a fee schedule to
be established by the Township Board.
(Ord. § 30.01, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.197  PUBLIC HEARING.
   (A)   The Township Clerk shall refer all township applications for a change
in the zoning ordinance text or map to the Township Planning Commission.  The
Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing on the proposed amendment or
change after publication twice in an official paper or a paper of general
circulation in Clayton Township, the first not more than 30 days or less than
20 days prior to the hearing and the second not more than 8 days prior to the
hearing and by certified U.S. mail to each public utility company and railroad
company within the township that requires notification not less than 20 days
prior to the hearing; and in case of a proposed zoning map change to all
property owners and residents within 300 feet of the boundaries of the property
proposed to be changed not less than 8 days prior to the hearing.  All public
notices (including publication in the newspaper and letter) shall state the
time and place of hearing, the proposed amendment, in case of an ordinance text
change, and the description and proposed zone changes.  Affidavits of all
notice mailings shall be filed with the Planning Commission, prior to the
public hearing.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall make a recommendation on approval of the
request, including the reasons for their recommendation.  This recommendation
and a summary of the comments submitted at the public hearing shall be included
in a report that shall be transmitted to the Township Board before the Board
makes a decision on the request.  The Township Board in cases that amend the
official zoning map shall make its decision based on the criteria contained in
§
152.199.
   (C)   Following the public hearing, the Township Planning Commission  shall
transmit a copy of the proposed amendment to the Genesee County Metropolitan
Planning Commission, which will be provided 30 days to comment on it.
(Ord. § 30.02, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.198  TOWNSHIP BOARD ACTION.
   (A)   After receiving the recommendation and report of the Township Planning
Commission, the Township Board may hold additional public hearings if it
wishes.  If the Township Board holds a public hearing on the proposed zoning
amendment it shall publish a notice not more than 15 or less than 5 days prior
to the hearing.  If the Township Board proposes changes to the amendment as
received from the Planning Commission, the Township Board shall refer the
recommendation back to the Planning Commission along with a deadline for the
Planning Commission’s comments to be sent back to the Township Board.
   (B)   If the Township Board receives a request by certified mail from a
property owner regarding an amendment, it shall hold a hearing, with the
Planning Commission in attendance, to discuss the property owner’s concerns. 
Such a hearing shall not be a general public hearing.  The Township Board may
limit public input to the property owner requesting the hearing.
   (C)   Adoption of the zoning ordinance amendment requires approval of a
majority of the membership of the Township Board.
(Ord. § 30.03, passed 5-22-1997)
§ 152.199  REVIEW CRITERIA FOR AMENDMENT OF ZONING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In reviewing any petition for a zoning amendment the Planning
Commission shall identify and evaluate all factors relevant to the petition. 
For certain land uses considered to have a significant potential impact on the
environment, traffic, infrastructure, demands for public services and the
like.  The Planning Commission may require special studies by experienced
professionals to evaluate, study or analyze the impacts of a project.  The
Planning Commission shall report its findings in full, along with a
recommendation for action on the petition to the Township Board. 
   (B)   The facts to be considered by the Planning Commission shall include,
but shall not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Criteria for amendment of the official zoning map.  In considering
any petition for an amendment to the official zoning map, the Planning
Commission and Township Board shall consider the following criteria in making
its findings, recommendations and decision:
         (a)   Consistency with the goals, policies and future land use map of
the Township Master Plan, including any subarea or corridor studies.  If
conditions have changed since the Master Plan was adopted, the consistency with
recent development trends in the area;
         (b)   Compatibility of the site’s physical, geological, hydrological
and other environmental features with those of uses permitted in the proposed
zoning district;
         (c)   Evidence the applicant cannot receive a reasonable return on
investment through developing the property with 1 of the uses permitted under
the current zoning;
         (d)   The compatibility of all the potential uses allowed in the
proposed zoning district with surrounding uses and zoning in terms of land
suitability, impacts on the environment, density, nature of use, traffic
impacts, aesthetics, infrastructure and potential influence on property values;
         (e)   The capacity of township utilities and services sufficient to
accommodate the uses permitted in the requested district without compromising
the health, safety and welfare of the township;
         (f)   The capability of the street system efficiently to accommodate
the expected traffic generated by uses permitted in the requested zoning
district.  A traffic impact study shall be provided if the proposed rezoning
district permits uses that could generate 100 or more directional trips during
the peak hour, or at least 1,000 more trips per day than the majority of the
uses that could be developed under current zoning;
         (g)   The apparent demand for the types of uses permitted in the
requested zoning district considered to be more appropriate from the township’s
perspective than another zoning district;
         (h)   The boundaries of the requested rezoning district are reasonable
in relationship to surroundings and construction on the site will be able to
meet the dimensional regulations for the zoning district listed in the Schedule
of Regulations in §
152.100 of this chapter;
         (i)   If a rezoning is appropriate, the requested zoning district
considered to be more appropriate from the township’s perspective than another
zoning district;
         (j)   If the request is for a specific use, is rezoning the land more
appropriate than amending the list of permitted or special conditions uses in
the current zoning district to allow the use;
         (k)   The requested rezoning will not create an isolated and unplanned
spot zone;
         (l)   The request has not previously been submitted within the past 1
year, unless conditions have changed or new information has been provided; and
         (m)   Other factors deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission and
Township Board.
      (2)   Criteria for amendments to zoning ordinance text.  The Planning
Commission and Township Board shall consider the following criteria for
initiating amendments to the zoning ordinance text or responding to a
petitioners’ request to amend the ordinance text.
         (a)   The proposed amendment would correct an error in the ordinance;
         (b)   The proposed amendment would clarify the intent of the
ordinance;
         (c)   Documentation has been provided from township staff or the
Zoning Board of Appeals indicating problems and conflicts in implementation or
interpretation of specific sections of the ordinance;
         (d)   The proposed amendment would address changes to the state
legislation;
         (e)   The proposed amendment would address potential legal issues or
administrative problems with the zoning ordinance based on recent case law or
opinions rendered by the Attorney General of the State of Michigan;
         (f)   The proposed amendment would promote compliance with changes in
other township ordinances and county, state or federal regulations;
         (g)   The proposed amendment is supported by the findings of reports,
studies, or other documentation on functional requirements, contemporary
building practices, environmental requirements and similar technical items; and
         (h)   Other criteria as determined by the Planning Commission or
Township Board which would protect the health and safety of the public, protect
public investment in the Township, promote implementation of the goals and
policies of the Master Plan and sub-area plans, and enhance the overall quality
of life in the Charter Township of Clayton.
(Ord. § 30.04, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 398, passed 10-11-2001)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply or who resists the enforcement of any of the
provisions of Title XV, Chapter 152, Zoning, shall be deemed responsible for a
civil municipal infraction subject to the terms and penalties set forth in §§
150.65 through
150.72
(Ord. § 28.00, passed 5-22-1997; Am. Ord. 453, passed 10-10-2013)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS AND AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
276      1-8-1987    Granting an electricity franchise to Consumers Power
                     Company for a period of 30 years
296      7-14-1988   Granting a gas franchise to Consumers Power Company for a
                     period of 30 years
                     Granting a non-exclusive franchise to C-TEC Cable Systems
364      - -         of Michigan, Inc. to construct, install, own, operate,
                     extend and maintain a cable television and cable
                     communications system for a period of 10 years
378      9-10-1998   Granting cable TV and communications system franchise to
                     TVC, Incorporated, for a period of 10 years
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section          Code Section
15.231 - 15.246           150.20
28.451 et seq.            97.01
28.457(3)                 97.99
36.1 to 36.12             152.007
41.181 - 41.187           30.15
41.806(a)                 95.02,
                          95.05
42.1 et seq.              10.99
42.1 - 42.34              Title III
42.21                     10.99
46.171 et seq.            51.01
54.211 - 54.213           151.085
117.5b                    10.01
123.161                   151.009,
                          151.068
123.165                   50.21
125.71 et seq.            96.01
                          152.007,
125.321 through 125.333   152.116,
                          152.165,
                          152.195
                          150.01,
125.1501 et seq.          150.02,
                          150.04,
                          150.05
125.1501 through 125.1531 150.15,
                          150.21
125.1361                  152.110
125.2301 et seq.          152.130,
                          152.100
125.2301 through 125.2350 152.110
125.3301 et seq.          150.65
125.3801 - 125.3885       Ch. 152,
                          152.007
257.1 et seq.             70.01
257.1d                    97.02
257.625(1)(c)             70.01
257.707                   91.31
257.8b                    97.02
286.471 - 286.474         91.31
333.1101 et seq.          152.130
333.1101 - 333.25211      152.130
333.7210 et seq.          132.01
333.20950                 132.05
333.26421                 152.007
333.26421 et seq.         152.041
333.26423 et seq.         152.007
333.27951 et seq.         150.80,
                          152.042
333.25953                 150.80,
                          152.042
333.27954.1(3)            150.80
333.27956.1               150.80,
                          152.042
333.27956.2(b)            150.80
339.101 - 339.2919        150.15
400.701 - 400.737         152.007
                          151.009,
559.101 through 559.272   152.007,
                          152.137
                          151.002,
                          151.003,
                          151.005,
560.101 through 560.293   151.027,
                          151.068,
                          151.087,
                          151.101,
                          152.019
560.108                   151.087
560.112                   151.009,
                          151.024
560.112(4)                151.024
560.113 through 560.119   151.025
560.120                   151.009,
                          151.025
560.126 through 560.141   151.027
560.142 through 560.151   151.027
600.101 et seq.           150.65
600.8379                  10.99
600.8696                  150.67
600.8731                  150.72
600.8801 - 600.8835       10.02
764.15a                   132.03
                          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No.    Date Passed Code Section
98-0312-01A - -         152.105 -
                        152.108
04-0101-01  - -         150.03
00-0608-02  6-8-2000    92.08
98-514-02   9-13-2001   152.021
01-1108-01  11-8-2002   30.16
Policy      9-11-2003   150.15 -
                        150.22
97-0911-02F 2-12-2004   152.004
                       
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.        Date Passed Code Section
                            94.01 -
3               - -         94.05,
                            94.99
                            93.20 -
24              10-16-1969  93.22,
                            93.99
                            92.20 -
25              4-28-1971   92.26,
                            92.99
31              10-23-1974  30.01 -
                            30.08
276             1-8-1987    TSO I
296             7-14-1988   TSO I
308             6-8-1989    150.51
322             1-13-1991   10.99
323             - -         150.50
341             9-22-1993   111.01 -
                            111.18
364             - -          
- § 1.00       5-22-1997   152.001
- Art. II       5-22-1997   152.007
- § 2.00       5-22-1997   152.006
- § 3.00       5-22-1997   152.015
- § 3.01       5-22-1997   152.016
- § 3.02       5-22-1997   152.017
- § 3.03       5-22-1997   152.018
- § 3.04       5-22-1997   152.019
- § 3.05       5-22-1997   152.020
- § 3.06       5-22-1997   152.021
- § 3.07       5-22-1997   152.022
- § 3.08       5-22-1997   152.023
- § 3.09       5-22-1997   152.024
- § 3.10       5-22-1997   152.025
- § 3.11       5-22-1997   152.026
- § 3.12a      5-22-1997   152.027
- § 3.13       5-22-1997   152.028
- § 3.14       5-22-1997   152.029
- § 3.15       5-22-1997   152.030
- § 3.16       5-22-1997   152.031
- § 3.17       5-22-1997   152.032
- § 3.18       5-22-1997   152.033
- § 3.19       5-22-1997   152.034
- § 3.20       5-22-1997   152.035
- § 3.21       5-22-1997   152.036
- § 3.22       5-22-1997   152.037
- § 3.23       5-22-1997   152.038
- § 3.24       5-22-1997   152.039
- § 4.01       5-22-1997   152.050
- § 4.02       5-22-1997   152.051
- § 4.03       5-22-1997   152.052
- § 4.04       5-22-1997   152.053
- § 4.05       5-22-1997   152.054
- § 4.06       5-22-1997   152.055
- § 5.00       5-22-1997   152.065
- § 5.01       5-22-1997   152.066
- § 5.02       5-22-1997   152.067
- § 6.00       5-22-1997   152.075
- § 6.01       5-22-1997   152.076
- § 6.02       5-22-1997   152.077
- § 6.03       5-22-1997   152.078
- § 8.00       5-22-1997   152.100
- § 8.01       5-22-1997   152.100
- Art. IX       5-22-1997   152.105
- Art. X        5-22-1997   152.106
- Art. XI       5-22-1997   152.107
- Art. XII      5-22-1997   152.108
- Art. XIII     5-22-1997   152.109
- Art. XIV      5-22-1997   152.110
- Art. XV       5-22-1997   152.111
- Art. XVI      5-22-1997   152.112
- Art. XVII     5-22-1997   152.113
- Art. XVIII    5-22-1997   152.114
- Art. XIX      5-22-1997   152.115
- Art. XX       5-22-1997   152.116
- Art. XXII     5-22-1997   152.130
- § 23.00      5-22-1997   152.131
- § 23.01      5-22-1997   152.132
- § 23.02      5-22-1997   152.133
- § 23.03      5-22-1997   152.134
- § 23.04      5-22-1997   152.135
- § 23.05      5-22-1997   152.136
- § 23.06      5-22-1997   152.137
- § 23.07      5-22-1997   152.138
- § 24.00      5-22-1997   152.150
- § 24.01      5-22-1997   152.151
- § 24.03      5-22-1997   152.152
- § 25.00      5-22-1997   152.165
- § 25.01      5-22-1997   152.166
- § 25.02      5-22-1997   152.167
- § 26.00      5-22-1997   152.180
- § 26.01      5-22-1997   152.181
- § 26.02      5-22-1997   152.182
- § 27.00      5-22-1997   152.999
- § 28.00      5-22-1997   152.999
- § 29.00      5-22-1997   152.004
- § 30.00      5-22-1997   152.195
- § 30.01      5-22-1997   152.196
- § 30.02      5-22-1997   152.197
- § 30.03      5-22-1997   152.198
- § 30.04      5-22-1997   152.199
- § 31.00      5-22-1997   152.002
- § 32.00      5-22-1997   152.003
- § 35.00      5-22-1997   152.005
373             8-14-1997   150.52
                            130.01,
                            130.02,
                            130.99,
                            131.01 -
                            131.04,
374             1-8-1998    131.99,
                            132.01,
                            132.02,
                            132.20,
                            132.21,
                            132.35,
                            132.99
378             9-10-1998   TSO I
382             11-12-1998  152.110
383             11-24-1998  152.034
372.1 § 100    6-10-1999   151.001
372.1 § 101    6-10-1999   151.002
372.1 § 102    6-10-1999   151.003
372.1 § 103    6-10-1999   151.004
372.1 § 104    6-10-1999   151.005
372.1 § 105    6-10-1999   151.006
372.1 § 200    6-10-1999   151.008
372.1 § 201    6-10-1999   151.009
372.1 Art. III  6-10-1999   151.020
372.1 § 300    6-10-1999   151.021
372.1 § 301    6-10-1999   151.022
372.1 § 302    6-10-1999   151.023
372.1 § 303    6-10-1999   151.024
372.1 § 304    6-10-1999   151.025
372.1 § 305    6-10-1999   151.026
372.1 § 306    6-10-1999   151.027
372.1 § 307    6-10-1999   151.028
372.1 § 308    6-10-1999   151.029
372.1 Art. IV   6-10-1999   151.040
372.1 § 400    6-10-1999   151.041
372.1 § 401    6-10-1999   151.042
372.1 § 402    6-10-1999   151.043
372.1 § 403    6-10-1999   151.044
372.1 § 404    6-10-1999   151.045
372.1 § 405    6-10-1999   151.046
372.1 § 406    6-10-1999   151.047
372.1 § 407    6-10-1999   151.048
372.1 § 408    6-10-1999   151.049
372.1 § 409    6-10-1999   151.050
372.1 § 501    6-10-1999   151.065
372.1 § 502    6-10-1999   151.066
372.1 § 503    6-10-1999   151.067
372.1 § 504    6-10-1999   151.068
372.1 § 505    6-10-1999   151.069
372.1 § 506    6-10-1999   151.070
372.1 § 507    6-10-1999   151.071
372.1 Art. VI   6-10-1999   151.051
372.1 § 700    6-10-1999   151.085
372.1 § 701    6-10-1999   151.086
372.1 § 702    6-10-1999   151.087
372.1 Art. VIII 6-10-1999   151.007
372.1 § 900    6-10-1999   151.100
372.1 § 901    6-10-1999   151.101
372.1 § 902    6-10-1999   151.102
372.1 § 1000   6-10-1999   151.103
380             9-9-1999    152.039
374.2           9-30-1999   132.02,
                            132.99
374.3           9-30-1999   70.01
389             1-27-2000   152.116
383.1           3-9-2000    152.034
                            71.01 -
390             4-13-2000   71.05,
                            71.99
                            93.01-
391             4-13-2000   93.05,
                            93.99
                            112.01 -
                            112.04,
                            112.15 -
374.4           5-11-2000   112.22,
                            112.35,
                            112.36,
                            112.99
392             7-13-2000   92.01 -
                            92.07
380.1           8-17-2000   152.039
374.5           10-12-2000  132.50,
                            132.99
                            71.01 -
490.1           12-14-2000  71.05,
                            71.99
394             1-11-2001   152.078
                            91.15 -
395             4-12-2001   91.18,
                            91.99
                            91.30,
396             4-12-2001   91.31,
                            91.99
397             10-11-2001  152.165 -
                            152.167
398             10-11-2001  152.199
                            50.01 -
                            50.06,
402             4-24-2002   50.15 -
                            50.18,
                            50.22 -
                            50.24
404             10-10-2002  152.100,
                            152.108
406             12-12-2002  30.15 -
                            30.25
374.6           1-9-2003    70.01
                            132.03,
374.6           1-9-2003    132.04,
                            132.99
399.5           5-8-2003    150.35 -
                            150.44
399.2a          8-14-2003   150.02
                            50.35 -
407             9-11-2003   50.39,
                            50.99
                            90.01 -
377.1           10-8-2003   90.13,
                            90.99
374.7           11-13-2003  70.01
                            130.03,
                            131.05,
                            131.99,
374.7           11-13-2003  132.05,
                            132.06,
                            132.51,
                            132.99
399.20          3-11-2004   150.01
399.21          3-11-2004   150.03
399.22          3-11-2004   150.04
399.23          3-11-2004   150.05
-               7-8-2004    132.99
374.8           7-8-2004    132.01,
                            132.02
374.9           9-23-2004   131.06,
                            131.99
374.10          2-10-2005   70.01
413             7-14-2005   152.114
416             2-9-2006    152.007
417             2-9-2006    152.040
419             3-20-2006   91.01 -
                            91.06
402.1           6-6-2006    50.01,
                            50.04
                            110.01 -
                            110.09,
421             6-8-2006    110.20 -
                            110.25,
                            110.99
415             7-13-2006   152.027
423             10-12-2006  10.10
                            151.045,
424             12-14-2006  152.078,
                            152.116,
                            152.130
                            152.152,
425             - -         152.165,
                            152.183
426             - -         152.007,
                            152.130
427             3-8-2007    152.007
428             3-8-2007    152.027
429             3-20-2007   152.034
430             3-20-2007   152.007
431             3-20-2007   152.007
                            51.01,
                            51.10 -
                            51.14,
                            51.20 -
                            51.24,
432             10-11-2007  51.30 -
                            51.33,
                            51.40 -
                            51.54,
                            51.70,
                            51.99
                            152.007,
433             3-13-2008   152.032,
                            152.130
434             7-10-2008   152.085 -
                            152.094
435             7-09-2009   152.165
436             8-19-2010   91.45 -
                            91.51
437             9-09-2010   50.18 -
                            50.21
438             8-19-2010   70.01
                            152.007,
439             11-10-2011  152.041,
                            152.113
441             9-13-2012   70.01
442             3-21-2013   95.01 -
                            95.09
443             9-12-2013   152.090
444             9-12-2013   152.089
445             9-12-2013   152.007
446             9-12-2013   152.105
447             9-12-2013   152.130
448             9-12-2013   152.130
449             10-10-2013  96.01 -
                            96.04
450             10-10-2013  150.65 -
                            150.72
451             10-10-2013  150.99
452             10-10-2013  151.999
453             10-10-2013  152.999
454             10-10-2013  152.106
455             10-10-2013  152.107
456             10-10-2013  152.108
457             2-13-2014   152.112
458             2-13-2014   152.113
459             3-13-2014   70.01
460             8-14-2014   152.007
461             8-14-2014   152.108
462             8-14-2014   152.106
463             8-14-2014   152.107
464             8-14-2014   152.105
465             8-14-2014   152.109
466             8-14-2014   152.027
469             5-14-2015   152.039
470             3-12-2015   130.02
2017-471        9-14-2017   152.075
2017-472        9-14-2017   152.076
2018-473        9-13-2018   150.01
2018-474        9-13-2018   150.02
2018-475        9-13-2018   150.03
2018-476        9-13-2018   150.04
2018-477        9-13-2018   150.05
2019-478        2-14-2019   150.80
2019-479        5-9-2019    152.042
2019-480        5-9-2019    152.027
2019-481        5-9-2019    152.100
                            97.01 -
2019-482        8-8-2019    97.06,
                            97.99
2019-483        12-12-2019  152.043
2019-484        12-12-2019  151.085 -
                            151.087
                           
 
