CITY OF CLIO, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-27 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through 1-6-25
 
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Suite 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
Adopting Ordinance
ORDINANCE NUMBER 323
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF CLIO REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL
ORDINANCES OF THE POLITICAL SUBDIVISION DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH
CODE OF ORDINANCES, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the City of Clio are
inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and substance
for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and general
welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the City of Clio to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any
existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published
and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the City Commission of the City of Clio has authorized a general
compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the City of Clio of
a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COMMISSION OF THE CITY OF CLIO,
MICHIGAN:
Section 1:   The general ordinances of the City of Clio as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Clio."
Section 2:   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the Titles as shown on the Table of Contents attached hereto.
Section 3:   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in
part in such code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places, nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
Section 4:   Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the City Commission and the Clerk of the City of Clio is hereby
authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 5:   Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
EFFECTIVE DATE.
This Ordinance shall become effective upon the date of its publication
following its final passage.
PASSED AND ADOPTED by the City Commission of the City of Clio on this 19th day
of March, 2001.
                        CITY OF CLIO
                            Thoms Yost   /s/      
                        BY: THOMAS YOST, ITS MAYOR
                              Ann Huerta      /s/      
                        BY: ANN HUERTA, ITS CLERK
CLERK'S CERTIFICATION.
   I, Ann Huerta, Clerk of the City of Clio, Genesee County, Michigan, do
hereby certify that the above ordinance was adopted at a regular meeting of the
City of Clio Commission held at the City of Clio Hall at 505 West Vienna
Street, Clio, Michigan 48420 on the 19th day of March, 2001, at which a quorum
of the City Commission was present and voted.
                                    Ann Huerta      /s/      
                                 Ann Huerta, City of Clio Clerk
CHARTER
Section
   Chapter 1. Incorporation and Boundaries
   Chapter 2. General Municipal Powers
   2.1   Powers of the city
   2.2   Further definition of powers
   2.3   Outside fire protection
   2.4   Intergovernment contracts
   Chapter 3. Elections and Appointments
   3.1   Eligibility for office in city
   3.2   Vacancies in office
   3.3   Resignations
   3.4   Filling vacancies
   3.5   Oath of office and bond
   3.6   Qualifications of electors
   3.7   Registration list
   3.8   Election procedure
   3.9   Regular city elections
   3.10   Special elections
   3.11   Election Commission
   3.12   Notice of elections
   3.13   Voting hours
   3.14   Nomination petitions
   3.15   Approval of petitions
   3.16   Public inspection of petitions
   3.17   Form of ballots
   3.18   Canvass of the votes
   3.19   Tie vote
   3.20   Recount
   3.21   Recall
   3.22   Change in term of office or compensation
   Chapter 4. Governmental Organization
   4.1   City governing body
   4.2   Terms of office
   4.3   Qualifications of Commissioner
   4.4   Compensations of Commissioners
   4.5   Functional duties of the Mayor
   4.6   Administrative service
   4.7   Selection of Mayor Pro Tem
   4.8   Duties of administrative officers
   4.9   City officers and employee benefits
   4.10   [Repealed]
   4.11   Violations Bureau
   4.12   [Repealed]
   4.13   [Repealed]
   4.14   Police officers
   4.15   [Repealed]
   4.16   [Repealed]
   4.17   [Repealed]
   4.18   [Repealed]
   4.19   [Repealed]
   Chapter 5. Functions of the Commission
   5.1   Providing for public health and safety
   5.2   Regular meetings
   5.3   Special meetings
   5.4   Prior ordinances and regulations
   5.5   Ordinance enactment
   5.6   Penalties for violations of ordinances
   5.7   Publication of ordinances
   5.8   Technical codes
   5.9   Initiative and referendum
   5.10   Petitions
   5.11   Commission procedure
   5.12   Submission to electors
   5.13   Ordinance suspended
   5.14   Franchises, contracts, and leases remain in effect
   5.15   Granting of public utility franchise
   5.16   Conditions of public utility franchise
   5.17   Restrictions on the Commission
   5.18   Investigations
   5.19   Severability of ordinances
   Chapter 6. General Finance and Taxation
   6.1   Fiscal year
   6.2   Budget procedures
   6.3   Adoption of budget, tax limit
   6.4   Budget control
   6.5   Purchasing agent
   6.6   Depository
   6.7   Independent audit
   6.8   Power to tax
   6.9   Subjects of taxation
   6.10   Exemptions
   6.11   Tax day
   6.12   Preparation of the assessment roll
   6.13   Board of Review
   6.14   Meetings of the Board of Review
   6.15   Notice of meetings
   6.16   Duties and functions of Board of Review
   6.17   Endorsement of roll
   6.18   Certification of revenue
   6.19   City tax roll
   6.20   City tax roll certified for collection
   6.21   Taxes lien
   6.22   Taxes due; notification
   6.23   Collection of city taxes
   6.24   Delinquent tax roll to County Treasurer
   6.25   Failure or refusal to pay personal property tax
   6.26   Protection of city lien
   6.27   State, county, and school taxes
   6.28   Municipal borrowing power
   6.29   Limits of borrowing powers
   Chapter 7. Public Improvements, Contracts and Utilities
   7.1   General power relative to special assessments
   7.2   Detailed procedure to be fixed by ordinance
   7.3   Object to improvements
   7.4   Disposition of excessive special assessments
   7.5   Contested assessments
   7.6   Delinquent special assessments
   7.7   Hazards and nuisances
   7.8   Additional procedures
   7.9   Deferred payment on special assessments
   7.10   Powers reserved by the city
   7.11   Power to acquire public utilities
   7.12   Power to fix water rates, etc.
   7.13   Management of municipal utilities
   7.14   Utility charges collection
   7.15   Disposal of utility plants and property
   7.16   Utility accounts
   7.17   Contracts
   Chapter 8. Miscellaneous
   8.1   City records
   8.2   Amendments
   8.3   Amendments
   8.4   City records
   8.5   City liability
   8.6   Process against the city
   8.7   Trusts
   8.8   Definition of publication; mailing of notices
   8.9   Sundays and holidays
   8.10   Chapter and section headlines
   8.11   Interpretations
   Chapter 9. Schedule
   9.1   Status of schedule chapter
   9.2   Election on adoption of charter
   9.3   Form of ballot
   9.4   First city officers
   9.5   Date of this charter
   9.6   Interim financial provisions
   9.7   Publication of charter
   9.8   Resolution of adoption
   Chapter 10. Medical Marihuana
PREAMBLE
   We, the People of the City of Clio, Genesee County, Michigan, by virtue of
the authority of the Constitution of the State of Michigan, as amended, do
hereby ordain and establish this Charter for the City of Clio.
CHAPTER 1. INCORPORATION AND BOUNDARIES
SECTION 1 CONTINUATION OF EXISTING CORPORATION.
   The organized city, now existing as a Michigan municipal corporation, known
as the City of Clio, shall be and continue a body corporate under the name
“City of Clio,” and said city shall constitute one ward to be known as the
First ward.
SECTION 2 BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall embrace the territory constituting the City of Clio, on the
effective date of this charter, together with such annexations thereto and less
any detachments therefrom that may be made from time to time. Upon annexation
or detachment of territory, the boundaries shall be deemed thereby to be
changed without amendment of this section. The Clerk shall maintain and keep
available in his office for public inspection and distribution an official
description of the current boundaries of the city.
CHAPTER 2. GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
SECTION 2.1 POWERS OF THE CITY.
   Unless otherwise provided or limited in this charter, the City of Clio and
its officers shall be vested with any and all powers, privileges, and
immunities, expressed or implied, which cities and their officers are, or
hereafter may be, permitted to exercise or to provide for their charters under
the Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan, and of the United States of
America, including all the powers, privileges and immunities which cities are
permitted to, or may, provide in their charter by Act No. 279 of the Public
Acts of 1909, as amended as fully and completely as though those powers,
privileges and immunities were specifically enumerated in and provided for in
this charter, and in no case shall any enumeration of any particular powers,
privileges or immunities in this charter be held to be exclusive, it being the
intent of the charter commission, in framing this charter, and of the people of
the city, in adopting it, to include all such powers, privileges, and
immunities within the scope of the powers granted to the City of Clio by the
provisions of this charter.
   The city and its officers shall have the power to exercise all municipal
powers in the management and control of municipal property and in the
administration of the municipal government, whether such powers be expressly
enumerated or not; do any act to advance the interests of the city, the good
government and prosperity of the municipality and its inhabitants, and through
its regularly constituted authority, to pass and enforce all laws, ordinances,
and resolutions relating to its municipal concerns, subject to the constitution
and general laws of the state and provisions of this charter.
Statutory reference:
   Public Act 279 of 1909, see M.C.L.A. §§ 117.5 et seq.
SECTION 2.2 FURTHER DEFINITION OF POWERS.
   In addition to the powers possessed by the city under the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Michigan, and those set forth throughout this charter,
the city shall have power with respect to and may, by ordinance and other
lawful acts of its officers, provide for the following, but this list shall not
be exclusive:
   (a)   The acquisition by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction,
or in any manner permitted by statute, or private property of every type and
nature for public use, which property may be located within or without the City
of Clio and which may be required for or incidental to the present or future
exercise of the purposes, powers and duties of the city, either proprietary or
otherwise;
   (b)   The maintenance, development, operation, leasing and disposal of city
property subject to any restrictions placed thereon by statute or this charter;
   (c)   Refunding money advanced or paid on special assessments for water main
extensions; for borrowing money for such refunding, and for issuing bonds
therefor, at an interest rate not to exceed statutory limits;
   (d)   The purchase or condemnation of the franchises and of the property
used in the operation of companies or individuals engaged in the cemetery,
hospital, almshouse, electric light, gas, heat, water and power business;
   (e)   The use, regulation, improvement, and control of the surface of its
streets, alleys, public ways and other public places and of the space above and
beneath them;
   (f)   The use, by others than the owner, of property located in streets,
alleys and public places, in the operation of a public utility, upon the
payment of a reasonable compensation to the owners thereof;
   (g)   A plan of streets and alleys within and for a distance of not more
than three miles beyond the municipal limits;
   (h)   The acquiring, establishment, operation, extension and maintenance of
facilities for the storage and parking of vehicles within its corporate limits,
including the fixing and collection of charges for services and use thereof on
a public utility basis, and for such purpose to acquire by gift, purchase,
condemnation, or otherwise, the land necessary therefor;
   (i)   Regulating and restricting the locations of oil and gasoline stations;
   (j)   Establishing of districts or zones within the use of land and
structures, the height, the area, the size and location of buildings and
required open spaces for light and ventilation of such buildings, and the
density of population may be regulated by ordinance in accordance with
statutory provisions governing zoning;
   (k)   Regulating of trades, occupation and amusements within the city, not
inconsistent with state and federal laws, and for the prohibition of such
trades, occupations and amusements as are detrimental to the health, morals or
welfare of its inhabitants;
   (l)   Licensing, regulating, restricting and limiting the number and
locations of advertising signs or displays and billboards within the city;
   (m)   Preventing injury or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city from
anything which is dangerous, offensive, or unhealthful, and to prevent and
abate nuisances and punish those occasioning them or neglecting or refusing to
abate, discontinue, or remove the same;
   (n)   Except as altered or abrogated by Chapter 10, prescribing the terms
and conditions upon which licenses may be granted, suspended, or revoked;
requiring payment of reasonable sums for licenses, and requiring the furnishing
of a bond to the city for the faithful observance of the conditions under which
licenses are granted;
   (o)   Regulating all airports located within its boundaries, and for the
purpose of promoting and preserving the public peace, safety, and welfare,
controlling and regulating of the use of the air above the city by aircraft of
all types;
   (p)   Prohibiting or regulating the use, occupance, sanitation and parking
of house trailers within the city, and the right of the city to so regulate any
house trailer shall not be abrogated because of any detachment therefor from
its wheels or because of placing it on or attaching it to the ground by means
of any temporary or permanent foundation, or in any manner whatsoever;
   (q)   Requiring an owner of real property within the city to construct
sidewalks abutting upon such property, and if owner fails to comply with such
requirements or if the owner is unknown to construct such sidewalks and assess
50% of the cost thereof against the abutting property;
   (r)   Requiring an owner of real property within the city to abate public
hazards and nuisances which are dangerous to the health or safety of
inhabitants of the city within a reasonable time after the Commission notifies
that such hazard or nuisance exists, and if the owner fails to comply with such
requirements or if the owner is unknown to abate such hazard or nuisance and
assess the cost thereof against the property;
   (s)   The requiring as a condition of approving plats of land or premises
hereafter laid out, divided, or platted into streets and alleys within the
city, that all streets shown on said plat be graded and graveled or otherwise
improved, that all ditches, drains and culvert necessary to make such streets
usable to construct, that cement sidewalks be constructed in proper places, all
in accordance with city specifications; the Commission may accept a bond
conditioned upon the installation of such of the foregoing improvements as it
requires within such time as it determines;
   (t)   Regulating and prohibiting the use, selling, storing or transportation
of firearms, fireworks, combustible or explosive substances or materials within
the city, and to regulate the restrain the making of fires in the streets or
other open spaces in the city; provided, however, that no ordinance enacted
shall be conflict with state laws relating thereto;
   (u)   Regulating the height and construction of all fences now or hereafter
to be built within the city;
   (v)   Regulating traffic and the parking of automobiles and other vehicles,
and to provide for impounding all vehicles parked in violation of such
regulations;
   (w)   Licensing and regulating junk yards and places for the dismantling,
wrecking and disposing of the junk and/or refuse material of automobiles;
prescribing rules, regulations and conditions for the operation of the same;
provided penalties for the operation of the same without a license and for the
violation of any rule, regulation or condition;
   (x)   Providing, maintaining and regulating one or more pounds and to
authorize the impounding of all vehicles, beasts and fowls found in the streets
or otherwise at large, contrary to any ordinance of the city, prescribing the
fees for impounding, and the amount or rate of expense for keeping, and the
charges to be paid by the owner or keeper of the vehicles, beast or fowls, for
the payment of such fees, expenses and charges, and for penalties incurred, and
impose penalties for rescuing any beast or fowl impounded;
   (y)   Acquiring, owning, erecting, maintaining, managing and controlling
real estate, buildings, institutions and works without the corporate limits of
the city and to enforce beyond the corporate limits of the city and over such
lands, buildings, institutions and property all ordinances and police
regulations that may be necessary for the care, protection, control and
management thereof in the same manner and to the same extent as if it were
located within the city;
   (z)   Licensing hawkers, peddlers and pawnbrokers, and hawking and peddling
and to regulate, license or prohibit the sale or peddling of goods, wares,
merchandise, refreshments or any kind of property or thing by persons going
about from place to place in the city for that purpose, or from any stand,
cart, vehicle or other device, in or upon the streets, highways, alleys,
sidewalks, open places or spaces, public grounds or buildings in the city;
   (z.1) The use, control and regulation of streams, waters and water courses
within its boundaries, subject to any limitations imposed by statute.
(Amended 11-8-22)
SECTION 2.3 OUTSIDE FIRE PROTECTION.
   In the exercise of the powers contained in Section 2.1 herein, the
Commission shall have the right to contract with persons, firms, corporations,
or governing bodies to furnish fire protection to property outside the
corporate limits of the city for a fair consideration, if the Commission shall
find that the financial interests of the city are advanced by obtaining
payments therefor; and that the prosperity of the municipality and inhabitants
are advanced through preventing a conflagration which might spread within the
limits or through protecting from fire industrial or commercial properties
which employ residents of the city.
SECTION 2.4 INTERGOVERNMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may join with any governmental unit or agency, or with any number
or combination thereof, by contract or otherwise as may be permitted by law to
perform jointly, or by one or more, for or on behalf of the other or others,
any power or duty which is permitted to be so performed by law which is
possessed or imposed upon each governmental unit or agency.
CHAPTER 3. ELECTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS
SECTION 3.1 ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE IN CITY.
   No person shall be eligible for any elective office of the city unless he
shall be a qualified elector of the city and shall have been a resident of the
city for at least eighteen months immediately prior to the date of the election
at which he is a candidate for office.
   All administrative officers shall be United States citizens.
   No person shall be eligible for any elective or appointive office who is in
default to the city. The holding of office by any person who is in such default
shall create a vacancy unless such default shall be cured within thirty days
after written notice thereof by the Commission or unless such person in good
faith be contesting the liability for the default.
SECTION 3.2 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   (a)   Non-elected, appointed officials. After notice and hearing, any
appointed city official other than an appointed city commission seat shall be
declared vacant by the Commission upon the occurrence of one or more of the
following events:
      (1)   For any reasons specified by statute or this charter as creating a
vacancy, in office;
      (2)   If the officer shall absent himself continuously from the city for
more than three days without the permission of the Commission or the City
Administrator or the Interim City Administrator;
      (3)   If the officer shall be found guilty of any act constituting
misconduct in office under the provisions of this charter by any court or vote
of four or more members of the Commission at or following such hearing.
   (b)   Elected officials including City Commissioners appointed to fill a
vacancy. After notice and hearing, any Commission seat shall be declared vacant
by the Commission upon the occurrence of one or more of the following events:
      (1)   In the case of any member of the Commission, if such member shall
miss five consecutive regular meetings of the Commission, unless such absences
shall be excused by the Commission and the reason thereof entered in the
proceedings of the Commission at the time of each absence;
      (2)   In the event that an arbiter, mediator or court judge finds a
Commission member guilty of official misconduct, willful neglect of duty,
extortion, or habitual drunkenness, or such member has been convicted of being
drunk, or whenever it appears by certified copy of the judgement of a court of
record of this state that a Commission member, after the member’s election or
appointment, has been convicted of a felony.
(Amended 11-3-09)
SECTION 3.3 RESIGNATIONS.
   Resignations of all city officers shall be made in writing and filed with
the Clerk and shall be acted upon by the Commission at its next regular or
special meeting following receipt thereof by the Clerk.
SECTION 3.4 FILLING VACANCIES.
   Vacancies in elective officers other than Justice of the Peace shall, within
sixty days, be filled by appointment by the Commission of a person possessing
the qualifications for the office, who shall hold such office until the next
regular city election. At which election such vacancy shall be filled for the
unexpired term of such office.
SECTION 3.5 OATH OF OFFICE AND BOND.
   Every office, elective or appointive, before entering upon the duties of his
office, shall qualify by taking the oath of office prescribed for public
officers by the Constitution of the State, and by filing the oath with the
Clerk, together with any bond required by statute, this charter or by the
Commission. In case of failure to comply with the provisions of this section
within ten days from the date he is notified in writing of his election or
appointment, such officer shall be deemed to have declined the office and such
office shall thereupon become vacant unless the Commission shall, by
resolution, extend the time in which such officer may qualify as above set
forth.
SECTION 3.6 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   The inhabitants of the city having the qualifications of electors in the
State of Michigan, and no others, shall be electors of the city.
SECTION 3.7 REGISTRATION LIST.
   The Registration List of Electors for the City of Clio shall become the
Registration List for the City of Clio at the time this charter becomes
effective.
SECTION 3.8 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   The election of all city officers shall be on a non-partisan basis. The
general election laws of the state shall apply to and control, as near as may
be, all procedures relating to registration and city elections except as such
general laws relate to political parties of partisan procedure and except as
otherwise provided in this charter.
SECTION 3.9 REGULAR CITY ELECTIONS.
   A non-partisan regular city election shall be held on the first Monday in
April in each odd numbered year.
SECTION 3.10 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   Special city elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
commission at least thirty (30) days in advance of such election, or when
required by this charter or the general laws of the state. Any resolutions
calling a special election shall set forth the purpose of such election. No
more than two special city elections shall be called in any one year.
SECTION 3.11 ELECTION COMMISSION.
   An election commission is hereby created, consisting of the Clerk, Mayor,
and one Commissioners appointed by the Commission. The Clerk shall be the
Chairman. The Commission shall have charge of all activities and duties
required of it by state law and this charter relating to the conduct of
elections in the city. The compensation of election personnel shall be
determined in advance by the Commission.
   In any case where election procedure is in doubt, the election commission
shall prescribe the procedure to be followed. Said election commission shall
before each election appoint a board of inspectors of election, which board
shall consist of not less than three qualified electors of the city. When a
city election is held on the same day as a national, state, or county election
or primary, the same election officials shall act in both the city and the
national, state, or county election or primary.
SECTION 3.12 NOTICE OF ELECTIONS.
   Notice of the time and place of holding any city election and of the
officers to be nominated or elected and the questions to be voted upon shall be
given by the Clerk in the same manner and at the same time as provided in the
state election law for the giving of notice by township or city clerks.
SECTION 3.13 VOTING HOURS.
   The polls of all elections shall be opened and closed at the time prescribed
by law for the opening and closing of polls at state elections.
SECTION 3.14 NOMINATION PETITIONS.
   Persons desiring to qualify as candidates for elective office under this
charter shall file a petition therefor with the Clerk signed by not less than
twenty-five (25) nor more than fifty (50) registered electors of the city not
later than 4:00 o’clock p.m., E.S.T. on the first Tuesday following the first
Monday in August of the year in which a November city election is held. The
form of petition shall be substantially as that designated by the Secretary of
State for the nomination of non-partisan judicial officers. A supply of
official petition forms shall be provided and maintained by the Clerk.
   The Clerk shall publish notice of the last day and time for filing
nomination petitions at least one (1) week before, and not more than three (3)
weeks before that date. No person shall sign his name to a greater number of
petitions for any one office than there will be persons elected to said office.
Where any name appears on more petitions than there are candidates to be
elected to said office, such name shall not be counted upon any petitions for
that office.
(Amended 11-3-09)
SECTION 3.15 APPROVAL OF PETITIONS.
   The Clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform with the
forms provided and maintained by him, and which, considered together, contain
the required number of valid signatures for candidates having those
qualifications required for the respective elective city officers by this
charter. When a petition is filed by persons other than the person whose name
appears thereon as a candidate, it may be accepted only when accompanied by the
written consent of the candidate. The Clerk shall, forthwith after the filing
of a petition, notify in writing any candidate whose petition is then known not
to meet the requirements of this section, but the failure to so notify any
candidate shall in no way prevent a final determination that the last date for
filing petitions the Clerk shall make his final determinations as to the
validity and sufficiency of each nomination petition and whether or not the
candidate has the qualifications required for those respective elective city
offices by this charter and shall write his determinations thereof on the face
of the petition and shall notify in writing the candidate whose name appears
thereon of his determinations.
SECTION 3.16 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF PETITIONS.
   All nomination petitions filed shall be open to public inspection in the
office of the Clerk.
SECTION 3.17 FORM OF BALLOTS.
   The form of the ballot used in any city election shall conform as nearly as
may be to that prescribed by the general laws of the state, except that no
party designation or emblem shall appear upon any city ballot. The names of
qualified nominees for each office shall be listed in a single column and shall
be rotated on the ballots as prescribed by state statute.
SECTION 3.18 CANVASS OF THE VOTES.
   The Commission shall be the board of canvassers to canvass the votes at city
elections, except that if any of such persons is a candidate for office at the
election to be canvassed such person shall not serve as a canvasser at such
election. The Commission may employ such additional help as may be needed to
act on Board of Canvassers. The board of canvassers shall convene on the
Wednesday next succeeding each city election at the usual time and place of
meeting of the Commission and determine the results of the city election upon
each question and proposition voted upon and what persons are duly elected or
nominated to the several offices, respectively at said election, and shall
notify in writing the successful candidates or nominees of their election. The
candidate for each city office who shall receive the greatest number of votes
shall be declared to be elected to that office.
SECTION 3.19 TIE VOTE.
   If, at any city election, there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two (2) or more persons having received an equal number of votes,
then the Commission shall name a date for the appearance of such persons for
the purpose of determining the election of such candidates by lot as provided
by state law. Should any person or persons fail or refuse to appear, in person
or by representative, to determine the result of any tie election at the time
and place named by the Commission, such determination shall be made by lot in
his or their absence at the direction and under the supervision of the
Commission. Such determination shall, in any event, be final.
SECTION 3.20 RECOUNT.
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office or upon any
proposition may be had in accordance with the general election laws of the
state. Unless otherwise provided by statute the petition for a recount of the
votes cast at any city election shall be filed with the Clerk within six (6)
days after the board of canvassers has made its official report of the result
of the election at which such votes were cast, and any counter petitions shall
be filed within twenty-four hours thereafter.
Editor’s note:
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 168.866, petitions for recount must be filed by the
sixth day after the official report of election results, and pursuant to
M.C.L.A. § 168.868, any counter petitions must be filed within 48 hours
thereafter.
SECTION 3.21 RECALL.
   Any elective official may be removed from office by the electors of the city
in the manner provided by the general laws of the state. A vacancy created by
the recall of any elective official shall be filled in the manner prescribed by
law.
SECTION 3.22 CHANGE IN TERM OF OFFICE OR COMPENSATION.
   Except by procedures provided in this charter the terms of the elective
officials of the city shall not be shortened. The terms of elective officers of
the city may not be extended beyond the period for which any such officer was
elected except that an elective officer of the city shall, after his term has
expired, continue to hold office until his successor is elected and has
qualified. The Commission shall not grant or authorize extra compensation to
any city officer, agent or contractor, after the service has been been rendered
or the contract entered into. Nor shall the salary of any elective city officer
be increased or decreased after his election during any fixed term of office
for which he was elected.
CHAPTER 4. GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
SECTION 4.1 CITY GOVERNING BODY.
   All legislative or policy forming powers of the city shall be vested in,
exercised, and determined by a commission of seven (7) members, including a
mayor, who shall be designated and known as Commissioners. In all cases where
the “Commission” is used in this charter, the same shall mean and shall be
synonymous with the terms “Council”, “Common Commission”, “Board of aldermen”,
“governing body”, or legislative body or any other synonymous term, as the same
may be used in any State or Federal law referring to legislative or governing
bodies of cities.
SECTION 4.2 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   At each alternate regular City election there shall be elected from the City
at large four (4) commissioners, and at the intervening regular elections there
shall be elected from the City at large three (3) Commissioners. The Commission
shall meet for organization on the first Monday following each regular election
at the usual place for holding commission meetings at a time to be determined
by the City Commission. The City Clerk shall preside at such meeting until the
Mayor shall have been elected. The first order of business at such
organizational meeting shall be the election by ballot of one of the members of
the Commission as Mayor. All members of the Commission elected under this
charter shall serve for four (4) years and until their successors have
qualified, except as provided in Chapter Nine (9) hereof. The Mayor shall serve
as Mayor for two years and until his successor shall have qualified. The term
of office of a commissioner shall commence at 12:00 noon on the Monday
following his election and the term of office of the Mayor shall commence
immediately upon his election by the Commission to that office.
(Amended 11-6-2012)
SECTION 4.3 QUALIFICATIONS OF COMMISSIONER.
   Members of the Commission shall meet the eligibility requirements contained
in Section 3.1 and the Commission shall be sole judge of the election and
qualifications of its own members.
SECTION 4.4 COMPENSATIONS OF COMMISSIONERS.
   The Commissioners shall each receive as their compensation for attendance at
the first regular meeting of each month the sum of $20.00 and for attendance at
the second regular meeting of each month the sum of $10.00. No Commissioner
shall receive more than $30.00 per month and the Mayor shall receive $500.00
per year.
   Further, said Commissioner shall upon authorization of the Commission, be
allowed reasonable expenses, when actually incurred on behalf of the city.
SECTION 4.5 FUNCTIONAL DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   (a)   Insofar as required by law, and for all ceremonial purposes, the Mayor
shall be recognized as the executive head of the city. He shall have an equal
voice and vote in the proceedings of the Commissioner, but shall have no veto
power. He shall be the presiding officer of the Commission.
   (b)   He shall be a conservator of the peace, and may exercise within the
City the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress disorder, and shall have
the power to command the assistance of all able-bodied citizens to aid in and
the enforcement of the ordinances of the city, and to suppress riot and
disorderly conduct.
   (c)   He shall authenticate by his signature such instruments as the
Commission, this charter, or the laws of the State of Michigan or the United
States shall require.
SECTION 4.6 ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
   There shall be, within the administrative service of the city, a Clerk,
Treasurer, Assessor, Attorney, Health Officer, Chief of Police, Fire Chief and
such additional administrative officers as may be created by ordinance or
resolution. The Commission may combine any administrative officers in any
manner it deems necessary or advisable for the proper and efficient operation
of the city.
   Except as hereinafter provided, all administrative officers of the city
shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Commissioner, for an
indefinite period, shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission, and shall
have their compensation fixed by the Commission. If a vacancy occurs in any
administrative office and the mayor fails to make an appointment thereto
approved by the council within thirty (30) days from the date the vacancy
occurs, then such vacancy shall be filled by the Commission. Provided, however,
in lieu of appointment of any administrative officer, the Commission may
contract with other municipalities or municipal authorities, boards or agencies
for the performance of such services and duties as would otherwise be performed
by such administrative officer.
   Except as may be otherwise provided by statute or this charter, the
Commission shall establish by ordinance or resolution such departments of the
city as it deems necessary or advisable and shall prescribe therein the
functions of each department and the duties, authorities and responsibilities
of the officers of each department.
   All personnel employed by the city who are not elected officers of the city
or declared to be administrative officers by, or under the authority of this
section shall be deemed to be employees of the city. The City Commission shall
designate a person or persons with authority to hire or discharge without prior
approval of the commission. Any employee who has been discharged may within 10
days thereafter petition the Commission to hear the facts regarding such
discharge, and in any such case the Commission may, in its sole discretion,
hold a hearing and inquire into such facts and may make such recommendation in
the matter as it considers proper.
   The City may by initiatory ordinance to be approved by a majority vote of
the electors of the city, create the office of the City Manager. In the event
such office is created, the Commission may specify the duties, authorities and
responsibilities of such office and may provide that any administrative officer
or department of the city except the Attorney shall be placed under the
administrative direction of such Manager, and in such event the Manager shall
have the power to appoint, subject to confirmation by the Commission, such
administrative officers of the City as are placed under his administrative
direction and shall have the power to discharge such administrative officers
without confirmation by the Commission. Any administrative officer who has been
discharged may within 10 days thereafter petition the Commission to hear the
facts regarding such discharge, and in such case the Commission may, in its
sole discretion, hold a hearing and inquire into such facts and may make such
recommendation in the matter as it considers proper.
SECTION 4.7 SELECTION OF MAYOR PRO TEM.
   The Commission shall at its first regular meeting following each regular
biennial city election, select one (1) of its members to serve as Mayor Pro
Tem. The Mayor Pro Tem shall perform the duties of the Mayor when, on account
of absence from the city, disability, or otherwise, the Mayor is temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office, and in case of vacancy in the
office of Mayor, until such vacancy is filled by the Commission. The Mayor Pro
Tem shall preside over the meetings of the Commission at the call of the Mayor.
In the event of a vacancy occurring in the office of Mayor or Mayor Pro Tem,
the Commission shall appoint one of its elected members or any other qualified
elector to fill such vacancy.
SECTION 4.8 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.
   All appointive officers of the city shall perform such duties as provided
for such officers by state law, this charter, the city ordinances, and the
administrative directives of the Commission. The Treasurer shall be the chief
accountant of the city and shall maintain a system of accounts which shall
conform to such uniform system as may be required by state law. The Clerk shall
be the clerk of the Commission and shall attend all meetings of the Commission
and shall keep a permanent journal in the English language of its proceedings.
All such administrative officers shall be responsible to the Commission in and
for the performance of the duties of their several offices. The City Treasurer
shall also have such powers and duties and prerogatives with regard to the
collection and custody of state, county, school district, and city taxes and
moneys as are conferred by law upon township treasurers in connection with
state, county, township, and school district taxes upon real and personal
property. The City Assessor shall have all power vested in, and shall be
charged with all the duties imposed upon, assessing officers by general laws of
the state. He shall prepare all regular and special assessment rolls in the
manner prescribed by this charter, by ordinance and by the general laws of the
state.
(Amended 11-8-22)
SECTION 4.9 CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.
   The Commission may provide, by ordinance or resolution, for a merit system
of personnel management for employees in the service of the city, for the
pensioning of its appointive officers and employees and recognized standard
plan of group life, hospital, health, or accident insurance.
SECTION 4.10
(Repealed 11-5-19)
SECTION 4.11 VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   The Commission shall have power and authority to establish by ordinance a
Violations Bureau for the handling of such violations of ordinances and
regulations of the city, or parts thereof, as prescribed in the ordinance
establishing such bureau. Any person who has received any notice to appear in
answer to a charge of violating any of such ordinances may within the time
specified in the notice of such charge answer at the Violations Bureau to the
charges set forth in such notice by paying a fine as prescribed by ordinance.
The creation of such a Bureau shall not operate so as to deprive any person of
a full and impartial hearing in Court should a person so choose.
SECTION 4.12
(Repealed 11-5-19)
SECTION 4.13
(Repealed 11-5-19)
SECTION 4.14 POLICE OFFICERS.
   All police officers of the City of Clio shall have like powers and authority
in matters of civil and criminal nature and in relation to the service of
process, civil and criminal, as are conferred by law on constables in
townships. Such police officers shall have power also to serve all processes
issued for breaches of ordinances of the city. The only compensation of
officers of the police force for serving processes issued by the City of Clio
shall be the same as those allowed the constables by state law. Provided,
however, that the Chief of Police shall not be entitled to any compensation for
the service of process. The cost of the bond of any police officer shall be
paid by the city.
(Amended 11-5-19)
SECTION 4.15
(Repealed 11-5-19)
SECTION 4.16
(Repealed 11-5-19)
SECTION 4.17
(Repealed 11-5-19)
SECTION 4.18
(Repealed 11-5-19)
SECTION 4.19
(Repealed 11-5-19)
CHAPTER 5. FUNCTIONS OF THE COMMISSION
SECTION 5.1 PROVIDING FOR PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   Through the departments and agencies of the city government, the Commission
shall provide for the public peace and health and for the safety of persons and
property. The Commission shall constitute the Board of Health of the city, and
it and its officers shall possess all powers, privileges and immunities granted
to boards of health by state laws.
SECTION 5.2 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Commission shall provide by resolution for the time and place of its
regular meetings and shall hold at least two regular meetings each month.
SECTION 5.3 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (a)   Special meetings shall be called by the Clerk on the written request
of the Mayor or any two members of the Commission on at least twenty-four
hours' written notice to each member of the Commission served personally or
left at his usual place of residence; but any special meeting at which all
members of the Commission are present or have waived notice thereof in writing
shall be a legal meeting.
   (b)   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the
Commission unless the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting.
   (c)   All regular and special meetings of the Commission shall be open to
the public and the rules of order of the Commission shall provide that citizens
shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
   (d)   Four (4) members of the Commission shall be a quorum for the
transaction of business at all meetings of the Commission, but in the absence
of a quorum, two (2) members may adjourn any regular or special meeting to a
later date.
   (e)   The Commission shall determine its own rules and order of business and
shall keep a journal of all its proceedings in the English language which shall
be signed by the Mayor and the Clerk. The vote upon the passage of all
ordinances, and upon the adoption of all resolutions shall be taken by “Yes”
and “No” votes and entered upon the record, except that where the vote is
unanimous, it shall only be necessary to so state. Any citizen or taxpayer of
the city shall have access to the minutes and records of all regular and
special meetings of the Commission at all reasonable times.
   (f)   The Commission may by vote of not less than two (2) of its members,
compel the attendance of its members and other officers of the city at its
regular and special meetings and enforce orderly conduct therein, and any
member of the Commission or other officer of the city who refuses to attend
such meetings or conduct himself in any orderly manner thereat shall be deemed
guilty of misconduct in the office. The Chief of Police shall serve as the
Sergeant-at-Arms of the Commission in the enforcement of the provisions of this
section.
   (g)   No Commissioner shall vote on any question in which he has a financial
interest other than the common public interest or any question concerning his
own conduct, but on all questions each member who is present shall vote unless
excused by unanimous consent of the remaining members present.
   (h)   The proceedings of the Commission or a summary thereof shall be
published at least once within 15 days following each meeting. Any such summary
of such proceedings shall be prepared by the Clerk and approved by the Mayor,
and shall show the substance of each separate proceedings of the Commission.
(Amended 11-5-19)
SECTION 5.4 PRIOR ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   All by-laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City
which are not inconsistent with this charter and continue in full force and
effect on the effective date of this charter shall continue in full force and
effect as by-laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city
until repealed or amended.
SECTION 5.5 ORDINANCE ENACTMENT.
   All legislation of the City of Clio shall be by ordinance or by resolution.
The word “Resolution” as used in this charter shall be the official action of
the Commission in the form of a motion and such action shall be limited to
matters required or permitted to be done by resolution by this charter or by
state or federal law and to matter pertaining to the internal affairs or
concerns of the city government. All other acts of the Commission, and all acts
carrying a penalty for the violation thereof, shall be by ordinance. Ordinances
may be enacted, amended or repealed by the affirmative vote of not less than
four (4) Commissioners. Each ordinance shall be identified by a number and a
short title. Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed
form. The style of all ordinances passed by the Commission shall be “The City
of Clio Ordains." Except in the case of ordinances which are declared to be
emergency ordinances, no ordinance shall be finally passed by the Commission at
the same meeting at which it is introduced. No ordinance shall be revised,
altered, or amended by reference to its title only, but the section or sections
of the ordinance revised, altered, or amended shall be re-enacted and published
at length and all ordinances, when enacted, shall be immediately recorded by
the Clerk in a book to be called “The Ordinance Book,” and it shall be the duty
of the Mayor and Clerk to authenticate such record by their official signature
thereon.
SECTION 5.6 PENALTIES FOR VIOLATIONS OF ORDINANCES.
   The Commission may provide in any ordinance for the punishment of those who
violate its provisions. The punishment for the violation of any city ordinance
shall not exceed a fine of five hundred dollars or imprisonment for ninety days
or both in the discretion of the court.
SECTION 5.7 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Each ordinance passed by the Commission shall be published at least once
within fifteen (15) days after the adoption of the ordinance by the Commission.
All ordinances of the city shall become effective, immediately upon the
publication thereof, unless a date upon which an ordinance shall become
effective which is subsequent to the date of the public thereof, is
specifically provided in the ordinance itself. The publication of any ordinance
in full after its final passage as part of the published proceedings of the
Commission shall constitute publication of such ordinance as required therein.
An ordinance which is declared therein to be immediately necessary for the
preservation of the public peace, health or safety may be given effect before
publication as otherwise required by this charter, if preliminary publication
is accomplished by posting copies thereof in conspicuous locations in ten
public places in the city; and the Clerk shall immediately after such posting,
enter in the Ordinance Book under the record of the ordinance, a certificate
under his hand stating the time and place of such publication by posting, which
certificate shall be prima facie evidence of such publication by posting;
however, such ordinances shall also be published in the manner required for
other ordinances within fifteen days after its adoption.
SECTION 5.8 TECHNICAL CODES.
   The Commission may adopt any provision of state law or any detailed
technical regulation of a city ordinance or code by citation of such provision
of state law or by reference to any recognized standard code, official or
unofficial provided that any such provision of state law recognized official or
unofficial standard code shall be clearly identified in the ordinance adopting
the same as an ordinance of the city. Where any recognized official or
unofficial standard code is so adopted, it may be published by providing to the
public not less than fifty (50) copies in book or pamphlet form, available for
public distribution at a reasonable charge, and any amendment to or revision of
such adopted code or detailed technical ordinance may be published in the same
manner.
SECTION 5.9 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition or a referendum or an ordinance
enacted by the Commission may be had by a petition, as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 5.10 PETITIONS.
   An initiatory or a referendary petition shall be signed by not less than
fifteen (15) per cent of the registered electors of the City who have signed
said petition within six (6) months before date of filing the petition with the
Clerk. Before being circulated for signatures, all such petitions may be
approved as to form by the Clerk. No such petition need be on one paper but may
be the aggregate of two (2) or more petition papers. Each signer of a petition
shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil, and shall place thereon, after
his name, the date and his place of residence by street and number, or by other
customary designation. To each petition paper there shall be attached a sworn
affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of signers thereto and
that each signature thereon is the genuine signature of the person whose name
it purports to be, and that it was made in the presence of the affiant. Such
petition shall be filed with the Clerk who shall, within ten (10) days, canvass
the signatures thereof to determine the sufficiency thereof. If found to
contain an insufficient number of signatures or registered electors of the
City, or to be improper as to form, or compliance with the provisions of this
section, the Clerk shall notify forthwith the persons filing such petition, and
ten (10) days from such notification shall be allowed for the filing or
supplemental petition papers. When found sufficient and proper, the Clerk shall
present the petition to the Commission at its next regular meeting.
SECTION 5.11 COMMISSION PROCEDURE.
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the Clerk, the
Commission shall, within thirty (30) days, either:
   (a)   If it be an initiatory petition, adopt the ordinance as submitted in
the petition or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the city;
   (b)   If it be a referendary petition, repeal the ordinance to which the
petition refers or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the
city.
SECTION 5.12 SUBMISSION TO ELECTORS.
   Should the Commission decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it
shall be submitted at the next election held in the city for any purpose, or,
in the discretion of the Commission, at a special election. The result shall be
determined by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon, except in cases
where otherwise required by the Constitution or laws of the State of Michigan.
SECTION 5.13 ORDINANCE SUSPENDED.
   The certification by the Clerk of the sufficiency of a referendary petition
filed within thirty (30) days after the passage of the ordinance to which such
petition refers shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance in
question pending repeal by the Commission or final determination by the
electors as the case may be. An ordinance adopted by the electorate through
initiatory proceedings may not be amended or repealed by the Commission for a
period of two (2) years after the date of the election at which it was adopted.
SECTION 5.14 FRANCHISES, CONTRACTS, AND LEASES REMAIN IN EFFECT.
   All franchises, contracts and leases to which the City is a party when this
charter becomes effective shall remain in full force and effect in accordance
with their respective terms and conditions.
SECTION 5.15 GRANTING OF PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISE.
   Public utility franchises and all renewals and extensions thereof and
amendments thereto shall be granted by ordinance only. No exclusive franchise
shall ever be granted. No franchise shall be granted for a longer period than
thirty years.
   No franchise ordinance which is not subject to revocation at the will of the
city shall be enacted nor become operative until the same shall have first been
referred to the people at a regular or special election and receive the
affirmative vote of three-fifths of the electors voting thereon. No such
franchise ordinance shall be approved by the Commission for referral to the
electorate before thirty days after publication therefor has been filed with
the Commission, nor until a public hearing has been held thereon, nor until the
grantee named therein has filed with the Clerk his unconditional acceptance of
all terms of such franchise. No special election for such purpose shall be
ordered by the Commission unless the expense of holding such election, as
determined by the Commission, shall have first been paid to the Treasurer by
the grantee.
   A franchise ordinance which is subject to a revocation at the will of the
city may be enacted by the Commission without referral to the voters, but shall
not be enacted nor become operative unless it shall have been complete in the
form in which it is finally enacted and remain on file with the Clerk for
public inspection for at least four weeks before the final enactment thereof.
SECTION 5.16 CONDITIONS OF PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISE.
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not shall be subject to
the following rights of the city:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, non-use or failure to comply with the
provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require reasonable and adequate extension of plant and service and
maintenance thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable and practicable standards for service and
quality of products and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (e)   To impose such other reasonable regulations as may be conducive to the
health, safety and accommodation of the public;
   (f)   To use, control and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges
and public places and the space above the beneath them. The above enumeration
shall not be exclusive or impair the right or the Commission to insert in such
franchise any provisions within the power of the city to impose or require.
SECTION 5.17 RESTRICTIONS ON THE COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall not have the power to make any contract with or give
any official position to one who is in default to the city. Further, the
Commission shall not have the power to sell any park, cemetery or any part
thereof, except where such park is not required under an official master plan
of the city, or to engage in any business enterprise requiring an investment of
money in excess of 10¢ per capita, unless these actions are approved by a
three-fifths majority of the electors voting thereon at a regular or special
election.
   Unless by the affirmative vote of four Commissioners, no office shall be
created or abolished, no tax or assessment shall be imposed, no street, alley
or public ground shall be vacated, no action shall be taken to condemn private
property for public use, no money shall be appropriated, nor shall any vote of
the Commission be reconsidered or rescinded.
SECTION 5.18 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Commission or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have the power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office, or
officer of the City and make investigations as to municipal affairs, and for
the purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the production
of books, papers, and other evidence. Expenses shall not be incurred by any
investigation without the approval of the City Commission. Failure on the part
of any officer of the City to obey such subpoena or to produce books, papers,
or other evidence as ordered under the provisions of this section shall
constitute misconduct in office. If such failure, shall be on the part of an
employee of the City, the same shall constitute a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof such employee shall be punished by imprisonment in the
county jail for not more than ninety (90) days, or by a fine of not more than
$500.00, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
(Amended 11-6-2012)
SECTION 5.19 SEVERABILITY OF ORDINANCES.
   Unless an ordinance shall expressly provide to the contrary, if any portion
of an ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall
be found to be invalid by a court, such invalidity shall not affect the
remaining portions or applications of the ordinance which can be given effect
without the invalid portion or applications, provided such remaining portions
are not determined by the court to be inoperable, and to this end ordinances
are declared to be severable.
CHAPTER 6. GENERAL FINANCE AND TAXATION
SECTION 6.1 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city and all of its agencies shall begin on the first
day of July of each year and end of the thirtieth day of June of the following
year.
SECTION 6.2 BUDGET PROCEDURES.
   The Mayor of the city or some other designated person appointed by the
Commission shall be the Budget Officer. Each board, commission, officer and
department head shall submit his recommended budget with supporting explanation
for the fiscal year to the Budget Officer on or before March 15 of each year.
   The Budget Officer shall prepare and submit to the Commission, on or before
the first regular meeting in April of each year, a budget document covering the
next fiscal year tabulating the recommendations of the several department heads
and officials, and shall include therein at least the following information:
   (a)   Detailed estimates, with supporting explanations, of all proposed
expenditures for each department and office of the city together with the
expenditures for corresponding items for the last preceding fiscal year in full
and for the current fiscal year to March 1 and estimated expenditures for the
balance of the current fiscal year;
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the city, showing
the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and unissued
and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated revenues of the City from
sources other than taxes, with a comparative statement of the amounts received
by the city from each of the same or similar sources for the last preceding
fiscal year in full and for the current fiscal year to March 1 and estimated
revenues for the balance of the current fiscal year;
   (d)   A statement of the estimated balance or deficit for the end of the
current fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which, together
with any available unappropriated surplus and any revenues from other sources,
will be necessary to meet the proposed expenditures;
   (f)   Such other supporting schedules as the Commission may request.
SECTION 6.3 ADOPTION OF BUDGET, TAX LIMIT.
   Not later than the third Monday of May, the Commission shall, by resolution,
adopt the budget for the next fiscal year and shall, in such resolution make an
appropriation for the money needed for municipal purposes during the ensuing
fiscal year of the city and provide for a levy of the amount necessary to be
raised by taxes upon real and personal property for municipal purposes, which
levy shall not exceed maximum as provided by law of the assessed valuation of
all real and personal property subject to taxation in the city.
SECTION 6.4 BUDGET CONTROL.
   Except for purposes which are to be financed by the issuance of bonds,
special assessment, or other method not requiring a budget appropriation, no
money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city without an appropriation
thereof, nor shall any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred
without an appropriation covering all payments which will be due under such
obligation in the current fiscal year. The Commission may transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from one
department, fund or agency to another. In the case of emergency arising from a
pressing need other than a regular or recurring requirement and necessary to
protect the public health, welfare or safety, the Commission may make
additional appropriations to cover unanticipated expenditures required of the
city because of such emergency. The balance in any appropriation which has not
been encumbered at the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the general fund.
   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and more
often if required by the Commission, the officer responsible for maintenance of
the city accounting system shall submit the Commission data showing the
relation between the estimated and actual revenues and expenditures to date;
and if it shall appear that the revenues are less than anticipated, the
Commission may reduce appropriations, except amounts required for debt and
interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep expenditures
within the revenues.
SECTION 6.5 PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Commission designates the City Administrator as Purchasing Agency, and
he shall be responsible for the purchase of city personal property within
budget limitation and the sale of all city property except real estate. The
Commission may authorize the making of public improvements or the performance
of any other city work by a city agency without competitive bidding. The
Commission may establish detailed purchasing, sale, and contract procedure by
ordinance or resolution.
(Amended 11-5-19)
SECTION 6.6 DEPOSITORY.
   The Commission shall designate the depository or depositories for city
funds, and shall provide for the regular deposit of all city moneys. The
Commission shall provide for such security for city deposits as is authorized
or permitted by the general laws of the state, except that personal security
bonds shall not be deemed proper security.
SECTION 6.7 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the city government at
least annually and more often if deemed necessary by the Commission. Such audit
shall be made by certified public accounts experienced in municipal accounting.
The results of such audit shall be made public in such manner as the Commission
may determine, but, as a minimum, it shall be available for inspection of the
office of the Clerk.
SECTION 6.8 POWER TO TAX.
   The city shall have the power to assess taxes and levy and collect rents,
tolls and excises.
SECTION 6.9 SUBJECTS OF TAXATION.
   The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same
as for state, county and school purposes under the general law. Except as
otherwise provided by this charter, city taxes shall be levied, collected and
returned in the manner provided by statute.
SECTION 6.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   No exemptions from taxation shall be allowed, except as expressly required
or permitted by statute.
SECTION 6.11 TAX DAY.
   Unless otherwise provided by law, the 31st day of December in each year
shall be Tax Day of both real and personal property in the city.
SECTION 6.12 PREPARATION OF THE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   On or before the first Monday in March in each year the Assessor shall
prepare and certify an assessment roll of all property in the city subject to
taxation. Such roll shall be prepared in accordance with statute and this
charter. Values shall be estimated according to recognized methods of
systematic assessment. The records of the Assessor shall show separate figures
for the value of the land, of the building improvements and of the personal
property; and the method of estimating all such values shall be as nearly
uniform as possible.
   On or before the first Monday in March the Assessor shall give by first
class mail a notice of any increase over the previous year in the assessed
value of any property or of the addition of any property to the roll to the
owner as shown by such assessment roll. The failure to give any notice or of
the owner to receive it shall not invalidate any assessment roll or assessment
thereon.
SECTION 6.13 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The Board of Review shall be composed of the mayor and two electors of the
city who shall meet the eligibility requirements for elective officers
contained in Section 3.1 and who during their term of office shall not be city
officers or employees or be nominees or candidates for any elective city
office. The Commission shall fix the compensation of the members of the board.
The Board of Review shall annually, in February, select its own chairman for
the ensuing year, and the assessor shall be the clerk of the board but shall
have no vote.
SECTION 6.14 MEETINGS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The Board of Review shall convene in its first session on the second Monday
in March of each year at such time of day and place as shall be designated by
the Commission and shall remain in session for at least eight hours for the
purpose of considering and correcting the roll. In each case in which the
assessed value of any property is increased over the amount shown on the
assessment roll as prepared by the Assessor or any property is added to such
roll by the Board, or the Board has resolved to consider at its second session
such increasing of an assessment or the adding of any property such roll, the
Assessor shall give notice thereof to the owners as shown by such roll by first
class letter mailed not later than the second day following the end of the
first session of the Board. Such notice shall state the date, time, place and
purpose of the second session of the Board. The failure to give any such notice
or of the owner to receive it shall not invalidate any assessment roll or
assessment therein.
   The Board of Review shall convene in its second session on the fourth Monday
in March of each year at such time of day and place as shall be designated by
the Commission and shall continue in session until all interested persons have
had an opportunity to be heard, but in no case for less than six hours. At the
second session, the Board may not increase any assessment or add any property
to the rolls, except in those cases in which the Board resolved at its first
session to consider such increase or addition at its second session.
SECTION 6.15 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   Notice of the time and place of the sessions of the Board of Review shall be
published in a newspaper published or circulated in said City of Clio, by the
Clerk at least ten days prior to each session of the Board.
SECTION 6.16 DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS OF BOARD OF REVIEW.
   For the purpose of revising and correcting assessments, the Board of Review
shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as are by
statute conferred upon and required of Boards of Review in townships, except as
otherwise provided in this charter. It shall hear the complaints of all persons
considering themselves aggrieved by assessments, and if it shall appear that
any person or property has been wrongfully assessed or omitted from the roll
the Board shall correct the roll in such manner as it deems just. In all cases
the roll shall be reviewed according to the facts existing on the tax day and
no change in the status of any property after said day shall be considered by
the Board in making its decisions. Except as otherwise provided by statute, no
person other than the Board of Review shall make or authorize any change upon
or additions or corrections to the assessment roll. It shall be the duty of the
Assessor to keep a permanent record of all proceedings and to enter therein all
resolutions and decisions of the Board.
SECTION 6.17 ENDORSEMENT OF ROLL.
   After the Board of Review has completed its review of the assessment roll,
and not later than the first Monday in April, the majority of its members shall
endorse thereon and sign a statement to the effect that the same is in the
assessment roll of the city for the year in which it has been prepared. The
omission of such endorsement shall not affect the validity of such roll.
SECTION 6.18 CERTIFICATION OF REVENUE.
   Within three days after the Commission has adopted the budget for the
ensuring year, the Clerk shall certify to the assessor the total amount which
the Commission determines shall be raised by general ad valorem tax. He shall
also certify all amounts of current or delinquent special assessments and all
amounts which the Commission requires to be assessed, reassessed or charged
upon any property or against any person.
SECTION 6.19 CITY TAX ROLL.
   After the Board of Review has completed its review of the assessment roll to
be known as the “City Tax Roll” and upon receiving the certification of the
several amounts to be raised as provided in Section 6.18, the Assessor shall
spread upon said tax roll the several amounts determined by the Commission to
be charged, assessed or reassessed against persons or property. He shall also
spread the amounts of the general city tax according to and in proportion to
the several valuations set forth in said assessment roll. To avoid fractions in
computation on any tax roll, the Assessor may add to the amount of the several
taxes to be raised not more than the amount prescribed by statute. Any excess
created thereby on any tax rolls shall belong to the city.
SECTION 6.20 CITY TAX ROLL CERTIFIED FOR COLLECTION.
   After extending taxes aforesaid and not later than the fifteenth (15) day of
June in each year, the Assessor shall certify said tax roll, and the Mayor
shall annex his warrant thereto, directing and requiring the Treasurer to
collect prior to November first of said year, from the several persons named in
said roll the several sums mentioned therein opposite their respective names as
a tax or assessment, and granting to him, for the purpose of collecting the
taxes, assessment, and charges on such roll, all the powers and immunities
possessed by township treasurers for the collection of taxes under the general
laws of the state.
SECTION 6.21 TAXES LIEN.
   On July 1 the amounts assessed on any interest in real property shall become
a lien upon such real property for such amounts and for all interest and
charges therein and all personal taxes shall become a first lien on all
personal property of such persons so assessed.
   The liens shall take precedence over all other claims, encumbrances and
liens to the extent provided by statute and shall continue until such taxes,
interest and charges are paid.
SECTION 6.22 TAXES DUE; NOTIFICATION.
   City taxes shall be due on the first day of July of the year when levied.
The Treasurer shall not be required to call upon the persons named in the city
tax roll, nor to make personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he shall
give notice to the taxpayers of the city by publication in a newspaper at least
twice, the last of which publication of notice shall be made at least ten (10)
days prior to the first day of July in each year, of the time when said taxes
will be due for collection, or shall give such notice by first class mail
addressed to the owners of the property upon which taxes are assessed according
to the names of such owners and their addresses as indicated on the tax roll,
which notice shall be deemed sufficient for the payment of all taxes on said
roll. Failure on the part of the Treasurer to give said notice shall not
invalidate the taxes on said tax roll nor release any person or property
assessed from the penalty provided in this charter in case of non-payment of
the same.
SECTION 6.23 COLLECTION OF CITY TAXES.
   City taxes shall be due and payable on the first day of July each year. To
all taxes there shall be added one (1) percent as a collection fee. To all
taxes paid after September 30, there shall also be added a two (2) percent
penalty. The added collection fees, penalties, and interest herein provided
shall belong to the city and shall constitute a charge and shall be a lien
against the property to which the taxes themselves apply, collectible in the
same manner as the taxes to which they are added.
SECTION 6.24 DELINQUENT TAX ROLL TO COUNTY TREASURER.
   If the Treasurer has been unable to collect any of the city taxes on said
roll of real property before the first day of March following the date when
said roll was received by him, it shall be his duty to return all such unpaid
taxes on real property to the county treasurer in the same manner and with like
effect as returns by township treasurers of township, school and county taxes.
   Such returns shall be made upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the
Treasurer and shall include all the additional charges and fees herein before
provided, which charges shall, in such return, be added to the amount assessed
in said tax roll against each description. The taxes thus returns to the county
treasurer to be collected under the provisions of the general laws of the state
shall be and remain a lien upon the lands against which they are assessed until
paid.
SECTION 6.25 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO PAY PERSONAL PROPERTY TAX.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall neglect or refuse to pay any
personal property tax assessed to him or them by November first, the Treasurer
shall collect the same by seizing the personal property of such person, firm or
corporation to an amount sufficient to pay such tax, fees and charges for
subsequent sale, wherever the same may be found in the state, and from which
seizure no property shall be exempt. He may sell the property seized to an
amount sufficient to pay the taxes and all charges in accordance with statutory
provisions. The Treasurer may, if otherwise unable to collect a tax on the
personal property sue, in accordance with statute, the person, firm or
corporation to whom it is assessed.
SECTION 6.26 PROTECTION OF CITY LIEN.
   The city shall have the power to acquire by purchase any premises within the
city at any tax or other public sale, or by direct purchase from the State of
Michigan, or the fee owner when such purchase is necessary to protect the lien
of the city for taxes or special assessments, or both, on said premises and may
lease or sell the same for the purpose of securing therefrom the amount of such
taxes or special assessments or both, together with any incidental expenses
incurred in connection with the exercise of this power. Any such procedure
exercised by the city in the protection of its tax lien shall be deemed to be
for a public purpose.
SECTION 6.27 STATE, COUNTY, AND SCHOOL TAXES.
   For the purpose of assessing taxes in the city for state, county, and school
purposes, the city shall be considered the same as a township, and all
provisions of state law relative to the collection of such taxes and the fees
to be paid therefor, the accounting therefor to the appropriate taxing units,
and the returning of property to the county treasurer for non-payment thereof
shall apply to the performance by the Treasurer, who shall perform the same
duties and have the same powers as township treasurers, under the state law.
SECTION 6.28 MUNICIPAL BORROWING POWER.
   Subject to the applicable provisions of law and this charter, the Commission
may by ordinance or resolution authorize the borrowing of money for any purpose
within the scope of powers vested in the city and permitted by law and may
authorize the issuance of bonds or other evidence of indebtedness therefor.
Such bonds or other evidence of indebtedness shall include but not be limited
to the following types:
   (1)   General obligations which pledge the full faith, credit and resources
of the city for the payment of such obligations; when authorized by a three-
fifths vote of the electors voting thereon at any general or special election;
   (2)   Notes issued in anticipation of the collection of taxes;
   (3)   In case of fire, flood or other calamity, emergency lands due in not
more than five years for the relief of the inhabitants of the city and for the
preservation of municipal property;
   (4)   Special assessment bonds issued in anticipation of the payment of
special assessments made for the purpose of defraying the cost of any public
improvement, or in anticipation of the payment of any combination of such
special assessments; such special assessment bond may be an obligation of the
special assessment district or districts or may be both an obligation of the
special assessment district or districts and a general obligation of the city;
   (5)   Mortgage bonds for the acquiring, owning, purchasing, constructing,
improving, or operating of any public utility which the city is authorized by
this charter to acquire or operate, provided such bonds shall not impose any
liability upon such city but shall be secured only upon the property and
revenues of such public utility, including a franchise, stating the terms upon
which, in case of foreclosure the purchaser may operate the same, which
franchise shall in no case extend for a longer period than twenty years from
the date or the sale of such utility and franchise on foreclosure; such bonds
shall be authorized by a three-fifths vote of the electors voting thereon at
any general or special election; a sinking fund shall be created in the event
of the issuance of such bonds, by setting aside such percentage of the gross or
net earnings of the public utility as may be deemed sufficient for the payment
of the mortgage bonds at maturity, unless serial bonds are issued of such a
nature that no sinking fund is required;
   (6)   Bonds issued at a rate of interest not to exceed State Statute of
Limitations to refund money advanced or paid on special assessments imposed for
water main extensions;
   (7)   Bonds for the refunding of the funded indebtedness of the city;
   (8)   Revenue bonds as authorized by statute which are secure only by the
revenues from a public improvement and do not constitute a general obligation
of the city.
SECTION 6.29 LIMITS OF BORROWING POWERS.
   The net bonded indebtedness incurred for all public purposes shall not at
any time exceed ten percent of the assessed value of all the real and personal
property in the city, provided that in computing such net bonded indebtedness
there shall be excluded money borrowed under the following sections of this
charter: 6.28 (2) (tax anticipation notes); 6.28 (3) (emergency loans); 6.28
(4) (special assessment bonds even though they are also a general obligation of
the city); 6.28 (5) (mortgage bonds); 6.28 (6) (special assessment refunding
bonds); 6.28 (8) (revenue bonds), and other bonds which do not constitute a
general obligation of the city.
   The amount of emergency loans which the Commission may make under the
provisions of Section 6.28 (3) of this charter may not exceed three-eighths of
one percent of the assessed value of all the real and personal property in the
city.
   The total amount of special assessment bonds pledging the full faith and
credit of the city shall at no time by reason of future issues other than
issues of refunding bonds exceed five percent of the assessed value of all the
real and personal property in the city, nor shall such bonds be issued in any
consecutive period or twelve months in excess of one percent of such assessed
value unless authorized by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon at
any general or special election.
CHAPTER 7. PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, CONTRACTS AND UTILITIES
SECTION 7.1 GENERAL POWER RELATIVE TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Commission shall have the power to determine the necessity of any local
or public improvement and to determine that the whole or any part of the
expense thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property
especially benefitted and shall so declare by resolution, provided that all
special assessments levied shall be based upon or be in proportion to the
benefits derived or to be derived. Such resolution shall state the estimated
cost of the improvement, what proportion of the cost thereof shall be paid by
special assessment, and what part, if any, shall be a general obligation of the
city, and the number of installments in which assessments may be paid, and
shall designate the districts or land and premises upon which special
assessments shall be levied.
SECTION 7.2 DETAILED PROCEDURE TO BE FIXED BY ORDINANCE.
   The Commission shall prescribe by general ordinance the complete special
assessment procedure concerning the initiation of projects, plans and
specifications, estimates of costs, notice of hearings, making and confirming
assessment rolls in advance of starting the improvement, and the correction of
errors therein, collection of special assessments, and any other matters
concerning the making of improvements by the special assessment method, subject
to the provisions of this charter.
SECTION 7.3 OBJECT TO IMPROVEMENTS.
   If at or prior to final conformation of any special assessment, more than
fifty (50) percent of the number of owners of private owned real property to be
assessed for any improvement, or in case of paving or similar improvements,
more than fifty (50) percent of the number of owners of frontage to be assessed
for any such improvement, shall object in writing to the proposed improvement
it shall not be made by the proceedings authorized in this charter without a
five-sevenths (5/7ths) vote of the members- elect of the Commission provided
that this section shall not apply to sidewalk construction.
SECTION 7.4 DISPOSITION OF EXCESSIVE SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The excess by which any special assessment proves larger than the actual
cost of the improvement and expenses incidental thereto may be placed in the
general fund of the city if such excess is five percent or less of the
assessment, but should the assessment prove larger than necessary by more than
five percent of the entire excess shall be refunded on a pro rata basis to the
owners of the property assessed. Such refund shall be made by credit against
future unpaid installments to the extent such installments then exist and the
balance of such refund shall be in cash. No refunds may be made which
contravene the provisions of any outstanding evidence of indebtedness secured
in whom or in part by such special assessment.
SECTION 7.5 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   No suit or action of any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the
purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any special assessment (1)
unless within thirty days after the conformation of the special assessment roll
written notice is given to the Commission of intention to file such suit or
action stating the grounds of which it is claimed such assessment is illegal,
and (2) unless such suit or action shall be commenced within sixty days after
confirmation of the roll.
SECTION 7.6 DELINQUENT SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Special assessments and all interest and charges thereon, from the date of
confirmation of the roll shall be and remain a lien upon the property assessed
of the same character and effect as the lien created by general law for the
state and county taxes and by this charter for city taxes, until paid. From
such date after confirmation as shall be fixed by the Commission, the same
collection fees, penalties, and interest shall be paid on delinquent special
assessments and upon delinquent installments of such special assessments as
provided by this charter to be paid on delinquent city taxes. In case any
assessment or any part thereof, shall remain unpaid on the first Monday of May
following the date when the same became delinquent, the same shall be reported
unpaid by the Treasurer to the Commission, and such delinquent assessments,
together with all accrued interest shall be transferred and reassessed on the
next annual city tax roll in a column heading “Special Assessments” with a
penalty of four (4) percent upon such total amount added thereto, and when so
transferred and reassessed upon said tax roll shall be collected in all
respects as provided for the collection of city taxes.
SECTION 7.7 HAZARDS AND NUISANCES.
   When any lot, building, or structure within the city, because of the
accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontrolled growing of weeds, or age or
dilapidation, or because of any other condition or happening, becomes, in the
opinion of the Commission, a public hazard or nuisance which is dangerous to
the health or safety of the inhabitants of the city or those of them residing
or habitually going near such lot, building or structure, the Commission may
after investigation, give notice to the owner of the land upon which such
hazard or nuisance exists, or the owner of the building or structure itself,
specifying the nature of the hazard or nuisance, and requiring such owner to
alter, repair, tear down, or remove same promptly and within a time to be
specified by the Commission, which shall be commensurate with the nature of the
hazard or nuisance. If, at the expiration of the time limit in said notice,
said owner has not complied with the requirements thereof, or in any case where
the owner of the land or of the building or structure itself is not known, the
Commission may order such a hazard or nuisance abated by the proper department
or agency of the city which is qualified to do the work required, and the costs
of such abatement, assessed against the lot, premises or description of real
property upon which said hazard or nuisance was located.
SECTION 7.8 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this charter, either expressed or
incorporated therein, may prove to be insufficient to carry into full effect
the making of any special assessment, the Commission shall provide any
additional steps or procedures required to effect the improvement by special
assessment.
SECTION 7.9 DEFERRED PAYMENT ON SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Commission may provide for the deferred payment of special assessments
from persons who, in the opinion of the Commission and Assessor, by reason of
poverty are unable to contribute toward the cost thereof. In all such cases, as
a condition to the granting of such deferred payments, the city shall require
mortgage security on the real property of the beneficiary payable on or before
his death or in any event on the sale or transfer of the property.
SECTION 7.10 POWERS RESERVED BY THE CITY.
   The city shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
the cities by the Constitution and general laws of the State of Michigan to
acquire, construct, own, operate, improve, enlarge, extend, repair, and
maintain either within or without its corporate limits, including, but not by
the way of limitation, public utilities for supplying water, light, heat,
power, gas, sewage treatment, and garbage disposal facilities and projects for
the housing of its citizens, or any of them to the municipality and inhabitants
thereof; and also to sell and deliver water, light, heat, gas, and other public
utility service without its corporate limits to an amount to exceed limitations
set by state law and Constitution. The city may also acquire, own, improve,
maintain, construct and operate parks, boulevards, cemeteries, hospital,
almshouses, trunk sewers and plants necessary for the disposal of sewage and
garbage and all other works which involve the public health and safety and also
any land necessary for such improvement or for use in connection with any other
public place.
SECTION 7.11 POWER TO ACQUIRE PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   The city shall have no power to acquire any public utility unless the
proposition to acquire such public utility shall have first received an
affirmative vote of three-fifths of the qualified electors of the city voting
thereon at any regular, special or municipal election; provided, however, that
only those works, improvements and utilities designated for use for the
supplying water, sewage facilities, heat, light, power and transportation to
the municipality and the inhabitants thereof, shall be deemed public utilities
falling within the restriction of this section. The question of raising the
money required for such purposes by borrowing and issuing the bonds of the
city, may be submitted at the same time, either as an independent question or
as part of the same question.
SECTION 7.12 POWER TO FIX WATER RATES, ETC.
   The Commission shall have the power to fix, from time to time, such just and
equitable rates as may be deemed advisable for supplying the inhabitants of the
city and others with water, with electricity for light, heat and power and with
such other utility services as the city may provide.
SECTION 7.13 MANAGEMENT OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   Municipally owned utilities shall be administered as a regular department of
the city government, and not by an independent board or commission.
SECTION 7.14 UTILITY CHARGES COLLECTION.
   The commission shall provide by ordinance or resolution for the collection
of all water service charges made by the city by Acts 178 of the Public Acts of
1939, as amended. When any person or persons, or any firm or corporation, shall
fail or refuse to pay to the city any sums due on utility bills, the utility
service or services upon which such delinquency exists, may be shut off or
discontinued and suit may be instituted by the city for the collection of same
in any Court of competent jurisdiction. The city shall have as security for the
collection of such utility rates and charges for water furnished any person or
persons, or any firm or corporation a lien upon the real property for which
such water is supplied, which lien shall become effective immediately upon the
supplying of such water service, and may be enforced in accordance with the
provisions of said Act No. 178, of the Public Acts of 1939, as amended.
Statutory reference:
   Public Act 178 of 1939, see M.C.L.A. §§ 123.161 et seq. and M.C.L.A. §
141.121
SECTION 7.15 DISPOSAL OF UTILITY PLANTS AND PROPERTY.
   Unless approved by a three-fifths majority vote of the electors voting
thereon at a regular or special election the city shall not sell, exchange,
lease or in any way dispose of any property, easement, equipment, privilege or
asset belonging to and appertaining to any municipality owned utility. All
contracts, negotiations, licenses, grants, lease or other forms of transfer in
violation of this section shall be void and of no effect as against the city.
The restrictions of this section shall not apply to the sale or exchange of any
articles of machinery or equipment of any city owned utility which are worn out
or useless or which have been or could with advantage to the service be
replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment.
SECTION 7.16 UTILITY ACCOUNTS.
   Transactions pertaining to the ownership and operation by the city of each
public utility shall be recorded in a separate group of accounts under an
appropriate fund caption, which account shall be classified in accordance with
generally accepted utility accounting practice. Charges for all service
furnished to, or rendered by, other city department or agencies shall be
recorded. An annual report shall be prepared to show fairly the financial
position of the utility and the results of its operation, which report shall be
available for inspection at the office of the Clerk.
SECTION 7.17 CONTRACTS.
   The authority to contract on behalf of the city is vested in the Commission
and shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions of the statutes and of
this charter. The Commission shall establish procedures for the letting and
making of contracts, but no contract except an agreement of employment or an
agreement for the purchase or sale of goods, wares or merchandise in an amount
of one thousand dollars or less shall be made unless the same shall have first
been submitted to the attorney and his opinion obtained with respect to its
legality and form. A copy of all contracts requiring such opinion and
certification shall be filed in the office of the clerk.
   The Commission may enter into contracts or agreements for the purchase of
lands, property or equipment for public purposes, committing the payment of
funds beyond those funds appropriated at the time such commitment is made;
provided, however, that no contract or agreement shall be made committing the
payment of unappropriated funds in excess of $10,000.00 or over a payment
period of longer than ten years from the date of such contract or agreement.
   No contract shall be amended after the same has been made except upon the
authority of the Commission.
   No compensation shall be paid to any contractor except in accordance with
the terms of the contract.
   No contract shall be made with any person, firm or corporation who is in
default to the city.
   The purpose of this proposed amendment is to allow the Clio City Commission
to enter into contracts committing the payment of funds beyond those
appropriated by the particular Commission in office at the time that such
commitment is made, thus allowing the Commission in office to bind future
Commissions but only to the extent of $10,000.00 and only for the period of ten
years on any one contract or agreement.
CHAPTER 8. MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 8.1 CITY RECORDS.
   All records of the city shall be public.
SECTION 8.2 AMENDMENTS.
   Should any portion of this charter be declared void, illegal and
unconstitutional, such finding shall not invalidate the remainder of this
charter.
SECTION 8.3 AMENDMENTS.
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided in Act Number
269 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended. Should two (2) or more amendments,
adopted at the same election, have conflicting provisions, the one receiving
the largest affirmative vote shall prevail as to those provisions.
SECTION 8.4 CITY RECORDS.
   All books, records, compilations, etc., in and pertaining to any city
office, elective or appointive, shall be and remain the property of the city.
   Each officer of the city, elective or appointive, shall at the close of his
tenure of office surrender all such books, records, compilations, etc., to his
successor in office or to the Clerk of the city.
SECTION 8.5 CITY LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be liable for damages sustained by any person to his
person or property by reason of the negligence of the city, its officers or
employees, while in the exercise of its governmental functions, unless such
person shall serve or cause to be served upon the Clerk, within sixty days
after the injury resulting in such damages shall have occurred, a notice in
writing, which notice shall set forth substantially the time and place of such
injury, the manner in which it occurred, the extent of such damages as far as
the same has become known, the names and addresses of the witnesses known at
the time by the claimant, and a statement that the person sustaining such
damages intends to hold the city liable for such damages as may have been
sustained by him.
   The city shall not be liable for any damages to person or property arising
out of any such injury unless there shall have been first presented to the
Clerk a claim in writing and under oath setting forth particularly the time,
place, nature and extent of such injury and the amount of damages claimed by
reason thereof. No person shall bring any action against the city for any such
damages until such claim shall have been filed with the Clerk and until the
Commission shall have been given opportunity to act thereon either by allowing
or refusing to allow the claim.
   It shall be a sufficient bar and swear in any court to any action or
proceeding for the collection of any demand or claim against the city under
this section that the notice of injury and verified proof of claim as in this
section required were not presented and filed within the time and in the manner
as herein provided.
SECTION 8.6 PROCESS AGAINST THE CITY.
   A process against the city shall run against the city in the corporate name
thereof and may be serve upon the Mayor, Clerk or Attorney.
SECTION 8.7 TRUSTS.
   All trusts established for any municipal purpose shall be used and continued
in accordance with the terms of such trust, subject to the cy pres doctrine.
The Commission may in its discretion receive and hold any property in trust for
any municipal purpose and shall apply the same to the execution of such trust
and for no other purposes except in cases where the cy pres doctrine shall
apply.
SECTION 8.8 DEFINITION OF PUBLICATION; MAILING OF NOTICES.
   The requirement contained in this charter for the publishing or publication
of notices, ordinances or proceedings shall be met by publishing any
appropriate insertion in a newspaper published in the English language for the
dissemination of news of a general character which newspaper shall have had a
general circulation at regular intervals in the city or village for a least two
years immediately preceding the time that it is used for such publication
purposes. The affidavit of the printer or publisher of such newspaper, or of
his foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice,
ordinance or proceeding taken from the paper in which it was published and
specifying the times of publication shall be prima facie evidence of such
publication.
   In any case in which this charter requires the mailing of notices, the
affidavit of the officer or employee responsible for such mailing that such
notice was mailed shall be prima facie evidence of such mailing.
SECTION 8.9 SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
   Whenever the date fixed by this charter for the doing of completion of any
act falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, such act shall be done or completed on
the next succeeding day, which is not a Sunday or legal holiday.
SECTION 8.10 CHAPTER AND SECTION HEADLINES.
   The chapter, section and subsection headings used in this charter are for
convenience only and shall not be considered as part of the charter.
SECTION 8.11 INTERPRETATIONS.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context:
   (1)   All words used in this charter indicting the present tense shall not
be limited to the time of the adoption of this charter but shall extend to and
include the time of the happening of any event or requirement for which
provisions is made herein;
   (2)   The singular number shall include the plural, the plural number shall
include the singular, and the masculine gender shall extend to and include the
feminine gender and the neuter;
   (3)   The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate and to partnerships as well as to individuals;
   (4)   The words “printed” and “printing” shall include reproductions by
printing, engraving, stencil duplicating, lithographing or any similar method;
   (5)   Except in reference to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” shall include printing and typewriting;
   (6)   The word “office” shall include the members of the Commission and the
administrative officers;
   (7)   All references to statutes shall be considered to be references to
such statutes as amended;
   (8)   The word “default” shall be defined to include being delinquent in
taxes among its meanings;
   (9)   All references to specific Public Acts of the State of Michigan shall
be to such acts as are in effect at the time the reference to such act is to be
applied;
   (10) The words “law” or “general laws of the state” shall denote the
Constitution and the Public Acts of the State of Michigan in effect at the time
the provision of the charter containing the words “law” or “general laws of the
State” is to be applied, and applicable common law;
   (11) All references to section numbers shall refer to section numbers of
this charter.
(Amended 11-5-19)
CHAPTER 9. SCHEDULE
SECTION 9.1 STATUS OF SCHEDULE CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this schedule chapter is to consummate a charter revision for
the City of Clio and its shall constitute a part of this charter only to the
extent and for the time required to accomplish that end.
SECTION 9.2 ELECTION ON ADOPTION OF CHARTER.
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the electors of the City of
Clio for adoption or rejection at a special city election to be held on the
20th day of February, 1961, such election to be held and conducted in
accordance with the provisions of the existing charter and state law.
   For the purposes of this initial election, the Charter Commission shall
constitute the Election Commission and it shall also constitute the Board of
Canvassers.
   The City Clerk shall, in accordance with the state law, publish two notices
of the last day of registration for this special election, shall post ten
election notices in conspicuous places in the city, and shall do all other
things necessary to prepare for and conduct such election. The Charter
Commission shall meet to canvass the results of the election on February 21
1961, at 8:00 p.m. and the Clerk of this Commission shall certify the results
of the election and the Charter Commission shall perform its functions as the
Board of Canvassers.
SECTION 9.3 FORM OF BALLOT.
   Form of Ballot for submission of this Charter shall be as follows:
   OFFICIAL SPECIAL ELECTION BALLOT
   CITY OF CLIO, MICHIGAN
Instructions: To vote in favor of adopting said proposed Charter make a cross
(X) in the square ( ) to the right of the word “YES” and to vote against
adopting said proposed Charter, make a cross (X) in the square ( ) to the right
of the word “NO”,
“Shall the proposed Charter of the City of Clio, framed by the Charter
Commission, which was elected on May 26, 1959, and which has been approved by
the Governor of the State of Michigan, be adopted?”
            YES ( )      NO ( )
SECTION 9.4 FIRST CITY OFFICERS.
   There shall be elected at the first regular election in April, 1961, and
alternate regular elections thereafter, four (4) commissioners for terms of
four (4) years each, one justice of the peace for a term of four (4) years, one
member of the Board of Review for a term of four (4) years, and as many
commissioners for terms of two (2) years as are necessary to complete the full
commission of seven (7) members, it being intended that any commissioner or
Board of Review member elected under the preceding charter for terms extending
to 1963 shall continue in such office until the regular 1963 election as
provided in this charter. There shall be elected in the regular 1963 election
and alternate regular elections thereafter three (3) commissioners for terms of
four (4) years each and one justice of the peace for a term of four (4) years.
A justice of the peace elected in 1959 for a four year term under the preceding
charter shall continue in such office until July 4, 1963.
SECTION 9.5 DATE OF THIS CHARTER.
   For the purpose of electing city officers under this charter, this charter
shall take effect on the day on which the city clerk published the first notice
of the last day of registration for the special election on the adoption of
this charter. For all other purposes, this charter shall take effect on April
10, 1961, at 8:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time. At such time the first officers
elected under this charter shall assemble in the Municipal Council Chambers of
the City of Clio. The meeting shall be called to order by a member of the
Charter Commission designated by it for that purpose. Each officer shall take
and subscribe to his oath of office and shall thereupon be qualified for and
shall assume the duties of his office.
SECTION 9.6 INTERIM FINANCIAL PROVISIONS.
   The Council shall, at its first meeting after the effective date of this
charter, by resolution continue as city appropriation the unencumbered balances
of the appropriations made by the previous City Council of Clio for the fiscal
year ending May 31, 1961, and these appropriations shall then be deemed to be
the appropriations of the council elected hereunder and the fiscal year of the
city shall be completed by the city as though no governmental changes had been
made. On May 31, 1961, the balances of all appropriations not then encumbered
shall revert to the general fund.
   The period from June 1, 1961, to June 30, 1961, inclusive, shall constitute
a special fiscal period to accomplish the transition from the previously
existing fiscal period. A budget for such special fiscal period shall be
prepared and adopted and administered in accordance with the provisions of this
charter, such budget shall be adopted not later than May 1, 1961.
SECTION 9.7 PUBLICATION OF CHARTER.
   This proposal Charter shall be published in the Clio Messenger on February
1, 1961, together with a notice of the election on the adoption of the Charter.
SECTION 9.8 RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION.
   At a meeting of the Charter Commission of the City of Clio held December 16,
1960, the following resolution was presented by Commissioner Conlee who moved
for its adoption. Said motion was supported by Commissioner Schaupp.
   Resolved, that the Charter Commission of the City of Clio does hereby adopt
the foregoing proposed city charter, and the clerk of this Commission is hereby
instructed to transmit the same to the Governor of the State of Michigan, in
accordance with the provisions of the statute, for his approval.
   The vote on the adoption of said resolution was as follows:
   Yeas: Crompton, Conlee, Whitman, Ringler, Richey, Schaupp, Houghton and
Hornung.
   Nays: None.
   Signed:
      Edwin W. Crompton, Chairman, Charter Commission of the City of Clio.
      Otto B. Hornung, Clerk, Charter Commission of the City of Clio.
   Countersigned:
   Charter Commission of the City of Clio, Michigan:
      Edwin W. Crompton
      Clifton S. Conlee
      Ernest W. Whitman
      William E. Ringler
      Lawrence D. Richey
      Jack Schaupp
      Richard Houghton
      Beryl E. Hornung
   The above Commissioners having attested to said resolution as above and also
having attested the copy to be signed by the Governor, the meeting adjourned,
subject to the call of the Chairman.
   State of Michigan
               ss.
   County of Genesee
   Otto B. Hornung, Clerk of the Charter Commission of the City of Clio being
duly sown, says that at an election held in the City of Clio on May 26, 1959,
the following named persons were duly elected as a Commission to frame a
Charter for the City of Clio, namely: Riley L. Criss, Edwin W. Crompton, Peter
R. Ellis, Beryl E. Hornung, Ernest Whitman, Marilyn Mapes, Lawrence D. Richey,
William E. Ringler and Jack A. Schaupp. The members elected to said Charter
Commission did meet on June 9, 1959, within the time prescribed by law, and
elected Edwin W. Crompton, chairman and Otto B. Hornung, clerk of said Charter
Commission. On September 2, 1959, Commissioner Marilyn Mapes resigned due to
circumstances, and Clifton S. Conlee was duly appointed by the Charter
Commission of the City of Clio, and duly sworn in on September 28, 1959, to
fill the vacancy due to the resignation of Commissioner Mapes. On October 12,
1959, Commissioner Riley L. Criss resigned due to change of residence, and
Richard L. Houghton was duly appointed by the Charter Commission of the City of
Clio, and duly sworn in on November 23, 1959, to fill the vacancy due to the
resignation of Commissioner Criss. Commissioner Peter R. Ellis moved from the
city after completion of proposed charter. The annexed and foregoing charter
was duly framed and adopted by said Charter Commission, by the foregoing
Resolution of Adoption, which is a true and correct copy thereof, and that the
said Charter Commission directed that said Charter be presented to the electors
of the City of Clio in accordance with the requirements of the laws of the
State of Michigan, which provide therefor.
Otto B. Hornung, Clerk of the Charter Commission of the City of Clio
Date: December 21, 1960
Subscribed and sworn to before me this 21st day of December, 1960
Della Blakely, Notary Public
Genesee County, Michigan
My commission expires: December 6, 1963.
Approved:
JOHN B. SWAINSON
Governor, State of Michigan
CHAPTER 10. MEDICAL MARIHUANA
SECTION 1 PURPOSE
   The purpose of this article is to end the city's prohibition of marihuana
facilities, and authorize and regulate such facilities within the city
consistent with the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, 2016 PA 281,
MCL 333.27101 et seq, and to provide qualifying patients local access to
medical marihuana for conditions such as epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, colitis,
arthritis, crohn's disease, cerebral palsy, chronic pain, parkinson's disease,
post traumatic stress disorder, and other medical conditions for which
marihuana has been deemed an approved medical use by the state of Michigan.
Nothing contained within this article, or within any local approval issued by
the city, shall be construed to relieve a person of the duties and obligations
imposed under state laws and regulations. Notwithstanding the foregoing, it is
not the intent of this article to diminish, abrogate or restrict protections
for the medical use of marihuana provided in the Michigan Medical Marihuana
Act, 2008 IL 1, MCL 333.26421 et seq. Nothing in this article is intended to
grant individuals immunity from the enforcement of federal laws prohibiting
marihuana activity. The provisions of this article are regulatory in nature and
not intended to be interpreted as zoning laws. The provisions of this article
are severable and self-executing. This article is hereby declared necessary to
preserve the public peace, health, safety and welfare of the people of the
city, to advance the interests of the city and the good government and
prosperity of the city and its inhabitants through the city's regularly
constituted authority to pass all laws relating to its municipal concerns, to
regulate occupations and trades in the city in accordance with state law, and
to regulate marihuana facilities within the city pursuant to its authority to
alter, amend or repeal any special act affecting any municipal concern.
(Amended 11-8-22)
SECTION 2 DEFINITIONS
   (A)   All definitions provided in the MMFLA are hereby incorporated by
reference into this article, and the term "marijuana" shall be synonymous with
the term "marihuana."
   (B)   "Business facility address” is defined as the singular United States
postal address, for a building structure located atop a land parcel, where a
marihuana facility is proposed to be located for a license type listed in an
application to the city. The existing square footage of the enclosed building
structure at the business facility address at the time of the application's
submission shall solely be used for determining the square footage of the
business facility address.
   (C)   "Business facility adjacent address" is defined as the singular United
States postal address of a building structure which is physically adjoining or
directly physically touching the building structure of a business facility
address. Physically adjoining shall, for the purposes of this definition, refer
to the physical connection through walls, adjacent walls, or a common building
structure, though this definition shall not include any common road,
foundation, or surface that the building structure sits on.
   (D)   “City” shall refer to the City of Clio.
   (E)   "City full license authorization" shall be defined as the full local
approval that the City of Clio automatically grants a local applicant to
operate a marihuana facility at a business facility address when the local
applicant has received a state operating license pursuant to the MMFLA. A city
full license authorization shall not be considered a municipal license.
   (F)   “Clerk” is defined as the City Clerk of the City of Clio.
   (G)   “Council” is defined as the City Council of the City of Clio.
   (H)   “Land parcel” or “parcel” shall be defined as a land parcel, with an
associated tax identification number allocated by the appropriate governmental
body, whose official records are held by the Clerk, the register of deeds, or
other appropriate governmental body, for the purposes of tracking the use of
land within the city.
   (I)   "License type” is defined as a single category of a license that a
local applicant can apply for, such as a provisioning center license, a grower
license, or any other license that a local applicant can apply for through the
processes set forth in this article.
   (J)   "Local applicant" is defined as an individual, entity, person, or
persons who submits an application for a license type to the city.
   (K)   "MMFLA" is defined as the Medical Marihuana Facilities Act, 2016 PA
281, MCL 333.27101 et seq.
   (L)   "MMMA" is defined as the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, 2008 IL 1,
MCL 333.26421 et seq.
   (M)   "MRTMA" is defined as the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act, 2018 IL 1, MCL 333.27951 et seq.
   (N)   "Provisional license" is defined as a provisional local authorization
issued by the city for a local applicant, contingent upon approval of a state
operating license by the agency, to operate a marihuana facility at a business
facility address, provided that the provisional license shall become a city
full license authorization upon the local applicant receiving a state operating
license pursuant to the MMFLA. A local applicant shall be prohibited from
operating a marihuana facility without a state license issued by the agency.
   (O)   "Percentage occupancy" shall be defined as the occupancy percentage of
a business facility address for the calendar year immediately prior to the
application date or, if applicable, for the calendar year ending no earlier
than three (3) months prior to the application date if the requirements of
section 2(O)(4) are met, and shall consist of the occupancy percentage of any
buildings, structures, or units contained within the parcel upon which the
business facility address sits for the calendar year immediately prior to the
application date. The percentage occupancy shall be calculated using the
average square footage of any buildings, structures, or units contained within
the parcel upon which the business facility address sits that is occupied
during the calendar year immediately prior to the application date, utilizing a
method determined by the City Clerk. The method of determining percentage
occupancy shall be subject to the following requirements of this article:
      (1)   Construction activity, renovation activity, or storage activity in
the buildings, structures, or units contained within the parcel upon which the
business facility address sits shall not be considered occupancy or counted as
part of the percentage occupancy of a business facility address. However,
storage units which are part of commercial storage businesses where rent is
paid for the use of a storage space shall be considered occupancy and shall
count towards percentage occupancy, and storage activity relating to inventory
and/or equipment that pertains to the operation of a business or other
organization that is otherwise occupying any buildings, structures, or units
contained within the parcel upon which the business facility address sits shall
be considered occupancy and shall count toward percentage occupancy.
      (2)   The determination of percentage occupancy shall require an
occupancy affidavit and, if possible, provide supporting documentation
attesting to the occupancy of any buildings, structures, or units contained
within the parcel upon which the business facility address sits for the
calendar year immediately prior to the application date, or, if applicable, for
the calendar year ending no earlier than three (3) months prior to the
application date if the requirements of section 2(O)(4) are met.
      (3)   For the purposes of issuing a provisional license, the city shall
verify the percentage occupancy of the business facility address through an
occupancy affidavit and, if possible, other supporting documentation which may
include, but not be limited to, lease documents, purchase agreements,
certificates of occupancy, utility bills, and other documentation that can show
the occupancy level over the time period.
      (4)   Notwithstanding the requirements of this section, if a local
applicant submits an occupancy affidavit that is dated no earlier than three
(3) months prior to the application date attesting to the percentage occupancy
of the business facility address, the local applicant will be deemed to meet
the requirements of the "calendar year immediately prior to the application
date" percentage occupancy definition.
   (P)   "Stand alone business facility address" is defined as a business
facility address that does not have a business facility adjacent address and
where the proposed business facility address is physically separated from areas
where smoking or the use of cannabis is prohibited, not including the business
facility address in question, and where smoke or the smell of cannabis does not
infiltrate into nonsmoking areas or buildings that are not part of the business
facility address.
(Amended 11-8-22)
SECTION 3 AUTHORIZATION OF MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITIES
   (A)   Pursuant to the MMFLA, the city shall immediately upon enactment of
this article authorize the following number of marihuana facilities to operate
within its boundaries:
      (1)   Marihuana safety compliance facility - zero (0) licenses
      (2)   Marihuana secure transporter - zero (0) licenses
      (3)   Marihuana provisioning center - two (2) licenses issued at a
minimum, maximum of two (2) licenses allowed
      (4)   Marihuana processor - zero (0) licenses
      (5)   Class A marihuana grower - zero (0) licenses
      (6)   Class B marihuana grower - zero (0) licenses
      (7)   Class C marihuana grower - zero (0) licenses
   (B)   Within 30 days of the effective date of this article, the City Council
shall enact all ordinances and resolutions necessary to facilitate operation of
this article, but no ordinance or resolution shall limit or restrict the
application of the provisions of this article.
(Amended 11-8-22)
SECTION 4 ADMINISTRATION OF MEDICAL MARIHUANA
   The city shall be responsible for the administration and regulation of
marihuana facilties within the city, subject to the laws of the state of
Michigan and the provisions of the City Charter. The City Clerk shall be
responsible for tasks associated with processing, scoring, and renewals of
medical marihuana licensing in the city. The terms city and clerk and often
used interchangeably in this article and the inclusion of one should not be
interpreted to mean the exclusion of the other.
The city shall:
   (A)   Authorize marihuana facilities to operate between the hours of 9:00 am
to 9:00 pm, Monday through Sunday, though any marihuana processor or grower
facility may operate twenty-four (24) hours per day, seven (7) days per week.
   (B)   On the tenth day after the effective date of this article begin to
accept applications for provisional licenses. This initial application window
shall close at 5:00 pm on the tenth day after this opens. If the city fails to
make an application form available upon the opening of this initial application
window, local applicants may submit their own application entitled "marihuana
facility application," which shall conform to the requirements of this article,
to the City Clerk, who shall receive it. The City Clerk shall accept any and
all "marihuana facility application(s)" submitted during the initial
application window.
   (C)   Require an affidavit from all local applicants attesting to the
veracity of their application at the time of the application's submission, and
verify that the information contained within the applications submitted by all
local applicants is true to the extent that such information can be verified by
the city. This affidavit shall not be used to disqualify a local applicant with
plans to engage in a joint venture with another entity or to potentially
transfer a provisional license to another entity with at least equal
qualifications to the local application.
   (D)   Charge an application fee no greater than one hundred dollars ($100),
and charge a fee no greater than five thousand dollars ($5,000) for the renewal
of either a provisional license or a city full license authorization. This
article does not contemplate the city expending additional funds for the
implementation of this article.
   (E)   Develop an application process for local applicants to apply for
provisional licenses. This application process shall conform to and be limited
to the following provisions of this article:
      (1)   Applications shall be scored using the following transparent
scoring procedure. Only one license type can be scored per application. No more
than one application per license type may be submitted for any business
facility address. The following scoring procedure is intended to ensure the
fair, just, and proper implementation of this article and to promote the
general welfare of the city.
      (2)   Applications shall be scored on a scale from 0 to 100 points, with
100 being the highest possible score, using the following scoring procedure:
         (i)   Local applicant qualification: This category allocates points
based on the degree to which the local applicant has been found qualified for
licensure by the agency. A maximum of fifty (50) points may be awarded for this
category. Points in this category shall be awarded as follows: if the local
applicant holds a state operating license pursuant to the MMFLA or the MRTMA,
fifty (50) points shall be awarded for this category; or, if the local
applicant holds a state pre-qualification approval from the agency pursuant to
the MMFLA or the MRTMA, thirty (30) points shall be awarded for this category.
A local applicant can only earn points for either a state operating license or
a state pre-qualification approval in this category. Documentation of state
operating license or state pre-qualification approval must be provided in the
local applicant's application at the time of the application's submission in
order to be considered for scoring by the city.
         (ii)   Structural suitability: This category allocates points based on
whether the business facility address is likely to be in compliance with the
MMFLA, the time it will take for the business facility address to come into
compliance with the MMFLA, the safety risk posed by building structures that
are not well suited to operate as marihuana facilities, and the need to
minimize the impact of marihuana facilities to surrounding businesses. A
maximum of twenty (20) points may be awarded for this category. Points in this
category shall be awarded as follows: if the business facility address is a
stand alone business facility address at the time of the application's
submission, ten (10) points shall be awarded toward this category. Whether the
business facility address is a stand alone business facility address at the
time of the application's submission shall be demonstrated by a site plan or
preliminary sketch submitted by the local applicant, the accuracy of which
shall, if possible, be verified by the Clerk. Further, if the application is
for a provisioning center license type and the business facility address
contains a minimum of two thousand (2,000) square feet and no more than seven
thousand five hundred (7,500) square feet, ten (10) additional points shall be
awarded toward this category, or if the application is for any other license
type and the business facility address contains a minimum of five thousand
(5,000) square feet, ten (10) additional points shall be awarded toward this
category.
         (iii)   Commitment to community: This category allocates points based
on the local applicant's commitment to advance the broader interest and goals
of the community through investment in the people of the community and in the
community's tax base. This is demonstrated through the following criteria:
commitment to the hiring of local residents and hiring of local contractors for
work and improvements to the business facility address, and its commitment to
long-term investment in the community through the redevelopment of vacant,
blighted, or abandoned property in the community. A maximum of thirty (30)
points may be awarded for this category. Points in this category shall be
awarded as follows: if the local applicant makes a commitment, conditional upon
receiving a city full license authorization, to hiring a minimum of ten (10)
percent of its employees from residents of the city, five (5) points shall be
awarded toward this category. If the local applicant makes a commitment,
conditional upon receiving a city full license authorization, to hiring local
contractors for work and improvements to the business facility address, five
(5) additional points shall be awarded toward this category. Points for long-
term community investment and re-development in this category shall be awarded
based on the percentage occupancy of the business facility address. If the
business facility address has a percentage occupancy of zero (0) percent, the
local applicant shall be awarded fifteen (15) additional points toward this
category. If the business facility address has a percentage occupancy greater
than zero percent and less than or equal to twenty-five (25) percent, the local
applicant shall be awarded ten (10) additional points toward this category. If
the business facility address has a percentage occupancy greater than twenty-
five (25) percent and less than or equal to fifty (50) percent, the local
applicant shall be awarded five (5) additional points toward this category. If
the business facility address has a percentage occupancy greater than fifty
(50) percent, the local applicant shall be awarded zero (0) additional points
toward this category. If the business facility address consists of no
commercially viable building structures or is a vacant land parcel, the local
applicant shall be awarded zero (0) additional points toward this category. In
addition, if the local applicant makes a legally binding commitment,
conditional upon receiving a city full license authorization, to donate ten
thousand dollars ($10,000) per year to a community organization that provides
food to food-insecure families who live within the municipality, five (5)
additional points shall be awarded toward this category.
         (iv)   General regulatory compliance: A local applicant shall have
forty (40) points subtracted from their application's score if, at the time of
the application's submission, any of the following are true of the local
applicant or any stakeholder with an ownership interest of greater than 10
percent in the local applicant or any entity in which a stakeholder with an
ownership interest of greater than 10 percent in the local applicant has an
ownership interest: (i) The aforementioned have entered into a "consent order
and stipulation and formal complaint" or other disciplinary-related agreement
with the agency related to the marihuana industry in Michigan; (ii) The
aforementioned have been subject to any disciplinary action related to activity
as a medical marihuana caregiver by any municipality or government agency in
the state of Michigan or elsewhere; (iii) The aforementioned have been subject
to any disciplinary action related to activity concerning a controlled
substance or marihuana product in Michigan, including alcohol or cigarettes, in
the state or Michigan or elsewhere; or (iv) Multiple marihuana products
produced by the aforementioned have been recalled by the agency as a result of
gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of the aforementioned. The
local applicant shall provide information concerning all of these provisions in
its application. The local applicant shall also provide information in its
application concerning the locations of any caregiver activities owned by the
local applicant or any stakeholder with an ownership interest of greater than
10 percent in the local applicant or any entity in which a stakeholder with an
ownership interest of greater than 10 percent in the sworn attestations from
the municipalities in which any such caregiver activities have operated stating
that such caregiver activities have been in compliance with all municipal
regulations.
      (3)   The city shall sum the points awarded to local applicants, and, if
applicable, subtract points from, each application submitted within the initial
application window and award provisional licenses to the local applicants who
are awarded the highest number of points. In the event of a tie in the scoring
for two or more provisional license applications, the city shall hold a
lottery, which shall be made open to the public, as a tiebreaker to decide
among such local applicants.
      (4)   Applications shall include documentation of ownership, lease
agreement, or other legal arrangement permitting the local applicant to apply
for a license or any and all municipal permits or approvals needed for the
business facility address at the time of the application's submission pursuant
to the terms of this article.
      (5)   Applications shall include a sworn oath from an authorized
representative of the local applicant stating that all information contained
within the application true to the best of their knowledge and that they have
the authority to apply for a license type at the business facility address.
      (6)   Applications shall include an affidavit affirming and attesting
that neither the local applicant nor any stakeholder of the local applicant is
in default to the city.
      (7)   Applications shall include the full name, date of birth, physical
address, email address, and telephone number of the local applicant in the case
of an individual, or, in the case of an entity, all stakeholders with an
ownership interest of greater than 10 percent in the local applicant.
      (8)   All applications for provisional licenses submitted during the
initial application window for a business facility address shall be considered
and scored.
   (F)   Review and score all applications submitted according to the
requirements herein within a thirty day period after the close of the initial
application window. Upon the thirty-first day after the closing of the initial
application window, the city shall award provisional licenses to local
applicants in order from highest-scoring to lowest-scoring applications. If no
provisional licenses are awarded upon the thirty-first day after the closing of
the initial application window, all local applicants who submitted provisional
license applications during the initial application window pursuant to the
requirements herein shall have the ability to operate by right conditional upon
receiving a license from the agency to operate at the business facility
address, beginning on the thirty-second day after the closing of the initial
application window. No application materials shall be subject to the Freedom of
Information Act, 1976 PA 442, MCL 15.231 et seq, except as required by state
law.
      (1)   Licensees or provisional license holders or city full license
authorization holders may transfer a city full license authorization or
provisional license to a location at a different business facility address upon
receiving written approval from the city which shall not be withheld unless the
new proposed business facility address would be in violation of a local zoning
ordinance. In order to request city approval to transfer a city full license
authorization or provisional license to a new business facility address, the
licensee or provisional license holder or city full license authorization
holder must make a written request to the city, indicating the current location
of the marihuana facility provisional license or city full license
authorization and the new proposed business facility address. The city must
respond to a location transfer request within five (5) days of receipt of the
request.
      (2)   Licensees or provisional license holders or city full license
authorization holders may transfer a city full license authorization or
provisional license to a different individual or entity, and the licensee or
city full license authorization holder or provisional license holder shall
notify the city of the transfer. The transfer shall not require approval by the
agency or the Clerk. The city shall be prohibited from interfering with such
transfers provided that the new owner notify the city of the transfer by filing
an application with the city upon a form provided by the city or, if such a
form unavailable, submitting the same information required for an application
for the transferred marihuana facility provisional license and filing such
information with the city. In either case, the city shall respond to such a
transfer request within five (5) days of receipt of the request. The city shall
grant the new licensee or provisional license holder or city full license
authorization holder the same rights as the previous licensee or city full
license authorization holder or provisional license holder.
      (3)   A provisional license and a city full license authorization shall
each be considered a vested property right by the city and treated as such, and
may not be revoked unless the accompanying state operating license issued by
the agency for the license type at the business facility address is permanently
revoked (not suspended) by the agency. Provisional licenses shall be valid for
one (1) calendar year from the date they are issued. A provisional license or
city full license authorization shall automatically be renewed each year for
one (1) calendar year, and such renewals may occur in perpetuity. Each local
applicant shall pay a five thousand dollar ($5,000) annual renewal fee, which
may occur in perpetuity, and neither a provisional license renewal nor a city
full license authorization renewal may be denied for failure to promptly pay an
annual renewal fee.
      (4)   In any circumstance in which the city has refused to issue a
provisional license or city full license authorization or grant renewal of a
provisional license or city full license authorization, or has revoked a city
full license authorization, the city shall notify the local applicant or
provisional license holder or licensee or city full license authorization
holder of the reasons for denial, suspension or nonrenewal of an application
for a license type or of a city full license authorization renewal or for
revocation of a provisional license or city full license authorization or any
adverse decision under this article and shall provide the local applicant or
licensee or city full license authorization holder or provisional license
holder with the opportunity to be heard. Any local applicant or licensee or
city full license authorization holder or provisional license holder aggrieved
by any such denial, suspension, or revocation or any other adverse decision
under this article may appeal to the city, who shall appoint a Hearing Officer
to hear and evaluate the appeal and make a recommendation to the city. Such an
appeal shall be taken by filing with the city, within ten (10) days after
notice of the denial, suspension, revocation or other adverse decision has been
mailed to the last known address of the local applicant or licensee or
provisional license holder or city full license authorization holder on the
records of the city, a written statement setting forth fully the grounds for
such appeal. The city shall review the report and recommendation of the Hearing
Officer and make a decision on the matter within ten (10) days upon such time,
the city's decision may not be further appealed with the city and any decision
by the Council on an appeal shall be subject to all remedies available to the
local applicant or licensee or provisional license holder or city full license
authorization holder under the laws of the state of Michigan.
(Amended 11-8-22)
SECTION 5 REPEALER
   Any other provision or provisions of articles, city regulations, city
resolutions and ordinances that conflict , with this article are inapplicable
to conduct authorized under this article. The City Council shall pass all
ordinances, regulations, and resolutions necessary to give full effect to this
article.
(Amended 11-8-22)
SECTION 6 EFFECTIVE DATE
   This article shall become effective immediately upon certification by the
Genesee County Board of Canvassers or the appropriate controlling body for the
certification of election results under state law.
(Amended 11-8-22)
SECTION 7 SEVERABILITY AND EXECUTION
   The various parts, sections and clauses of this article are hereby declared
to be severable and self-executing. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section
or clause is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid as to any person or
circumstance by a court of competent jurisdiction, the remainder of the article
shall not be affected thereby and that invalidity or unenforceability shall not
affect the validity, enforceability, or application of any other portion of
this article. Other articles may be enacted to facilitate operation of this
article. The city shall zealously advocate for and defend this article from any
and all legal challenges and shall use best efforts to defend this article from
any and all legal challenges that may arise. This subsection shall be liberally
construed in favor of voters' rights in order to effectuate its purpose. If any
portion of this subsection is held to be invalid or unenforceable as to any
person or circumstance, that invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect
the validity, enforceability, or application of any other portion of this
article.
(Amended 11-8-22)
CHAPTER 1: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Article
      
I.   GENERAL
      
II.   MUNICIPAL INFRACTIONS
      
III.   PENALTIES, SANCTIONS AND FINES
      
IV.   REIMBURSEMENTS TO ELECTED OFFICIALS
ARTICLE I: GENERAL
Section
   
1.101   Title and content of code
   
1.102   Interpretation
   
1.103   Captions, diagrams, examples, and articles
   
1.104   Definitions
   
1.105   Rules of construction
   
1.106   Severability
   
1.107   Reference to other sections
   
1.108   Reference to offices
   
1.109   Errors and omissions
   
1.110   Official time
   
1.111   Reasonable time
   
1.112   Effective date of ordinances
   
1.113   Amending ordinances; general
   
1.114   Amending this Code; general
   
1.115   Code editing practices
§ 1.101 TITLE AND CONTENT OF CODE.
The ordinances contained herein shall be known and cited as the “Clio City
Code.” This Code, from and after March 1, 1999, contains all of the provisions
of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and embraced.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.102 INTERPRETATION.
Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or by implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition and application shall govern the
interpretation of this Code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.103 CAPTIONS, DIAGRAMS, EXAMPLES, AND ARTICLES.
   (A)   Headings, captions, diagrams and examples used in this Code are for
reference purposes only and are not deemed a part of the text of any section,
and as such, are not to be considered in any construction or interpretation of
this Code or as enlarging or restricting the terms and provisions of this Code.
   (B)   The use of chapters, articles and sections and their corresponding
numbers are for subdividing this Code for easier reading and reference purposes
only and are not considered a part of the text of this Code.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.104 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases take their plain, or ordinary and
usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this Code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning:
CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Clio, Michigan.
CODE, THIS CODE, THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES, CITY CODE, CLIO CITY CODE. Those
ordinances of a general and permanent nature that have been added to, amended,
repealed, revised, or rearranged and codified and compiled in book form in
compliance with M.C.L.A. § 117.5b.
COMMISSION, GOVERNING BODY, or LEGISLATIVE BODY. The Commission of the City of
Clio as established by City Charter § 4.1.
COUNTY. Genesee County, Michigan.
DAY. A calendar day, unless otherwise expressed.
MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
MONTH. A calendar month.
OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, BOARD, AUTHORITY or DEPARTMENT. An
officer, office, employee, commission, board, authority or department of the
City of Clio unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
PRECEDING OR FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
SHALL or WILL. The act referred to is mandatory.
SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
STATE. The State of Michigan.
WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by printing
or otherwise.
YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.105 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
The following rules of construction apply to the text of this Code unless the
construction clearly indicates the contrary:
   (A)   The particular controls the general.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requirement shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include all tenses of
the verb.
   (D)   Such as, means such as, but not necessarily limited to.
   (E)   Include or includes means included or includes, but not necessarily
limited to.
   (F)   All acts expressed by a past, present or future tense verb are
considered mandatory including those acts preceded by the words “shall” or
“are” except where the context clearly means something else unless specifically
preceded by the word “may.”
   (G)   Where two or more provisions of this Code or provisions of this Code
and ordinances conflict, the one with the more demanding provision applies.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.106 SEVERABILITY.
If any provision of this Code as now or later amended or its application to any
person or circumstances is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect other
provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.107 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.108 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any office,
officer, or employee of this city exercising the powers, duties, or functions
contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of functions or
change in the office title of the functionary.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.109 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any words;
the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of the
provisions affect; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted unless the City Attorney approves such alteration in
writing and files the approval with the City Clerk.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.110 OFFICIAL TIME.
The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall be
the official time within the city for the transaction of all city business.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.111 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where a provision of this Code requires an act to be done
in a reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time
or notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day is
a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.112 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
All ordinances passed by the legislative body take effect as provided by
charter or statute, as appropriate.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.113 AMENDING ORDINANCES; GENERAL.
   (A)   Whenever an ordinance repeals or modifies another ordinance or part of
an ordinance or a section of the “Clio City Code,” that ordinance or part of an
ordinance or sections remain in full force and effect until the effective date
of the new ordinance.
   (B)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance or part of a former
ordinance or former section of the “Clio City Code” is later repealed, the
repeal shall not be construed to revive the former ordinance or part of a
former ordinance or former section unless expressly provided in the repealing
ordinance.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.114 AMENDING THIS CODE; GENERAL.
   (A)   Any ordinance amending this Code shall comply with the provisions of
the city charter for ordinance structure and content.
   (B)   If the legislative body amends any existing section of this Code, the
adopting ordinance shall state specifically the section to be repealed and the
new section containing the desired amendment substituted in its place.
   (C)   Any ordinance adding a new section to this Code will follow the
numbering arrangement in place at the time of the Code’s effective date.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.115 CODE EDITING PRACTICES.
   (A)   Each section of this Code will contain a history of legislative action
listed after the text. The history will contain the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance and the three (3) most recent amending
ordinances, if any. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-13-60; amended: Ord. 15, passed
1-1-70, Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80, Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates that
the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statutes.
Example:
(M.C.L.A. §15.231)(Ord. 10, Passed 1-17-80; amended by Ord. 21, passed 12-31-
84)
(C)If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference” following the
text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer to that
statute for further information.
Example:
§ 39.01 Public Records Available
This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or copying
all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
Statutory reference:
For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see Public Act 442
of 1976 being M.C.L.A. §§15.231, et seq.
(Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE II: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
1.201   Definitions
   
1.202   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement
   
1.203   Municipal civil infraction citations; issuance and service
   
1.204   Municipal civil infraction citations; contents
   
1.205   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau
§ 1.201 DEFINITIONS.
For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. § 600.101, as amended.
AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. A police officer, the City Administrator, any other
city employee designated in writing by the City Administrator, or any other
city employee authorized by this code or any ordinance to issue municipal civil
infraction citations or municipal civil violation notices.
BUREAU. The City of Clio Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau as established
by this code.
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared by
an authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the
person cited.
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by an
authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the City of Clio
Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any,
prescribed for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the city
as authorized by under M.C.L.A. § 600.83.96 and M.C.L.A. § 600.8707(6).
(Ord. 276, passed 3-6-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.202 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION; COMMENCEMENT.
A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced with respect to an
ordinance violation designated as a municipal civil infraction upon the
issuance by an authorized city official of (1) a municipal civil infraction
citation directing the alleged violator to appear in court, or (2) a municipal
civil infraction violation notice directing the alleged violator to appear at
the City of Clio Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau. Only the City Attorney
may dismiss a municipal civil infraction action once commenced.
(Ord. 276, passed 3-6-95; amended by Ord. 294, passed 6-15-98; Codification
Ordinance)
§ 1.203 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by authorized
city officials as follows:
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the District
Court.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the State Court Administrator. The original citation shall be filed
with the District Court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the city
and issued to the alleged violator as provided by M.C.L.A. § 600.8705.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint and
if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date and
signature of the official: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that the
statement above are true to the best of my information, knowledge, and belief.”
   (E)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction
and if the prosecuting attorney or city attorney approves in writing the
issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by all authorized
city officials as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by §
1.203(G)(2), an authorized city official shall personally serve a copy of the
citation upon the alleged violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by the copy on the
land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a copy of
the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the land,
building, or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Ord. 276, passed 3-6-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.204 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   A municipal ordinance citation shall contain the name and address of
the alleged violation, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the place where
the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of the court,
and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance.
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance or, in person, or by
representation.
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the city.
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   That if the alleged violator desire to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance.
      (2)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a
scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is
specified on the citation.
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the city.
      (4)   That at an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney.
      (5)   That at a formal hearing the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)The citation shall contain a notice in boldface type that the failure of
the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or at
the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will result
in entry of a default judgement against the alleged violator on the municipal
civil infraction.
(Ord. 276, passed 3-6-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 1.205 MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Bureau established; employees. The city designates the City Clerk as
the Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau (“Bureau”) as authorized to accept
admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infractions in response to
municipal civil infraction violation notices issued and served by authorized
city officials and to collect and retain civil fines and costs as prescribed by
city ordinance. The City Clerk may assign the functions and responsibilities of
bureau operation with the approval of the City Administrator to any qualified
city employee.
   (B)   Location; supervision. The Bureau shall be located at the Clio City
Offices, 505 W. Vienna and shall be under the supervision and control of the
City Administrator.
   (C)   Disposition of violations. The Bureau may dispose only of municipal
civil infraction violations for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a
municipal civil infraction violation notice (as compared with a citation has
been issued. Nothing in this ordinance prevents or restricts the City from
issuing a municipal civil infraction citation for any violation or from
prosecuting any violation in a court of competent jurisdiction. No person shall
be required to dispose of a municipal civil infraction violation at the Bureau,
and the alleged violator may have the violation processed before a court of
appropriate jurisdiction. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any
violation at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person or in any way diminish
the person’s rights, privileges and protection accorded by law.
   (D)   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility. The scope of
the Bureau’s authority shall be limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The Bureau shall not
accept the payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and in no event
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation.
   (E)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices. Municipal civil
infraction violation notices shall be issued and served by authorized city
officials under the same circumstances and upon the same persons as provided
for citations as provided in § 1.203(F) and (G) of this code. In addition to
any other information required by this code, the notice of violation shall
indicate the time by which the alleged violator must appear at the Bureau, the
methods by which an appearance may be made, the address and telephone number of
the Bureau, the hours during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the fine
scheduled for the alleged violation, and the consequences for failure to appear
and pay the required fine within the required time.
   (F)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs. An alleged violator receiving
a municipal civil infraction violation notice shall appear at the Bureau and
pay the specified fine and costs at or by the time specified for appearance in
the municipal civil infraction violation notice. An appearance may be made by
mail, in person, or by representation.
   (G)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not paid.
If an authorized city official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice as provided by this code and if an admission of responsibility
is not made and the civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of
fines for the violation are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil
infraction citation shall be filed with the District Court and a copy of the
citation may be served by first-class mail upon the alleged violator at the
alleged violator’s last known address. The citation filed with the court does
not need to comply in all particulars with the requirements for citations as
provided by M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8705 and 600.8709, but shall consist of a sworn
complaint containing the allegations stated in the municipal ordinance
violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged violator of how to respond
to the citation.
(Ord. 276, passed 3-6-95; amended by: Ord. 294, passed 6-15-98; Codification
Ordinance)
ARTICLE III: PENALTIES, SANCTIONS AND FINES
Section
   
1.301   General penalties and sanctions for violations of the Clio City Code
and city ordinances; continuing violations; injunctive relief
§ 1.301 GENERAL PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS OF THE CLIO CITY CODE
AND CITY ORDINANCES; CONTINUING VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Unless a violation of this Code or any ordinance of the city is
specifically designated in the Code or ordinance as a municipal civil
infraction, the violation shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The penalty for a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not exceeding
$500 (plus costs of prosecution), or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or
both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the violation of this
Code or any ordinance.
   (C)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by this Code or any ordinance,
plus any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions, as authorized under
Chapter 87 of the Act and other applicable laws.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation by this Code or any or ordinance, the civil fine for
a violation shall be no less than $50.00, plus costs and other sanctions, for
each infraction.
      (2)   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations by a
person of any requirement or provision of this Code or any ordinance. As used
in this section, “repeat offense” means a second or any subsequent municipal
civil infraction violation of the same requirement or provision committed by a
person within any six-month period (unless some other period is specifically
provided by this Code or any ordinance) and for which the person admits
responsibility or is determined to be responsible. Unless otherwise
specifically provided by this Code or any ordinance for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation, the increased fine for a repeat offense shall be as
follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a repeat offense shall be no
less than $100.00 plus costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense shall
be no less than $250.00, plus costs.
         (c)   The fine for any offense which is a third repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $500, plus costs.
   (D)   A “violation” includes any act which prohibited or made or declared to
be unlawful or an offense by this Code or any ordinance; and any omission or
failure to act where the act is required by this Code or any ordinance.
   (E)   Each day on which any violation of this Code or any ordinance
continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or
sanctions as a separate offense.
   (F)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the city may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain, prevent
or abate any violation of this Code or any city ordinance.
(Ord. 295, passed 6-15-98; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE IV: REIMBURSEMENTS TO ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
   
1.401   Reimbursements for performing official duties
   
1.402   Reimbursement for attending seminars and conferences
   
1.403   Reimbursement for professional and other contractual fees and expenses
§ 1.401 REIMBURSEMENT FOR PERFORMING OFFICIAL DUTIES.
(A)City Commission members will be reimbursed for actual, reasonable and
necessary out-of-pocket expenses incurred while carrying out official duties on
behalf of the city. Actual out-of-pocket expenses include mileage at the then
approved Internal Revenue Service rate per mile and meal expenses if carrying
out the official duty requires the member to eat away from home. Official
duties shall only include appearing on behalf of the city in court or before
legislative or administrative bodies, or for such committees or organizations
for which the Commission member is appointed to represent the city. (B)(1)Such
expenses will be reimbursed twice monthly subject to approval by the City
Commission but only after the Commission member files a written request for
reimbursement providing, at a minimum:
         (a)   A description of the expense;
         (b)   The date the expense was incurred;
         (c)   The purpose of the expense; and
         (d)   Receipts (except for mileage) for the expense.
      (2)   Requests for reimbursement shall be submitted within ten days from
the date the expense is incurred. Should the Commission member expect to incur
regular periodic expenses (i.e. weekly, monthly) for attending such activities,
these recurring expenses may be approved in advance; however, reimbursement
shall only be made upon submission of actual expenditure receipts.
   (C)   The City Treasurer shall not pay any portion of any reimbursement
request which does not conform to the foregoing criteria.
   (D)   Reimbursement will be made only for out-of-pocket expenses incurred by
the Commission member on his or her own behalf and not on behalf of any other
person.
(Ord. 431, passed 7-5-11)
§ 1.402 REIMBURSEMENT FOR ATTENDING SEMINARS AND CONFERENCES.
   Actual, reasonable and necessary out-of-pocket expenses incurred by
Commission members while attending seminars, conferences or other similar
activities dealing with municipal concerns will be reimbursed only upon prior
authorization of the City Commission in each specific instance. Whenever
authorized, the out-of-pocket expenses for which reimbursement will be made
shall be limited to the following:
   (A)   Transportation costs including mileage at the rate of the then
approved Internal Revenue Service rate per mile or the expense of traveling by
public carrier in an amount not to exceed the cost of tourist or couch airfare
(round trip) unless the City Commission approves such excess amount prior to
the incurrence of such expense If the Commission member travels by automobile
and the distance traveled is in excess of 500 miles the Commission member shall
be reimbursed the lesser of the mileage rate of the then approved Internal
Revenue Service rate per mile or the equivalent of tourist or coach airfare
(round trip), whichever is less.
   (B)   Reimbursement for lodging will be limited to the single room rate at
the palace where the Commission member is lodged and shall be limited to the
number of nights of the particular conference, seminar, and the like.
Commission members may seek a cash advance for lodging expenses or may submit a
bill for reimbursement to cover such expenses. Reimbursement will not be made
for personal items such as non-business related long distance telephone calls,
valet service, laundry, entertainment, and the like.
   (C)   Registration fees for the Commission member will be paid on the basis
of actual registration charge. When pre-registration is required, the fee may
be charged to the city, providing that City Commission approval has previously
been obtained for attendance.
   (D)   Personal items, recreation and other amusements and alcoholic
beverages will not be reimbursed by the city. The cost of bringing a guest on a
trip will not be reimbursed by the city. The city may establish per diem
allowances or maximum amounts for expenses relating to city business.
   (E)   Requests for reimbursement must be submitted within ten days from the
end of the conference, seminar, and the like, for which expense reimbursement
is sought.
(Ord. 431, passed 7-5-11)
§ 1.403 REIMBURSEMENT FOR PROFESSIONAL AND OTHER CONTRACTUAL FEES AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The city shall not be liable to any Commission member for
reimbursement for any fees or expenses incurred by such Commission member for
any legal, professional or other contractual services provided to or for the
benefit of the Commission member or provided to or for the benefit of the city
at the request of a Commission member unless the reimbursement for such fee or
expense has been approved in advance by the City Commission. Before deciding
whether to approve such fees or expenses, the City Commission shall first
determine that the services meet the following criteria:
      (1)   The services are necessary to allow the Commission member to
perform the duties of his or her office;
      (2)   The services are for a public purpose;
      (3)   The services can not be provided by any other elected or appointed
official, employee, or contractor of the city; and
      (4)   The cost of the services are reasonably known, are reasonable in
amount, and are within existing budgetary appropriations or that there are
unencumbered funds which can be budgeted for such services.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the City Commission may, in its sole
and exclusive discretion, reimburse a Commission member for fees or expenses
incurred by such Commission member for any legal, professional or other
contractual services provided to or for the benefit of the Commission member or
provided to or for the benefit of the City at the request of a Commission
member where no prior authorization therefor was obtained pursuant to this
section under the following circumstances:
      (1)   The Commission member sought prior approval pursuant to division
(A) of this section, and was denied;
      (2)   The reimbursement request otherwise meets all of the criteria of
division (A) of this section;
      (3)   The legal, professional or other contractual service provided
resulted in the Commission member who incurred such expense to prevail on an
issue of public concern; and
      (4)   The expense incurred resulted in a defined benefit to the City, the
City Commission, or the public office of an elected or appointed official.
(Ord. 431, passed 7-5-11)
CHAPTER 5: ADMINISTRATION
               Article
                        I.   ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
                        II.   ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
ARTICLE I: ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
Section
   5.101   Departments and offices
   5.102   Heads of departments and offices
   5.103   Department of Administration
   5.104   Police Department
   5.105   Department of Public Services
§ 5.101 DEPARTMENTS AND OFFICES.
   (A)   The city shall have the following departments which the City
Administrator shall supervise and direct, except as otherwise provided for by
the city charter:
      (1)   Department of Administration.
      (2)   Police Department.
      (3)   Department of Public Services.
   (B)   The city shall have the following offices:
      (1)   Office of the City Administrator.
      (2)   Office of the City Clerk.
      (3)   Office of the City Treasurer.
      (4)   Office of the City Assessor.
   (C)   The City Clerk, City Treasurer, and City Assessor may appoint a deputy
(ies) to act in their temporary absence or inability to perform the duties of
the office. Any such appointment requiring the hiring of new personnel will be
subject to the approved appropriations of the city.
   (D)   The Mayor with the approval of the City Commission will appoint a
qualified person to serve as acting City Clerk, City Treasurer, and City
Assessor during an absence from the administrative office when such absence is
for a period longer than three weeks.
(Ord. 290, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 5.102 HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS AND OFFICES; GENERALLY.
   Under the direction and supervision of the City Administrator, any
administrative officer who heads any department or office created by Charter or
ordinance will have all the duties, authorities, powers, and prerogatives
necessary to carry out the functions and responsibilities of the department or
office and to achieve the results established by the City Administrator to
include:
   (A)   Directing employees assigned to the department or office;
   (B)   Evaluating employee performance by established methods;
   (C)   Prescribing the internal organization of the department;
   (D)   Prescribing, and when necessary, amending and revoking department work
rules;
   (E)   Keeping informed about the latest practices in their area of
responsibilities and duties;
   (F)   Preparing and submitting reports monthly and within 60 days after the
end of the fiscal year to the City Administrator in the manner and form
required by the City Administrator;
   (G)   Establishing a system of records and reports in sufficient detail to
furnish all information necessary for proper control of department activities;
   (H)   Being custodian of public records received by the department or
office, preserving and when permitted by law, disposing of public records of
that department or office and providing a system of filing and indexing;
   (I)   Staffing or designating an employee or administrative office to staff
any committee, authority, commission, or board when so assigned by an ordinance
or resolution adopted by the City Commission or the City Administrator;
   (J)   Being responsible for manpower planning within the department;
   (K)   Being custodian of city-owned property assigned to the department or
office and being responsible for its care and maintenance;
   (L)   Planning and, subject to the approval of the City Administrator,
executing appropriate training for departmental personnel; and
   (M)   Recommending to the City Administrator policies and procedures
designed to improve the quality of city services and operations.
(Ord. 290, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 5.103 DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Department of Administration includes the Office of the City
Administrator, the Office of the City Clerk, the Office of the City Treasurer,
and the Office of the City Assessor. The City Administrator heads the
Department of Administration.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the offices identified above are
synonymous with the duties and responsibilities of the identified
administrative officers holding those offices.
(Ord. 290, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 5.104 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Police Department includes the following functions and
responsibilities:
      (1)   Enforcing the laws of the city regarding crimes and criminal
activity and civil and municipal civil infractions and, when authorized, the
laws of the state governing crimes and criminal activity;
      (2)   Operating patrol units for the maintenance, protection and
promotion of public health, safety and general welfare;
      (3)   Investigating crimes, civil infractions, and municipal civil
infractions and preparing evidence for the prosecution of criminal cases, civil
infractions and municipal civil infractions under state law and city
ordinances;
      (4)   Preventing crime; and
      (5)   Protecting evidence or property secured as a result of department
activities.
   (B)   The minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers
including the Chief of Police will be those established and adopted by the
Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training Council in accordance with 1965 PA
203, as amended. These standards are hereby adopted by reference.
   (C)   All police officers will take an oath of office.
   (D)   The Police Department will be headed by the Chief of Police, who will
be selected on the basis of executive and administrative qualifications with
special reference to training and experience and without regard to political or
religious preferences and appointed according to the provisions of the City
Charter, section 4.6 for an indefinite period.
   (E)   The Mayor with the approval of the City Commission will appoint a
qualified person to serve as Acting Chief of Police during the absence of the
Chief of Police from the administrative office when such absence is for a
period longer than three weeks. The Chief of Police may designate any qualified
police department employee of the rank of sergeant or higher to serve as Acting
Chief of Police during an absence from the duties of the administrative office
for any period of three weeks or less. The Acting Chief of Police will have all
the responsibilities, duties, and authority of the Chief of Police while
serving in that capacity.
(Ord. 290, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 5.105 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SERVICES.
   (A)   The Department of Public Services includes the following functions and
responsibilities:
      (1)   Maintaining and repairing infrastructure and appurtenances owned or
controlled by the city, including but not limited to the roadways, the
sidewalks, the curb and gutters, the water supply and distribution system
including hydrants, sewage collection system, and storm water collection
system.
      (2)   Installing and maintaining facilities in and along the rights-of-
way of and within the city, including but not limited to traffic signs and
signals, directional signs, and street name signs;
      (3)   Maintaining city-owned parks, playgrounds, and swimming pool;
      (4)   Maintaining and when necessary, planting trees and other vegetation
on rights-of-way; and
      (5)   Any other functions and responsibilities that may be assigned to
this department by the ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City
Commission
   (B)   In addition to the administrative officers named in section 4.6 of the
City of Clio Charter, the City Commission creates the officer position of
Superintendent of Public Services. The City Commission determines the
Superintendent's compensation.
   (C)   The Department of Public Services will be headed by the Superintendent
of Public Services who will be selected on the basis of administrative and
supervisory qualifications with special reference to training and experience
and without regard to political or religious preferences and appointed
according to the provisions of the City Charter, section 4.6 for an indefinite
period.
   (D)   The Mayor with the approval of the City Commission will appoint a
qualified person to serve as Acting Superintendent during the absence of the
Superintendent from the administrative office when such absence is for a period
longer than three weeks. The Superintendent may designate any qualified
Department of Public Services employee of to serve as Acting Superintendent
during an absence from the duties of the administrative office for any period
of three weeks or less. The Acting Superintendent will have all the
responsibilities, duties, and authority of the Superintendent while serving in
that capacity.
(Ord. 290, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE II: ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS
Section
City Administrator
   
5.201   City Administrator Position
   
5.202   Selection of and direction received
   
5.203   Responsibilities and duties of City Administrator
   
5.204   Acting City Administrator
   
5.205   Relationship of Commission to administrative service
City Clerk
   
5.210   City Clerk; responsibilities and duties
City Treasurer
   
5.215   City Treasurer; responsibilities and duties
Designated Agencies
   
5.220   Electrical official
   
5.221   Mechanical official
   
5.222   Plumbing official
CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 5.201 CITY ADMINISTRATOR POSITION.
   In addition to the administrative officers named in section 4.6 of the City
of Clio Charter, the City Commission creates the officer position of City
Administrator, who, as the sole link between the City Commission and the
operations and activities of city government, will be accountable and
responsible to the City Commission for the total organizational performance of
the city. The City Commission determines the compensation for this officer.
(Ord. 289, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 5.202 SELECTION AND DIRECTION RECEIVED.
   (A)   The City Administrator will be selected on the basis of executive and
administrative qualifications with special reference to training and experience
in local government management and appointed according to the provisions of
City Charter section 4.6 for an indefinite period.
   (B)   Only decisions of the Commission acting as a body politic bind the
City Administrator. Decisions or instructions of the Mayor or Commissioners do
not bind the City Administrator except when the Commission gives the Mayor or
any Commissioner specific authorization.
(Ord. 289, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 5.203 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The City Administrator will not cause or allow any organizational
practice, that is illegal, imprudent or unethical. Michigan statutes and the
City Commission are the sole determinants of such behaviors.
   (B)   The City Commission delegates or assigns the responsibilities and
duties noted below to the City Administrator. This delegation or assignment of
responsibilities and duties is not intended to diminish the Charter
responsibilities given the City Commission or the Mayor, or both acting in
concert for the administration of the affairs of the city. The City Commission
reserves always the right to remove responsibilities and duties delegated or
assigned to the City Administrator or eliminate the position in the same manner
in which it delegated or assigned responsibilities and duties or created the
position.
      (1)   Direct and supervise the administrative service of city (Charter §
4.6) and administer the overall affairs and activities of the city according to
the Charter and the ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Commission
to include establishing administrative policies and procedures that are not
inconsistent with the Charter and the ordinances and resolutions adopted by the
City Commission;
      (2)   Supervise the enforcement of all federal and state laws, the
Charter, and ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Commission;
      (3)   Appoint and when necessary, remove from employment employees;
      (4)   When necessary, discipline employees and administrative officers;
      (5)   Recommend the appointment and when necessary, the removal of
administrative officers to the City Commission;
      (6)   Administer and supervise all public improvements, works or
undertakings of the city including charge of the construction, repair,
maintenance and cleaning of streets, sidewalks, bridges, pavements, sewers and
all public buildings or other property belonging to the city, except as
otherwise provided in the Charter;
      (7)   Recommend to the City Commission the adoption of such measures that
are necessary or expedient for the administration of city affairs that cannot
be carried out by administrative policy or procedure;
      (8)   Assure that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the city
or its residents in any public utility franchise or in any contract are
faithfully kept and performed;
      (9)   Perform the duties of the budget officer as prescribed in Charter §
6.2 and in the Uniform Accounting and Budgeting Act (being M.C.L.A. 141.421, et
seq.) for such an officer;
      (10) Perform the duties of purchasing agent as prescribed in Charter §
6.5 and in any ordinances or resolutions adopted by the City Commission;
      (11) Establish and maintain a system for the control of the expenditure
of monies belonging to or in the trusteeship of the city;
      (12) Exercise and perform all administrative functions of the city that
are not imposed upon another city official by the Charter or any ordinances or
resolutions adopted by the City Commission;
      (13) Submit a summary of departmental reports monthly to the Commission
within three business days of such reports being filed with the City
Administrator, and submit an annual report of the affairs of the city within 15
calendar of the submission of the annual audit to the City Administrator;
      (14) Recommend to the City Commission the compensation and benefits of
employees and the administrative officers according to budget appropriations,
except as otherwise provided for by the Charter and approved employment or
collective bargaining agreements;
      (15) Prepare the agenda for all regularly scheduled meetings of agencies
or boards created for the conduct of city business not inconsistent with
federal and state laws, the Charter, internally adopted rules of procedure or
ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City Commission,;
      (16) Attend all meetings of the City Commission and its committees unless
specifically excused; and
      (17) Perform such other duties as required by ordinance or by direction
of the City Commission.
   (C)   The City Administrator may delegate or assign to other departments,
officers, or employees any administrative function, duty, or responsibility of
the city that is not imposed already upon another city official by the Charter
or any ordinances or resolutions adopted by the City Commission, except direct
and supervise the administrative service of City Charter § 4.6 and administer
the overall affairs and activities of the city; appoint, remove from employment
and discipline employees; and discipline administrative officers.
(Ord. 289, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
518, passed 6-21-21)
§ 5.204 ACTING CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Commission shall appoint a person to serve as Acting City
Administrator during the period of a vacancy in the office or during the
absence of the City Administrator from the office when such vacancy or absence
is for a period longer than two weeks. The City Administrator may designate any
city administrative officer or any qualified city employee to serve as Acting
City Administrator during an absence from the duties of the office for any
period of two weeks or less. The Acting Administrator shall have all the
responsibilities, duties, and authority of the City Administrator while serving
in that capacity, except that no employee shall be terminated without the
approval of the City Commission.
(Ord. 289, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 5.205 RELATIONSHIP OF COMMISSION TO ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
   Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Commission and its members shall deal
with the administrative service and city operations solely through the City
Administrator. The City Commission may give administrative officers directives
by majority vote of the City Commission.
(Ord. 289, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
CITY CLERK
§ 5.210 CITY CLERK; RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES.
   In addition to the responsibilities and duties assigned to the City Clerk by
charter and ordinances adopted by the Commission , the Clerk will:
   (A)   Maintain custody of all papers, documents, and records pertaining the
city that are not retained in other departments;
   (B)   Maintain custody of the city seal and affix it to all documents and
instruments requiring the seal and attesting;
   (C)   Keep on file at least one copy of all ordinances, resolutions, and
regulations adopted by the City Commission and make it available for public
inspection;
   (D)   Publish when required by charter of law, file, index, and safeguard
the proceedings of all city- created committees, boards, authorities, or
commissions, except as otherwise provided for by law;
   (E)   Publish all legal notices, except as otherwise provided for by law;
   (F)   Record all resolutions adopted by the City Commission with each
resolution identified by a number and title and countersigned by the Mayor and
Clerk showing the date of adoption and the vote in a book to be called "The
Resolution Book";
   (G)   Give departments or city officials notice of the expiration or
termination of any franchises, contracts or agreements at least 180 days before
such franchise, contract, or agreement expires or terminates;
   (H)   Administer the state and federal freedom of information acts; and
   (I)   Serve or designate a deputy to serve as secretary or clerk of all
city-created committees, boards, authorities, or commissions, except as
otherwise provided for by law.
(Ord. 291, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
CITY TREASURER
§ 5.215 CITY TREASURER; RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES.
   In addition to the responsibilities and duties assigned to the City
Treasurer by charter and ordinances adopted by the Commission, the Treasurer
will:
   (A)   Maintain custody of all money and evidences of value belonging to or
being held in trust by the city and the Clerk's bond;
   (B)   Receive all money belonging to and receivable by the city, issuing
receipts for all payments, and maintaining an accurate record of such receipts;
   (C)   Deposit all money in such manner and only in such places as the
Commission determines;
   (D)   Disburse funds from the treasury pursuant to appropriations made by
the City Commission or to any other lawful purpose and in compliance with
applicable city administrative policies and procedures; and
   (E)   Invest idle city funds;
   (F)   Serve or designate a deputy to serve as treasurer of all city-created
committees, boards, authorities, or commissions, except as otherwise provided
for by law.
(Ord. 291, passed 11-3-97, amended by Codification Ordinance)
DESIGNATED AGENCIES
§ 5.220 ELECTRICAL OFFICIAL.
   Pursuant to the provision of the Michigan Electrical Code, in accordance
with Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as
amended, the electrical official of the city is hereby designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the city under Public Act
230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended. The city
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act
throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 306, passed 1-7-00)
§ 5.221 MECHANICAL OFFICIAL.
   Pursuant to the provision of the Michigan Mechanical Code, in accordance
with Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as
amended, the mechanical official of the city is hereby designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the city under Public Act
230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended. The city
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act
throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 307, passed 1-7-00)
§ 5.222 PLUMBING OFFICIAL.
   Pursuant to the provision of the Michigan Plumbing Code, in accordance with
Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as
amended, the plumbing official of the city is hereby designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the city under Public Act
230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531, as amended. The city
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act
throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 308, passed 1-7-00)
CHAPTER 10: ANIMALS AND FOWL
   Article
      I.   ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I: ANIMAL CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
   
10.101   Title
   
10.102   Definitions
   
10.103   Farm, wild, and vicious animals prohibited
   
10.104   Barking and other loud animal noises prohibited
   
10.105   Animal care
   
10.106   Restraint of animals
   
10.107   Nuisance declaration
   
10.199   Violation; penalty
§ 10.101 TITLE.
   Sections 10.102 through 10.108 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and
cited as the “City of Clio Animal Control Regulations.”
(Ord. 106, passed 1-1-70; amended by Ord. 159, passed 6-20-77; Codification
Ordinance)
§ 10.102 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases take their plain, or ordinary and
usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of these regulations, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
   ANIMAL. Every non-human species of vertebrate or invertebrate creature, both
domestic and wild.
   AT-LARGE. To be anywhere other than on the property of the owner of such
animal except when such animal is in the reasonable control of some person.
   KEEPING, or HARBORING. To allow an animal habitually to remain and be lodged
within one’s house, store, building, enclosure or premises.
   OWNER. Every person having a right of property in a particular animal, and
every person who keeps or harbors the animal or has it in his care, and every
person who permits the animal to remain for any period of five consecutive
days. Further, in all prosecutions for violation of these regulations, the
records of the Genesee County Treasurer’s office showing the name of the owner
and the license number to whom any license was issued, and the license tag
affixed to the collar or harness of the dog showing a corresponding number
shall be prima facie evidence of ownership of any dog.
   PET or COMPANION ANIMAL. An animal of a species that has been bred and
raised to live in or about the habitation of humans and is dependent on people
for food and shelter; any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   REASONABLE CONTROL. The keeping of such animal on a suitable leash or under
the oral control of the owner or custodian or some other person with the
permission of the owner or custodian, unless the animal is confined in a closed
automobile or shipping receptacle.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal that meets one or more of the following
conditions:
      (1)   Any animal having poisonous bites;
      (2)   Any animal that has rabies or has been bitten by an animal known to
have or suspected of having rabies;
      (3)   Any warm-blooded, carnivorous or omnivorous, wild or exotic animal,
dangerous or undomesticated animal which is not of a species customarily used
as a pet or companion animal, but one which would ordinarily be confined to a
zoo, or one which would ordinarily be found in the wilderness of this or any
other country, or one which otherwise causes a reasonable person to be fearful
of bodily harm or property damage (including non human primates, raccoons,
skunks, foxes and wild exotic cats);
      (4)   Any animal with a propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack,
to cause injury or to otherwise endanger the safety of human beings or other
domestic animals;
      (5)   Any animal which attached or bit a human being or a domestic animal
previously, other than under the type of circumstances that would be
justifiable; or
      (6)   Any animal that behaves in such a manner that the person keeping or
harboring such animal knows or should reasonably know that the animal has
tendencies to attack or bite human beings or domestic animals other than under
the type of circumstances that would be justifiable.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 10.103 FARM, WILD, AND VICIOUS ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall own, keep, harbor, have custody or raise any cattle,
cows, horses, sheep, swine, goats, or other livestock in areas of the city not
zoned for agricultural land uses.
   (B)   No person shall own, possess, keep or harbor any wild animal contrary
to state or federal law or regulations or any vicious animal.
   (C)   Rabbits, limited to four in number, and poultry and fowl species,
limited to two in number, may be kept.
   (D)   This section does not apply to animals displayed in circuses or
petting zoos, to animals used for giving rides or pulling carriages or carts in
parades or as part of a festival, or to similar ventures, if such display or
use is permitted under provisions of the City of Clio Zoning Ordinance, as
amended and this Code and if such display or use is five days or less in
duration.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 10.104 BARKING AND OTHER LOUD ANIMAL NOISES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall harbor or keep any dog, cat, or other animal, which by loud
or frequent or habitual barking, meowing, yelping, howling, cackling, crowing
or other loud noises shall cause a serious annoyance in the neighborhood, or to
people passing to and fro upon the streets and sidewalks, or public highways.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 10.105 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   Every person keeping or harboring any animal shall provide such animal
with sufficient wholesome and nutritious food, water in sufficient quantities,
proper air, shelter space and protection from the weather, veterinary care when
needed to prevent suffering, and humane care and treatment.
   (B)   No person shall beat, ill-treat, torment, overload, overwork, or
otherwise abuse an animal or cause, instigate, or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight, other combat between animals or animals and humans.
   (C)   No person keeping or harboring an animal shall abandon such animal.
   (D)   Every person keeping or harboring any animal shall keep or harbor such
animal in a sanitary and clean space that is free from all refuse, obnoxious
odors and animal offal, or spoiled food.
   (E)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop and render such assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the person keeping or harboring such
animal; in the event the person keeping or harboring such animal cannot be
ascertained or located, or both, such operator will immediately report the
accident to the Clio Police Department.
   (F)   No person shall willfully and maliciously expose any known poisonous
substance, whether mixed with food or not, so that such substance is liable to
be eaten by any animal, except that it shall not be unlawful to expose on one’s
own property common rat poison mixed only with vegetable substances.
(Codification Ordinance)
§ 10.106 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   All animals shall be kept under restraint and shall not be permitted
to be at-large. All dogs must be licensed with the county and have a tag
affixed to a collar, which with the tag attached, shall at all times be kept on
the dog for which the license is issued.
   (B)   No person shall fail to exercise proper care and control of his
animals in order to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (C)   It is unlawful for any owner of any female dog to permit the female
dog to go beyond the premises of such owner when she is in heat, unless the
female dog is held properly in leash.
   (D)   While under restraint, no animal shall be permitted to enter upon
private property without the permission of the private property owner.
(Codification Ordinance; Am. Ord. 414, passed 8-17-09) Penalty, see §
10.199
§ 10.107 NUISANCE DECLARATION.
   Any animal owned, kept, or harbored in violation of any provision of these
regulations is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
(Codification Ordinance; Am. Ord. 392, passed 9-18-06)
§ 10.199 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall, upon
conviction, be punished with a fine of not to exceed $500 and cost of
prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Codification Ordinance; Am. Ord. 414, passed 8-17-09)
CHAPTER 15: AUTHORITIES, BOARDS AND COMMISSIONS
   Article
      I.   COMPENSATION COMMISSION
      II.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
      III.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      IV.   DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
      
V.   BOARD OF REVIEW
      VI.   AMPHITHEATER BOARD
      VII.    NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY
ARTICLE I: COMPENSATION COMMISSION
Section
   
15.101   Compensation Commission -- created; composition; vacancies
   
15.102   Removal
   
15.103   Chairman; quorum
   
15.104   Determination of salaries; rejection by City Commission; effective
date; expenses
   
15.105   Meetings and time of determination
   
15.106   Compensation and expenses
   
15.107   Salaries in lieu of charter provisions
§ 15.101 COMPENSATION COMMISSION -- CREATED; COMPOSITION; VACANCIES.
   Pursuant to the provisions of and under the authority of Public Act 279 of
1909, being M.C.L.A. § 117.1 et seq., as amended, there is hereby created a
City Compensation Commission, which shall consist of five members who are
registered electors of the city, appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by a majority of the members of the City Commission. The term of
office of the members of the City Compensation Commission shall be five years,
with one member’s term expiring annually on September 30. Vacancies occurring
otherwise than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired
term in the same manner provided for original appointment. Neither members or
employees of the legislative, judicial or executive branch of any level of
government nor members of the immediate family of such members or employees
shall be eligible to be a member of the City Compensation Commission.
(Ord. 157, passed 2-7-77; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 15.102 REMOVAL.
   Members of the City’s Compensation Commission may, after a public hearing,
be removed by the Mayor for inefficiency, neglect of duty or malfeasance in
office.
(Ord. 157, passed 2-7-77; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 15.103 CHAIRMAN; QUORUM.
   The City’s Compensation Commission will elect a Chairman from among its
members. A majority of the members of the Commission constitute a quorum for
conducting the business of the Commission.
   15-3
   Clio - Authorities, Boards and Commissions
The Commission shall take no action or make any determinations without the
concurrence of a majority of the members appointed and serving on the
Commission.
(Ord. 157, passed 2-7-77; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 15.104 DETERMINATION OF SALARIES; REJECTION BY CITY COMMISSION;
EFFECTIVE DATE; EXPENSES.
   (A)   The City’s Compensation Commission determines the salaries of all
officials elected to serve on authorities, boards and commissions created by
City Charter.
   (B)   Any determination of salary for such elected officials shall be the
salary unless the City Commission rejects the Compensation Commission’s
determination by a resolution adopted by 2/3 of the members of the City
Commission. In case of rejection, the existing salary prevails.
   (C)   The determination of the City’s Compensation Commission becomes
effective 30 days following their filing of such with the City Clerk unless
rejected by the City Commission.
   (D)   Any expense, allowance or reimbursement paid to elected officials in
addition to salary shall be for expenses incurred in the course of city
business and accounted for to the city.
(Ord. 157, passed 2-7-77; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 15.105 MEETINGS AND TIME OF DETERMINATION.
   The City’s Compensation Commission shall meet for no more than 15 session
days in 1977 and in every odd numbered year thereafter. The Commission will
make its determination before the first Monday in October of each odd numbered
year.
(Ord. 157, passed 2-7-77; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
433, passed 7-18-11)
§ 15.106 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   The members of the City’s Compensation Commission receive no compensation.
The members of the Commission will be entitled to their actual and necessary
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(Ord. 157, passed 2-7-77; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 15.107 SALARIES IN LIEU OF CHARTER PROVISIONS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of and under the of Public Act 8 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A. § 117.5c, Clio City Code §
15.101 to §
15.107, inclusive, are hereby declared to be in lieu of the provisions of the
City Charter establishing the salaries or the procedure for determining
salaries of elected officials of the city.
(Ord. 157, passed 2-7-77; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE II: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
   
15.201   Created Population and Planning Commission
   
15.202   Compensation
   
15.203   Election of Chairman
   
15.204   Oath of office
   
15.205   Meetings
   
15.206   Expenses and financial records; open to public
   
15.207   Chairman; term
   
15.208   Quorum
   
15.209   Duties and power of the Authority Board
   
15.210   Dissolution of the Authority upon completion of purposes; title of
property
   
15.211   Designation of boundaries of Downtown Development District
§ 15.201 CREATED POPULATION AND PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of and under the authority of Public Act 197 of
1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1680, as amended, there is hereby
created a Downtown Development Authority, which shall be under the supervision
and control of a Board. The city’s Planning Commission shall serve as the Board
pursuant to section 204(8) of Public Act 57 of 2018 (MCL 125.4204(8)).
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.202 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for
actual and necessary expenses.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.203 ELECTION OF CHAIRMAN.
   The Chairman of the Board shall be elected by the Board.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.204 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking and
subscribing to the Constitutional oath of office.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.205 MEETINGS.
   The Board shall adopt rules governing its procedure and the holding of
regular meetings, subject to the approval of the City Commission. Special
meetings may be held when called in the manner provided in the rules of the
Board. Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.206 EXPENSES AND FINANCIAL RECORDS; OPEN TO PUBLIC.
   All expense items of the Authority shall be prepared monthly, and the
financial records shall always be open to the public.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.207 CHAIRMAN; TERM.
   The Downtown Development Authority Board shall elect its Chairman from
amongst the appointed members and create and fill such other of its offices as
it may determine. The term of the Chairman shall be one year, with eligibility
for re-election.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.208 QUORUM.
   A majority of the total membership of the Downtown Development Authority
Board shall constitute a quorum.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.209 DUTIES AND POWER OF THE AUTHORITY BOARD.
   The Downtown Development Authority Board possesses all the powers granted to
it and shall perform any and all acts required of it by statute.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.210 DISSOLUTION OF THE AUTHORITY UPON COMPLETION OF PURPOSES; TITLE OF
PROPERTY.
   At such time as the City Commission deems that the Downtown Development
Authority has completed the purposes for which it was organized, said Authority
shall be dissolved by ordinance of the City Commission. The property and assets
of the Downtown Development Authority remaining after the satisfaction of the
obligations of the Downtown Development Authority shall belong to the city.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
519, passed 12-20-21)
§ 15.211 DESIGNATION OF BOUNDARIES OF DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT.
Parcel Number Parcel Number Parcel Number Parcel Number
Parcel Number Parcel Number Parcel Number Parcel Number
51-14-300-033 51-15-578-018 51-22-200-095 51-22-527-030
51-14-300-034 51-15-578-019 51-22-200-096 51-22-527-032
51-14-300-035 51-15-578-020 51-22-200-109 51-22-527-033
51-14-300-043 51-15-578-021 51-22-200-116 51-22-527-034
51-14-554-003 51-15-578-022 51-22-200-117 51-22-527-035
51-14-554-009 51-15-578-023 51-22-200-118 51-22-527-036
51-14-554-010 51-15-578-024 51-22-200-119 51-22-527-037
51-15-400-019 51-15-578-025 51-22-200-120 51-22-527-038
51-15-400-020 51-15-578-031 51-22-200-121 51-22-527-098
51-15-400-021 51-15-578-032 51-22-200-123 51-22-527-099
51-15-400-045 51-15-578-033 51-22-527-001 51-22-527-100
51-15-400-046 51-15-578-034 51-22-527-002 51-22-527-101
51-15-400-047 51-15-578-035 51-22-527-004 51-22-527-102
51-15-400-048 51-15-578-055 51-22-527-005 51-22-527-103
51-15-400-049 51-15-578-057 51-22-527-006 51-22-527-104
51-15-400-050 51-15-578-059 51-22-527-007 51-23-100-001
51-15-400-051 51-15-578-060 51-22-527-008 51-23-100-002
51-15-400-057 51-15-578-064 51-22-527-009 51-23-100-003
51-15-578-001 51-15-578-065 51-22-527-010 51-23-300-034
51-15-578-002 51-15-578-069 51-22-527-011 51-23-501-013
51-15-578-003 51-15-578-071 51-22-527-012 51-23-501-014
51-15-578-004 51-15-579-004 51-22-527-013 51-23-501-015
51-15-578-005 51-15-579-005 51-22-527-014 51-23-501-016
51-15-578-006 51-15-579-006 51-22-527-015 51-23-501-017
51-15-578-007 51-15-579-033 51-22-527-016 51-23-501-023
51-15-578-008 51-22-200-031 51-22-527-017 51-23-501-024
51-15-578-009 51-22-200-033 51-22-527-018 51-23-501-025
51-15-578-010 51-22-200-043 51-22-527-020 51-23-501-026
51-15-578-011 51-22-200-044 51-22-527-021 51-23-501-027
51-15-578-012 51-22-200-084 51-22-527-022 51-23-501-028
51-15-578-070 51-22-200-085 51-22-527-024 51-23-502-002
51-15-578-015 51-22-200-086 51-22-527-025 51-23-502-011
51-15-578-016 51-22-200-087 51-22-527-026 51-23-502-012
51-15-578-017 51-22-200-088 51-22-527-028 51-23-502-013
51-23-100-032 51-23-100-004 51-23-100-034 51-23-100-040
51-23-100-033 51-23-100-030 51-23-100-035 51-23-502-001
51-22-527-050 51-23-100-031 51-23-100-037 51-23-100-038
 
(Ord. 193, passed 11-1-82; amended by Ord. 273, passed 12-5-94, Codification
Ordinance; amended by Ord. 370, passed 7-5-05; amended by Ord. 472A, passed 6-
25-14; amended by Ord. 482, passed 12-21-15; amended by Ord. 519, passed 12-20-
21)
ARTICLE III: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
15.301   Planning Commission created
   
15.302   Appointment and composition
   
15.303   Terms and vacancies
   
15.304   Compensation
   
15.305   Chairperson, Secretary and other offices
   
15.306   Meetings
   
15.307   Bylaws and public record requirements
   
15.308   Budget and expenses
   
15.309   Conflicts of interest
   
15.310   Removal from office
   
15.311   Powers and duties
§ 15.301 PLANNING COMMISSION CREATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of and under the authority of the Planning
Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 to 125.3885, there is
created the City of Clio Planning Commission formerly established under the
Municipal Planning Act, Public Act 285, M.C.L.A. 125.31 to 125.45.
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Ord. 288, passed 9-15-97, Codification
Ordinance; amended by Ord. 489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.302 APPOINTMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall appoint members of the Planning Commission, subject to
the approval by a majority vote of the members of the City Commission elected
and serving (see Sec. 15 (1)).
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall consist of seven members (see Sec. 15
(2)) who shall be representative of important segments of the city in
accordance with the major interests as they exist in the city and shall also be
representative of the entire territory of the city to the extent practicable
(see Sec. 15 (3)).
   (C)   Members of the Planning Commission shall be qualified electors of the
City of Clio, except that two Planning Commission members may be individuals
who are not qualified electors of the city but are qualified electors of
another local unit of government (see Sec. 15 (4)).
   (D)   The Mayor, one or more members of the City Commission, the City
Administrator or a person designated by the City Administrator, if any, or any
combination thereof, may be appointed to the Planning Commission, as ex officio
members, so long as not more than one-third of the members of the Planning
Commission may be ex officio members (see Sec. 15 (5)).
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Ord. 288, passed 9-15-97, Codification
Ordinance; amended by Ord. 318, passed 1-8-01; amended by Ord. 489, passed 10-
17-16)
§ 15.303 TERMS AND VACANCIES.
   (A)   Members of the Planning Commission other than ex officio members of
the Planning Commission shall be appointed to staggered terms of three years
such that, as nearly as possible, the terms of one-third of all Planning
Commission members will expire each year (see Sec. 15 (2)).
   (B)   The term of ex officio members of the Planning Commission shall be as
follows:
      (1)   The term of the Mayor shall correspond to his or her term of Mayor
(see Sec. 15 (5) (a)).
      (2)   The term of a member of the City Commission shall expire with his
or her term on the City Commission (see Sec. 15 (5) (c)).
      (3)   The term of the City Administrator or a person designated by the
City Administrator, if any, shall expire with the term of the Mayor that
appointed him or her as City Administrator (see Sec. 15 (5) (b)).
   (C)   A member shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed
(see Sec. 15 (2)).
   (D)   If a vacancy occurs on the Planning Commission, the vacancy shall be
filled for the unexpired term (see Sec. 15 (2)).
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Ord. 288, passed 9-15-97, Codification
Ordinance; amended by Ord. 489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.304 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Planning Commission may be compensated for their services as
provided by the City Commission (see Sec. 23 (1)).
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Ord. 288, passed 9-15-97, Codification
Ordinance; amended by Ord. 489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.305 CHAIRPERSON, SECRETARY AND OTHER OFFICES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson and Secretary from
its members and create and fill offices as it considers advisable. An ex
officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to serve as
Chairperson (see Sec. 17 (1)).
   (B)   The term of each officer shall be one year, with opportunity for
reelection as specified in bylaws adopted by the Planning Commission (see Sec.
17 (1)).
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.306 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold not less than four regular meetings
each year, and by resolution shall determine the time and place of the
meetings. Unless the bylaws shall provide otherwise, a special meeting of the
Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or by two other members,
upon written request to the Secretary. Unless the bylaws provide otherwise, the
Secretary shall send written notice of a special meeting to Planning Commission
members not less than 48 hours before the meeting (see Sec. 21 (1)).
   (B)   The business of the Planning Commission shall be conducted at a public
meeting of the Planning Commission held in compliance with the Open Meetings
Act, 1976 Public Act 267, M.C.L.A. 15.261 to 15.275. Public notice of the time,
date, and place of a regular or special meeting shall be given in the manner
required by that Act (see Sec. 21 (2)).
   (C)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by
the Planning Commission in the performance of an official function shall be
made available to the public in compliance with the Freedom of Information Act
(see Sec. 21 (3)).
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.307 BYLAWS AND PUBLIC RECORD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business, and shall keep a public record of its resolution, transactions,
findings, and determinations (see Sec. 19 (1)).
   (B)   The Planning Commission may adopt bylaws relative to compensation and
expenses of its members and employees for travel when engaged in the
performance of activities authorized by the City Commission, including, but not
limited to, attendance at conferences, workshops, educational and training
programs, and meetings (see Sec. 23 (1)).
(Ord. 489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.308 BUDGET AND EXPENSES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may prepare a detailed budget to the City
Commission for approval or disapproval. The City Commission may annually
appropriate funds for carrying out the purpose and functions permitted the
Planning Enabling Act, 2008 Public Act 33, M.C.L.A. 125.3801 to 125.3885, and
may match local government funds with federal, state, county, or other local
government or private grants, contributions and endowments (see Sec. 23 (2)).
   (B)   The Planning Commission may accept gifts for the exercise of its
functions. A gift of money so accepted shall be deposited with the City
Treasurer in a special nonreverting Planning Commission fund for expenditure by
the Planning Commission for the purpose designated by the donor. The City
Treasurer shall draw a warrant against the special nonreverting fund only upon
receipt of a voucher signed by the chairperson and secretary of the Planning
Commission and an order drawn by the City Clerk. The expenditures of the
Planning Commission, exclusive of gifs and grants, shall be within the amounts
appropriated by the City Commission (see Sec. 23 (3)).
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.309 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a member may reasonably be
considered to have a conflict of interest, the member shall disclose the
potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission. The member is
disqualified from voting on the matter if so provided by the bylaws or by a
majority vote of the remaining members of the Planning Commission. Failure of a
member to disclose a potential conflict of interest constitutes malfeasance in
office. Unless the City Commission, by ordinance, defines conflict of interest
for the purpose of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall do so in its
bylaws (see Sec. 15 (9)).
(Ord. 489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.310 REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   The City Commission may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing (see Sec. 15 (9)).
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Ord. 288, passed 9-15-97, Codification
Ordinance; amended by Ord. 489, passed 10-17-16)
§ 15.311 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall make and approve a master plan as a
guide for development within the city (see Sec. 31 (1)).
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall annually prepare a capital improvement
program of public structures and improvements in the city that can be
undertaken within the ensuing six-year period (see Sec. 61 (1)).
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the
City Commission concerning its operations and the status of planning activities
(see Sec. 19 (2)).
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall possess and exercise all other powers
and duties as set forth in the Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008,
M.C.L.A. 125.3801 to 125.3885 and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act
110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. 125.3101 to 125.3702 (see Sec. 83 (2)).
(Ord. 112, passed 9-21-70; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
489, passed 10-17-16)
ARTICLE IV: DEPARTMENT OF PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
15.401   Departments
   
15.402   Head of department; generally
   
15.403   Functions; responsibilities
§ 15.401 DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   The city shall have the Department of Parks and Recreation which the
City Administrator shall supervise and direct, except as otherwise provided for
by the City Charter.
   (B)   The Mayor with the approval of the City Commission will appoint a
qualified person to serve as the Director of Parks and Recreation. This
position will be a yearly contract position similar to the City
Administrator’s. All benefits and other matters to be worked out in the
contract.
(Ord. 312, passed 5-15-00)
§ 15.402 HEAD OF DEPARTMENT; GENERALLY.
   Under the direction and supervision of the City Administrator, any
administrative officer who heads any department or office created by Charter or
ordinance will have all the duties, authorities, powers, and prerogatives
necessary to carry out the functions and responsibilities of the department or
office and to achieve the results established by the City Administrator to
include:
   (A)   Directing employees assigned to the department or office;
   (B)   Evaluating employee performance by established methods;
   (C)   Prescribing the internal organization of the department;
   (D)   Prescribing, and when necessary, amending and revoking department work
rules;
   (E)   Keeping informed about the latest practices in their area of
responsibilities and duties;
   (F)   Preparing and submitting reports monthly and within 60 days after the
end of the fiscal year to the City Administrator in the manner and form
required by the City Administrator;
   (G)   Establishing a system of records and reports in sufficient detail to
furnish all information necessary for proper control of department activities;
   (H)   Being custodian of public records received by the department or
office, preserving and when permitted by law, disposing of public records of
that department or office and providing a system of filing and indexing;
   (I)   Staffing or designating an employee or administrative office to staff
any committee, authority, commission, or board when so assigned by an ordinance
or resolution adopted by the City Commission or the City Administrator;
   (J)   Being responsible for manpower planning within the department;
   (K)   Being custodian of city-owned property assigned to the department or
office and being responsible for its care and maintenance;
   (L)   Planning and, subject to the approval of the City Administrator,
executing appropriate training for departmental personnel; and
(M)   Recommending to the City Administrator policies and procedures designed
to improve the quality of city services and operations.
(Ord. 312, passed 5-15-00)
§ 15.403 FUNCTIONS; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Department of Parks and Recreation includes the following
functions and responsibilities:
      (1)   Maintaining city-owned parks, playgrounds, and swimming pools.
      (2)   Maintaining and when necessary, planting trees and other vegetation
in the city-owned parks and playground areas.
      (3)   Recommending future park develop areas, overseeing the securing of
those areas, and overseeing the development of those areas.
      (4)   Any other functions and responsibilities that may be assigned to
this department by the ordinances and resolutions adopted by the City
Commission.
   (B)   In addition to the administrative officers named in § 4.6 of the City
Charter, the City Commission creates the officer of Director of Parks and
Recreation. The City Commission determines the Director’s salary, benefits and
term of employment by contract.
   (C)   The Department of Parks and Recreation will be headed by the Director
of Parks and Recreation who will be selected on the basis of administrative and
supervisory qualifications with special reference to training and experience
and without regard to political or religious preferences and appointed
according to the provisions of the City Charter, § 4.6 for an indefinite
period.
   (D)   The Mayor with the approval of the City Commission will appoint a
qualified person to serve as Acting Director of Parks and Recreation during the
absence of the Director from the administrative office when such absence is for
a period longer than three weeks. The Director may designate any qualified
Department of Parks and Recreation employee or the City Administrator to serve
as Acting Director during an absence from duties of the administrative office
for any period of three weeks or less. The Acting Director will have all the
responsibilities, duties, and authority of the Director while serving in that
capacity.
(Ord. 312, passed 5-15-00)
ARTICLE V: BOARD OF REVIEW
Section
   
15.501   Composition
   
15.502   Terms of office; vacancies
   
15.503   Compensation
   
15.504   Chairman
   
15.505   Oath of office
   
15.506   Quorum
   
15.507   Meetings
   
15.508   Notice of meetings
   
15.509   Duties and functions
   
15.510   Endorsement of roll
   
15.511   Removal of board member for cause
§ 15.501 COMPOSITION.
   The Board of Review shall be composed of the Mayor and two electors of the
city appointed by the City Commission who shall meet the eligibility
requirements for elective officers contained in Charter § 3.1 and who during
their term of office shall not be city officers or employees or be nominees or
candidates for any elective city office. A spouse, mother, father, sister,
brother, son, daughter, including an adopted child, of the assessor is not
eligible to serve on the board or to fill any vacancy.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.502 TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES.
   Members appointed shall serve for terms of two years beginning December 1 of
each odd-numbered year. The City Commission may fill any vacancy that occurs in
the membership. A member of the City Commission is not eligible to serve on the
board or to fill any vacancy.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.503 COMPENSATION.
   The Commission shall fix the compensation of the members of the board.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.504 CHAIRMAN.
   The Board shall annually, in February, select its own chairman for the
ensuing year, and the assessor shall be the Clerk of the Board but shall have
no vote.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.505 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking and
subscribing to the Constitutional oath of office within 10 days after
appointment.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.506 QUORUM.
   A majority of the Board of Review constitutes a quorum for the transaction
of business, but a lesser number may adjourn and a majority vote of those
present shall decide all questions. At least two members of the three members
shall be present to conduct any business or hearings of the Board of Review
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.507 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall convene in its first session on the second Monday in
March of each year at such time of day and place as shall be designated by the
Commission and shall remain in session for at least eight hours for the purpose
of considering and correcting the roll. In each case in which the assessed
value of any property is increased over the amount shown on the assessment roll
as prepared by the assessor or any property is added to such roll by the Board,
or the Board has resolved to consider at its second session such increasing of
an assessment or the adding of any property to such roll, the assessor shall
give notice thereof to the owners as shown by such roll by first class letter
mailed not later than the second day following the end of the first session of
the Board. Such notice shall state the date, time, place and purpose of the
second session of the Board. The failure to give any such notice or of the
owner to receive it shall not invalidate any assessment roll or assessment
therein.
   (B)   The Board shall convene in its second session on the fourth Monday in
March of each year at such time of day and place as shall be designated by the
Commission and shall continue in session until all interested persons have had
an opportunity to be heard, but in no case for less than six hours. At the
second session, the Board may not increase any assessment or add any property
to the rolls, except in those cases in which the Board resolved at its first
session to consider such increase or addition at its second session.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.508 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   Notice of the time and place of the sessions of the Board of Review shall be
published in a newspaper published or circulated in said City of Clio, by the
clerk at least 10 days prior to each session of the Board.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.509 DUTIES AND FUNCTIONS.
   For the purpose of revising and correcting assessments, the Board of Review
shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as are by
statute conferred upon and required of Boards of Review in townships, except as
otherwise provided in the charter. It shall hear the complaints of all persons
considering themselves aggrieved by assessments, and if it shall appear that
any person or property has been wrongfully assessed or omitted from the roll
the Board shall correct the roll in such manner as it deems just. In all cases
the roll shall be reviewed according to the facts existing on the tax day and
no change in the status of any property after said day shall be considered by
the Board in making its decisions. Except as otherwise provided by statute, no
person other than the Board of Review shall make or authorize any change upon
or additions or corrections to the assessment roll. It shall be the duty of the
assessor to keep a permanent record of all proceedings and to enter therein all
resolutions and decisions of the Board.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.510 ENDORSEMENT OF ROLL.
   After the Board of Review has completed its review of the assessment roll,
and not later than first Monday in April, the majority of its members shall
endorse thereon and sign a statement to the effect that the same is in the
assessment roll of the city for the year in which it has been prepared. The
omission of such endorsement shall not affect the validity of such roll.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
§ 15.511 REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBER FOR CAUSE.
   Pursuant to notice, and an opportunity to be heard, a member of the Board
may be removed for cause by the City Commission. Removal of a member is subject
to review by the Circuit Court.
(Ord. 378, passed 1-17-06)
ARTICLE VI: AMPHITHEATER BOARD
Section
   
15.601   Created and established
   
15.602   Membership; appointment of members; terms of office; vacancies;
compensation; removal from office
   
15.603   Meetings
   
15.604   Records
   
15.605   Rules of procedure
   
15.606   Election of officers
   
15.607   Chairperson and vice-chairperson
   
15.608   Recording secretary
   
15.609   Treasurer
   
15.610   Quorum and voting requirements; special meetings
   
15.611   Submission of reports
   
15.612   Funding and budget of Board
   
15.613   Restriction of general revenues
   
15.614   Duties and responsibilities
§ 15.601 CREATED AND ESTABLISHED.
   The city hereby creates and establishes a board to be called and known as
the Amphitheater Board, hereafter referred to as the Board.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.602 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS; TERMS OF OFFICE; VACANCIES;
COMPENSATION; REMOVAL FROM OFFICE.
   (A)   The Board shall consist of seven members. Members of the Board shall
be appointed by the Mayor with the consent of the City Commission, with at
least one member of the City Commission appointed to the Board.
   (B)   The appointed members of the Board shall be appointed for three-year
terms. These appointments shall be staggered so that appointments to the Board
shall not all recur at the same time, and so that there will be some continuity
of membership and experience on the Board.
   (C)   If a vacancy occurs on the Board, interim appointments to the Board
shall be made by the Mayor, with the consent of the City Commission, to
complete the unexpired term of such position that may become vacant.
   (D)   All appointed members of the Board shall serve without compensation.
   (E)   Appointed members of the Board may be removed from office for cause by
the Mayor, with the consent of the City Commission, after any such Board member
has been provided written charges relative to the issue of cause for removal,
and after any such Board member has been provided a public due process hearing
before the City Commission. Removal of a Board member is subject to review by
the Circuit Court.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.603 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall establish the dates and times of the Board's regular
meetings. The Board shall schedule at least one regular meeting of the Board
each month.
   (B)   Special meetings of the Board may be called by the chairperson, or by
at least two members of the Board, or by the City Administrator.
   (C)   The business of the Board shall be conducted at public meetings of the
Board held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act, Public Act No. 267 of 1976
(M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq.).
   (D)   Public notice of the time, date and place of the meetings of the Board
shall be given in the manner required by the Open Meetings Act.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.604 RECORDS.
   The Board shall keep and maintain a record (minutes) of its resolutions,
proceedings, recommendations, transactions, findings and determinations with
the City Clerk. A writing prepared, owned, used by, in the possession of, or
retained by the Board in the performance of an official function shall be made
available to the public, in compliance with and subject to the provisions and
exemptions set forth in the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act No. 442 of
1976 (M.C.L.A. §§ 15.241 et seq.).
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.605 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Board shall adopt rules of procedure to govern and control the meetings
and the transaction of business of the Board.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.606 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   The Board shall elect from its membership a chairperson, vice-chairperson,
recording secretary and treasurer, who shall serve in such capacities for one
year, with eligibility for re-election. The Board may elect such other officers
from its membership as the Board shall deem necessary.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.607 CHAIRPERSON AND VICE-CHAIRPERSON.
   The chairperson shall preside over and shall chair the meetings of the
Board. The chairperson, in consultation with the City Administrator, shall set
the agenda for every Board meeting. The chairperson shall have the right to
vote on all matters coming before the Board unless precluded by law. The vice-
chairperson shall, in the absence or disability of the chairperson, perform the
duties and functions of the chairperson.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.608 RECORDING SECRETARY.
   The recording secretary shall keep and maintain a record of all proceedings
of the Board. The recording secretary shall provide the City Clerk a copy of
the Board's minutes, resolutions, proceedings, recommendations, transactions,
findings and determinations, and all writing prepared, owned, used by, in the
possession of, or retained by the Board in the performance of an official
function.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.609 TREASURER.
   The Treasurer shall be the Board's liaison to the City Treasurer, and shall
prepare such reports as requested by the Board.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.610 QUORUM AND VOTING REQUIREMENTS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   Four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business at a meeting of the Board. No motion or resolution shall be adopted or
passed, nor shall any other official action be taken by the Board, except by
the affirmative vote of at least four members of the Board.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.611 SUBMISSION OF REPORTS.
   The Board shall prepare and submit annually to the City Commission a report,
which shall detail and describe the activities of the Board and the operations
of the City of Clio Amphitheater, hereafter referred to as Clio Amphitheater,
during the previous year, as well as recommendations regarding the upcoming
year. The Board shall also prepare and submit such other reports as may be
requested by the City Commission.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.612 FUNDING AND BUDGET OF BOARD.
   The Board shall prepare and submit to the City Administrator an annual
budget for the Clio Amphitheater, which shall be subject to the review and
approval of the City Commission. The annual budget shall be submitted by the
Board as required by the Charter, and as prescribed by the City Commission. All
funds and accounts of the Clio Amphitheater shall be audited on an annual basis
as part of the annual audit procedure of the city.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.613 RESTRICTION OF GENERAL REVENUES.
   Each year, 2% percent of general revenues generated from the operations of
the Clio Amphitheater or $2,500, whichever is greater, shall be reserved for
the capital maintenance of the Clio Amphitheater. (Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
§ 15.614 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Board shall be charged with and shall have the duty and
responsibility to:
      (1)   Review, consider, discuss and make recommendations to the City
Commission relative to rules and regulations for operation of the Clio
Amphitheater;
      (2)   Review, consider, discuss and make recommendations to the City
Commission, regarding the programs and activities of the city with respect to
the Clio Amphitheater, and the policies, rules and procedures governing
programs, productions and activities;
      (3)   Review, consider, discuss and make recommendations to the City
Commission relative to present and future needs and requirements of the Clio
Amphitheater, including but not limited to, an annual capital maintenance plan;
      (4)   Review, consider, discuss and make recommendations on such issues,
matters, topics, questions, city projects and programs related to the Clio
Amphitheater as shall be requested by the City Commission.
   (B)   The duties and responsibilities of the Board shall be supplemental to,
and shall not overlap or interfere with the powers and duties of any city
office or department.
(Ord. 454, passed 4-1-13)
ARTICLE VII: NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY
Section
   
15.701   Created; membership; qualifications
   
15.702   Terms; vacancies
   
15.703   Compensation
   
15.704   Election of Chairperson
   
15.705   Oath of office
   
15.706   Meetings
   
15.707   Removal of Board Members for cause
   
15.708   Expenses and financial records
   
15.709   Writings
   
15.710   Duties and powers of the authority
   
15.711   Budget; cost of handling and auditing funds
   
15.712   Boundaries of the development area
   
15.713   Dissolution of the authority; property and assets
§ 15.701 CREATED; MEMBERSHIP; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Pursuant to the provisions of and under the authority of Public Act 61 of
2007 there is hereby created a Neighborhood Improvement Authority, which shall
be under the supervision and control of a Board, consisting of the Mayor or his
or her designee and five members appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Commission. Not less than a majority of the members shall
be persons having an ownership or business interest in property located in the
development area, as hereinafter described. At least one of the members shall
be a resident of the development area or of an area within ½ mile of any part
of the development area.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.702 TERMS; VACANCIES.
   Of the members first appointed, an equal number of the members, as near as
is practicable, shall be appointed for one year, two years, three years, and
four years. A member shall hold office until the member's successor is
appointed. After the initial appointment, each member shall serve for a term of
four years. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the Mayor for the
unexpired term only.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.703 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.704 ELECTION OF CHAIRPERSON.
   The Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the Board.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.705 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking and
subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.706 MEETINGS.
   The proceedings and rules of the Board are subject to the Open Meetings Act,
1976 PA 267, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 - 15.275. The Board shall adopt rules governing
its procedure and the holding of regular meetings, subject to the approval of
the governing body. Special meetings may be held if called in the manner
provided in the rules of the Board.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.707 REMOVAL OF BOARD MEMBER FOR CAUSE.
   After having been given notice and an opportunity to be heard, a member of
the Board may be removed for cause by the City Commission.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.708 EXPENSES AND FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   All expense items of the authority shall be publicized monthly and the
financial records shall always be open to the public.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.709 WRITINGS.
   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by the
Board in the performance of an official function is subject to the Freedom of
Information Act, 1976 PA 442, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231-15.246.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.710 DUTIES AND POWERS OF THE AUTHORITY.
   The Board shall possess all the powers granted to it by statute and shall
perform any and all acts required of it.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.711 BUDGET; COST OF HANDLING AND AUDITING FUNDS.
   (A)   A budget shall be submitted to the Board for the operation of the
authority for each fiscal year before the beginning of the fiscal year. The
budget shall be prepared in the manner and contain the information required of
city departments. After review by the Board, the budget shall be submitted to
the City Commission. The City Commission must approve the budget before the
Board may adopt the budget. Unless authorized by the City Commission or this
act, funds of the municipality shall not be included in the budget of the
authority.
   (B)   The City Commission may assess a reasonable pro rata share of the
funds for the cost of handling and auditing the funds against the funds of the
authority, other than those committed, which shall be paid annually by the
Board pursuant to an appropriate item in its budget.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.712 BOUNDARIES OF THE DEVELOPMENT AREA.
   All lots or parcels within the Clio City Limits except 800 Tacoma Court,
parcel number: 51-15-551-013; 801 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-012;
810 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-014; 811 Tacoma Court, parcel
number: 51-15-551-011; 820 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-015; 821
Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-010; 840 Tacoma Court, parcel number:
51-15-551-016; 841 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-009; 860 Tacoma
Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-023; 861 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-
551-008; 881 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-028; 900 Tacoma Court,
parcel number: 51-15-551-019; 901 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-027;
920 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-020; 921 Tacoma Court, parcel
number: 51-15-551-005; 960 Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-025; 961
Tacoma Court, parcel number: 51-15-551-003; parcel number: 51-15-551-026;
parcel number: 51-15-551-004; 100 E. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-23-501-028;
102 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-001; 103 W. Vienna Road, parcel
number: 51-22-527-001; 106 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-003; 107 E.
Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-14-554-009; 113 W. Vienna Road, parcel number:
51-22-527-002; 114 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-004; 120 W Vienna
Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-005; 126 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-
578-006; 127 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-101; 129 W. Vienna Road,
parcel number: 51-22-527-100; 131 W Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-004;
135 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-005; 138 W. Vienna Road, parcel
number: 51-15-578-007; 139 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-006; 143 W.
Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-007; 145 W. Vienna Road, parcel number:
51-22-527-008; 146 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-010; 146 W. Vienna
Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-008; 150 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-
578-009; 151 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-009; 155 W. Vienna Road,
parcel number:51-22-527-010; 156 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-011;
161 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-011; 164 W. Vienna Road, parcel
number: 51-15-578-012; 170 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-071; 172 W.
Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-070; 182 W. Vienna Road, parcel number:
51-15-578-015; 185 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-012; 186 W. Vienna
Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-016; 189 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-
527-013; 192 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-017; 196 W. Vienna Road,
parcel number: 51-15-578-018; 202 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-578-064;
201 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-200-085; 300 W. Vienna Road, parcel
number: 51-15-400-047; 315 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-200-086; 3430
W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-551-001; 3450 W. Vienna Road, parcel
number: 51-15-551-002; 400 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-400-045; 415 W.
Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-032; 420 W. Vienna Road, parcel number:
51-15-400-057; 425 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-099; 430 W. Vienna
Road, parcel number: 51-15-579-033; 431 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-
527-033; 505 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-037; 506 W. Vienna Road,
parcel number: 51-15-579-004; 512 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-15-579-005;
515 W. Vienna Road, parcel number: 51-22-527-038; parcel number: 18-15-300-077;
parcel number: 18-15-300-078; parcel number: 51-15-400-046; 104 Washington
Street, parcel number: 51-15-579-006; 109 Railway Street, parcel number: 51-15-
400-048; 204 Railway Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-084; 204 Railway Street,
parcel number: 51-22-200-088; 210 Railway Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-055;
214 Railway Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-057; 318 Railway Street, parcel
number: 51-15-400-050; 318 Railway Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-069; parcel
number: 51-15-400-051; parcel number: 51-15-400-049; 108 Center Street, parcel
number: 51-15-578-019; 109 Center Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-065; 110
Center Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-020; 217 Bluff Street, parcel number:
51-15-578-060; 219 Bluff Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-059; 101 N. Mill
Street, parcel number: 51-14-554-003; 108 N. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-14-
554-010; 111 N. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-024; 111 N. Mill Street,
parcel number: 51-15-578-025; 111 N. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-002;
118 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-018; 122 N. Mill Street, parcel
number: 51-14-300-043; 201 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-501-013; 202 S.
Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-020; 207 S. Mill Street, parcel number:
51-23-501-014; 208 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-019; 213 S. Mill
Street, parcel number: 51-23-501-026; 218 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-
527-025; 221 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-501-027; 302 S. Mill Street,
parcel number: 51-22-527-027; 303 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-502-002;
306 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-028; 312 S. Mill Street, parcel
number: 51-22-527-029; 316 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-031; 404 S.
Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-123; 405 N. Mill Street, parcel number:
51-15-400-020; 409 N. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-15-400-019; 409 S. Mill
Street, parcel number: 51-23-502-011; 412 N. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-14-
300-033; 417 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-502-012; 419 S. Mill Street,
parcel number: 51-23-502-013; 500 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-109;
501 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-038; 540 S. Mill Street, parcel
number: 51-22-200-096; 550 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-095; 600 S.
Mill Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-119; 611 S. Mill Street, parcel number:
51-23-100-010; 613 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-009; 699 S. Mill
Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-008; 705 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-
100-007; 709 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-006; 710 S. Mill Street,
parcel number: 51-22-200-116; 713 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-005;
721 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-004; 800 S. Mill Street, parcel
number: 51-22-200-043; 801 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-003; 815 S.
Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-002; 821 S. Mill Street, parcel number:
51-23-100-001; 823 S. Mill Street, parcel number: 51-23-300-034; 824 S. Mill
Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-044; parcel number: 51-22-527-026; 219 Rogers
Lodge Drive, parcel number: 51-14-300-034; 219 Rogers Lodge Drive, parcel
number: 51-14-300-035; 108 W. Young Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-017; 111
W. Young Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-021; 112 E. Young Street, parcel
number: 51-23-501-015; 113 W. Young Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-022; 114
W. Young Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-016; 115 W. Young Street, parcel
number: 51-22-527-023; 118 E. Young Street, parcel number: 51-23-501-016; 118
W. Young Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-015; 120 E. Young Street, parcel
number: 51-23-501-017; 121 W. Young Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-024; 126
W. Young Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-014; 320 W. Young Street, parcel
number: 51-22-527-036; 326 W. Young Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-035; 109
E. Johnson Street, parcel number: 51-23-501-025; 113 E. Johnson Street, parcel
number: 51-23-501-024; 113 W. Johnson Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-030; 117
W. Johnson Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-104; 121 E. Johnson Street, parcel
number: 51-23-501-023; 205 W. Johnson Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-098; 215
W. Johnson Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-102; 521 Clay Street, parcel
number: 51-23-100-034; 603 Clay Street, parcel number: 51-23-502-001; 607 Clay
Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-036; 609 Clay Street, parcel number: 51-23-
100-037; 643 Clay Street, parcel number: 51-23-100-039; parcel number: 51-23-
300-037; parcel number: 51-23-100-040; parcel number: 51-23-100-035; parcel
number: 51-23-100-033; parcel number: 51-23-100-032; parcel number: 51-23-100-
031; parcel number: 51-23-100-030; 100 Smith Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-
120; 200 Smith Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-118; 284 Smith Street, parcel
number: 51-22-200-117; 291 Smith Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-121; 226 Pine
Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-103; 121 New Street, parcel number: 51-22-527-
034; 215 State Street, parcel number: 51-22-200-087; 119 Griffes Street, parcel
number: 51-15-578-023; 120 Griffes Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-031; 124
Griffes Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-032; 126 Griffes Street, parcel
number: 51-15-578-033; 130 Griffes Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-034; 131
Griffes Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-022; 138 Griffes Street, parcel
number: 51-15-578-035 and 139 Griffes Street, parcel number: 51-15-578-021.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
§ 15.713 DISSOLUTION OF THE AUTHORITY; PROPERTY AND ASSETS.
   An authority that has completed the purposes for which it was organized
shall be dissolved by ordinance of the City Commission. The property and assets
of the authority remaining after the satisfaction of the obligations of the
authority belong to the City of Clio.
(Ord. 481, passed 11-2-15)
CHAPTER 20: BUILDING REGULATIONS
               Article
                  I.   ASSUMPTION OF ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE
STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE
                  II.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
                  III.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
                  IV.   VACANT AND ABANDONED PROPERTY REGISTRATION
ARTICLE I: ASSUMPTION OF ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF THE STATE
CONSTRUCTION CODE
Section
   
20.101   Adoption of state construction code by reference; assumption of
administration
   
20.102   Designation of regulated flood-prone hazard areas
   
20.103   Enforcement
   
20.199   Violations; penalties
§ 20.101 ADOPTION OF STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE BY REFERENCE; ASSUMPTION OF
ADMINISTRATION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of M.C.L.A. § 117.3, the city adopts by reference
the state construction code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Public Act 230
of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 - 125.1531, as amended. The Building
Official and/or the Police Department is hereby designated as the enforcing
agency to discharge the responsibility of the city under Public Act 230 of
1972, as amended. The city assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of the state construction code, building code, plumbing code,
mechanical code and electrical code within its corporate limits.
(Ord. 140, passed 11-6-74, amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
416, passed 10-5-09; amended by Ord. 457, passed 7-1-13)
§ 20.102 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD-PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS),
entitled Genesee County, Michigan (all jurisdictions), and dated September 25,
2009, and the Flood Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRMs) panel number(s) of 26049C,
0042D and 0061D, and dated September 25, 2009, are adopted by reference for the
purposes of administration of the Michigan Construction Code, and declared to
be a part of Section 1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code, and to provide the
content of the “Flood Hazards” section of Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan
Residential Code.
(Ord. 416, passed 10-5-09; amended by Ord. 457, passed 7-1-13)
§ 20.103 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this article shall be enforced by the city through its
Building Official and/or Police Department.
(Ord. 457, passed 7-1-13)
§ 20.199 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of the State Construction Code Act of
1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 - 125.1531, shall be guilty of a municipal
civil infraction and upon conviction shall be punished with civil fines as
established by §
70.398 as amended from time to time by resolution of the Clio City Commission.
(Codification Ordinance) (Amended by Ord. 457, passed 7-1-13; Amended by Ord.
527, passed 5-15-23)
ARTICLE II: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
Section
   
20.201   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
   
20.202   Additions, insertions and changes
§ 20.201 ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   That a certain document, three copies of which are on file in the office of
the City Clerk, being marked and designated as the International Property
Maintenance Code 2021 Edition as published by the International Code Council,
Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the City of
Clio, in the State of Michigan; for the control of buildings and structures as
herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties,
conditions and terms of said International Property Maintenance Code 2021
Edition are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this chapter, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes,
if any, prescribed in §
20.202. Subsequent editions of the International Property Maintenance Code may
be adopted by resolution of the Clio City Commission.
(Ord. 293, passed 5-18-98, amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
320, passed 3-5-01; amended by Ord. 381, passed 4-17-06; amended by Ord. 476,
passed 5-18-15; amended by Ord. 488, passed 10-3-16; amended by Ord. 513,
passed 2-1-21)
§ 20.202 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   That the International Property Maintenance Code is amended and revised in
the following respects:
   (A)   Section 101.1   Insert: the City of Clio
   (B)   Section 103.1   Insert: Office of the City Administrator
   (C)   Section 107.1   Amend: General. In order to hear and decide appeals of
orders, decisions or determinations made by the code official relative to the
application and interpretation of this code, there shall be and is hereby
created a board of appeals. The board shall adopt rules of procedure for
conducting its business and shall render all decisions and findings in writing
to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the code official.
   (D)   Section 107.3   Strike this section.
   (E)   Section 108.1   Amend: Membership of board. The City Commission shall
serve as the board of appeals.
   (F)   Section 109.3   Amend: Prosecution of violation. Any person failing to
comply with a notice of violation or order served in accordance with § 111.4
shall be deemed guilty of a municipal civil infraction, and the violation shall
be deemed a strict liability offense. If the notice of violation is not
complied with, the Code Official shall institute the appropriate proceeding at
law or in equity to restrain, correct or abate such violation, or to require
the removal or termination of the unlawful occupancy of the structure in
violation of the provisions of this code or of the order or direction made
pursuant thereto. Any action taken by the authority having jurisdiction on such
premises shall be charged against the real estate upon which the structure is
located and shall be a lien upon such real estate.
   (G)   Section 302.4   Insert "seven inches."
   (H)   Section 602.3   Insert "October 15" to "April 15."
   (I)   Section 602.4   Insert "October 15" to "April 15."
(Ord. 293, passed 5-18-98, amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
318, passed 1-8-01; amended by Ord. 320, passed 3-5-01; amended by Ord. 376,
passed 1-3-06; amended by Ord. 381, passed 4-17-06; amended by Ord. 476, passed
5-18-15; amended by Ord. 488, passed 10-3-16; amended by Ord. 513, passed 2-1-
21; amended by Ord. 526, passed 5-15-23)
ARTICLE III: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION REGULATIONS
Section
   
20.301   Title; legal basis
   
20.302   Interpretation
   
20.303   Definitions
   
20.304   Rules of construction
   
20.305   Scope
   
20.306   Basis for establishing special flood hazard area
   
20.307   General standards for flood hazard reduction
   
20.308   Specific standards for flood hazard reduction
   
20.309   Floodway protection standards
   
20.310   Development permit, required
   
20.311   Administration
   
20.312   Appeals to Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA)
   
20.313   Variances
   
20.314   Fees
   
20.315   Warning and disclaimer of liability
   
20.316   Nuisance declaration
   
20.399   Violations; penalties
§ 20.301 TITLE; LEGAL BASIS.
   Sections
20.302 through
20.316 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and cited as the “Flood Damage
Prevention Regulations.” The City Commission enacts these regulations in
accordance with the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, and
regulations promulgated thereunder, and subsequent enactments and rules and
regulations promulgated in furtherance of such program by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, Federal Insurance Administration,
and the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.302 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of these regulations to special flood
hazard areas, all provisions shall be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the city;
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes; and
   (D)   Applicable to all areas of special flood hazards within the City of
Clio.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.303 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases take their plain, or ordinary and
usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of these regulations, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
      (1)   ADVERSE AFFECTS. The damage to adjacent properties caused by rises
in flood stages attributed to physical changes of the channel and the adjacent
overbank areas.
      (2)   APPEAL. A request for a review of the City’s application of any
provision of these regulations or request for a variance.
      (3)   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the flood plain within
the City of Clio subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given
year.
      (4)   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
      (5)   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including buildings or other structures, mining, dredging, filling,
paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the area of special
flood hazard.
      (6)   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or
tidal waters, or the unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters
from any source, or both.
      (7)   FLOOD BOUNDARY AND FLOODWAY MAP. The official map issued by the
Federal Insurance Administration where the areas of special flood hazard have
been designated Zone A.
      (8)   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the
adjacent land areas designated in the Flood Insurance Study which must be
reserved to discharge the base flood.
      (9) HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking, or recreation, or any combination of these.
A floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
      (10) MOBILE HOME. A structure that is transportable in one or more
sections, built on a permanent chassis, and designed to be used with or without
a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
      (11) STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a mobile home, or a gas or
liquid storage tank, that is principally above ground.
      (12) SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.  Any repair, reconstruction, or improvement
of a structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of
the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged is being restored, before the
damaged occurred.
         For purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is considered
to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor, or other
structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The does not include:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary, or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a State Inventory of Historic Places.
      (13) VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the requirements of these
regulations which permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be
prohibited by these regulations.
      (14) ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS (ZBA).  The Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA)
for the City of Clio.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
318, passed 1-8-01)
§ 20.304 RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The following listed rules of construction apply to the text of these
regulations:
   (A)   The word BUILDING includes the word “structure.”
   (B)   The word BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes any part thereof.
   (C)   The words USE, USED, or OCCUPIED, as applied to any land or building,
shall be construed to include the words “intended,” “arranged,” or “designed to
be used” or “occupied.”
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance) Cross reference: §
1.406
§ 20.305 SCOPE.
   (A)   These regulations do not repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way impair
or interfere with existing provisions of this Code, other laws, ordinances or
regulations, or with private restrictions placed upon property by deed,
covenant, or private agreements, or with restrictive covenants running with the
land to which the city is a party.
   (B)   Where these regulations impose a greater restriction upon the land
than is imposed or required by such existing provision of this Code or any
other ordinance of the city, the provisions of these regulations shall control.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.306 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD AREA.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration on its Flood Boundary and Floodway Map, No. 2606670001 A, with
an effective date of September 3, 1980, and its Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM)
are adopted by reference and declared to be a part of these regulations. These
maps are on file with the City Clerk at 505 W Vienna St., Clio, MI 48420.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.307 GENERAL STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   In all areas of special flood hazards, the following standards apply:
   (A)   Anchor all new construction and substantial improvements to prevent
flotation, collapse, or lateral movement of the structure.
   (B)   Anchor all mobile homes to resist flotation, collapse, or lateral
movement by providing over- the-top and frame ties to ground anchors. The
following specific requirement apply:
      (1)   Provide over-the-top ties at each of the four corners of the mobile
home, with two additional ties per side at intermediate locations, with mobile
homes less than 50 feet long requiring one additional tie per side;
      (2)   Provide frame ties at each corner of the mobile home with five
additional ties per side at the intermediate points, with mobile homes less
than 50 feet long requiring four additional ties per side;
      (3)   Make all components of the anchoring system capable of carrying a
force of 4,800 pounds; and
      (4)   Anchor any additions to the mobile home in a similar manner;
   (C)   Assemble all new construction and substantial improvements with
materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage;
   (D)   Use methods and practices that minimize flood damage for all new
construction and substantial improvements;
   (E)   Design new and replacement water supply systems to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the system;
   (F)   Design new and replacement sanitary sewer systems to minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharge from the
systems into flood water;
   (G)   Locate on-site waste disposal systems to avoid impairment to them or
contamination from them during flooding;
   (H)   Include public utilities and facilities, such as sewer, gas, electric,
and water systems in all subdivision proposals and locate and construct such
public utilities and facilities to minimize flood damage;
   (I)   Make all subdivision proposals consistent with the need to minimize
flood damage;
   (J)   Provide adequate drainage in all subdivision proposals to reduce
exposure to flood damage; and
   (K)   Provide base flood elevation data for all subdivision proposals and
other proposed development that contain at least 50 lots or five acres,
whichever is less.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.308 SPECIFIC STANDARDS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   In all areas of special flood hazards where base flood elevation data have
been provided, the following standards apply:
   (A)   For new construction of or substantial improvement to any residential
structure elevate the lowest floor, including basement, to or above the base
flood elevation.
   (B)   For new construction of or substantial improvement to any commercial,
industrial or other non- residential structure, either elevate the lowest
floor, including basement, to or above the base flood elevation or together
with the attendant utility and sanitary facilities, do the following:
      (1)   Flood proof the new construction or substantial improvement so that
below the base flood level the structure is watertight with walls substantially
impermeable to the passage of water;
      (2)   Make structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
      (3)   Provide the city with certification by a registered professional
engineer or architect that standards of these regulations are satisfied.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.309 FLOODWAY PROTECTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   The following standards apply to all development occurring within the
floodways:
      (1)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development are prohibited, except upon certification by
a registered professional engineer or from the Department of Natural Resources
that the proposed development will not result in any increases in flood levels
during a base flood discharge, and complies with M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq.
      (2)   The placement of mobile homes are prohibited except in mobile home
parks and in subdivisions that existed on July 7, 1980.
      (3)   Development which is permitted in the floodway shall meet the
requirements of these regulations.
   (B)   Any uses of land permitted in an underlying zoning district shall not
be construed as being permitted within the floodway except upon complying with
the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.310 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT, REQUIRED.
   (A)   Before any construction, substantial improvement or development begins
within any area of special flood hazard, as identified in these regulations, a
development permit shall be obtained. Application for a development permit
shall be made on forms furnished by the city.
   (B)   Applicants for a development permit shall submit a site plan with the
information required in § 13.02B of the City of Clio Zoning Ordinance, as
amended. In addition to those procedures applicants
will show on the site plan or submit separately the following information at
the same time the site plan is presented:
      (1)   The elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   The elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure
has been flood proofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria of these regulations;
      (4)   A description of the extent to which any watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a result of the proposed development;
      (5)   The location of any proposed fill and storage of materials
(including a list of typical materials to be stored) and drainage facilities;
and
      (6)   Evidence that all affected political subdivisions and the Michigan
Department of Natural Resources were informed that a watercourse will be
altered or relocated as a part of the proposed development and that applicant
notified the Federal Insurance Administration that the affected political
subdivisions and the state were notified;
   (C)   The city will approve or deny the application for a development permit
within 45 days of its submission, or it shall be deemed to have been approved.
   (D)   The city will base its action of approval or denial on the following
factors:
      (1)   There is no adverse affect or if there is an adverse affect, that
it can be mitigated satisfactorily (mitigation measures become a condition of
the permit);
      (2)   All information required by these regulations has been submitted;
      (3)   The structural types and density of the proposed development are
compatible with the existing land use and underlying zoning district; and
      (4)   Satisfactory evidence that all necessary permits have been obtained
for which prior approval is required.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.311 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The City Administrator, or other qualified person by whatever title,
will administer the provisions of these regulations.
   (B)   The duties of the person administering these regulations include:
      (1)   Applying and enforcing the provisions of theses regulations
literally;
      (2)   Issuing development permits after determining that applications
have met the conditions for such issuance;
      (3)   Posting a schedule of fees established by the City Commission and
collecting and depositing the fees for the applicable actions with the City
Treasurer;
      (4)   Maintaining the records for public examination that pertain to the
administration of these regulations;
      (5)   Monitoring watercourses and flood ways so that the flood carrying
capacity is not diminished; and
      (6)   Determining, when needed, the exact location of the boundaries of
the areas of special flood hazard where there appears to be a conflict between
a mapped boundary and actual field conditions.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.312 APPEALS TO ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS (ZBA).
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) will hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision, or determination
made by the person administering these regulations. The Board will enter the
findings upon which it decided there was or was not an error in any
requirement, decision or determination made by the person administering these
regulations.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals will hear and decide requests for
variances from the requirements of these regulations. The Board will not hear
variances from which it is barred from hearing under the City of Clio Zoning
Ordinance, Ordinance No. 181, as amended.
   (C)   Those aggrieved by the Zoning Board of Appeals may appeal such
decision to the Circuit Court for the County of Genesee, as long as such appeal
is taken within 30 days after the Zoning Board of Appeals renders its decision.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
318, passed 1-8-01)
§ 20.313 VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals (ZBA) will grant variances from the
provisions of these regulations in compliance with the general standards for
granting such variances contained in these regulations, the City of Clio Zoning
Ordinance, and each of the following specific standards:
      (1)   The Board will not grant a variance for development within the
floodway where the result of such development would increase flood levels
during a base flood discharge, except upon the certification by a registered
professional engineer or the Michigan Department of Natural Resources that the
cumulative effect of the proposed development when combined with all other
existing and anticipated development will not harmfully increase the water
surface elevation of a base flood. In determining whether a harmful increase
will occur, compliance with M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq. shall be required.
      (2)   The Board will grant a variance only upon the following findings
which will be entered into the record of the meeting at the variance is
granted:
         (a)   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   A determination that failure to grant the variance would result
in hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   A determination that the granting of a variance will neither
result in flood heights in excess of those permitted by these regulations, in
addition threats to public safety, and in extraordinary public expense; nor
will it create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public or
conflict with existing laws, ordinances or this Code; and
      (3)   The variance when granted shall be the minimum necessary,
considering the flood hazard, to afford relief to the applicant.
   (B)   The Board may attach conditions to the granting of a variance to
ensure compliance with the standards contained in these regulations.
   (C)   Variances may be granted for reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the Michigan Historic Markers listing of historic sites, or any other state
register of historic places without regard to the requirements of this section
governing variances in flood hazard areas.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
318, passed 1-8-01)
§ 20.314 FEES.
   (A)   Fees will be assessed as part of the application for a development
permit and for a hearing for an appeal or a variance to cover the cost incurred
in processing such applications and holding such hearings.
   (B)   The City Commission will establish a schedule of fees and a policy for
their collection by resolution. The schedule of fees and the collection policy
may be amended by a resolution.
   (C)   No permit will be issued until all applicable fees have been paid in
full. Fees double if applicant begins work before a permit is issued.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.315 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by these regulations is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. These regulations do
not imply that land outside the areas of special flood hazards or uses
permitted within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. These
regulations shall not create liability on the part of the city or any of its
officers or employees or the Federal Insurance Administration for any flood
damages that result from reliance on these regulations or any administrative
decision made lawfully thereunder.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.316 NUISANCE DECLARATION.
   Any building or structure that is erected, altered or moved into this city
or moved within the city and maintained or used, and any use of land which is
begun, maintained or changed in violation of any provision of these regulations
is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 20.399 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   Any person violating any provision of the City of Clio Flood Damage
Prevention Regulations shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
and subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this Code.
(Ord. 174, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE IV: VACANT AND ABANDONED PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
20.401   Purpose
   
20.402   Definitions
   
20.403   Registration of vacant or abandoned structure
   
20.404   Mortgagee’s obligation to determine vacancy or abandonment
   
20.405   Registration form
   
20.406   Requirement to keep information current
   
20.407   Inspections
   
20.408   Registration, inspection, and other fees
   
20.409   Maintenance and security requirements
   
20.410   Re-occupancy
   
20.499   Penalty
§ 20.401 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to help protect the health, safety, and
welfare of the public by preventing blight, protecting property values and
neighborhood integrity, avoiding the creation of nuisances, and ensuring the
safe and sanitary maintenance of dwellings, commercial buildings, and
industrial buildings. Further, it is important for the city to be able to
contact owners of vacant or abandoned structures for property maintenance, fire
safety, and police purposes.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The official authorized to issue a certificate of
compliance by the city's Code Official.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The official who is charged with the administration and
enforcement of this article, or their designee.
   FORECLOSURE. The process by which a mortgage is enforced against a parcel of
real property through sale or offering for sale to satisfy the debt of the
trustor (borrower).
   MORTGAGE. A recorded lien or interest in real property to secure payment of
a loan.
   MORTGAGEE. A person, firm, or corporation holding a mortgage on a property.
   OWNER. An individual, co-partnership, association, corporation, company,
fiduciary, or other person or legal entity having a legal or equitable title to
real property, any lender under a note secured by a mortgage, or any person,
firm, or corporation holding a mortgage on a residential structure that has
initiated, is in the process of, or has completed foreclosure proceedings,
filed a complaint for foreclosure by judicial action or is publishing a notice
of foreclosure by advertisement.
   VACANT or ABANDONED STRUCTURE. An improved lot or parcel of real property
with at least one building or structure that is not currently used and lawfully
occupied and has not been used and lawfully occupied for a period of at least
180 consecutive days and meets one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   Is open to casual entry or trespass;
      (2)   Has been boarded or partially boarded restricting ingress and
egress through windows and/or doors for at least 30 consecutive days;
      (3)   Has windows covered with paper or cardboard or similar material or
painted for at least 30 consecutive days;
      (4)   Has either water, sewer, electric, or gas, or any of the foregoing
disconnected or not in use for a period of at least 30 consecutive days;
      (5)   The meter for water or sewer fails to record a read for a period of
at least 180 consecutive days;
      (6)   Demonstrates a lack of property maintenance and upkeep as evidenced
by one or more current violations of the city's property maintenance code;
      (7)   Has had its wiring, plumbing, or other fixtures essential for
occupancy removed;
      (8)   A commercial building or an industrial building where normal weekly
operating hours of at least five hours have not been maintained for a period of
at least 30 days;
      (9)   Has real estate taxes in arrears for a period of time exceeding 365
days; or
      (10) The owner has no intent to return to or maintain the property.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.403 REGISTRATION OF VACANT OR ABANDONED STRUCTURE.
   An owner of a vacant or abandoned structure in the city shall register that
property with the Code Official by filing a completed registration of vacant or
abandoned structure form containing all the information required by this
article on forms provided by the Code Official, and by paying any registration
and inspection fees required by this article within 180 days of its vacancy or
abandonment.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.404 MORTGAGEE’S OBLIGATION TO DETERMINE VACANCY OR ABANDONMENT.
   A mortgagee who becomes an owner, as defined herein, as a result of the
initiation of foreclosure proceedings, shall at all times exercise reasonable
care to determine if the property is vacant or abandoned. If the mortgagee
determines the property is vacant or abandoned, or if through the exercise of
reasonable care should have determined the property is vacant or abandoned, the
mortgagee shall comply with the registration requirements of this article.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.405 REGISTRATION FORM.
   Owners who are required to register their properties pursuant to this
article shall do so by submitting a completed registration of vacant or
abandoned structure form containing the information specified in this section.
The form may be provided by an agent for an owner provided the agent's written
authorization from the owner is provided with the form. The form shall include
all of the following information:
   (A)   The address of the property and the name and address of all owners of
the property. If the property owner is a limited liability company, the name
and address of the managing member. If there are no managing members, the name
and address of all members. If any of the members or managing members required
to be disclosed under this section are limited liability companies, the process
must be repeated until names and addresses of individuals are identified;
   (B)   A mailing address where mail may be sent that will be acknowledged as
received by the owner;
   (C)   The name of an individual or legal entity responsible for the care and
control of the property as well as the current address, telephone number,
facsimile number, and email address where communications may be sent that will
be acknowledged as received by the individual responsible for the care and
control of the property;
   (D)   The name and address of any agent submitting the form on behalf of the
owner;
   (E)   An explanation as to the reason for the vacancy of the property;
   (F)   The name and address of any and all mortgage holders; and
   (G)   The name and address of any other persons with a property interest in
the subject property.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.406 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP INFORMATION CURRENT.
   If at any time the information contained in the registration form required
pursuant to this article is no longer valid, the owner shall, within ten days,
file a new form containing valid, current information.
There shall be no fee to update an existing registered owner's current
information.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.407 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Vacant or abandoned structures, including the surrounding real
property, required to be registered in accordance with this article, shall be
subject to an initial inspection by the Code Official, upon registration, and
annually thereafter to ensure the safety, security, and maintenance of the
property until lawfully occupied in accordance with §
20.410. The owner shall pay the inspection fee pursuant to §
20.408 hereunder.
   (B)   Following the initial inspection, in order to ensure that vacant or
abandoned structures are safe, secured, and well-maintained, all vacant or
abandoned structures, including the surrounding real property, shall be subject
to additional inspections on one or more of the following basis:
      (1)   By area, such as an entire block, neighborhood, or historic
district, such that all vacant or abandoned properties in a predetermined
geographical area will be inspected simultaneously, or within a short period of
time;
      (2)   By complaint, such that complaints of property maintenance
violations or violations of the requirements of this article shall be inspected
within a reasonable time;
      (3)   By recurrent violations, such that any property which is found to
have a high incidence of recurrent or uncorrected violations may be inspected
more frequently;
      (4)   Whenever reasonable cause exists to believe that there is a
violation of the property maintenance code or this article on any vacant or
abandoned structure or other conditions which makes the structure or premises
unsafe, dangerous, or hazardous; or
      (5)   For the purpose of re-inspection to ensure the correction of any
violations in existence at a previous inspection.
   (C)   Any violations of the City Code or this article which are detected
upon any of the inspections by the Code Official shall be fully repaired and
remedied within 30 days of notice to the owner, or within such additional time
as permitted by the Code Official.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.408 REGISTRATION, INSPECTION, AND OTHER FEES.
   All fees applicable to this article shall be set from time to time by
resolution of the City Commission, which fees shall include a registration fee,
an inspection fee, a re-inspection fee, a certificate of compliance fee, and
such other related fees established by resolution of the City Commission. The
payment of all fees required under this article is secured by a lien against
the property subject to enforcement in the same manner as ad valorem real
property taxes. Payment of the registration and inspection fee is due upon
filing of the registration. Payment of re-inspection fees are due within 30
days of mailing of the bill.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.409 MAINTENANCE AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   An owner of a vacant or abandoned structure shall comply with all of the
following maintenance and security requirements.
   (A)   Property shall be kept free from weeds, grass more than seven inches
high, dry brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris, or building materials;
any accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers, or notices, except those
required by federal, state, or local law; discarded items, including, but not
limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances, printed material,
signage, containers, equipment, construction materials or any other items that
give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (B)   Property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging, or similar
markings.
   (C)   All yards shall be landscaped and properly maintained. Landscaping
includes, but is not limited to, grass, ground covers, bushes, trees, shrubs,
hedges, or similar plantings. Maintenance includes, but is not limited to,
cutting, pruning, and mowing of required landscaping and removal of all
trimmings.
   (D)   Pools, spas, and other water features shall be covered with an
industry approved safety cover and shall also comply with the minimum-security
fencing and barrier requirements of applicable building and existing
structures/property maintenance codes and ordinances.
   (E)   Property shall be maintained in a secure manner so as not to be
accessible to unauthorized persons. Secure manner includes, but is not limited
to, the closure and locking of windows, doors, gates and any other opening of
such size that may allow a child or other person to access the interior of the
property and/or structures. Broken windows must be repaired or replaced with
like glazing materials within 14 days, except as otherwise provided in the
Existing Structures Code. Boarding up of open or broken windows is prohibited
except as authorized by the Code Official.
   (F)   All vacant or abandoned structures shall have the building properly
winterized so as to prevent the bursting of water pipes.
   (G)   Property shall be maintained in compliance with all other applicable
code requirements.
   (H)   Adjoining sidewalks shall be kept free of accumulations of snow and
ice.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.410 RE-OCCUPANCY.
   Vacant or abandoned structures shall not be occupied until a certificate of
compliance has been issued by the Code Official within 30 days immediately
prior to occupancy, and all violations have been fully repaired and remedied.
All mechanical, electrical, plumbing, and structural systems shall be certified
by a licensed contractor as being in good operation and repair. In addition, a
certificate of compliance shall not be issued until all outstanding costs,
assessments, and/or liens owed to the city have been paid in full.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
§ 20.499 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be responsible for
a municipal civil infraction and subject to the penalties and sanctions
provided by this code.
(Ord. 496, passed 4-16-18; amended by Ord. 504, passed 4-1-19)
CHAPTER 25: EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
   Article
      I.   COST RECOVERY PROCEDURES
      II.   PUBLIC SAFETY AND FIRE EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
ARTICLE I: COST RECOVERY PROCEDURES
Section
   
25.101   Purpose
   
25.102   Definitions
   
25.103   Liability for expenses of an emergency response
§ 25.101 PURPOSE.
   The City Commission finds that a significant number of traffic arrests and
traffic accidents in the City of Clio involve drivers who were operating a
motor vehicle while under the influence of alcoholic beverages and controlled
substances, or both. In addition, the City Commission finds that there is a
greater likelihood of personal injury and property damage in traffic accidents
involving drivers who were operating a motor vehicle while under the influence
of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances, or both. As a result,
additional operational and financial burdens are placed upon the city’s Police
Department and other city services by persons who are operating a motor vehicle
while under the influence of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances, or
both.
(Ord. 244, passed 11-2-92; amended by Ord. 285, passed 9-1-96, Codification
Ordinance)
§ 25.102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §
25.103 of this Code, the following definitions apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning:
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
      (1)   The providing, sending, or otherwise utilizing police or other city
services by the city or by private individuals or corporations operating at the
request or direction of the city, to an incident resulting in an accident
involving one or more motor vehicles operated by one or more drivers who were
impaired or under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled
substance, or both, or
      (2)   The providing, sending or otherwise utilizing police or other city
services by the city or by private individuals or corporations operating at the
request or direction of the city, to an incident resulting in a traffic stop
and arrest of a driver who was operating a vehicle while impaired by or under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled substance, or both.
   EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.  The direct and reasonable costs incurred
by the city or by a private person or corporation operating at the request or
direction of the city in the course of emergency response to the incident,
including the costs of providing police or other city services atthe scene of
the incident. These costs further include all of the salaries and wages of city
personnel responding to the incident, all salaries and wages of city personnel
engaged in the investigation, supervision and preparation of reports and all
cost connected with the administration and preparation of all chemical tests of
the driver’s blood, breath or urine.
(Ord. 244, passed 11-2-92; amended by Ord. 285, passed 9-1-96, Codification
Ordinance)
§ 25.103 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSES OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   A person is responsible for the expense of an emergency response, if
such person’s operation of a motor vehicle causes the need for an emergency
response.
   (B)   The operator of a motor vehicle is considered impaired when:
      (1)   While under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled
substance, or both, her or his physical or mental abilities are impaired to a
degree that he or she no longer has the ability to operate a motor vehicle with
the caution characteristic of a sober person of ordinary prudence, or
      (2)   A chemical analysis of her or his blood, urine or breath indicated
that the amount of alcohol in her or his blood was in excess of seven one-
hundredth of one percent (0.07%), or in excess of two one-hundredths of one
percent (0.02%) if the motor vehicle operator is charged under the uniform
traffic code, as amended.
   (C)   Upon being convicted of operating a motor vehicle while impaired or
under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or controlled substance, or both,
the person responsible for an emergency response will be charged for the
expense of an emergency response based on actual costs incurred by the city.
Upon notification by the Chief of Police of the conviction, the City Treasurer
will submit a bill by first class mail or by personal service to that person.
The charge constitutes a debt of that person and is collectible by the city in
the same manner as in the case of an obligation under express or implied
contract. Payment is due 30 days from the date of service. Any failure to pay
after that date shall be considered a default. In that case, the city may
commence any lawful means to recover such payments plus any other costs allowed
by law.
(Ord. 244, passed 11-2-92; amended by Ord. 285, passed 9-1-96, Codification
Ordinance)
ARTICLE II: PUBLIC SAFETY AND FIRE EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
Section
   
25.201   Purpose
   
25.202   Definitions
   
25.203   Cost recovery authorization and procedure
   
25.204   Billing and collection of assessable costs
   
25.205   Procedure for appealing assessable costs
   
25.206   Enforcement of assessable costs
   
25.207   Other remedies
   
25.208   No limitation of liability
Cross-reference:
   Hazardous materials regulations, see
Ch. 40.
§ 25.201 PURPOSE.
   In order to protect the city and the fire authority from extraordinary
expenses resulting from the utilization of city or fire authority resources in
response to certain public safety or fire emergency incidents, this article
authorizes the imposition of charges to recover actual costs incurred by the
city or fire authority in responding to such incidents, pursuant to the
authority granted to cities by state law, being M.C.L.A. § 41.806(a).
(Ord. 324, passed 6-18-01)
§ 25.202 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of the
terms used in this article shall be as follows:
   ASSESSABLE COSTS. Those costs for services incurred by the city for police,
fire and emergency personnel in connection with a response to a public safety
or fire emergency incident, including, but not limited to, the actual labor and
material costs of the city (including, without limitation, employee wages,
fringe benefits, administrative overhead, costs of equipment, costs of
equipment operation, costs of materials, costs of transportation, costs of
material disposal and costs of contracted labor) whether or not the services
are provided by the city or by a third party on behalf of the city; service
charges and interest; attorneys' fees, litigation costs and any costs, fines or
penalties to the city imposed by any court or state or federal governmental
entities.
   BOMB THREATS. The verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device which if discharged as threatened would violate a federal, state or
local law. (M.C.L.A. § 750.411a.)
   EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Emergency medical, public safety, police, fire and
civil defense services.
   EXCESSIVE REQUESTS FOR EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE. Any request for emergency
assistance made to a particular location or premises if such location or
premises has requested emergency assistance more than five times in the
preceding 30 days.
   FALSE ALARM. Any automated or manual device designed to request or summon
emergency assistance which device is activated intentionally or otherwise, in
the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The determination that
there was no actual need for emergency assistance shall be made by the most
senior person responding to a false alarm. Provided, however, a false alarm
shall not be deemed to have occurred if:
      (1) Caused by an act of God, i.e., a lightning storm; or
      (2) It originates from a motor vehicle alarm system.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY. Any occurrence, incident,
activity, accident or emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs
or is reasonably imminent and where the fire chief or his or her designee has
so declared such activity, accident or emergency a hazardous material incident
or emergency.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any materials which are potentially harmful to the
environment or human or animal life, or which create an unreasonable or
imminent risk to life, health or safety of person or property, or to the
ecological balance of the environment as determined by the fire chief or the
senior fire official in charge at the scene, including but not limited to
hazardous substances as defined in Act 71 of Michigan Public Acts of 1995
(being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.20101 et seq.), as amended, and any other substances
that have been classified by the local, state or federal government or any of
their departments or agencies to be hazardous or toxic, i.e., elements,
substances, wastes or by-products, including but not limited to, combustible
liquid, flammable gas, explosives, flammables, poisons, organic peroxides,
oxidizers, pyrophorics, unstable reactive matter, water reactive matter,
petroleum products, anti-freeze, polychlorinated biphenyls and asbestos.
   ILLEGAL FIRE. A fire set or determined to have been set in violation of a
federal, state, or local law and shall include an arson fire and a fire set in
violation of a "no burning" ban or order. An illegal fire does not include an
unintentional fire or fire caused by an act of God, i.e., lightning storm.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any self-propelled or towed vehicle designed or used on the
public streets, roads and highways to transport passengers or property which is
required to be registered for use upon such public streets, roads and highways
and for the purposes hereof all trailers or appurtenances attached to any motor
vehicle.
   PUBLIC SAFETY OR FIRE EMERGENCY INCIDENT.  
      (1) Excessive requests for emergency assistance;
      (2) A false alarm;
      (3) A hazardous material incident or emergency;
      (4) An illegal fire;
      (5) Bomb threats;
      (6) Threats of harm to oneself or others;
      (7) A structure demolition; or
      (8) A utility line failure.
   RELEASE. Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping or disposing into
the environment, including, but not limited to the air, soil, groundwater and
surface water.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual or any individual's parent or legal
guardian, in the case of a minor, any firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture, government entity or
any other legal entity that is responsible for a public safety or fire
emergency incident, either actual or threatened, or is an owner, as defined in
Act 71 of Michigan Public Acts of 1995 (being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.20101 et seq.),
as amended, tenant, occupant or party in control of real and personal property
from which, onto which or related to which there is a public safety or fire
emergency incident, and their heirs, estates, successors and assigns.
   STRUCTURE DEMOLITION. The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire which
must in the opinion of the fire chief or his or her designee be promptly
demolished following the fire to protect public safety.
   THREATS OF HARM TO ONESELF OR OTHERS. The verbal or written threat of
physical harm to oneself or another or another's property which if carried out
would be a violation of federal, state, or local law.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE. The disabling of any transmission or service line,
cable, conduit, pipeline, wire or the like used to provide, collect or
transport electricity, natural gas, communication or electronic signals
(including, but not limited to, telephone, computer, cable television and
stereo signals or electronic impulses), water or sanitary or storm sewage if
the owner or party responsible for the maintenance of such utility line or
party responsible for the utility line failure does not respond within one hour
to a request to repair or correct such failure.
(Ord. 324, passed 6-18-01)
§ 25.203 COST RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city may recover all assessable costs allowable by law in
connection with a public safety or fire emergency incident from any or all
responsible parties jointly or severally and as specifically allowed for under
M.C.L.A. § 750.411a.
   (B)   The City Administrator or his or her designee shall determine the
total costs for the public safety or fire emergency incident and shall in
consultation with other city personnel involved in responding to a public
safety or fire emergency incident determine whether to assess any, all or part
of such costs against any of the responsible parties. In making such
determination, the following shall be considered:
      (1)   The total assessable costs for bomb threats; emergency assistance;
excessive requests for emergency assistance; false alarm; release of hazardous
materials; creating a hazardous material incident or emergency; illegal fire or
other public safety or fire emergency incident;
      (2)   The risk the pubic safety or fire emergency incident imposed on the
city, its residents and their property;
      (3)   Whether there was any injury or damage to person, property or motor
vehicle;
      (4)   Whether the public safety or fire emergency incident required
evacuation;
      (5)   The extent the public safety or fire emergency incident required an
unusual or extraordinary use of city personnel and equipment;
      (6)   Whether there was any damage to the environment and who is the
responsible party;
      (7)   Whether structure demolition will be required;
      (8)   Whether the emergency incident was the result of a utility line
failure; and
      (9)   Whether the emergency incident involved the making of threats of
harm to oneself or others.
   (C)   After consideration of the factors in (B) immediately above, the City
Administrator may allocate assessable costs among and between responsible
parties, including allocating all or some of such costs jointly and severally
against more than one responsible party regardless of whether a responsible
party has other legal liability therefor or is legally at fault.
   (D)   If the City Administrator determines not to assess all or a portion of
assessable costs against a responsible party, such determination shall not in
any way limit or extinguish the liability of the responsible party to other
parties.
   (E)   The City Commission shall adopt a cost recovery schedule for
assessable costs which may be amended from time to time by resolution of the
City Commission.
(Ord. 324, passed 6-18-01)
§ 25.204 BILLING AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   After determining to assess assessable costs against a responsible party, a
representative of the city will mail an itemized invoice to the responsible
party at its last known address. Such invoice shall be due and payable within
30 days of the date of mailing and any amounts unpaid after such date shall
bear a late payment fee equal to one percent (1 %) per month or fraction
thereof that the amount due and any previously imposed late payment fee remains
unpaid. If a responsible party shall appeal assessable costs pursuant to §
25.205 hereof, such costs, if upheld, in whole or in part, shall be due and
payable 30 days from the date of determination of the appeal and any late
payment fees shall apply thereafter.
(Ord. 324, passed 6-18-01)
§ 25.205 PROCEDURE FOR APPEALING ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   Any responsible party who receives an invoice for assessable costs shall
have an opportunity to meet with the City Administrator or his or her designee
to request a modification of assessable costs. The responsible party shall
request in writing such meeting within seven calendar days of the date of the
invoice assessing the assessable costs. If after meeting with the City
Administrator or his or her designee the responsible party is still not
satisfied, he or she may appear before the City Commission to further request a
modification of assessable costs. A responsible party who desires to appear
before the City Commission must first meet with the City Administrator or his
or her designee as provided above and shall file a written request to appear
before the City Commission with the City Clerk within seven calendar days of
the date of the meeting with the City Administrator. Upon receipt of such
request, the City Clerk will place the responsible party on the agenda of the
next regularly scheduled City Commission meeting, which meeting is at least 14
calendar days after the date on which the responsible party files the request
to appear. Any filed request to appear shall specifically identify and explain
all reasons why the responsible party believes the assessed costs should be
modified. Any reason, basis or argument for modification of assessable costs
not set forth in the request to appear shall be deemed waived by the
responsible party, unless the information presented is new matter that was
unknown to the applicant at the time the request to appear before the
Commission was made. Failure to timely file a written request to appear shall
constitute a waiver of the responsible party's right to appear before the City
Commission; and shall further constitute the responsible party's agreement to
pay the assessable costs invoiced. After a responsible party has been given an
opportunity to appear before it, the City Commission shall promptly determine
whether to confirm, modify or void the payment of assessable costs invoiced.
(Ord. 324, passed 6-18-01)
§ 25.206 ENFORCEMENT OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   Assessable costs assessed against a responsible party not paid when due
shall entitle the governmental unit to take any steps allowed by law, including
commencing civil litigation, to collect the same.
(Ord. 324, passed 6-18-01)
§ 25.207 OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to the remedy set forth in §
25.206 above, the city shall be entitled to pursue any other remedy or may
institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of competent
jurisdiction as permitted by law to collect assessable costs from a responsible
party.
(Ord. 324, passed 6-18-01)
§ 25.208 NO LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The recovery of assessable costs pursuant hereto does not limit the
liability of a responsible party under applicable local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 324, passed 6-18-01)
CHAPTER 30: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   Article
      
I.   OPEN BURNING
      
II.   FIREWORKS
      
III.   FIRE CODE
ARTICLE I: OPEN BURNING
Section
   
30.101   Title
   
30.102   Purpose
   
30.103   Prohibited open burning
   
30.104   Permitted open burning; restrictions; permits; fees
   
30.105   Compliance with federal and state law
   
30.199   Violations; municipal civil infractions; authorized city officials;
civil fines and sanctions
§ 30.101 TITLE.
   Sections
30.102 through
30.105 of this Code, inclusive, shall be known as and may be cited as the "City
of Clio Open Burning Ordinance."
(Ord. 317, passed 1-8-01)
§ 30.102 PURPOSE.
   To preserve and protect the public health, safety and general welfare of the
citizens of the city, this article is to prohibit certain types of open burning
within the city and to regulate and control certain limited types of open
burning within the city subject to restrictions as set forth in this article.
(Ord. 317, passed 1-8-01)
§ 30.103 PROHIBITED OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall dispose of any refuse within the city other than by means of
an approved incinerator, use of recycling, an approved garbage disposal unit,
or a private refuse collector duly licensed by the city. The following types of
open burning are expressly prohibited within the city. No person or entity
shall burn or cause to be burned outside the following types of materials
unless otherwise permitted under §
30.104.
   (A)   The open burning of leaves, dead grass, grass clippings, hedge
clippings, weeds and similar types of materials.
   (B)   The open burning of trees, logs, tree trimmings, branches, stumps,
brush and similar types of materials unless burned in a bonfire regulated and
permitted under §
30.104 and with a valid permit therefor.
   (C)   The open burning of building debris or construction debris by a
general contractor, sub-contractor, property owner, or their agents or
employees, or by any other person or entity.
   (D)   The open burning or burying of rubbish, refuse, trash, waste, paper,
garbage, or other types of waste materials on any premises, public or private.
   (E)   The open burning of any materials by a general contractor, sub-
contractor, property owner, their agents or employees, or by any other person
or entity for the purpose of melting, thawing or warming the sand or ground
around, at or near a construction site. The use of a propane tank/flame shall
be permitted for such melting, thawing or warming purposes.
   (F)   The open burning of all other materials not permitted under §
30.104.
(Ord. 317, passed 1-8-01) Penalty, see §
30.199
§ 30.104 PERMITTED OPEN BURNING; RESTRICTIONS; PERMITS; FEES.
   The following types of limited open burning shall be permitted within the
city subject to the restrictions set forth herein.
   (A)   Open burning within an outside grill or barbecue for the express
limited purpose of food preparation.
   (B)   Open burning by the use of safety flares for the protection of
motorist and to assist motorist by calling attention to an accident or disabled
vehicle.
   (C)   Heating for the warmth of workers and similar occupational needs. Open
burning shall be allowed after obtaining a permit or other proper authorization
from the Fire Chief, or their designees for heating for warmth of outdoor
workers and heating for similar occupational needs.
   (D)   Fires for the heating of outdoor building sites are permitted provided
such fires are confined to so called "salamander" heaters or similar devices.
These outdoor fires are permitted when necessary to pursue a business or trade
requiring the use of fire, including by the way of example, but not necessarily
by way of limitation, the heating, boiling of tar, pitch, or oil or other
substances when used by licensed roofers, and other licensed tradesmen.
   (E)   Commercial and industrial type incinerators used for burning of
combustible solid waste material (non-garbage) are permitted provided that the
emission of smoke and fumes do not irritate, annoy or constitute a nuisance to
others living in the neighborhood. They shall be provided with approved spark
arresters or other effective means for arresting sparks and flying particles.
Furthermore, the operation of such incinerator shall meet all emissions limits
as set forth by state and federal regulations. State of Michigan permits are
required before and during the operations of such incinerators.
   (F)   Open burning of bonfires for recreational purposes only, provided that
any such bonfire shall be no more than five feet (1524 mm) in diameter, five
feet in height, shall not burn longer than three hours, and shall be at least
30 feet from all property lines and 50 feet from all structures. No such
bonfires shall be done prior to 7:00 a.m., and must not be continued after 10:
00 p.m. on any day. Bonfires shall be permitted only after application to the
city for a permit therefor and after issuance of a valid written permit by the
city for such bonfire. The permit issued in such instances shall indicate the
date(s) and time(s) when such bonfire(s) will be permitted. All bonfires shall
be under the direct and constant supervision and control of a person at least
18 years of age. Fire extinguishing equipment shall be available for immediate
use. The City Commission may establish by resolution a permit fee to be paid to
the city prior to the issuance of any permit under this section.
      (1)   Materials used for open burning for bon-fire(s) shall consist only
of seasoned dry firewood and be ignited with a small quantity of paper. The use
of refuse, waste, trash, garbage, tires, stumps, cardboard, lumber, furniture,
grass, leaves, brush, evergreens, roof covering, flammable liquids, fabric,
cloth or other material not approved by the Fire Chief, Code Enforcement
Officer, or their designees as fuel is prohibited.
      (2)   The fire extinguisher shall be a minimum of a 4-A rating or two
portable fire extinguishers with a minimum 2-A rating each. Other approved on-
site fire extinguishing equipment may be required. This would include, but
would not be limited to: dirt, sand, water barrel, garden hose or water truck,
and other agents authorized by the Fire Chief, Code Enforcement Officer, or
their designees and these items shall be available for immediate utilization.
   (G)   The open burning of structures and/or materials by the Clio Area Fire
Authority, the Fire Chief, members of the Clio Area Fire Authority, and by
trainees or other persons under the direct supervision and control of the Clio
Area Fire Authority, the Fire Chief or members of the Clio Area Fire Authority
when such open burning is for training, educational or instructional purposes
related to fire safety, fire control, fire fighting, life saving, and/or fire
prevention.
   (H)   The use of a device specifically designed to allow for the burning of
seasoned dry firewood on a deck or patio shall be allowed. Such device shall be
pre-manufactured and have passed all safety specifications needed for sale to
the general public. This section applies to such devices as a patio hearth with
fire screens, chimenea, and other similar products.
   (I)   Outdoor fireplaces are permitted for open burning. Seasoned dry
firewood and natural gas/propane are the only materials allowed to burn inside
air outdoor fireplace.
   (J)   Any future device that is sold to the general public, meeting all
necessary fire codes, that expressively complies with the spirit of this
article upon approval from the Code Enforcement Officer and the Fire Chief.
   (K)   Open burning permitted under this section shall not result in the
emitting of burning sparks or burning embers upon adjoining, adjacent,
neighboring or nearby properties or premises.
   (L)   Open burning limitations: Open burning is prohibited when atmospheric
conditions or local circumstances make such fires hazardous. Open burning
deemed to be offensive or objectionable by the Code Enforcement Officer, police
officer, Fire Chief or their designees due to smoke or odor emission shall be
prohibited.
   (M) All open burning permitted under this section shall be conducted and
performed in such a manner so as not to endanger the health, safety or welfare
of the public or to endanger public or private property.
   (N)   Extinguishment; revocation of permit: Any open burning in violation of
this code shall be extinguished by the permit holder or the fire department
(Authority), and the permit shall be revoked. The permit holder and all other
parties involved are subject to §
30.199.
   (O)   With regard to this section, the Code Enforcement Officer, Fire Chief,
or a police officer shall have full discretion with regard to whether or not
the material being used is considered seasoned dry wood.
(Ord. 317, passed 1-8-01) Penalty, see §
30.199
§ 30.105 COMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL AND STATE LAW.
   Notwithstanding anything set forth in this article, all open burning
permitted under the terms and provisions of this article shall also be
conducted and performed in compliance with all federal and state laws,
statutes, rules and regulations applicable thereto.
(Ord. 317, passed 1-8-01)
§ 30.199 VIOLATIONS; MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS; AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS;
CIVIL, FINES AND SANCTIONS.
   Any violation of any provision of this article or of any permit granted
hereunder, or of any lawful order of the Fire Chief, Code Enforcement Officer,
police officer, or their designees issued in pursuance
of this article shall be and shall constitute a municipal civil infraction. A
"violation" includes any act which is prohibited or made or declared to be
unlawful or any offense by this article and any omission or failure to act
where the act is required by this article.
   (A)   The sanction for any violation of this article, which constitutes a
municipal civil infraction, shall be a civil fine as provided hereunder, plus
any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions, as authorized and permitted
under Chapter 87 of the Public Acts of 1961, Act No. 236, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. § 27a.8701 et seq., and under other applicable laws.
      (1)   Any person, individual, firm, partnership, co-partnership,
corporation, company, association, club, joint venture, and any other group,
entity or association acting as a unit, and the individuals constituting such
group, entity or unit, who, as a result of violating any provision of this
article, is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, shall pay a civil
fine of not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other sanctions as
authorized and permitted by law, for each municipal civil infraction.
      (2)   Repeat violations shall be subject to increased civil fines as set
forth below. As used in this section, "repeat violation" means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provision of this article committed by a violating party within any 12-month
period and for which the violating party admits responsibility or is determined
to be responsible. The increased civil fine for a repeat violation under this
article shall be as follows:
         (a)   The civil fine for any violation which is a repeat violation
shall be no less than $250 plus costs and other sanctions as authorized and
permitted by law.
         (b)   The civil fine for any violation which is a second repeat
violation or any subsequent repeat violation shall be no less than $500 plus
costs and other sanction as authorized and permitted by law.
   (B)   (1)   A person, individual, firm, partnership, co-partnership,
corporation, company, association, club, joint venture, and any other group,
entity or association, acting as a unit, and the individuals constituting such
group, entity or unit, who, as a result of violating any provision of this
article, receives a municipal civil infraction violation notice, upon a
determination of responsibility thereon, shall pay a civil fine at the City
Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau as follows:
         (a)   $50 for the first violation.
         (b)   $250 for the first repeat violation.
         (c)   $500 for the second repeat violation and for any subsequent
repeat violation.
      (2)   The establishment of municipal civil infractions, the handling and
processing of municipal civil infraction violations, the establishment and
operation of the City Clio Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau, the
establishment and collection of civil fines and costs and other sanctions for
municipal civil infraction violations, and the handling and administration of
all matters incident to municipal civil infractions shall be expressly subject
to and governed by the provisions of Public Acts of 1961, Act 236, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. § 27a.8701 et seq., and all other applicable state statutes
related to municipal civil infractions.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee, and all police
officers of the city are the authorized city officials authorized to issue
municipal civil infraction violation notices for violations of this article.
(Ord. 317, passed 1-8-01)
ARTICLE II: FIREWORKS
Section
   
30.201   Title
   
30.202   Definitions
   
30.203   Furnishing fireworks to minors prohibited
   
30.204   Adult permitting minor to possess or use fireworks constitutes
violation
   
30.205   Possession or use of fireworks by minor prohibited
   
30.206   Use of any fireworks device prohibited during certain hours
   
30.207   Use of fireworks device prohibited in certain areas
   
30.208   Use of fireworks device within 25 feet of another person prohibited
   
30.299   Violations; penalties
Statutory reference:
   State fireworks regulations, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.243a et seq.
Cross-reference:
   Fireworks licensing regulations, see §§
45.901 et seq.
§ 30.201 TITLE.
   Sections
30.202 through
30.208 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and cited as the “City of Clio
Fireworks Regulations.”
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 30.202 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of these regulations, the following definitions apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   FIREWORKS. Toy torpedoes, railway torpedoes, firecrackers, salutes,
exhibition display pieces, aeroplane flares, illuminating projectiles,
incendiary projectiles, incendiary grenades, smoke projectiles, or bombs
containing expelling charges or bursting charges, flash powders in inner units,
flash sheets in interior packages, flash powder or spreader cartridges, sky
rockets, Roman candles, daygo bombs, bottle rockets, rockets, and other similar
devices containing an explosive or inflammable compound or a tablet or other
device commonly used and sold as fireworks containing nitrates, chlorates,
oxalates, sulphides of lead, barium, antimony, arsenic, mercury,
nitroglycerine, phosphorus, or a compound containing these or other modern
explosives. The term FIREWORKS shall not mean flat paper caps containing not
more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive content per cap, in packages labeled to
indicate the maximum explosive content per cap; sparklers containing not more
than .0125 pounds of burning portion per sparkler; flitter sparklers in paper
tubes not exceeding inch in diameter; toy snakes not containing mercury; or
highway signal flares.
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance)
§ 30.203 FURNISHING FIREWORKS TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to sell, give, or furnish
any fireworks device to any person under the age of 18 years of age.
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
30.299
§ 30.204 ADULT PERMITTING MINOR TO POSSESS OR USE FIREWORKS CONSTITUTES
VIOLATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any adult, having the supervision or control of a
minor under 18 years of age, to permit such minor to possess or use any
fireworks device within the city.
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
30.299
§ 30.205 POSSESSION OR USE OF FIREWORKS BY MINOR PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor to possess or use any fireworks device
within the city.
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
30.299
§ 30.206 USE OF ANY FIREWORKS DEVICE PROHIBITED DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether an adult or a minor, to use any
fireworks device intended to produce an audible effect between the hours of 10:
00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. in the city, except as authorized under a permit issued
by the City Administrator.
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
30.299
§ 30.207 USE OF FIREWORKS DEVICE PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN AREAS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether an adult or a minor, to use any
fireworks device, unless such use is authorized under a permit issued by the
City Administrator, in the following areas or places:
   (A)   Within 300 feet of any structure used as a residence or any public
building;
   (B)   Within any public park;
   (C)   On any public street or sidewalk;
   (D)   In any enclosed building;
   (E)   In any area public or private where three or more persons are gathered
within a radius of 100 feet.
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
30.299
§ 30.208 USE OF FIREWORKS DEVICE WITHIN 25 FEET OF ANOTHER PERSON PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether an adult or a minor, to
use any fireworks device within 25 feet of a person other than the user.
   (B)   All permits issued by the City Administrator pursuant to this article
shall prominently display the following warning:
   “NO FIREWORKS SERVICE SHALL BE USED WITHIN 25 FEET
   OF A PERSON OTHER THAN THE USER.”
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
30.299
§ 30.299 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation, who violates any provision of
the City of Clio Fireworks Regulations shall be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction and subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this
Code.
(Ord. 166, passed 6-19-78; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE III: FIRE CODE
Section
   
30.301   Adoption of International Fire Code
   
30.302   Additions, insertions and changes
§ 30.301 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   That a certain document, copy of which is on file in the office of the Clerk
of the City of Clio, being marked and designated as the International Fire
Code, 2021 edition, as published by the International Code Council, including
all appendices and future amendments, be and is hereby adopted by reference as
the Fire Code of the City of Clio, in the State of Michigan regulating and
governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards
arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, material
and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property from fire and
explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous
substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or
property in the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided;
providing for the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
said Fire Code on file in the office of the City of Clio are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part thereof, as if fully set out in this article, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
30.302 of this article.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-17-12; amended by Ord. 532, passed 1-6-25)
§ 30.302 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, AND CHANGES.
   That the International Fire Code 2021 is amended and revised in the
following sections:
   (A)   101.1 Title. These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the
City of Clio/Clio Area Fire Authority, herein after referred to as “this code.”
   (B)   103.1 Creation of Agency. The Clio Area Fire Authority is hereby
created and the official in charge thereof shall be known as the Fire Code
Official. The function of the agency shall be implementation, administration
and enforcement of the provisions of this code.
   (C)   103.2 Appointment. The Fire Code Official shall be appointed by the
Chief Appointing Authority of the Clio Area Fire Authority.
   (D)   112.4 Violation penalties. Any person, firm, corporation or legal
entity who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to comply with
any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair or
do work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the
Fire Code Official, or of a permit or certificate used under provision of this
code, shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and be subject to
the following:
      1.   First offense: The civil fine for a first-offense infraction shall
be no less than $150;
      2.   Second offense: The civil fine for a second-offense infraction shall
be no less than $250;
      3.   Repeat offense: The civil fine for any infraction which is a third
or greater offense shall be no less than $500.
      4.   Each day a violation continues after due notice has been served
shall be deemed a separate offense.
      5.   In addition to the above civil fines, upon an admission or finding
of responsibility for a violation of this code, the city shall also be entitled
to reimbursement for all costs, expenses, and/or charges incurred by the city
in prosecuting the violation.
      6.   The city may also utilize all other sanctions and remedies
authorized and provided for in Chapter 600 of the Revised Judicature Act of
1961, Subchapter 87, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701-600.8735, as amended, in
prosecuting violations of this code.
      7.   Failure of an alleged violator to appear within the time specified
by the court for a violation of this code at the time scheduled for hearing or
appearance shall be a misdemeanor and the penalty shall be a fine not to exceed
$500, or imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a term not exceeding 90
days, or both fine and imprisonment.
      8.   A municipal civil infraction action brought for any violation of
this code shall follow the procedures set forth in Chapter 600 of the Revised
Judicature Act of 1961, including Subchapter 87 therein, specifically M.C.L.A.
§§ 600.8701-600.8735, as amended.
   (E)   1103.5.3 Group I-2, Condition 2. In addition to the requirements of
Section 1103.5.2, existing buildings of Group I-2, Condition 2 occupancy shall
be equipped throughout with an approved automatic sprinkler system in
accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. The automatic sprinkler system shall be
installed before an Occupancy Permit is issued and/or otherwise in compliance
with the City of Clio Zoning Ordinance, all NFPA requirements and this code.
   (F)   5704.2.9.6.1 Location of tanks above-ground tanks are prohibited.
Storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings is
prohibited within the City of Clio unless special land use approval in
compliance with the Charter Township of Vienna Zoning Ordinance, all NFPA
requirements and this code is obtained.
   (G)   5706.2.4.4 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited. The
storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited within
the City of Clio unless special land use approval in compliance with the City
of Clio Zoning Ordinance, all NFPA requirements and this code is obtained.
   (H)   5806.2 Limitations. Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in
stationary containers outside of buildings is prohibited within the City of
Clio unless special land use approval in compliance with the City of Clio
Zoning Ordinance, all NFPA requirements and this code is obtained.
   (I)   6104.2 Maximum capacity within established limits. Within the limits
established by law by restricting the storage of liquefied petroleum gas for
the protection of heavily populated or congested areas, the aggregate capacity
of any one installation shall not exceed a water capacity of 2,000 gallons
(7,570 L). This maximum capacity may not be increased unless special land use
approval in compliance with the City of Clio Zoning Ordinance, all NFPA
requirements and this code is obtained.
(Ord. 452, passed 9-17-12; amended by Ord. 532, passed 1-6-25)
CHAPTER 35: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
   Article
      
I.   CLIO GARBAGE AND TRASH COLLECTION AND REMOVAL REGULATIONS
ARTICLE I: CLIO GARBAGE AND TRASH COLLECTION AND REMOVAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
35.101   Title
   
35.102   Definitions
   
35.103   Garbage and trash collection and removal, general
   
35.104   Imposition of charges and fees; collection procedures
   
35.105   Use of fees collected
   
35.106   Depositing garbage in public places
   
35.199   Violations; penalties
 35.101 TITLE.
   Sections
35.102 through
35.106 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and cited as the City of Clio
Garbage and Trash Collection and Removal Regulations.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-5-73, amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
332, passed 9-17-01)
 35.102 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases take their plain, or ordinary and
usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a peculiar and
appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their technical
import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of these regulations, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning:
   ASHES. These are residue from fires used for cooking and heating.
   BULK ITEMS. These are waste items of large size not customarily suitable for
landfill disposal, such as discarded furniture and appliances, automobile
parts, water heaters and similar items.
   COMMERCIAL REFUSE. Mixed refuse generated by business establishments,
churches, schools, office buildings and other establishments engaged in
commerce.
   Clio - Garbage and Refuse
   COMMERCIAL UNIT. Any unit engaged in general or professional office, retail
sales, religious, educational, fraternal, or service activities on either a
profit or non-profit basis, and multiple family residential buildings meeting
the definition of such in the City of Clio Zoning Ordinance.
   CONSTRUCTION WASTE. These are waste materials resulting from alteration,
repair or construction of buildings or structures.
   HOUSEHOLD WASTES. All organic matter subject to rapid decomposition,
including animal and vegetable waste resulting from handling, preparation,
cooking and consumption of foods, and cardboard, paper, cartons, boxes, tin
cans, plastics, bottles, glass, crockery, clothing, toys, and similar
materials.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE. Ashes, bulk items, household waste and yard waste, but
does not include:
         (a)   Chunks of asphalt, concrete, dirt, sod, stumps or rock;
         (b)   Automobile parts greater than 4-feet in length and weighing more
than 40 pounds;
         (c)   Construction waste; or
         (d)   Waste of any kind from commercial units.
   RESIDENTIAL REFUSE COLLECTION CONTRACT. The contract entered into by the
city pursuant to the provisions of this Code, and any other additional
contracts entered into pursuant to this authority.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any single-family detached or single-family attached
dwelling unit in a structure of three units or less.
   RUBBISH. This is nonputrescible solid waste, excluding ashes, consisting of
both combustible and noncombustible waste, including paper, cardboard, metal
containers, wood, glass, crockery, or litter of any kind that may be a
detriment to public health and safety.
   WASTE HAULER. The person or firm with whom the city has signed the
residential refuse collection contract.
   YARD WASTES. This is waste residue from growing organic matter, including
branches less than four inches in diameter, twigs, shrub clippings, weeds,
leaves and grass, that accumulated in the yard of a residential unit naturally
or as a result of residential unit maintenance.
(Ord 132, passed 11-5-73, amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
332, passed 9-17-01)
 35.103 GARBAGE AND TRASH COLLECTION AND REMOVAL, GENERAL.
   (A)   The waste hauler will pick-up residential refuse at each residential
unit in the city. All other units in the city will make separate arrangements
for pick-up of their refuse.
   (B)   All residential refuse to be picked up by the waste hauler shall be
placed at the curb on the address where the refuse was generated or
accumulated. The refuse will be placed in water-tight metal or plastic
containers equipped with tight fitting covers or in plastic bags which are
securely tied. Containers and plastic bags shall not exceed a weight that a
single worker cannot lift into the waste hauler s vehicle.
   (C)   Bulk items for pick up will be placed at the same location as
residential refuse. Bulk items placed for pick up shall not exceed a weight
that two workers cannot lift into the waste hauler s vehicle.
   (D)   Yard waste for pick up will be placed at the same location as
residential refuse. Yard waste not placed in approved containers or bags will
not be picked up. Those items that cannot fit into containers or bags will be
tied in bundles which do not exceed four feet in length or weigh more than a
single worker can lift into the waste hauler s vehicle.
   (E)   No person shall place any receptacles for residential refuse at the
pick-up area more than 24 hours prior to the next regularly scheduled pick-up
day or the next special pick-up day as announced by the city. All receptacles
for the storage of residential refuse shall be removed from the pick-up area
within 24 hours after the collection by the waste hauler.
   (F)   If the owner of a residential unit is not the occupant of the unit,
such owner is jointly responsible with all occupants of such unit for
compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
   (G)   The city may also enter into agreements with any commercial unit for
the collection and removal of rubbish from such commercial unit on such terms
and conditions as may be established by the City Administrator. The rates and
charges for the services provided to such commercial unit shall be set by the
City Commission.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-5-73; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
391, passed 9-5-06)
 35.104 IMPOSITION OF CHARGES AND FEES; COLLECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The City Commission will determine by resolution the charges and fees
for the collection and disposal of residential refuse. The charges and fees
established by the City Commission will cover the cost of the residential
refuse collection contract first, and then such other legitimate costs for
providing the service.
   (B)   The charges and fees will apply to each residential unit receiving
residential refuse pick-up. The fee will be collected semi-annually through an
assessment applied to the real property tax statements of each residential unit
within the city.
   (C)   In the event that public dumpsters are provided for commercial use as
defined in §
35.106, the city reserves the right to collect all fees associated semi-
annually through an assessment applied to real property tax statements for
every parcel within the established district.
(Ord. 230, passed 6-4-90; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
332, passed 9-17-01)
 35.105 USE OF FEES COLLECTED.
   (A)   All revenues collected from the residential units will be deposited
into a special revenue fund established for that purpose. The revenues shall
used only in compliance with the provisions of the State of Michigan Chart of
Accounts and the Uniform Budgeting and Accounting Act, as amended (being
M.C.L.A. § 141.421 et seq.).
   (B)   The moneys in the special revenue fund shall first be used to pay the
expenses associated with the residential refuse collection contract including
repaying the city's general fund, if any advances were made. All other
appropriated costs of providing service follow the payment of the contract.
   (C)   The moneys of the special revenue fund may be commingled with other
city funds to maximize the fund s investment opportunities. The accounting
records of the fund shall be kept according to state treasury regulations and
generally accept accounting principles.
(Ord. 230, passed 6-4-90; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 35.106 DEPOSITING GARBAGE IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall deposit garbage or other waste in any alley, street or
other public place in the city, except as herein provided.
   (B)   (1)   Where public dumpsters are provided for commercial unit refuse
and business use only, only those persons authorized may use said receptacles
for the deposit of garbage or waste. The city may post such signs or
regulations as may be necessary for the proper use or operation of said
receptacles.
      (2)   Said public receptacles shall be used only for businesses located
in the city and specifically licensed by the City Administrator for general
refuse only. No licensed person may deposit construction waste in the public
receptacles. Refuse, recyclables, hazardous materials or other waste materials
shall not be placed outside said receptacles.
(Ord. 332, passed 9-17-01) Penalty, see §
35.199
 35.199 VIOLATIONS; PENALTIES.
   Any person, partnership, firm, or corporation, who violates any provision of
the City of Clio Garbage and Trash Collection and Removal Regulations shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the penalties and
sanctions provided by this Code.
(Ord. 132, passed 11-5-72; amended by Codification Ordinance)
CHAPTER 40: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
   Article
      
I.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
ARTICLE I: HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
40.101   Definitions
   
40.102   Storage of hazardous materials
   
40.103   Release of hazardous materials
   
40.104   Liability
   
40.105   Failure to pay; tax lien; suit for costs
   
40.199   Violations; penalties
 40.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of the sections below, the following definitions apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR MATERIALS.
      (1)   Any material or substance as defined by any Michigan law as such,
specifically including hazardous waste as defined in M.C.L.A. § 324.1103, and
as the laws of the State of Michigan may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Any material or substance controlled or regulated as such, pursuant
to the rules and regulations of the State of Michigan and any of its
departments or agencies.
      (3)   Any material or substance controlled or regulated as such, pursuant
to the authority of the United State Environmental Protection Agency.
      (4)   Any substance or material including solid, liquid, semisolid, or
contained gaseous material which because of its quantity; quality;
concentration; or physical, chemical, infectious characteristics may cause or
significantly contribute to an increase in mortality or increase in serious
irreversible illness or serious incapacitating, but reversible illness, or pose
a substantial present or potential hazard to human health or the environment if
improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
(Ord. 277, passed 3-20-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 40.102 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of any person or entity having the control of any
hazardous or dangerous material or substance, or control of the location where
the material or substance is kept or stored, to control the release or
dissemination and to insure the general well being of all personal property and
things that may be damaged by such.
   (B)   The title holders of any lands from which any hazardous or dangerous
material, or substance is released or disseminated, shall be liable, along with
any lessee or licensee holding an interest in the case of such lands.
(Ord. 277, passed 3-20-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 40.103 RELEASE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.
   Should any hazardous or dangerous material or substance be released or
otherwise disseminated, such person or entity who, by action or inaction,
caused such, shall immediately do all acts necessary to fully restore all
persons, property and things to their condition before such release or
dissemination.
(Ord. 277, passed 3-20-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 40.104 LIABILITY.
   Any person or entity who fails to comply with this article shall be liable
to and shall pay the city for its costs and expense including the costs
incurred by the city to any party but shall not include actual fire suppression
services which are normally provided by the city.
(Ord. 277, passed 3-20-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 40.105 FAILURE TO PAY; TAX LIEN; SUIT FOR COSTS.
   If any person or entity fails to reimburse the city as provided hereinabove,
and such person or entity is the owner of any property in the city, the city
shall have the option of the right and power to add any and all costs
occasioned by the violation of this chapter to the tax rolls as to such
property, and to levy and collect such costs in the same manner as provided for
the collection of taxes against such property. The city shall also have the
right to bring an action in the appropriate court to collect such costs if it
deems such action necessary. Any remedy provided herein shall be in addition to
any remedy allowed under any other law, whether local, state or federal.
(Ord. 277, passed 3-20-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 40.199 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person, partnership, firm or corporation, who violates any provisions of
§§
40.102 through
40.105 of this Code shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this Code.
(Ord. 277, passed 3-20-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 
CHAPTER 45: LICENSES
   Article
      
I.   BILLIARD AND POOL TABLES, BOWLING ALLEYS AND ARCADES
      
II.   ENTERTAINMENT
      
III.   GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES
      
IV.   OUTDOOR AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
      
V.   PAWNBROKERS
      
VI.   SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
      
VII.   MULTICHANNEL VIDEO SYSTEMS
      
VIII.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
      
IX.   FIREWORKS
      
X.   LICENSING
      
XI.   PRECIOUS METAL AND GEM CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION
      
XII.   SECONDHAND DEALERS AND JUNK DEALERS
      
XIII.   PROHIBITION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
      
XIV.   MOBILE FOOD VENDING
ARTICLE I: BILLIARD AND POOL TABLES, BOWLING ALLEYS AND ARCADES
Section
   
45.101   Title
   
45.102   License required
   
45.103   Zoning ordinance use restrictions
   
45.104   Exceptions
   
45.105   Application for license
   
45.106   License fees
   
45.107   Investigation; issuance of license
   
45.108   Revocation of license
   
45.109   Hours of play restricted
   
45.110   Restrictions regarding minors under 17
   
45.111   Display of license
   
45.112   Forfeiture of license
   
45.199   Penalty
 45.101 TITLE.
   Sections
45.102 through
45.112 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and cited as the City of Clio
Billiard and Pool Table, Bowling Alley and Arcade Regulations.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.102 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, persons, club, firm, partnership,
corporation, organization, or association, except church or school
organizations, to keep, for play, in any business or commercial establishment,
any billiard and/or pool table, bowling alley, mechanical amusement device and/
or technical game of skill and science, typical of penny arcades, within the
limits of the city, without first obtaining a license therefor as hereinafter
provided.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.103 ZONING ORDINANCE USE RESTRICTIONS.
   No business or commercial establishment, other than a business or commercial
establishment operating amusements as defined and permitted within the C-2"
Zoning Districts, being Section 11.01 of City of Clio Zoning Ordinance No. 181,
adopted June 1, 1981, and effective June 3, 1981, shall be permitted to keep
for play, either as a principal use, or as use incidental, accessory, or
subordinate to a principal use, more than two billiard and/or pool table(s),
bowling alley(s), and mechanical amusement device(s) and/or technical game(s)
of skill and science, or any combination thereof. Any business or commercial
establishment operating more than two billiard and/or pool table(s), bowling
alley(s), mechanical amusement device(s), and/or technical game(s) of skill and
science, shall be deemed to be in violation of this article and City of Clio
Zoning Ordinance No. 181, and subject to penalty for violation thereof as
provided therein.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.104 EXCEPTIONS.
   This article shall not apply to billiard and/or pool table(s), mechanical
amusement device(s) and/or technical game(s) of skill and science kept in
private residences or kept by a church or school organization. For purposes of
this article, PRIVATE RESIDENCE shall mean only such building or portion of a
building used exclusively for dwelling or domestic living purposes.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.105 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Any person, persons, club, firm, partnership, corporation, organization, or
association, except for church or school organizations desiring to keep or
operate, for play, within any business or commercial establishment, any
billiard and/or pool table(s), bowling alley(s), mechanical amusement device(s)
and/or technical game(s) of skill and science, shall first make application for
a license to the City Commission, in writing, on forms furnished by the city,
setting forth the exact location of the business or commercial establishment
wherein said billiard and/or pool table(s), bowling alley(s), mechanical
amusement device(s) and/or technical game(s) of skill and science are to be
located and the number of the same which said applicant intends to keep or
operate.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.106 LICENSE FEES.
   A fee shall be charged as part of the application for license. The City
Commission will establish a schedule of fees and a process for their
collection; both may be changed from time to time . No action will be taken on
any application until all applicable fees have been paid.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.107 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon filing the application hereinbefore provided, the same shall be
referred to the Chief of Police, and if, after investigation by said Chief of
Police, and any other investigation which the City Commission shall deem
necessary, said Commission shall determine that said applicant is a fit and
proper person to conduct said billiard and/or pool table(s), bowling alley(s),
mechanical amusement device(s), and/or technical game(s) of skill and science,
and said applicant has complied with all of the requirements of this article,
then the City Commission shall authorize the City Clerk to issue said applicant
a license, which shall expire on December 31 next, subsequent thereto, and in
case the application of said applicant is denied, then the City Clerk shall
return to said applicant all license fees which have been paid by applicant as
hereinbefore provided.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.108 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The application of any applicant for a license, as provided in this article,
shall contain an agreement by said applicant, and all licenses issued in
conformity with this article shall contain a provision, that said license may
be revoked by a majority vote of the City Commission at any time the City
Commission may deem or determine that said applicant is not a fit or proper
person to keep billiard and/or pool table(s), bowling alley(s), mechanical
amusement device(s), and/or technical game(s) of skill and science in a
business or commercial establishment within the limits of the city, or that the
place or room where said business is conducted is not being conducted in
conformity with this article, and in case of revocation of said license, then
said applicant or licensee shall forfeit any and all license fees paid under
and by virtue of this article.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.109 HOURS OF PLAY RESTRICTED.
   No billiard and/or pool table(s), bowling alley(s), mechanical amusement
device(s), and/or technical game(s) of skill and science, for which a license
is required pursuant to the terms of this article, shall be used for play
between the hours of 2:30 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. immediately following.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.110 RESTRICTIONS REGARDING MINORS UNDER 17.
   No minor child under 17 years of age shall be permitted during school hours,
unless accompanied by a parent or guardian, to remain in any business or
commercial establishment keeping billiard and/or pool table(s), bowling alley
(s), mechanical amusement device(s), and/or technical game(s) of skill and
science for use therein. Further, all curfew restrictions applicable to minor
children under 17 years of age are hereby specifically deemed to apply to this
article.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.111 DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee licensed under the provisions of this article shall display,
in a conspicuous place within any room of said business establishment, his and/
or her license from the city for keeping the same.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.112 FORFEITURE OF LICENSE.
   Any person or persons who shall be convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this article shall thereupon, in addition to all the penalties
herein provided, be subject to forfeiture of any license granted under the
provisions hereof, and may thereupon become and be disqualified from thereafter
holding a license under this article.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.199 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person, club, organization, association, partnership, firm or
corporation who violates any provision of the City of Clio Billiard and Pool
Table, Bowling Alley and Arcade Regulations shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and subject to the penalties and sanctions provided
by this Code.
(Ord. 188, passed 2-1-82; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE II: ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   45.201   Title
   45.202   Purpose
   45.203   Definitions
   45.204   License required
   45.205   Application for license
   45.206   Conditions of license
   45.207   Exemptions
   45.208   Revocation of license; abatement
   45.299   Violations; penalties
 45.201 TITLE.
   Sections
45.202 through
45.208 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and cited as the City of Clio
Entertainment Licensing Regulations.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.202 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to protect the public morals of the residents
of the city by regulating entertainment, by prohibiting certain types of
entertainment, as to protect the public by establishing a registry of
businesses offering entertainment within the city for police protection
purposes, fire protection purposes, for the general information of the public
and for the promotion of the city.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.203 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ESTABLISHMENT. A for-profit commercial establishment(s), including
but not limited to establishment(s) licensed by the Michigan Liquor Control
Commission for the sale of alcoholic beverages and establishments serving food
for consumption on the premises.
   Clio - Licenses
   ENTERTAINMENT. This term means:
      (1)   Special event pay per view closed circuit television;
      (2)   Contests;
      (3)   Dancers;
      (4)   Dancing;
      (5)   Dialogues;
      (6)   Monologues;
      (7)   Motion pictures, video films and video cassette tapes;
      (8)   Music provided by live musicians or by electronic means previously
recorded;
      (9)   Still slides;
      (10) Vocalists, single and/or group.
   LICENSING AGENT. The City Clerk or such other city official or employee as
may be designated by resolution of the City Commission.
   NUDITY. The exposure to the public view of a person s anus, genitals, pubic
region, breasts and nipples, either by a person or persons present or by the
showing of films, television, slides, or other electronic reproductions with
less than a fully opaque complete covering.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association or corporation.
   PUBLIC VIEW. Visible to a person present within a business establishment
into which establishment a person may enter without charge, by the payment of a
fee or charge, or by maintaining a membership which entitles the member to
enter the establishment.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.204 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may commence or continue a business establishment offering
entertainment, as herein defined, within the city without having first obtained
a city license therefor as hereinafter provided and without maintaining such
license in current effect during any business operation of activity.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.205 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   No license to commence or continue a business shall be issued until the
owner or operator thereof shall have first submitted an application to the
licensing agent of the city on a form provided by the licensing agent for the
such purposes. A fee shall be charged as part of the application for license.
The City Commission will establish a schedule of fees and a process for their
collection; both may be changed from time to time. Upon the filing of a
properly completed application and upon payment of the fee, the licensing agent
shall issue a license to the person to commence or continue the business
designated in said application if the business complies with the terms of this
article.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance; Am. Ord. 419,
passed 2-1-10)
 45.206 CONDITIONS OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license issued under this article shall be effective until January
1 of the succeeding year with renewals of the same to be issued upon
application in the same manner as set forth herein for the original issuance of
the license.
   (B)   No license shall be issued if:
      (1)   The business establishment would be illegal under any law or
ordinance of the United States of America, the State of Michigan, County of
Genesee or of the city.
      (2)   The business real estate or its goods, fixtures, equipment or
inventory has any delinquent, unpaid real property taxes, personal property
taxes, water bills, sewer connection fees, or sewer bills outstanding.
      (3)   The business building is in violation of the City Building Code.
   (C)   No license may be transferred by the holder to any other person except
upon prior approval of the City Commission.
   (D)   The licensing agent shall have the right of inspection of the business
premises to assure compliance with this article.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.207 EXEMPTIONS.
   No license shall be required of any political, charitable or religious
establishment situated within the city. The provisions of this article are not
applicable to any agent of the United States of America, the State of Michigan,
or any political subdivision thereof.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.208 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; ABATEMENT.
   (A)   In the event of a violation of any provision of this article after a
license has been issued, the license may be revoked by action of the City
Commission following a public hearing.
   (B)   The violation of this article is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance per se and a court of competent jurisdiction shall order the nuisance
abated.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.299 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person, club, organization, association, partnership, firm or
corporation, who violates any provision of the City of Clio Entertainment
Licensing Regulations shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this Code.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE III: GARAGE AND RUMMAGE SALES
Section
   45.301   Title
   45.302   Definitions
   45.303   Conditions for conducting rummage and garage sales
   45.399   Violations; penalties
 45.301 TITLE.
   Sections
45.302 and
45.303 of this Code will be known and cited as the City of Clio Rummage Sale
Regulations.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALES, YARD SALES, AND BASEMENT SALES. These terms shall have the
same meaning or definition as Rummage Sales.
   RUMMAGE SALE. A sale or offering for sale of more than five items of new or
used merchandise, clothing, household goods, or rummage on premises not zoned
for such sale.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.303 CONDITIONS FOR CONDUCTING RUMMAGE AND GARAGE SALES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or organization to
conduct or operate a rummage sale, garage sale, yard sale, or basement sale in
the city, unless all of the following conditions are met:
   (A)   Such sale shall be conducted only by the owners or occupants of the
premises on which the sale is located, or by a church, charitable organization
or service club with the written consent of the owners or occupants of the
premises.
   (B)   Such sale shall be discontinued at the end of the eighth calendar day
following the date that the sale was commenced, regardless of whether or not
the sale was operated continuously or on consecutive days.
   (C)   No signs advertising such sale shall be posted except upon the
premises where the sale is being conducted.
   (D)   Not more than two such sales shall be conducted on any particular
premises in any calendar year.
   (E)   No person, firm, corporation or organization shall commence such sale
until a permit for same has been obtained from the City Clerk on forms provided
by the city.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.399 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person, club, organization, association, partnership, firm or
corporation, who violates any provision of the City of Clio Entertainment
Licensing Regulations shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this Code.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE IV: OUTDOOR AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   45.401   Title
   45.402   Registration and permit required
   45.403   Insurance coverage required
   45.404   Application for permit
   45.405   Investigation and issuance
   45.406   Revocation of permit
   45.407   Permit not transferrable
   45.408   Appeal
   45.499   Violations; penalties
 45.401 TITLE.
   Sections
45.402 through
45.408 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and cited as the City of Clio
Outdoor Amusements and Entertainment Regulations.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-7-83; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.402 REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person, firm, club, organization, church, or corporation will engage in
the business of offering a public amusement, entertainment, exhibition or
performance out of doors on private property within the corporate limits of the
city without having obtained a permit therefor from the City of Clio in
compliance with the provisions of these regulations.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-7-83; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.403 INSURANCE COVERAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   The applicant will enclose with the application evidence that he or
she has secured public liability insurance coverage from a company or companies
approved by the State of Michigan Commission of Insurance and naming the city
as one of the protected parties with policy limits as follows:
      (1)   Property damage: $100,000.
      (2)   Bodily injury.
         (a)   One person: $300,000.
         (b)   One occurrence: $1,000,000.
   (B)   Said insurance shall insure applicant, his employees, and agents,
against liability for death or injury to persons or damages to property which
may result from the conduct of such business, which policy or policies shall
remain in full force and effect in the specified amounts during the term of the
permit.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-7-83; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.404 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   Applicant shall submit an application not less than 30 days prior to the
proposed commencement of such business showing that provisions have been made
during the proposed times of the activity for:
   (A)   Adequate security and traffic control;
   (B)   Adequate cleanup of all rubbish, papers and garbage from the site,
including papers and rubbish blown from the activity site upon adjacent public
or private lands;
   (C)   Adequate pollution control and self-contained public sanitary
facilities;
   (D)   The hours of such activity shall be limited to:
      (1)   Sunday through Thursday, 10:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., with the grounds
cleared of all persons by 11:00 p.m.
      (2)   Friday and Saturday, 10:00 a.m. to 12:00 midnight, with the grounds
cleared of all persons by 1:00 a.m.
   (E)   Adequate off-street parking facilities sufficient to accommodate all
persons to be admitted to the place of business based on the maximum capacity
specified in the application.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-7-83; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.405 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   The city will review the application against the standards of §
45.404 of this code, the City of Clio Zoning Ordinance, other applicable city
regulations, county ordinances and state statutes and
approve or deny the application accordingly. If the city has not approved or
denied the application by the thirty-first day after receiving it, the
application will be deemed approved.
   (B)   If the permit is denied, the city will provide the applicant with the
reason(s) in writing by first class mail or by personal service.
   (C)   In granting the permit, the city may attach any conditions or
requirements it deems necessary to protect the public health, safety, morals
and general welfare of the city and its inhabitants
   (D)   Permit holder shall not admit to his premises any person who is then
under the influence of intoxicating beverages or of drugs, nor shall he
knowingly permit the possession, sale or consumption of intoxicating beverages,
narcotics or hallucinogenic drugs on his business premises, except the
possession, sale or consumption of intoxicating beverages on appropriately
licensed premises.
   (E)   Permit holder shall so conduct his business that it shall not give
rise to a nuisance of noise, smoke, vibration, odor or dust.
   (F)   Permit holder shall insure that sound producing equipment, including
but not limited to, public address systems, radios, phonographs, musical
instruments and other recording devices, shall not be operated on the premises
of the assembly so as to be unreasonably loud or raucous, or so as to be a
nuisance or disturbance to the peace and tranquility of the citizens of the
city.
   (G)   Permit holder shall post a copy of his permit in his place of business
in a location where it can be easily seen and read.
   (H)   City Commission may establish a fee for such permit.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-7-83; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.406 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   Permits issued under the provisions of these regulations may be revoked by
the city upon a finding that one or more of the following has occurred:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for permit under this article;
   (B)   Any violation of the provisions of this article or of any requirement
imposed by the Building Inspector upon which the issuance of said permit is
conditioned; or
   (C)   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of the peace or to constitute a menace to the health,
safety or general welfare of the public.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-7-83; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.407 PERMIT NOT TRANSFERRABLE.
   No permit issued under these regulations will be transferred to any other
person, club, organization, association, partnership, firm or corporation.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-7-83; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.408 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person, club, organization, association, partnership, firm or
corporation aggrieved by an action of the city under these regulations may
appeal such action to the City Commission. If an appeal is taken, it must be
taken within seven days of receipt of the notice or of the action of the
official, department or board of the city giving rise to the appeal.
   (B)   The hearing will take place at the next City Commission meeting
following submission of such appeal with the City Clerk or at a specially
called meeting of the City Commission. The City Clerk will send by first class
mail or deliver by personal service a notice or confirmation of the hearing to
the appellant at the address shown on the application for permit at least 18
hours before the meeting at which the appeal will be heard.
   (C)   The decision and order of the City Commission on such appeal will be
final and conclusive. The city will send by first mail or deliver by personal
service written confirmation of the decision and order within seven days of the
meeting at the City Commission made the decision and order.
(Ord. 195, passed 2-7-83; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.499 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person, club, organization, association, partnership, firm or
corporation, who violates any provision of the City of Clio Outdoor Amusements
and Entertainment Regulations shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this Code.
(Ord. 267, passed 6-7-93; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE V: PAWNBROKERS
Section
   45.501   Title
   45.502   Legal basis
   45.503   Definitions
   45.504   Pawnbroker s application and license; appeal; issuance; contents;
term; transferability; fee; bond
   45.505   Action on bond
   45.506   Record of property received; contents; inspections
   45.507   Statement to police of property received; contents
   45.508   Memorandum of pawn for purchaser; contents; interest on certain
loans
   45.509   Loan interest rates and similar provisions
   45.510   Sale of pawned property at public auction; time, place, notice,
affidavit of publication of notice
   45.511   Tender of debt and costs before sale; effect on right to property
   45.512   Disposition of surplus resulting from sale
   45.513   Destruction of or defacing pawned property
   45.514   Acceptance of property from posted person or one under certain age
   45.515   Transaction of business on Sunday
   45.516   Taking thumb prints of persons from whom property received;
forwarding copies and statement to local and state police
   45.599   Violations; penalties
 45.501 TITLE.
   Sections 45.502 through 45.516 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and
cited as the City of Clio Pawnbroker Regulations.
(Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.502 LEGAL BASIS.
   These regulations are enacted in accordance with M.C.L.A. § 446.201 et seq.
and M.C.L.A. § 445.471 et seq., as amended and regulated and promulgated
thereunder.
(Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.503 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PAWNBROKER. Any person, corporation or member, or members of a copartnership
or firm, who loans money on deposit, or pledge of personal property, or other
valuable thing, other than securities or printed evidence of indebtedness, or
who deals in the purchasing of personal property or other valuable thing on
condition of selling the same back again at a stipulated price.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.203) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.504 PAWNBROKER S APPLICATION AND LICENSE; APPEAL; ISSUANCE; CONTENTS; TERM;
TRANSFERABILITY; FEE; BOND.
   (A)   Upon making an application for a pawnbroker s license, the city will
review the application and render a decision within 45 days of its receipt. If
the city has not rendered a decision by the forty-sixth day after receiving it,
the application shall be deemed to be approved. If denied, the applicant will
be given the reason(s) for denial in writing and sent by first class or
delivered by personal service to the address on the application.
   (B)   Any applicant aggrieved by the denial of a pawnbroker s license may
appeal such action to the City Commission. If an appeal is taken, it must be
taken within 21 days of receipt of the denial. The hearing will take place at a
City Commission meeting following submission of such appeal with the City
Clerk. The City Clerk will post the hearing notice and send by first class mail
or deliver by personal service a copy of the notice of the hearing to the
appellant at the address shown on the application for permit at least five days
before the meeting at which the appeal will be heard. The decision and order of
the City Commission on such appeal will be final and conclusive. The city will
send by first mail or deliver by personal service written confirmation of the
decision and order within seven days of the meeting at which the City
Commission made the decision and order.
   (C)   The license will designate the premises on which the pawnbroker may
conduct business. The licence will be valid for one year from issuance by the
City Clerk unless revoked for cause following a hearing by the City Commission
under its rules of procedure. The license is not transferable.
   (D)   Before any license is issued the licensee, in the corporate name, will
give the city a bond in a penal sum of $5,000, with at least two sureties, to
be approved by the city, conditioned on the faithful performance of the duties
and obligations pertaining to the business.
   (E)   The City Commission will establish a schedule of fees and charges for
accepting applications and appeals and issuing licenses and a process for their
collection; both may be changed from time to time. No action will be taken on
any application, appeal or license until all applicable fees have been paid.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.202) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.505 ACTION ON BOND.
   If any person shall be aggrieved by the conduct of any such licensed
pawnbroker, and shall recover judgment against him therefor, such person may
after the return unsatisfied, either in whole or in part, of any execution
issued upon said judgment, maintain an action in his own name upon the bond of
the said pawnbroker in any court having jurisdiction of the amount of said
judgment remaining unsatisfied.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.204) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.506 RECORD OF PROPERTY RECEIVED; CONTENTS; INSPECTIONS.
   Every such pawnbroker shall keep a book to be inspected by the Chief of
Police, in which shall be written in English, at the time he shall receive any
article of personal property, or other valuable thing by way of pledge or pawn,
a description of such article, the amount of money loaned thereon, the rate of
interest to be paid on such loan, the name, residence and general description
of the person from whom, and the day and hour when such property was received;
and such book, and the place where such business is carried on, and all
articles of property therein, shall be subject to examination at any time by
the City Commission, City Attorney, or police officers of the city, or by the
prosecuting attorney or the sheriff or other police officer of the County of
Genesee and the State of Michigan.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.205) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.507 STATEMENT TO POLICE OF PROPERTY RECEIVED; CONTENTS.
   Every such pawnbroker shall make daily, except Sunday, a sworn statement of
his transactions, describing the goods or pledge received, and setting forth
the name, residence and description of the person from whom the goods or pledge
were received, to the Chief of Police of the city.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.206) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.508 MEMORANDUM OF PAWN FOR PURCHASER; CONTENTS; INTEREST ON CERTAIN LOANS.
   A pawnbroker, at the time of such loan, shall deliver to the person pawning
of pledging any goods, article or thing, a memorandum or note signed by him,
containing the substance of the entry required to be made by him in his book by
§
45.507. No charge shall be made or received by any pawnbroker for any such
entry, memorandum or note. The memorandum or note shall be consecutively
numbered and upon its back shall be printed in English in type as large as that
in which the public acts of this state are printed, the following words: § If
interest or charges in excess of 3% per month, plus storage charges hereinafter
provided, are asked or received, this loan is void and of no effect; and the
borrower cannot be made to pay back the money loaned or any interest, or any
charges or any part thereof, and the pawnbroker loses all right to the
possession of the goods, article or thing pawned, and shall surrender the same
to the borrower or pawner upon due demand therefor.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.208) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.509 LOAN INTEREST RATES AND SIMILAR PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A licensed pawnbroker may charge upon any loan a rate of interest not
to exceed 3% per month and is not required to accept any interest less than
$.50 on a single loan.
   (B)   A pawnbroker may also charge $1.00 per month or fraction of a month
for the storage of property under any single pledge or pawn.
   (C)   A pawnbroker or the pawnbroker s agent or employee shall not charge or
receive interest on the loan in excess of the amounts provided for in this
section.
   (D)   Interest on any loan is not payable in advance and shall be computed
on unpaid monthly balances without compounding.
   (E)   A pawnbroker is not entitled to any examination fee and shall not make
any charge in excess of the amounts provided for in this section.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.209) (Codification Ordinance)
 45.510 SALE OF PAWNED PROPERTY AT PUBLIC AUCTION; TIME, PLACE, NOTICE,
AFFIDAVIT OF PUBLICATION OF NOTICE.
   No pawnbroker shall sell any pawn or pledge until the same shall have
remained six months in his possession, and all such sales shall be at public
auction to the highest bidder, and not otherwise. Such sale shall be held under
the direction and control of the pawnbroker and in his regularly established
place of business. Notice of such sale shall be published for at least six days
previous thereto in one of the daily newspapers to be designated by the mayor
of the city, published in English, in the city; provided, that if there be no
daily newspaper in the city, said notice shall be published at least two
successive weeks, in a weekly newspaper, to be designated by the Mayor,
published in English, in the city. Such notice shall specify the time and place
at which such sale is to take place and by whom it is to be conducted, and
shall contain the same description of the articles or goods to be sold as was
given in the memorandum or note delivered to the pawner under §
45.508, and shall give the number of such memorandum or note. An affidavit of
the printer of such paper or of his foreman, or his principal clerk, annexed to
a printed copy of such notice taken from the paper in which it was published
and specifying the times when and papers in which it was published, shall be
filed after the last day of such publication and before the day fixed for such
sale with the County Clerk of Genesee County. Such affidavit shall be kept in
the office of the Genesee County Clerk as a public document, and open to the
inspection of any person.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.210) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.511 TENDER OF DEBT AND COSTS BEFORE SALE; EFFECT ON RIGHT TO PROPERTY.
   The borrower, at any time prior to the sale, may pay or tender to the
pawnbroker the debt and interest and charges thereon, together with the cost of
advertising the sale, if the sale has been advertised. The payment or tender
shall reinvest the pawner with the title and right of possession to the
property pledged.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.211) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.512 DISPOSITION OF SURPLUS RESULTING FROM SALE.
   The surplus money, if any, arising from the sale, after deducting the amount
of the loan, the interest and charges then due on the same, and the expense of
advertising, shall be paid by the pawnbroker to the person who would be
entitled to redeem the pledge or pawn if no sale had taken place.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.212) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.513 DESTRUCTION OF OR DEFACING PAWNED PROPERTY.
   No pawnbroker shall deface, scratch, obliterate, melt, separate or break
into parts any particle or thing received by him in pawn or otherwise, or in
any manner do, cause or suffer to be done by others, anything which shall
destroy or tend to destroy the identity of such article or render the
identification thereof more difficult.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.213) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.514 ACCEPTANCE OF PROPERTY FROM POSTED PERSON OR ONE UNDER CERTAIN AGE.
   No pawnbroker shall receive any pledge, pawn, articles, or thing whatever
from any person after receiving from any one of the officers mentioned in §
45.506, or the parent or guardian of any minor or person of unsound mind,
written notice that such person is a minor, or is of unsound mind, or neglects
all lawful business, or that he habitually spends his time in frequenting
houses of ill-fame, gambling houses, or tippling houses, or that from drinking,
gaming, idleness, or debauchery of any kind he is squandering his earnings or
wasting his estate, or that he is likely to bring himself or family to want or
to render himself or family a public charge, or that he is suspected of
thievery. No pawnbroker shall receive any pawn from any person under 18 years
of age.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.214) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.515 TRANSACTION OF BUSINESS ON SUNDAY.
   No license granted under the provisions of these regulations shall authorize
any business to be transacted by pawnbrokers on the first day of the week,
commonly known as Sunday.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.215) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.516 TAKING THUMB PRINTS OF PERSONS FROM WHOM PROPERTY RECEIVED; FORWARDING
COPIES AND STATEMENT TO LOCAL AND STATE POLICE.
   At the same time any pawnbroker, second-hand dealer or junk dealer in this
state shall receive any article of personal property, or other valuable thing,
by way of pledge or pawn, or shall acquire or purchase any article of personal
property, or other valuable thing, except new articles, wares, or merchandise
purchased at wholesale from manufacturers, wholesale distributors or jobbers
for retail sales to customers, except also motor vehicles, old rags, waste
paper, books, magazines, tapestries, antiques, and household furniture, he
shall take in duplicate the legible imprint of the right thumb of the person
from whom such property was received, or if that be not possible, of the left
thumb or some other finger of such person. Such fingerprint shall be taken
under such rules and regulations as prescribed by the Commissioner of the
Michigan State Police. One copy shall be forwarded within 48 hours to the Chief
of Police, together with a statement of the nature of the property received.
The second copy shall be forwarded within 48 hours, together with a statement
of the nature of the property received, to the Commissioner of the Michigan
State Police in East Lansing.
(M.C.L.A. § 445.472) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
 45.599 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, whether
as owner, or as clerk, agent, servant or employee, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof in any court of competent jurisdiction
be fined not less than $25 nor more than $100, or by imprisonment in the county
jail not less than ten days nor more than three months, or by both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(M.C.L.A. § 446.218) (Ord. 173, passed 7-7-80; amended by Codification
Ordinance)
ARTICLE VI: SOLICITORS AND CANVASSERS
Section
   
45.601   Title
   
45.602   Registration and permit required
   
45.603   Definitions
   
45.604   Applications and permit fees
   
45.605   Investigation and issuance
   
45.606   Exhibition of permit
   
45.607   Records
   
45.608   Revocation of permit
   
45.609   Appeal
   
45.699   Violations; penalties
 45.601 TITLE.
   Sections
45.602 through
45.609 of this Code, inclusive, will be known and cited as the City of Clio
Solicitors and Canvassers Regulations.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.602 REGISTRATION AND PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall solicit or canvass in residential districts of the city as
determined by the City of Clio Zoning Ordinance without first having registered
for and obtained a permit pursuant to these regulations.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.603 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether resident of the city or not,
traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck, or any other type of
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from residence to
residence, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares, and
merchandise, or personal property of any nature whatsoever, for future
delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether
or not such individual has, carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the
subject of such sale, or whether he is collecting advance payments on such
sales or not; provided that such definition shall include any person who, for
himself or for another person, firm, or corporation, hires, leases, uses, or
occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop, or any other place within the city for the sole
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery. This
definition shall not include any person soliciting for donations or
contributions for the benefit of any established society, labor union,
association, or corporation that is organized and operated exclusively for
educational, philanthropic, benevolent, fraternal, charitable or reformatory
purpose, not operated for pecuniary profits.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.604 APPLICATIONS AND LICENSE FEES.
   Applicants for permits under these regulations must register with the City
Clerk by filing a sworn statement attesting to the following information which
must be furnished by said application:
   (A)   Name and description of the applicant, including
      (1)   Permanent name and address and a local address, if not one in the
same.
      (2)   A social security number and driver s license number.
      (3)   Other identification necessary to ascertain that the city is not
giving a permit to a company who hires unauthorized aliens in defiance of
Federal law.
   (B)   Name and identification of anyone else soliciting or canvassing within
the city.
   (C)   A description of all vehicles used in connection with the applicant.
   (D)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold.
   (E)   The name address of the employer, if goods are sold, together with
credentials establishing the relationship or the sponsoring organization, if
soliciting for donations.
   (F)   The length of time for which the applicant seeks the right to do
business or to solicit donations within the city.
   (G)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or orders
taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at the time the application is filed, and the proposed
method of delivery.
   (H)   A fee shall be charged as part of the application for license. The
City Commission will establish a schedule of fees and a process for their
collection; both may be changed from time to time. Such fee shall be waived for
not-for-profit groups and for such other groups or persons as provided for by
state statute.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Ord. 281, passed - - , by Codification
Ordinance; Am. Ord. 420, passed 2-1-10)
 45.605 INVESTIGATION AND ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon making an application for a solicitor s permit, the city will
review the application and render a decision within five business days of its
receipt. If the city has not rendered a decision by the sixth business day
after receiving it, the application shall be deemed to be approved. § If
denied, the applicant will be given the reason(s) for denial in writing sent by
first class or delivered by personal service to the local address on the
application.
   (B)   The application will be forwarded to the Clio Police Department for
verification of the information supplied on the application.
   (C)   No permit will be issued to anyone on the application who has been
convicted in the last five years of fraud or misrepresentation or of any crimes
against people or who has a record of poor business responsibility.
   (D)   Upon receiving a positive report from the Clio Police Department, the
City Clerk will issue one or more solicitor s permit to the name(s) on the
application.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.606 EXHIBITION OF PERMIT.
   (A)   A badge, supplied by the city, will be worn prominently on the outer
clothing and displayed to the general public to see at all times that a
solicitation is being made by the applicant or the applicant s agents under the
terms of the permit.
   (B)   Solicitors and canvassers are required to show their permits at the
request of any citizen.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.607 RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police shall report to the City Clerk all convictions for
violation of this article and the City Clerk shall maintain a record for each
permit issued and record the reports of violation therein.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.608 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Permits issued under the provisions of these regulations may be revoked by
the City Clerk upon finding that one or more of the following occurred:
   (A)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his business as solicitor or as canvasser;
   (B)   Fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for license;
   (C)   Any violation of this article;
   (D)   Conducting the business of soliciting, or of canvassing in an unlawful
manner or in such a manner as to constitute a breach of the peace or to
constitute a menace to the health, safety, or general welfare of the public; or
   (E)   Furnishing a quality of goods or workmanship which is unsatisfactory,
or failing to furnish any goods or services ordered in compliance with such
order.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.609 APPEAL.
   Any person aggrieved by an action of the city has the right to appeal to the
City Commission. If an appeal is taken, it must be taken within 14 days of the
action being appealed. The hearing will take place at a City Commission meeting
following submission of such appeal with the City Clerk. The City Clerk will
post the hearing notice and send by first class mail or deliver by personal
service a copy of the notice of the hearing to the appellant at the address
shown on the application for permit at least five days before the meeting at
which the appeal will be heard. The decision and order of the City Commission
on such appeal will be final and conclusive. The city will send by first mail
or deliver by personal service written confirmation of the decision and order
within seven days of the meeting at the City Commission made the decision and
order.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 45.699 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person, club, organization, association, partnership, firm or
corporation, who violates any provision of the City of Clio Solicitors and
Canvassers Regulations shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
and subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this Code.
(Ord. 184, passed 9-21-81; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE VII: MULTICHANNEL VIDEO SYSTEMS
Section
   
45.701   Regulations
   
45.702   Definitions
 45.701 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person may construct a multichannel video system in the city to
provide multichannel video service in the city without first obtaining from the
city a franchise authorizing the construction of such a system.
   (B)   No multichannel video provider may provide multichannel video service
to any person in the city unless a franchise from the city authorizing same is
in full force and effect at all times while such service is being provided.
   (C)   To provide persons in the city with competition and a choice in
multichannel video service, multichannel video providers (other than cable
operators and open video system operators , as defined in §
45.702) providing multichannel video service in the city shall make up to two-
thirds of the channels on their system available for the carriage of
programming from other video programming providers in accordance with the
principles and procedures established by the Federal Communications Commission
for the carriage of such programming by open video system operators.
(Ord. 309, passed 4-17-00)
 45.702 DEFINITIONS.
   CONSTRUCT.
      (1)   The installation of lines, fibers, or facilities that are in or
cross any of the streets, highways or public rights of way within the city for
use as part of a multichannel video system; or
      (2)   The connection of other facilities directly or indirectly to
previously existing lines, fibers or facilities that are in or cross any of the
streets, highways or public rights of way within the city for use as part of a
multichannel video system.
   MULTICHANNEL VIDEO PROVIDER. A person who meets one or more of the following
tests:
      (1)   The person is a cable operator , as such term is defined in Title
VI of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, being 47 U.S.C. § 521 et seq., or
is otherwise required to obtain a franchise as such term is defined in such
Act.
      (2)   The person is an open video system operator , as such term is
defined under Title VI of the Federal Communications Act of 1934 and
implementing regulations.
      (3)   The person provides multichannel video service, where such service
is transmitted in whole or in part via wires or lines that are in or cross any
of the streets, highways or public rights of way within the city. This
subsection shall apply whether the provider owns, leases or otherwise obtains
the right to use such wires or lines including wires or lines of a
telecommunications provider used pursuant to tariff or otherwise for such
purpose.
      (4)   The person provides multichannel video service and is otherwise
required to obtain a franchise or similar approval under the City Charter,
state law or federal law.
   MULTICHANNEL VIDEO SERVICE. Multiple channels of video programming where
some or all of the video programming is generally considered comparable to
programming provided by a television broadcast station. Multichannel cable
video service specifically includes, but is not limited to, cable service , as
such term is defined in Title VI of the Federal Communications Act of 1934.
   MULTICHANNEL VIDEO SYSTEM. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   A cable system , as such term is defined in Title VI of the Federal
Communications Act of 1934;
      (2)   An open video system , as such term is defined under Title VI of
the Federal Communications Act of 1934 and implementing regulations;
      (3)   A system which provides multichannel video service, where such
service is transmitted in whole or in part via wires or lines that are in or
cross any streets, highways or public rights of way within the city. This
subsection shall apply whether the provider owns, leases or otherwise obtains
the right to use such wires or lines, including wires or lines of a
telecommunications provider used pursuant to tariff or otherwise for such
purpose; and
      (4)   Any other system providing multichannel video service within the
city where under applicable law a franchise or similar permission or approval
from the city is required.
   PERSON. Individuals, corporations, partnerships, limited liability
corporations, limited liability partnerships and any other form of legal
entity.
(Ord. 309, passed 4-17-00)
ARTICLE VIII: TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
Section
   
45.801   Purpose
   
45.802   Conflict
   
45.803   Definitions
   
45.804   Permit required
   
45.805   Issuance of permit
   
45.806   Construction/engineering permit
   
45.807   Conduit or utility poles
   
45.808   Route maps
   
45.809   Repair of damage
   
45.810   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
45.811   Modification of existing fees
   
45.812   Savings clause
   
45.813   Use of funds
   
45.814   Annual report
   
45.815   Cable television operators
   
45.816   Existing rights
   
45.817   Compliance
   
45.818   Reservation of police powers
   
45.819   Authorized city officials
   
45.899   Violation; penalty
 45.801 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being M.C.L.A § 484.3101 et seq. and other applicable law, and
to ensure that the city qualifies for distribution under M.C.L.A § 484.3101 et
seq. by modifying the fees charged to providers and complying with M.C.L.A §
484.3101 et seq.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.802 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with M.C.L.A § 484.3101 et seq. or other applicable law.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.803 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being M.C.L.A § 484.3101 et seq., as amended from time to time.
      CITY. The City of Clio, Michigan.
      CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator or Manager or his or her
designee.
      CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of the city or its designee. This
section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Commission.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following:
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3103.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
COMMISSION in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state, or private right-of-way.
   Telecommunications Providers
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunications services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of Title III
of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3 and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER does
not include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service, as defined in Section 332(d) of Part
I of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this chapter, a PROVIDER also includes all of the following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service.
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way.
         (c)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.804 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with M.C.L.A. § 484.3106
(1). A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with
the City Clerk, one copy with the City Administrator, and one copy with the
City Attorney. Upon receipt, the City Clerk shall make copies of the
application and distribute to additional recipients. Applications shall be
complete and include all information required by the Act, including without
limitation a route map showing the location of the provider s existing and
proposed facilities in accordance with M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5).
   (C)   Confidential information. § If a telecommunications provider claims
that any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 - 15.246,
pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5), the telecommunications provider shall
prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Administrator may request an
applicant to submit such additional information which the City Administrator
deems reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all
such requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional
information established by the City Administrator. If the city and the
applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional information requested
by the city, the city or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in
M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(2).
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(1),
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under M.C.L.A. §
484.2251 and authorizations or permits issued by the city to telecommunications
providers prior to the 1995 enactment of M.C.L.A. § 484.2251 but after 1985
shall satisfy the permits requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(3), within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under
M.C.L.A. § 484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. §
484.3105(3), a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
subsection is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under
division (D) above. A provider under this subsection shall be given up to an
additional 180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the
Authority, as provided in M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(4).
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.805 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Administrator. Pursuant to
M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3), the City Administrator shall approve or deny an
application for a permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications
provider files an application for a permit under §
45.804(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the city. Pursuant to
M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(6), the City Administrator shall notify the MPSC when the
City Administrator has granted or denied a permit, including information
regarding the date on which the application was filed and the date on which
permit was granted or denied. The City Administrator shall not unreasonably
deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the City
Administrator shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with M.C.L.A. §
484.3106(1), 484.3106(2) and 484.3115.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(4), the City Administrator
may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider s access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3), and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Administrator may require that a
bond be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit.
If a bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that
the public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after
the telecommunications provider s access and use.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.806 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required by this Code, as amended, for
construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be charged for such
a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.807 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3104(3), obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.808 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(7), a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
The route maps should be in paper or electronic format unless and until the
Commission determines otherwise, in accordance with M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(8).
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.809 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(5), a telecommunications provider
undertaking an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all
damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or
within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-
way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.810 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
45.804(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the city's public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3108.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.811 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(1), the city
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of M.C.L.A. §
484.3113(4), the city also hereby approves modification of the fees of
providers with telecommunications facilities in public rights-of-way within the
city's boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under
M.C.L.A. § 484.3108. The city shall provide each telecommunications provider
affected by the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the
requirements of M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4). To the extent any fees are charged
telecommunications providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act,
or which are otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby
declared to be contrary to the city's policy and intent, and upon application
by a provider or discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having
been charged in error.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.812 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(5), if M.C.L.A. § 484.3108 is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
45.811 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.813 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3109(4), all amounts received by the city from
the Authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city
from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Streets Fund and/or the
Local Street Fund maintained by the city under M.C.L.A. § 247.651 et seq.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.814 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(5), the City Administrator shall file an
annual report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.815 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(6), the city shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective of the Act, a
franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from charges the
cable operator received for cable modem services provided through broadband
internet transport access services.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.816 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3104(2), except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.817 COMPLIANCE.
   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this chapter
is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions hereof
should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose. The city shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including but not
limited to the following.
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
being M.C.L.A. § 15.231 - 15.246, as provided in §
45.804(C).
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter, in accordance with §
45.804(F).
   (C)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
45.804(G).
   (D)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provides files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
45.805(A).
   (E)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
45.805(A).
   (F)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
45.805(A).
   (G)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
45.805(B).
   (H)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
45.805(C).
   (I)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunications provider s access
and use, in accordance with §
45.805(D).
   (J)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction permits, in accordance with §
45.806.
   (K)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city's
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
45.811.
   (L)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
45.814.
   (M) Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to pay
certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
45.815.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.818 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(2), this chapter shall not limit the city's
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city's authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.819 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by
this Code.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
 45.899 VIOLATION; PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
shall be subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this Code. Nothing
in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies available to the city
in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 346, passed 10-7-02)
ARTICLE IX: FIREWORKS
Section
   
45.901   Purpose
   
45.902   Application and site plan
   
45.903   Requirements and restrictions
   
45.999   Enforcement; penalty
Cross-reference:
   Additional fireworks regulations, see §
30.201 et seq.
 45.901 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a safe environment for the
discharge of fireworks and to ensure protection for the viewing public and the
property owners surrounding the discharge site.
(Ord. 394, passed 4-16-07)
 45.902 APPLICATION AND SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Any party wishing to stage a fireworks display shall, at least 60 days
prior to the display, submit an application on a form furnished by the city and
shall secure permission from the City Commission prior to the fireworks
display.
   (B)   A site plan of the area where the fireworks display is to be conducted
shall be submitted with the application. The site plan shall set forth all
structures in the area and the discharge site fallout area. The site plan shall
furthermore set forth the distance separating the mortars used to launch the
fireworks and the structures and also set forth the distance separating the
mortars and the spectators viewing the display. All site plans must be approved
by the Clio Area Fire Department prior to City Commission approval.
(Ord. 394, passed 4-16-07)
 45.903 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   The fireworks company conducting the display shall follow National
Fire Protection Association (NFPA) Code 1123 for fireworks display and/or the
city requirements, whichever is more restrictive.
   (B)   The fireworks company shall maintain personal injury liability
insurance/property damage liability insurance in the amount of $1,000,000
during each event. The city shall be named as an additional insured on the
insurance policy. The insurance policy must be submitted with the
aforementioned application and shall be subject to the Risk Management review.
The insurance policy shall also include coverage for the cleanup after the
fireworks display has ended.
   (C)   The fireworks company shall be responsible for all shells being fired.
In the event one of the shells does not explode, the fireworks company shall
secure the area until the unexploded shell is found and properly disposed of.
   (D)   The consumption of alcohol prior to and during display by the shooters
or any person on site employed by the fireworks company is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 394, passed 4-16-07)
 45.999 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY.
   (A)   This chapter shall be enforced by such persons who shall be so
designated by the City Commission.
   (B)   Violation of this chapter shall be a misdemeanor which shall be
punishable upon convictions thereof by a fine not exceeding $500 or by
imprisonment for not exceeding 90 days in the County Jail, or by both such
fines and imprisonment at the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 394, passed 4-16-07)
ARTICLE X: LICENSING
Section
   
45.1001   Unlawful business
   
45.1002   Registration of businesses
  45.1001   UNLAWFUL BUSINESS.
   No license or permit issued under the provisions of this chapter shall be
construed as authorizing the conduct of or continuance of any illegal or
unlawful business or practice, or the furnishing, sale or provisioning of any
service, good, or product that is illegal under this code of ordinances, the
laws of the State of Michigan or the laws of the United States of America.
(Ord. 410, passed 4-20-09)
 45.1002   REGISTRATION OF BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of business registration in the city is to
identify business locations and operations within the city to ensure the
efficient delivery of services: including police, fire water and wastewater
services and to promote compliance with all building, planning, zoning, tax and
related city ordinances and codes.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, work, commerce, profession, and all
devices, machines, vehicles, and appurtenances used therein, new or existing,
any of which are conducted for private profit or benefit, either directly or
indirectly on any premises in the city or anywhere else within its
jurisdiction.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association, or corporation sharing
in the profits of the business.
   (C)   License: registration required.
      (1)   No person shall engage in a business without having first obtained
a business registration from the city in the manner provided for in this
section. Any person duly registered on the effective date of this section shall
be deemed registered hereunder for the balance of the current registration
year.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of every person or registered business to
report any changes in the information furnished with the current registration
within five business days of such change occurring.
      (3)   Multiple businesses. The granting of a business registration shall
not relieve the person to whom such registration is granted from the necessity
of securing individual licenses or permits for each individual business.
      (4)   State licensed businesses. The granting of a business registration
to any person or business by the state in the operation, conduct or carrying on
of any trade, profession, business, or privilege shall not exempt such person
from the necessity of securing a business registration from the city if such
registration is required by this section.
   (D)   Registration year.
      (1)   The registration year shall begin July 1 of each year and shall
terminate at midnight on June 30 of the following year.
      (2)   The registration for periods of less than one year shall commence
with the date of issuance thereof and terminate at midnight on June 30
immediately following registration.
   (E)   Registration application. Unless otherwise provided in this section,
every person or business required to obtain a registration from the city to
engage business or to continue business shall make application for such
registration to the City Administrator, or his or her designee, upon forms
provided by the City Administrator, or his or her designee, and shall state
under oath or affirmation such facts as may be required for, or applicable to,
the granting of such registration.
   (F)   Conditions of issuance.
      (1)   The issuance of a business registration from the city does not
waive mandated licenses (i.e. state, building inspection, fire inspection,
health, and the like).
      (2)   Acceptance by any person or business of a business registration
under this section shall constitute permission to any officer of the city to
enter upon and inspect the licensed premises at all reasonable times.
   (G)   Registration transferal. No registration may be transferred from one
business to another. A registration may be transferred to a change in location
of a business within the city's jurisdiction. Each registration holder shall
immediately notify the City Administrator, or his or her designee, of any
changes in the location of a business, address, or any other changes in the
information provided in the registration application.
   (H)   Penalty. Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the penalties and
sanctions provided by this code.
(Ord. 432, passed 7-5-11)
ARTICLE XI: PRECIOUS METAL AND GEM CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION
Section
   
45.1101   Definitions
   
45.1102   Administration of article; investigation
   
45.1103   Application by a dealer
   
45.1104   Allocation of fees
   
45.1105   Violations; penalty
 45.1101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGENT or EMPLOYEE. A person who, for compensation or valuable consideration,
is employed either directly or indirectly by a dealer.
   DEALER. Any person, corporation, partnership, or association, which, in
whole or in part, engages in the ordinary course of repeated and recurrent
transactions of buying or receiving precious items from the public within this
state.
   GOLD. Elemental gold having an atomic weight of 196.967 and the chemical
element symbol of Au, whether found by itself or in combination with its alloys
or any other metal.
   JEWELRY. An ornamental item made of a material that includes a precious gem.
   LOCAL POLICE AGENCY. The Police Department, City of Clio.
   PLATINUM. Elemental platinum having an atomic weight of 195.09 and the
chemical element symbol of Pt, whether found by itself or in combination with
its alloys or any other metal.
   PRECIOUS GEM. A diamond, alexandrite, ruby, sapphire, opal, amethyst,
emerald, aquamarine, marganite, garnet, hadeite, topaz, tourmaline, or pearl.
   PRECIOUS ITEM. Jewelry, a precious gem, or an item containing gold, silver,
or platinum. Precious item does not include the following:
      (1)   Coins, commemorative medals, and tokens struck by, or on behalf of,
a government or private mint.
      (2)   Bullion bars and disc of the type traded by banks and commodity
exchanges.
      (3)   Items at the time they are purchased directly from a dealer
registered under this act, a manufacturer, or a wholesaler who purchased them
directly from a manufacturer.
      (4)   Industrial machinery or equipment.
      (5)   An item being returned to or exchanged at the dealer where the item
was purchased and which is accompanied by a valid sales receipt.
      (6)   An item which is received for alteration, redesign, or repair in a
manner that does not substantially changes its use and returned directly to the
customer.
      (7)   An item which does not have a jeweler s identifying mark or a
serial mark and which the dealer purchases for less than $5.
      (8)   Scrap metal which contains incidental traces of gold, silver, or
platinum which are recoverable as a by-product.
      (9)   Jewelry which a customer trades for other jewelry having a greater
value, and which difference in value is paid by the customer.
   SILVER. Elemental silver having an atomic weight of 107.869 and the chemical
element symbol of Ag, whether found by itself or in combination with its alloys
or any other metal.
(Ord. 438, passed 4-2-12)
 45.1102 ADMINISTRATION OF ARTICLE; INVESTIGATION.
   The Police Chief for the city or his or her designee shall be responsible
for reviewing all applications for a certificate of registration and after
investigation and upon approval shall transmit a copy of the application and
the certificate of registration to the City Clerk.
(Ord. 438, passed 4-2-12)
 45.1103 APPLICATION BY A DEALER.
   (A)   A dealer who applies for a certificate of registration shall submit
the following information on the form provided:
      (1)   His or her name, home address, phone number, driver s license
number, date of birth, and right thumb print (print to be affixed to the
application by the Police Department). Applications for more than one
establishment shall be made on separate application forms.
      (2)   The name, address, telephone number, and hours of the dealer s
business. If the dealer s business is a corporation, an updated copy of the
Articles of Incorporation or a valid certified copy of the assumed name
certificate from the Clerk of Genesee County must be provided.
      (3)   The name, address, date of birth, and right thumb print of each
employee or agent of the dealer.
   (B)   The dealer shall also submit a signed statement indicating that he or
she has read and understands the provisions of Public Act 95 of 1981, as
provided to him or her by the Police Department, and further that said dealer
has informed his or her agents or employees, and will immediately inform all
new agents or employees, as to the provisions of said Public Act 95 of 1981.
   (C)   The dealer shall submit a signed statement that neither he or she, nor
any of his or her agents or employees has been convicted of a felony under
Public Act 95 of 1981, or under Public Act 328 of 1931 § 535, as amended,
within the five year period preceding the date of the application, or convicted
of a misdemeanor under said laws within a one year period preceding the date of
this application.
   (D)   The dealer shall submit proof of proper zoning or other special
exception permits as required by the Zoning Board of Appeals or Planning
Commission of the city.
   (E)   The dealer shall pay an annual fee of $50 or such fee as established
by resolution of the City Commission from time to time in compliance with
Public Act 95 of 1981 for each licensed establishment in the city.
(Ord. 438, passed 4-2-12)
 45.1104 ALLOCATION OF FEES.
   The funds collected pursuant to this article shall be credited to the
revenue of the Police Department, for the administration of this article.
(Ord. 438, passed 4-2-12)
 45.1105 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this article, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more
than $500 and costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County
Jail for a period not to exceed 93 days or by both such fine and imprisonment
in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 438, passed 4-2-12)
ARTICLE XII: SECONDHAND DEALERS AND JUNK DEALERS
Section
   
45.1201   License required
   
45.1202   Licensing generally; license fee; adoption of state law
   
45.1203   Pawning and security transactions prohibited
   
45.1204   Violation and penalties
 45.1201 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of a secondhand dealer or junk dealer
without first obtaining a license therefore. No license shall be granted until
the city shall find that the proposed business will not tend to create a hazard
to the public health in the area, or restrict the natural development of the
area, or be a violation of any provisions of this code and the City Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 441, passed 5-21-2012)
 45.1202 LICENSING GENERALLY; LICENSE FEE; ADOPTION OF STATE LAW.
   (A)   Licenses under this article shall be issued by the Chief of Police for
a period of one year unless sooner revoked for cause and shall otherwise be
subject to the provisions of Public Act 350 of 1917, as amended, in all
respects. Except as otherwise provided in Public Act 350 of 1917, the
provisions of Chapter 45, Article XII, §
45.1201 et al of this code shall be applicable to licenses issued hereunder and
the fee for such license shall be as prescribed by resolution of the City
Commission. Section 1 to Section 7 of Public Act 350 of 1917 (M.C.L.A. §
445.401 through 445.407), relating to secondhand dealers and junk dealers, is
hereby expressly incorporated into and made a part of this code by reference.
   (B)   The secondhand dealer or junk dealer shall pay an annual fee of $50.00
or such fee as established by resolution of the City Commission from time to
time in compliance with Public Act 350 of 1917 for each licensed establishment
in the city. The funds collected pursuant to this article shall be credited to
the revenue of the Police Department, for the administration of this article.
(Ord. 441, passed 5-21-2012)
 45.1203 PAWNING AND SECURITY TRANSACTIONS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee hereunder shall receive, in the course of his or her business,
any article by way of pledge or pawn, nor shall he or she loan or advance any
sum of money or the security of any article or thing.
(Ord. 441, passed 5-21-2012)
 45.1204 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
article shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor and be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for not more than 93 days
in the Genesee County Jail, or both such fine or imprisonment in the discretion
of the court.
(Ord. 441, passed 5-21-2012)
ARTICLE XIII: PROHIBITION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
45.1301   Purpose
   
45.1302   Prohibition
   
45.1303   Review
 45.1301 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to exercise the City of Clio's authority to
prohibit marihuana establishments pursuant to the Michigan Regulation and
Taxation of Marihuana Act (the "Act").
(Ord. 503, passed 2-4-19)
 45.1302 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 6.1 of the Act, the city completely prohibits marihuana
establishments within its boundaries.
   (B)   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the penalties and
sanctions provided by this code.
(Ord. 503, passed 2-4-19)
 45.1303 REVIEW.
   It is the City Commission's intent to review this article 18 months from the
date of its adoption to determine whether to amend or repeal it following the
promulgation of rules by the department pursuant to § 8.1 of the Act. Unless
amended or repealed, this article shall remain in effect.
(Ord. 503, passed 2-4-19)
ARTICLE XIV: MOBILE FOOD VENDING
Section
   
45.1401   Definitions
   
45.1402   Permits
   
45.1403   Regulations
   
45.1404   License revocation
   
45.1405   Complaints; appeal
   
45.1499   Enforcement; penalty
 45.1401 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of these regulations, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE FOOD VEHICLE. A motorized or non-motorized vehicle which may upon
issuance of a license by Genesee County and conformance with the regulations
established by the article may temporarily park and engage in the service, sale
or distribution of ready-to-eat food for individual portion service to the
general public directly from the vehicle.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING. Vending, serving or offering for sale food and/or
beverages from a mobile food vending unit which meets the definition of a food
service establishment under Public Act 92 of 2000, being M.C.L.A. § 289.1101
through 289.8111, which may include the ancillary sales of branded items
consistent with the food, such as a t-shirt that bears the name of the
organization engaged in MOBILE FOOD VENDING.
   SCOPE. The provisions of this article apply to mobile food vehicles engaged
in the business of cooking, preparing and distributing food or beverage with or
without charge upon or in public and private restricted spaces. This article
does not apply to vehicles which dispense food and that move from place to
place and are stationary in the same location for no more than 15 minutes at a
time, such as ice cream trucks, or food vending pushcarts and stands located on
sidewalks.
   VENDOR. Any individual engaged in the business of mobile food vending; if
more than one individual is operating a single stand, cart or other means of
conveyance, then VENDOR shall mean all individuals operating such single stand,
cart or other means of conveyance.
(Ord. 531, passed 12-16-24)
 45.1402 PERMITS.
   (A)   All mobile food vendors shall have a permit from Genesee County to
operate a temporary food establishment license, a copy of which is to be
submitted to the City of Clio. All permits shall be prominently displayed on
the mobile food vending unit. No vending through a mobile food vending unit of
food and/or other human consumables shall be permitted unless it meets the
definition of mobile food vending as defined by this article. A permit issued
under this article shall not be transferable from person to person. A permit is
valid for one vehicle only and shall not be transferred between vehicles.
   (B)   If a food truck is hired by a property owner, the property owner must
verify proper licensing of the vehicle and have notified the city.
   (C)   Genesse County permits must be submitted to City Hall not less than
ten days prior to the set- up or the beginning of vending, serving, or offering
for sale, whichever shall first occur.
(Ord. 531, passed 12-16-24)
 45.1403 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Food trucks are allowed on private property, City of Clio parks or any
other city property. If on a city-owned property, approval is needed by the
City Administrator.
   (B)   All mobile food vehicle vendors shall offer a waste container for
public use which the vendor shall empty at its own expense. All trash and
garbage originating from the preparation of mobile food vehicles shall be
collected and disposed of off-site by the operators each day. Spills of food or
food by-products shall be cleaned up, and no dumping of gray water on the
street is allowed. The city will issue a civil infraction if these stipulations
are not followed.
   (C)   Mobile food vendors shall comply with the city's noise regulations,
sign regulations and all other city ordinances.
   (D)   A vendor shall operate on private property after obtaining written
consent to operate from the affected private property owner. A private property
owner shall not permit parking by a mobile food vehicle until a permit has been
obtained to allow for such use.
   (E)   Adherence to the 2021 International Fire Code and a Serve Safe or Safe
Serve certification is required.
   (F)   A mobile food vendor may only operate the following hours:
      (1)   9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. in residential areas;
      (2)   7:00 a.m. to 11:00 p.m. in non-residential areas.
   (G)   No blocking minimum required parking spaces for any on-site or
adjacent business.
(Ord. 531, passed 12-16-24) Penalty, see §
45.1499
 45.1404 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall revoke the permit of any vendor engaged in mobile
food vending who ceases to meet any requirement of this article or violates any
other federal, state or local regulation, makes a false statement on their
application, or conducts activity in a manner that is averse to the protection
of the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Immediately upon such revocation, the permit shall become null and
void.
(Ord. 531, passed 12-16-24)
 45.1405 COMPLAINTS; APPEAL.
   If a permit is denied or revoked by the City Clerk, the applicant or holder
of a permit may appeal to and have a hearing before the City Administrator. The
City Administrator shall make a written determination. If the City
Administrator denial or revocation is supported, the applicant may appeal the
City Administrator's decision to the City Commission.
(Ord. 531, passed 12-16-24)
 45.1499 ENFORCEMENT; PENALTY.
   Any permit holder operating a mobile food vehicle in violation of any
provision of this article or any rules and regulations promulgated by the city
shall be subject to a civil fine as stated in the civil infraction ordinance.
Each day of violation shall constitute a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. 531, passed 12-16-24)
CHAPTER 50: OFFENSES
   Article
      
I.   GENERAL
      
II.   DRUG OFFENSES
      
III.   OFFENSES AGAINST MINORS
      
IV.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
V.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
VI.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
VII.   FALSE REPORTS
      
VIII.   ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
ARTICLE I: GENERAL
Section
   
50.101   Posting of signs prohibited; removal; notice
   
50.102   Possession or abandonment of certain ice boxes, refrigerators and
other containers
   
50.103   Passing bad checks
   
50.104   False personation of public officer
   
50.105   Harassing communications
   
50.106   Use of tobacco products
   
50.107   Purchase or consumption of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21
years of age
   
50.108   Use of outdoor wood-fired boilers prohibited
   
50.199   Penalty
 50.101 POSTING OF SIGNS PROHIBITED; REMOVAL; NOTICE.
   (A)   Posting of signs prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person,
except a public office or employee in the performance of a public duty or a
private person in giving a legal notice, to paste, post, paint, print, nail,
glue, attach or otherwise fasten any sign, poster, advertisement or notice of
any kind upon any property, public or private, or cause or authorize the same
to be done, without the consent, authorization or ratification in writing of
the owner, holder, occupant, lessee, agent or trustee thereof; provided, that
this section shall not apply to the distribution of handbills, advertisements
or other printed matter that are not securely affixed to the premises.
   (B)   Removal of political signs and posters; notice.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any political candidate running for any
elected office within the city who has pasted, posted, painted, marked, glued,
attached or otherwise fastened any political sign, poster, advertisement or
notice upon any public property, or who has caused or authorized any agent so
to do, to leave remaining such signs, posters, advertisements or notices in a
displayed condition for more than 15 days after written notice is given to said
candidate of the location of said displays by the City Administrator. For the
purpose of this division, written notice shall be by first class mail sent
through the U.S. Postal Service to the address listed by the candidate as his
home address on his registration for candidacy.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, a candidate running for any elected
office who is named on such signs, posters, advertisements or notices is
presumed to have caused or given authority for the erection or placement of
said displays, such presumption being rebuttable upon evidence shown by said
candidate.
(Ord. 137, passed 6-17-74) Penalty, see §
50.199
 50.102 POSSESSION OR ABANDONMENT OF CERTAIN ICE BOXES, REFRIGERATORS AND OTHER
CONTAINERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to keep, possess,
have, leave or abandon any unused ice box, refrigerator, or any other air tight
container which cannot be opened from the inside, in any place within the city
which is readily accessible to children, unless the door or latch of such ice
box, refrigerator or other container shall have first been removed or unless a
steel band shall have first been installed in a manner so as to prohibit the
opening of such ice box, refrigerator, or other container without cutting said
steel band.
(Ord. 110, passed 8-3-70) Penalty, see §
50.199
 50.103 PASSING BAD CHECKS.
   Any person who, with intent to defraud, shall make or draw or utter or
deliver any check, draft or order for the payment of money, to apply in account
or otherwise, upon any bank or other depository, knowing at the time of such
making, drawing, uttering or delivering, that the maker, or drawer, has not
sufficient funds in or credit with such bank or other depository, for the
payment of such check, draft, or order, in full, upon its presentation, or any
person who, with the intent to defraud, shall make, draw, utter or deliver any
check, draft or order for the payment of money to apply on account or
otherwise, upon any bank or other depository and who shall not have sufficient
funds for the payment for same when presentation for payment is made to the
drawee, except where such lack of funds is due to garnishment, attachment,
levy, or other lawful cause and such fact was not known to the person who made,
drew, uttered or delivered the instrument at the time of so doing, shall, if
the amount payable in the check is $50 or less, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 234, passed 12-1-91) Penalty, see §
50.199
 50.104 FALSE PERSONATION OF PUBLIC OFFICER.
   Any person who falsely assumes or pretends to be a police officer, sheriff,
deputy, deputy sheriff, conservation officer, coroner, or constable, and who
takes upon himself or herself to act as such, or to require any person to aid
and assist him or her in any matter pertaining tot he duty of a police officer,
sheriff, deputy, deputy sheriff, conservation officer, coroner, or constable,
or shall falsely take upon himself or herself to act or officiate in any office
or place of authority, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 235, passed 12-16-91; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
50.199
 50.105 HARASSING COMMUNICATIONS.
   Any person who uses any service provided by a communication carrier to
terrorize, frighten, intimidate, threaten, harass, molest or annoy any other
person, or to disturb the peace and quiet of any other person by any of the
following shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (A)   Threatening physical harm or damage to any person or property in the
course of a telephone conversation.
   (B)   Falsely reporting by telephone or telegraph message that any person
has been injured, has suddenly taken ill, has suffered death, or has been the
victim of a crime or of an accident.
   (C)   Deliberately refusing or failing to disengage a connection between a
telephone and another telephone or between a telephone and other equipment
provided for the transmission of messages by telephone, thereby interfacing any
communication service.
   (D)   Using any vulgar, indecent, obscene, or offensive language or
suggesting any lewd or lascivious act in the course of a telephone
conversation.
   (E)   Communication with a person, anonymously, or otherwise by telephone,
or by telegraph, mail or any other form of written communication in a manner
likely to harass or cause alarm.
   (F)   Making a telephone call, whether or not a conversation ensues, with no
purpose of legitimate communication.
(Ord. 283, passed 2-5-96; amended by Codification Ordinance)Penalty, see §
50.199
 50.106 USE OF TOBACCO PRODUCTS.
   (A)   Generally. A person shall not use a tobacco product on the following
described city properties:
      (1)   Within the building structure of the Rogers Lodge located on Rogers
Lodge Drive.
      (2)   Within the building structure of the city offices located at 505
West Vienna Street.
      (3)   Within the building structure of the Clio Area Art Center located
on Rogers Lodge Drive.
      (4)   Within the Clio Area Amphitheater in any area designated for
seating of persons in attendance at and during a performance at the Clio Area
Amphitheater.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   TOBACCO PRODUCTS. A preparation of tobacco to be inhaled, chewed or placed
in a person's mouth.
   USE OF A TOBACCO PRODUCT.  
      (1)   The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe or
other lighted smoking device.
      (2)   The inhaling or chewing of a tobacco product.
      (3)   The placing of a tobacco product within a person s mouth.
   (C)   Enforcement. The Police Department shall be the agency responsible for
the enforcement of this section.
(Ord. 268, passed 11-1-93) Penalty, see §
50.199
 50.107 PURCHASE OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY PERSONS UNDER THE AGE
OF 21.
   For provisions regarding minors and sales to, purchase by or possession of
alcoholic beverages, see §
50.306,
50.307,
50.309.
(Ord. 336, passed 3-18-02; amended by Ord. 344, passed 10-7-02) Penalty, see §
50.199
 50.108 USE OF OUTDOOR WOOD-FIRED BOILERS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose. This section is intended to promote the public health, safety
and welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City of Clio, by preventing air pollution and
other potential hazards of outdoor wood-fired boilers.
   (B)   Findings. Research summarized in several publications, including but
not limited to United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) reports,
indicates that there exist certain potentially severe negative health effects
of wood-fired boiler emissions on humans when such boilers are installed and
used in non-rural settings. At this time, there are no applicable and mandated
state or federal standards for determining which, if any, wood-fired boilers
would not produce such likely and unacceptable risks to humans if used within
the city.
   (C)   Definition. For the purpose of this section, OUTDOOR WOOD FIRED
BOILERS shall mean, but not necessarily be limited to, a wood-fired boiler,
stove, furnace or wood-fired hydronic heater that is not located within a
building intended for habitation by humans or domestic animals.
   (D)   No outdoor wood-fired boilers shall be installed or used within the
City of Clio.
   (E)   Applicability. This section does not apply to:
      (1)   Grilling or cooking food using charcoal, wood, propane or natural
gas in cooking, grilling appliances or portable fire pits;
      (2)   Burning for the purpose of generating heat in a stove, furnace,
fireplace or other wood-fired heating device contained within a building used
for human or animal habitation; and
      (3)   The use of propane, acetylene, natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in
a device intended for heating, construction or maintenance activities.
(Ord. 418, passed 1-19-10) Penalty, see §
50.199
 50.199 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates the provisions of §
50.101 of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court. Each and every day that such violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate and distinct violation of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 283, passed 2-5-96)
   (B)   Any person who violates the provisions of § 51.106 of this article
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $50.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any provision of §
50.108 shall, upon conviction, be punished with a fine of not to exceed $500
and cost of prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a
period not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court.
(Ord. 268, passed 11-1-93; Am. Ord. 418, passed 1-19-10)
ARTICLE II: DRUG OFFENSES
Section
General Provisions
   
50.201   Possession of marijuana
   
50.202   Use of marijuana
Controlled Substances Paraphernalia
   
50.210   Title
   
50.211   Definitions
   
50.212   Regulations
Property Forfeiture
   
50.225   Forfeiture of controlled substances and related products and property
   
50.299   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 50.201 POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA.
   A person who knowingly or intentionally possesses marijuana within the city
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. MARIJUANA means all parts of the plant
Cannabis Sativa L., whether growing or not; the seeds thereof; the resin
extracted from any part of the plant; and every compound, manufacture, salt
derivative, mixture or preparation of the plant, its seeds or resin. It does
not include the mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks, oil
or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture, salt
derivative, mixture or preparation fiber, oil, cake, or the sterilized seed of
the plant which is incapable of germination.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-16-92) Penalty, see §
50.299
 50.202 USE OF MARIJUANA.
   A person shall not use a controlled substance or controlled substance
analogue unless the substance was obtained directly from, or pursuant to, a
valid prescription or order of a practitioner while acting in the course of the
practitioner s professional practice, or except as otherwise authorized by this
article.
(Ord. 409, passed 4-20-09) Penalty, see §
50.299
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES PARAPHERNALIA
 50.210 TITLE.
   This subarticle shall be known as the Controlled Substances Paraphernalia
Ordinance.
(Ord. 211, passed 6-2-86)
 50.211 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subarticle, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COCAINE SPOON. A spoon with a bowl so small that the primary use for which
it is reasonably adapted or designed is to hold or administer cocaine, and
which is so small as to be unsuitable for the typical use of a spoon. A cocaine
spoon may or may not be merchandised on a chain and may or may not be labeled
as a coke spoon or cocaine spoon.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor enumerated
in 1978 P.A. 368 Section 7210 - 7220, as the Health Code.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. Any equipment, product, material, or combination of
equipment, products, or materials, which is specifically designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting,
inhaling or otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance,
including, but not limited to, all of the following:
      (1)   An isomerization device specifically designed for use in increasing
the potency of any species of plant, which plant is a controlled substance;
      (2)   Testing equipment specifically designed for use in identifying or
in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a controlled substance;
      (3)   A weight scale or balance specifically designed for use in weighing
or measuring a controlled substance;
      (4)   A diluent or adulterant, including, but not limited to, quinine
hydrochloride, mannitol, mannite, dextrose, and lactose, specifically designed
for use with a controlled substance;
      (5)   A separation gin or sifter specifically designed for use in
removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining, marijuana;
      (6)   An object specifically designed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or hashish oil into the
human body;
      (7)   A kit specifically designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, or harvesting any species of plant which is a controlled
substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (8)   A kit specifically designed for use in manufacturing, compounding,
converting, producing, processing, or preparing controlled substances;
      (9)   A device, commonly known as a cocaine kit, that is specifically
designed for use in ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing controlled
substances into the human body, and which consists of at least a razor blade
and a mirror;
      (10)   A device, commonly known as a bullet, that is specifically
designed to deliver a measured amount of controlled substances to the user;
      (11)   A device, commonly known as a snorter, that is specifically
designed to carry a small amount of controlled substances to the user s nose;
      (12)   A device, commonly known as an automotive safe, that is
specifically designed to carry and conceal a controlled substance in an
automobile, including, but not limited to, a can used for brake fluid, oil, or
carburetor cleaner which contains a compartment for carrying and concealing
controlled substances; and
      (13)   A spoon, with or without a chain attached, that has a small
diameter bowl and that is specifically designed for use in ingesting, inhaling,
or otherwise introducing controlled substances into the human body.
   MARIJUANA OR HASHISH PIPE. A pipe characterized by a bowl which is so small
that the primary use for which it is reasonably adapted or designed is smoking
of marijuana or hashish, rather than lawful smoking of tobacco, and which may
or may not be equipped with a screen.
   PARAPHERNALIA. An empty gelatin capsule, hypodermic syringe or needle,
cocaine spoon, marijuana pipe, hashish pipe, or any other instrument,
implement, or device which is primarily adapted or designed for the
administration or use of any controlled substance.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation. governmental agency, business trust,
estate, trust, partnership or association.
(Ord. 211, passed 6-2-86; Am. Ord. 409, passed 4-20-09)
 50.212 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, offer for sale,
display, furnish, supply or give away any drug paraphernalia or any other
instrument, implement or device which is primarily adapted or designed for the
administration or use of any controlled substance as enumerated in Sections
7210 - 7220, 1978 P.A. 368, as amended (commonly known as the Health Code).
   (B)   The regulations contained in this section shall not apply to
manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, licensed medical technicians,
technologists, nurses, hospitals, clinical laboratories, medical and
osteopathic doctors, dentists, veterinarians pharmacists or embalmers engaged
in the normal, lawful course of their respective businesses or professions, nor
to common carriers or warehouses or their employees in the lawful
transportation of such paraphernalia, nor to public officers or employees while
engaged in the performance of their official duties, nor to persons suffering
from diabetes, asthma, or any other medical condition requiring self
injections.
(Ord. 211, passed 6-2-86; Am. Ord. 409, passed 4-20-09) Penalty, see §
50.299
PROPERTY FORFEITURE
 50.225 FORFEITURE OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES AND RELATED PRODUCTS AND PROPERTY.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 42.23, the city has adopted by reference the
following provisions: M.C.L.A. § 333.7521, 333.7522, 333.7523, 333.7524,
333.7524(a), 333.7525, 333.7527, 333.7531 and 333.17766(a). A copy of this
ordinance and the sections of the Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated which have
been adopted by reference can be inspected or obtained at the city offices
during regular business hours.
(Ord. 357, passed 4-5-04)
 50.299 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall, upon
conviction, be punished with a fine of not to exceed $500 and cost of
prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or by both, such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court. Each day of the violation shall be considered a separate offense.
   (B)   A person who violates §
50.202 as to marijuana is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment
for not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $100, or both.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-16-92 and Ord. 211, passed 6-2-86; Am. Ord. 409, passed 4-
20-09)
ARTICLE III: OFFENSES AGAINST MINORS
Section
General Provisions
   
50.301   Definitions
   
50.302   Parental responsibility
   
50.303   Notification of parent; record of notification
   
50.304   Violation
   
50.305   Contributing to delinquency of minors
   
50.306   Sales of alcoholic beverages to persons under 21 years of age
   
50.307   Purchase of alcoholic beverages by persons under 21 years of age
   
50.308   Underage smoking or possession of tobacco materials
   
50.309   Transporting, purchasing, possessing of alcoholic beverages by minor
Curfew
   
50.315   Minors 12 and under
   
50.316   Minors 14 and under
   
50.317   Minors under 18
   
50.318   Failure of parent or guardian to collect minor
   
50.319   Persons 18 or over abiding or abetting violations
   
50.320   Exceptions
   
50.399   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 50.301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   Clio - Offenses
   DELINQUENT ACTS. Those acts which violate the laws of the United States, the
laws of the State of Michigan or the ordinances of the city; those acts which
cause or would tend to cause the minor to come under the jurisdiction of the
Juvenile Division of the Probate Court as defined by M.C.L.A. § 712a.2, being
M.S.A. § 27.3178(598.2); or those acts by which the minor intentionally causes
physical harm to another or deliberately creates an unreasonable risk of
physical harm to himself or herself or to others. DELINQUENT ACTS do not
include traffic violations.
   DRUGS. Any controlled substance as defined now or hereafter by the Public
Health Code for the State of Michigan. Currently, such substances are defined
in Part 72 of the Health Code being Sections 333.7201 et seq. of the Michigan
Compiled Laws.
   MINOR. § Any unemancipated person under 18 years of age.
   PARENT. A mother, father, or legal guardian of a minor who has the
responsibility for the health, welfare, care, maintenance and supervision of
the minor at the time the delinquent act is alleged to have been committed by
the minor.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96)
 50.302 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   The parent of any minor has a continuous responsibility to exercise
reasonable control and supervision over the minor to prevent the minor from
committing or participating in the commission of any delinquent act.
   (B)   The parental responsibility to exercise reasonable control includes
the following duties, set forth for the purposes of illustration and not
limitation:
      (1)   To keep drugs out of the home and out of the possession of the
minor, except those drugs duly prescribed by a licensed physician or other
authorized medical professional;
      (2)   To keep firearms out of the possession of the minor except those
used for hunting in accordance with local ordinance and state law and with the
knowledge and supervision of a parent.
      (3)   To know the curfew ordinance of the city and to require the minor
to observe the curfew ordinance;
      (4)   To prevent the minor from maliciously or wilfully damaging,
defacing or destroying real or personal property belonging to others, including
that belonging to the city.
      (5)   To prevent the minor from engaging in theft of property or keeping
in his or her possession property known to be stolen.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96)
 50.303 NOTIFICATION OF PARENT; RECORD OF NOTIFICATION.
   Whenever a minor is arrested or detained by the City Police Department for
the commission of any delinquent act, the parent of the minor shall be notified
as soon as reasonably possible by the city police of the minor's arrest or
detention and the reason therefore, and of the parent's responsibility under
this section.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96)
 50.304 VIOLATION.
   If the minor of a parent commits a delinquent act within the city, the
parent shall be guilty of a violation of this article if:
   (A)   It is proven that any act, word or non-exercise of parental
responsibility by the parent encouraged, caused or allowed to occur the
commission of the delinquent act by the minor; or
   (B)    It is proven that the parent knew or reasonably should have known
that the minor was likely to commit a delinquent act, but failed to take timely
and appropriate action to prevent the commission of the delinquent act by the
minor. If at any time within 45 days following the giving of notice as provided
by §
50.303 above, the minor to whom said notice related or applied commits a
delinquent act with the knowledge, allowance, permission or sufferance of the
parent.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
50.399
 50.305 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINORS.
   No person shall by any act, or by any word, encourage, contribute toward,
cause or tend to cause any minor child under the age of 18 year to become
neglected or delinquent so as to come or tend to come under the jurisdiction of
the juvenile division of the Probate Court, or cause or permit any minor child
to engage in any occupation that would be likely to endanger the minor child's
health or deprave the minor child's morals, or to habitually permit the child
to frequent the company of or consort with reputed thieves or prostitutes,
whether or not such child in fact be adjudicated a ward of the Probate Court.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96) Penalty, see §
50.399
 50.306 SALES OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city either directly or
indirectly by himself, his clerk, agent, servant or employees, to at any time
sell, furnish, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor to any person unless such
person as attained the age of 21 years; and it shall be unlawful for any
person, either directly or indirectly by himself, his clerk, agent or servant
or employee, at any time to sell, furnish, give or deliver any alcoholic liquor
to any person who is so intoxicated as not to be in control of all his
faculties; provided, however, that nothing contained in this section shall
prohibit the sale of an alcoholic beverage to a minor upon authority of and
pursuant to a prescription of a duly licensed physician.
(Ord. 344, passed 10-7-02)
 50.307 PURCHASE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 21 years to at
any time purchase, offer or attempt to purchase, obtain, consume, or bring into
any premises within the city for which a license has been issued to sell
intoxicating liquor on the premises, any alcoholic liquor.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to procure the
sale and furnishing of alcoholic liquor to any person under the age of 21
years, to make any false representations as to the age of the person for whom
the alcoholic liquor is desired.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city under the age of
21 years to furnish any false information regarding his age or make any false
representations as to his age to any law enforcement officer, or to any person
in charge of or employed in a place of business where alcoholic liquor is sold,
for the purpose of obtaining a sale of any alcoholic liquor to himself;
provided, nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the purchase of an
alcoholic beverage by a minor under authority of and pursuant to a prescription
of a duly licensed physician.
(Ord. 344, passed 10-7-02)
 50.308 UNDERAGE SMOKING OR POSSESSION OF TOBACCO MATERIALS.
   (A)   Use or possession of tobacco products by a minor in public or in a
school or upon school grounds is prohibited; civil fine.
   (B)   A person under 18 years of age shall not possess or smoke cigarettes
or cigars; or possess or chew, suck, or inhale chewing tobacco or tobacco
snuff; or possess or use tobacco in any other form, on a public highway,
street, alley, park, or other lands used for public purposes, or in a public
place of business or amusement or in a school or on school grounds.
(Ord. 344, passed 10-7-02)
 50.309 TRANSPORTING, PURCHASING, POSSESSING OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES BY A MINOR.
   (A)   Transporting alcoholic beverages. It shall be unlawful for any person
within the city under the age of 21 to knowingly possess, transport or have
under his control in any motor vehicle, any alcoholic liquor unless that person
is employed by a licensee licensed under the laws of the state and is
possessing, transporting or having such alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle
under his control during his regular working hours and in the course of his
employment. Any person under the age of 21 shall be in violation of this
section whenever any alcoholic liquor is found in an automobile operated by
him, even though he is not the registered owner and notwithstanding such
alcoholic liquor was purchased by others or brought in the motor vehicle by
others. The mere presence of alcoholic liquor in the automobile, with the
knowledge of the driver, shall constitute a violation of this section on the
part of the driver. ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR as used in this chapter shall have the
meaning defined in the Michigan Liquor Control Act, being M.C.L.A. § 436.1 et
seq., as amended.
   (B)   Persons under 21 who purchase, consume in a licensed premises or
possess alcoholic liquor. A person less than 21 years of age shall not purchase
alcoholic liquor, consume alcoholic liquor in a licensed premises or possess
alcoholic liquor unless the person is employed by a licensee under the Michigan
Liquor Control Act, being M.C.L.A. § 436.1 et seq. A person less than 21 years
of age who violates this subsection is liable for the civil fines set forth in
M.C.L.A. § 436.1 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 344, passed 10-7-02)
CURFEW
 50.315 MINORS 12 AND UNDER.
   No minor of the age of 12 years or under shall loiter, idle, congregate or
be in or on any public street, highway, alley, park or other public place
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., subject to the exceptions of §
50.320.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
50.399
 50.316 MINORS 14 AND UNDER.
   No minor the age of 14 years or under shall loiter, idle, congregate or be
in or on any public street, highway, alley, park or other public place between
the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., subject to the exceptions of §
50.320.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
50.399
 50.317 MINORS UNDER 18.
   No minor under the age of 18 years shall loiter, idle, congregate or be in
or on any public street, highway, alley, park or other public place between the
hours of midnight and 6:00 a.m., immediately following, subject to the
exceptions of §
50.320.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
50.399
 50.318 FAILURE OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN TO COLLECT MINOR.
   Any parent of a minor child who is notified that his or her minor child has
been taken into custody for a violation of the city code and who thereafter
fails or refuses to collect said minor child from the authorities or make
provisions therefor within a period of three hours after notification shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction. Upon conviction of a violation of
this section, a parent shall be subject to a fine in the amount of the actual
cost to the Police Department in arresting and detaining the minor child.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96; amended by Codification Ordinance) Penalty, see §
50.399
 50.319 PERSONS 18 OR OVER ABIDING OR ABETTING VIOLATIONS.
   Any person 18 years of age or older, who assists, aids or abets, allows,
permits or encourages any minor under the age of 18 years to violate the city
ordinances, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96) Penalty, see §
50.399
 50.320 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subarticle ( § 50.315 et seq.) does not apply to a minor who is:
   (A)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
   (B)   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
   (C)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity directed by a parent,
guardian, or custodian; or
   (D)   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where the minor has permission
from his or her parent or guardian to be, or the sidewalk of a next-door
neighbor not communicating an objection to a police officer; or
   (E)   Participating in, going to, or returning from: a lawful athletic,
educational, entertainment, religious, or social event; or interstate travel.
(Codification Ordinance)
 50.399 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person in violation of §
50.304,
50.305 or
50.319 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction shall be ordered
to perform 16 hours of community service and, in addition shall be subject to a
fine not to exceed $500 or 90 days in jail, or both fine and jail in the
discretion of the court.
   (B)   Any person in violation of §
50.315,
50.316,
50.317 or
50.318 shall be guilty of a municipal civil infraction, and upon conviction
shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $500.
(Ord. 286, passed 10-7-96; amended by Codification Ordinance)
ARTICLE IV: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
50.401   Retail fraud
   
50.402   Larceny under $100; receiving and concealing
   
50.403   Damage to school buildings
Breaking and Entering
   
50.415   Purpose
   
50.416   Offenses
   
50.499   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 50.401 RETAIL FRAUD.
   A person who does any of the following, in a store or in its immediate
vicinity, is guilty of retail fraud in the second degree and shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor:
   (A)   While a store is open to the public, alters, transfers, removes or
replaces, conceals or otherwise misrepresents the price at which property is
offered for sale, with the intent not to pay for the property or to pay less
than the price at which the property is offered for sale.
   (B)   While a store is open to the public, steals property of the store that
is offered for sale.
   (C)   With intent to defraud, obtains or attempts to obtain money or
property from the store as a refund or exchange for property that was not paid
for and belongs to the store.
   (D)   To request and obtain gasoline, oil or other merchandise at a gasoline
station in the city and flees without paying for the same, with the intention
to defraud the owner of the business.
   (E)   To order and consume any food and/or drink without making full payment
for the same.
(Ord. 241, passed 5-4-92) Penalty, see §
50.499
 50.402 LARCENY UNDER $100; RECEIVING AND CONCEALING.
   (A)   A person who shall take any property not his own or to which he has no
legal right or claim from another person, a building or a vehicle, having a
value of $100 or less, shall be guilty of the misdemeanor offense of larceny.
   (B)   A person who shall receive or possess any property of another having a
value of $100 or less, knowing the same to be stolen, shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   As used in this section, PROPERTY shall include but not be limited to
the following: money, goods or chattels, bank note or bill, bond, promissory
note, due bill, bill of exchange or other bill, draft, order or certificate,
book of accounts, for or concerning money or goods due or to become due, or to
be delivered, or any deed or writing containing a conveyance of land, or any
other valuable contract in force, or any receipt, release or defeasance, or any
writ, process or public record.
(Ord. 242, passed 5-4-92) Penalty, see §
50.499
 50.403 DAMAGE TO SCHOOL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall mark with any substance, or in any other manner deface
or do damage to any building owned, occupied, or otherwise used as a school
within the city.
   (B)   No person shall mark with any substance, or in any other manner deface
or do damage to any fence, tree, lawn or other fixture situated on lands owned,
occupied, or otherwise used by a school within the city.
   (C)   No person, while on public or private grounds adjacent to any building
in which a school or any class thereof is in session, shall wilfully make or
assist in the making of any noise or diversion which disturbs or tends to
disturb the peace, quiet, or good order of such school session or class
thereof.
   (D)   No person while on public or private lands adjacent to any building or
lands owned, occupied or otherwise used by a school within the city, in or on
which any gathering or function is in progress, whether in the day or
nighttime, shall willfully make or assist in the making of any noise or
diversion which disturbs or tends to disturb the peace, quiet or good order of
such gathering or function.
   (E)   No person, who is not a student required to be in attendance at that
school, a teacher, administrator, custodian or employee of the school, shall,
during school hours, remain within the school or upon school grounds without
securing the permission of the principal or person in charge of said school.
   (F)   No person, student or otherwise, at any time, shall operate any
vehicle, to include motorcycles and snowmobiles, upon school grounds within the
city except when on legitimate school business.
   (G)   No person, student or otherwise, shall remain upon school grounds or
within a school owned, occupied or used by any school within the city, after
being ordered to leave by any teacher or administrator of the school or other
person given such authority by the Board of Education administering the school.
(Ord. 134, passed 1-21-74) Penalty, see §
50.499
BREAKING AND ENTERING
 50.415 PURPOSE.
   To provide for penalties, upon conviction, for anyone who would enter,
without breaking, any dwelling or structure, used or kept for public or private
use, without first obtaining permission to enter from the owner or occupant.
(Ord. 266, passed 4-5-93)
 50.416 OFFENSES.
   (A)   Any person who shall break and enter, or shall enter without breaking,
any dwelling, house, tent, hotel, office, store, shop, warehouse, barn,
granary, factory or other building, boat, ship, railroad car or structure used
or kept for public or private use, or any private apartment therein, or any
cottage, clubhouse, boathouse, hunting or fishing lodge, garage or other out-
building belonging thereto, or any other structure, whether occupied or
unoccupied, without first obtaining permission to enter from the owner or
occupant, agent or person having immediate control thereof, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor; provided, that this section shall not apply to entering without,
breaking any place which, at the time of such entry was open to the public,
unless such entry has been expressly denied.
   (B)   This section shall not apply in cases where the breaking and entering
or entering without breaking was committed by a peace officer or someone under
his direction in the lawful performance of his duties as such peace officer.
(Ord. 266, passed 4-5-93) Penalty, see §
50.499
 50.499 PENALTY.
   A person who shall violate any provision of this article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and cost of
prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 266, passed 4-5-93)
ARTICLE V: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
50.501   Definitions
   
50.502   Disorderly persons
   
50.503   Arrests without warrants for domestic assault and assault and battery
   
50.504   Noise disturbances; prohibited acts; exemptions
   
50.599   Penalty
 50.501 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Whenever
any words and phrases used herein are not defined but are defined in the State
Penal Code, any such definition therein shall be deemed to apply to such words
and phrases used herein.
   COMMERCIAL AREA. A parcel of land zoned for or legally used for commercial
purposes.
   CONSTRUCTION. Any site preparation, assembly, erection, substantial repair,
alteration or similar action, but excluding demolition.
   CONTINUOUS NOISE. Any noise whose level continues for a period of at least
five minutes.
   DAYTIME.  Unless otherwise specifically noted, means the hours from 7:00
a.m. to 9:00 p.m.
   DEMOLITION. Any dismantling, intentional destruction or removal of
structures, utilities, public or private right-of-way surfaces or similar
property.
   EMERGENCY.  Any occurrence or set of circumstances involving actual or
imminent physical trauma, property damage which demands immediate action.
   IMPULSIVE NOISE. A short burst of sound not exceeding ten seconds in
duration.
   INDUSTRIAL AREA. A parcel of land zoned for or used for industrial purposes.
   INTERMITTENT NOISE. Any noise whose level remains constant which goes on and
off during a course of measurement of at least ten seconds, or goes on and off
during a period of at least five minutes, but which exceeds ten seconds in
duration each time it is on.
   NIGHTTIME. Unless otherwise specifically noted, means the hours from 9:00
p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
   NOISE. Any sound occurring on either a perpetual, continuous, intermittent
or impulsive basis. It also means the intensity, frequency, duration and
character of sound, including sound and vibration and sub-audible frequencies.
   NOISE DISTURBANCE. Any sound which:
      (1)   Endangers or injures the safety or health of humans or animals; or
      (2)   Annoys or disturbs a reasonable person of normal sensibilities; or
      (3)   Endangers or injures personal or real property.
   PERPETUAL NOISE.  Any noise whose level continues for a period of at least
30 minutes.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, partnership or corporation, and
includes the city and other governmental entities.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, parking lot, public building, any
place of business or assembly open to or frequented by the public, and any
other place which is open to the public view, or to which the public has
access.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY. Any imaginary line along the ground surface, and its
vertical extension, which separates the real property owned by one person from
that owned by another person, but not including intrabuilding real property
divisions.
   RECEIVING LAND USE. The (commercial, industrial or residential) use of the
land on or at which a noise is received.
   RESIDENTIAL AREA. A parcel of land zoned for or legally used for residential
purposes.
   WEEKDAY.  Any day Monday through Friday which is not a legal holiday.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-18-70; amended by Ord. 379, passed 2-6-06)
 50.502 DISORDERLY PERSONS.
   (A)   No person shall be disorderly in the city.
   (B)   For the purposes of this article, a DISORDERLY PERSON shall be any
person who shall engage in any act or practice hereinafter enumerated and any
person who shall aid or abet such person to do such act or to engage in such
practice:
      (1)   Commit an assault, or an assault and battery on any person or be
engaged in or aid in any fight, quarrel, or ether disturbance;
      (2)   Be intoxicated in a public place and endanger directly the safety
of another person or of property or act in a manner that causes a public
disturbance;
      (3)   Consume or offer any alcoholic liquor to any person in any
automobile while parked or being driven on any public street or highway, or
consume or offer any alcoholic liquor or beverage in any public place not
licensed as a place of sale or consumption of alcohol;
      (4)   Engage in any indecent or insulting language or conduct in any
public place which is expected or intended to arouse the person addressed to
anger or which is likely to invite a breach of the peace;
      (5)   Fire, discharge, display, or possess any firearms, air rifle, air
pistol, bow and arrow, sling shot, or other dangerous weapon within or into the
city except as the same may be licensed or required by law;
      (6)   Fire, discharge, display, or possess any fireworks except of the
type and under the conditions permitted by the Penal Code of the State of
Michigan and the Code of the City of Clio;
      (7)   Engage in the peeping in of windows of any inhabited place;
      (8)   Beg in any public place in a manner which causes alarm or
apprehension in any person;
      (9)   Swim or bathe in any public place without wearing apparel that
conforms to commonly accepted standards so as to prevent any indecent exposure
of the person;
      (10) Employ loud or boisterous language in any public place so as to
cause physical inconvenience, annoyance or alarm to the public, or laugh, talk,
or otherwise disturb any school, meeting, or congregation lawfully assembled,
whether for purposes religious, political, or otherwise;
      (11) Intentionally expose the genitalia of his or her body, including the
exposure by a woman of her breasts in any public place or a place open to view
of the public at large, or engage in any public masturbation, urination or
similar conduct;
      (12) Print, publish, show, sell, offer for sale, exhibit, or distribute,
or process any indecent or obscene pictures, drawings, engravings, paper, car,
book, or pamphlet, image, representation, matter or thing in any public place;
      (13) Wilfully destroy, take, damage, alter, or in any manner deface any
property of another or that which is not his own, or remove same from the
building or place where it may be kept, placed or stored, without property
authority, or mark or post hand bills on, or in any manner mark the walls of
any public building, fence, tree, or pole within the city or destroy, take,
disconnect, tamper, or meddle with any city water meter or any other property
belonging to the city;
      (14) Insult, flirt, fondle, accost, molest, or otherwise annoy, either by
mouth, sign, motion or any act, any person in any public place in a manner
which is intended or expected to arouse or incite apprehension or anger in the
person addressed;
      (15) Collect or stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage, or abet the
collection of persons in crowds whose common object, with or without prior
concert, is to commit an unlawful act, or a lawful act by unlawful means;
      (16) Jostle or roughly crowd persons in any public place;
      (17) Loiter, stand, sit or lie in or upon any public street or sidewalk
or in any park or public building so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon; after first having been warned
by a police officer, or where a no loitering sign or signs have been posted;
      (18) Engage in any act of prostitution or solicit or accost any person
for the purpose of inducing the commission of any illegal act;
      (19) Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant or inmate of any place
where prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating liquor, or where
any other illegal business or occupation is permitted or conducted;
      (20) Any person who shall willfully enter, upon the lands or premises of
another without lawful authority, after having been forbidden to do so by the
owner or occupant, agent or servant of the owner or occupant, or any person
being upon the land or premises of another, upon being notified to depart
therefrom by the owner or occupant, the agent or servant of either, who without
lawful authority neglects or refuses to depart therefrom or who violates a
posted sign which forbids trespassing;
      (21) Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution or
gambling is practiced, encouraged, or allowed for the purpose of enabling such
person to engage in gambling or in any illegal act;
      (22) Keep or maintain, or permit the use of, a gambling room, table, or
equipment, or any policy or pool tickets to be used for gambling on any
premises occupied, or controlled by him; or place, receive or transmit any bat
on the outcome of any race, contest, or game of any kind whatsoever;
      (23) Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud or boisterous conduct;
      (24) Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him to be a
resort of noisy, boisterous, or disorderly persons;
      (25) Make, aid, countenance, or assist in making any improper noise,
riot, disturbance, breach of the peace, or diversion tending to be a breach of
the peace;
      (26) Obstruct, resist, hinder, or oppose any member of the police force,
or any peace officer in the discharge of his duties as such, or direct
insulting or offensive words to a police officer in a threatening manner;
      (27) Prowl about any alley or the private premises of any other person,
either by day or night, without authority or the permission of the owner of
such premises;
      (28) Turn in, or encourage to be turned in, a false alarm of fire or a
false report or complaint to any city or school official;
      (29) Knowingly sell, give or furnish liquor, wine, beer or other
alcoholic beverages to any person under the age of 21 years, or to a drunken or
intoxicated person, or to any disorderly person, or to any habitual drunkard;
      (30) Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile, or object from any
moving vehicle;
      (31) Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile, or object toward
any person or vehicle;
      (32) No person shall beat, kick, injure, or torture or cruelly strike any
dumb animal nor shall any person aid or assist another in so doing;
      (33) Commit the offense of larceny, by stealing, of the property of
another, any money, goods or chattels, or any bank note, bank bill, bond,
promissory note, due bill, bill of exchange, or other bill, draft, order or
certificate, or any book of accounts for or concerning money or goods due or to
become due, or to be delivered, or any deed or writing containing a conveyance
of land, or any other valuable contract in force, or any receipt, release or
defeasance or any writ, process or public record of the value of $100 or less.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-18-70; amended by Ord. 122, passed 3-20-72; amended by Ord.
165, passed 2-6-78) Penalty, see §
50.599
50.503 ARRESTS WITHOUT WARRANTS FOR DOMESTIC ASSAULT AND ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   (A)   A police officer who has reasonable cause to believe that an assault
or an assault and battery has taken place or is taking place and that the
person who committed or who is committing the violation has had a child in
common with the victim, resides or has resided in the same household as the
victim, or is a spouse or former spouse of the victim, may arrest the violator
without a warrant for that violation, irrespective of whether the violation was
committed in the presence of the police officer.
   (B)   Any person arrested pursuant to this section shall not be released on
an interim bond or on his or her own recognizance, but shall be held until he
or she can be brought before a magistrate for arraignment. If a magistrate is
not available, or trial cannot be held, within 24 hours of arrest, the person
shall be held for 20 hours, after which the person may be released on an
interim bond or on his or her own recognizance.
   (C)   After investigating or intervening in a domestic dispute as described
in this section, a peace officer shall provide the victim with a copy of the
notice in this section. The notice shall be written and shall include all of
the following:
      (1)   The name and telephone number of the responding police agency.
      (2)   The name and badge number of the responding peace officer.
      (3)   The following statement:
         A. You may obtain copy of the police incident report for your case by
contacting this law enforcement agency at the telephone number provided.
         B.   The domestic violence shelter program and other resources in your
area are (a list of available shelters will be provided by the Police
Department).
         C.   Information about emergency shelter, counseling services, and the
legal rights of domestic violence victims are available from these resources.
         D.   Your legal rights include the right to go to court and file a
petition requesting an injunctive order to protect you or other members of your
household from domestic abuse which could include the following:
            1.   An order restraining or enjoining the abuser from entering
onto premises.
            2.   An order restraining or enjoining the abuser from assaulting,
beating, molesting, or wounding you.
            3.   An order restraining or enjoining the abuser from threatening
to kill or physically injure you or another person.
            4.   An order restraining or enjoining the abuser from removing
minor children from you, except as otherwise authorized by a custody or
visitation order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction.
            5.   An order restraining or enjoining the abuser from engaging in
stalking behavior.
            6.   In those instances where an arrest is made pursuant to this
section, the incident report prepared by the police officer shall be sent by
facsimile transmission to the domestic shelter service provided in Subsection 4
above.
(Ord. 278, passed 6-5-95; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 50.504 NOISE DISTURBANCES; PROHIBITED ACTS; EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to unreasonably make, continue, or
cause to be made or continued any noise disturbance.
   (B)   The following acts, and the causing thereof are declared to be in
violation of this section:
      (1)   Radios, television sets, musical instruments and similar devices.
Operating, playing or permitting the operation or playing of any radio,
television, phonograph, drum, musical instrument, sound amplifier, boom box, or
similar device which produces, reproduces, or amplifies sound:
         (a)   In such a manner to create a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary;
         (b)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance at 50 feet (15
meters) from such device, when operated in or on a motor vehicle on a public
right-of-way or public space, or in a boat on public waters.
         (c)   In such a manner as to create a noise disturbance to any person
other than the operator of the device, when operated by any passenger on a
common carrier.
      (2)   Loudspeakers/public address systems.
         (a)   Using or operating for noncommercial purposes any loudspeaker,
public address system, or similar device during the nighttime, so that the
sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a residential real or
property boundary.
         (b)   Using or operating for any commercial purpose any loudspeaker,
public address system, or similar device so that:
            1.   The sound therefrom creates a noise disturbance across a real
property boundary; or
            2.   During a nighttime or on a public right-of-way or public
space.
         (c)   Using or operating for any noncommercial purpose any loudspeaker
attached to a motor vehicle outside of the cab of the vehicle and which
amplifies radio broadcast or recorded sound.
      (3)   Exemptions. The provisions of this section shall not apply to the
following:
         (a)   The emission of sound for the purpose of alerting persons to the
existence of an emergency.
         (b)   The emission of sound in the performance of emergency work.
         (c)   Motor vehicles and equipment for which noise levels are
regulated by Act No. 73 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1978 (M.C.L. 257.707a
et seq., MSA 9.2407(1) et seq.), as amended and/or the City Traffic Code.
         (d)   Aircraft and trains.
         (e)   The erections (including excavating), demolition, alteration or
repair of any building:
            1.   Between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through
Saturday and 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. on Sunday; or
            2.   At any other time if a permit has been secured from the
Building Inspection Department. Such permit may be issued if the Building
Inspection Department finds the following facts to exist:
               a.   Issuance of the permit is in the interest of public health
or safety.
               b.   The public health and safety will not be impaired.
               c.   The permit is necessary to avoid substantial loss or
inconvenience to an interested party.
         (f)   The operation of domestic tools such as lawnmowers, snow
blowers, edgers, and the like, when such tools are operated in a manner and
frequency that is normal and customary in the community.
         (g)   Public functions for which a request has been made may be given
specific exemption by the City Commission or its designee.
         (h)   Sanctioned school functions.
   (C)   Street sales. Offering for sale or selling anything by shouting, or
outcry within any residential or commercial area of the city except with a
peimit or license issued pursuant to any other provision of the Clio City Code.
   (D)   Animals and birds. Owning, possessing or harboring any animal or bird
which frequently or for continued duration, howls, barks, meows, squawks, or
makes other sounds which create a noise disturbance across a residential real
property boundary.
   (E)   Loading or unloading. Loading, unloading, opening, closing or other
handling of boxes, crates, containers, building materials, garbage cans, or
similar objects during the nighttime in such a manner as to cause a noise
disturbance across a residential real property boundary.
   (F)   Vehicle or motorboat repairs and testing, Repairing, rebuilding,
modifying or testing any motor vehicle, motorcycle, or motorboat in such a
manner as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary.
   (G)   Places of public entertainment. Operating, playing or permitting the
operation or playing of any radio, television, phonograph, drum, musical
instrument, sound amplifier, or similar device which produces, reproduces, or
amplifies sound in any place of public entertainment at a sound level greater
than 100 dB(A) as read by the slow response on a sound level meter at any point
that is normally occupied by a customer, unless a conspicuous and legible sign
is located outside such place, near each public entrance, stating: "Warning:
Sound Levels Within May Cause Permanent Hearing Impairment."
   (H)   Explosives, firearms, and similar devices, the use or firing of
explosives, firearms, or similar devices which create impulsive sound so as to
cause a noise disturbance across a real property boundary or in an public space
or right-of-way.
   (I)   Domestic power tools. Operating or permitting the operation of any
mechanically powered saw, drill, sander, grinder, lawn or garden tool, snow
blower, or similar device used outdoor in residential areas during the
nighttime so as to cause a noise disturbance across a residential real property
boundary, except in an emergency.
(Ord. 379, passed 2-6-06)
 50.599 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating §
50.502(B)(1); Assault and Battery, and or §
50.503; Domestic Assault and Battery, of this article shall upon conviction
thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 and costs of
prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 93 days, or both such fines and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the other provisions of this article
shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than
$500 and costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail
for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, in the
discretion of the court.
   (C)   A citizen will not be required to sign a complaint for a violation of
§
50.504 if such complaint can be validly signed by the enforcing officer.
(Ord. 105, passed 5-18-70; amended by Ord. 263, passed 12-7-92; amended by Ord.
379, passed 2-6-06; amended by Ord. 425, passed 12-20-10)
ARTICLE VI: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
50.601   Display of offensive material
   
50.699   Penalty
 50.601 DISPLAY OF OFFENSIVE MATERIAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person acting in a managerial capacity or
being the owner, proprietor, operator or manager of a business to knowingly
place offensive sexually explicit material upon public display, for purposes of
sale, entertainment or distribution or fail to take prompt action to remove
such a display from property in his possession or under his control after
learning of its existence. The prohibition of this section shall not apply to
broadcasts or telecasts through facilities licensed under the Federal
Communications Act.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFFENSIVE. The work in which the representation appear, taken as a whole,
appeals to the prurient interest and patently depicts or portrays the
prohibited sexually explicit material in a manner which, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY. In the context of films or motion pictures, means the
projection of said films or motion pictures on any viewing screen outside a
completely enclosed building or theater. In the context of photographs,
drawings, sculptures or other visual representations, PUBLIC DISPLAY shall mean
the placing of materials within the definition of the preceding definitions on
or in a newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display case or similar
place so that said material is easily visible from a public thoroughfare, from
the property of others, from a common walk or mall, or from that portion of the
interior of place of business generally open to the public at the time of such
placing.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL. Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture,
motion picture, film or other visual representation or image depicting
uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, post pubertal human genitals or pubic
areas in a lewd fashion, or depicting human sexual intercourse, human or animal
masturbation, bestiality, oral intercourse, anal intercourse, human-animal
intercourse, excretory functions, homosexual acts, direct physical stimulation
or touching of unclothed genitals or pubic areas of the human male or female,
flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is nude or clad in revealing or
bizarre costumes in the context of a sexual relationship or sexual stimulation.
The material shall be judged without regard to any covering which may be
affixed or printed over the material in order to obscure genital areas in a
depiction otherwise falling within the definition of these terms. Works of art
or of anthropological significance are not included within this definition.
(Ord. 180, passed 6-2-81) Penalty, see §
50.699
 50.699 PENALTY.
   Every person who violates or refuses to comply with any section of this
article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, he shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment for not more than
90 days in the County Jail, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court. Each day during which a violation continues shall be
deemed a separate offense. In addition to the criminal sanctions herein
provided, the city may institute injunctive proceedings, or other appropriate
civil proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any violation of this
article.
(Ord. 180, passed 6-2-81)
ARTICLE VII: FALSE REPORTS
Section
   
50.701   Filing a false report
   
50.702   Providing false identification
   
50.703   Raising a false alarm
   
50.799   Penalty
 50.701 FALSE REPORTS.
   No person shall willfully and knowingly make to any law enforcement agency
in the city a fictitious report of the commission of any crime including, but
not limited to, crimes relating to a bombing, attempted bombing or threat to
bomb knowing the same to be false.
(Ord. 335, passed 3-18-02) Penalty, see §
50.799
 50.702 FALSE IDENTIFICATION.
   No person shall willfully and knowingly interfere with any law enforcement
officer by supplying false identification to such officer to avoid detection
of, apprehension or prosecution for any criminal offense.
(Ord. 335, passed 3-18-02) Penalty, see §
50.799
 50.703 FALSE ALARMS.
   No person shall willfully and knowingly raise a false alarm of fire, ring
any bell or apparatus for the purpose of creating a false alarm of fire or
raise a false alarm of fire orally, by telephone or in person.
(Ord. 335, passed 3-18-02) Penalty, see §
50.799
 50.799 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this article shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not
exceeding $500 and cost of prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee
County Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or by both, such fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of Court.
(Ord. 335, passed 3-18-02)
ARTICLE VIII: ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURES
Section
   
50.801   Fingerprinting of persons arrested
   
50.899   Penalty
 50.801 FINGERPRINTING OF PERSONS ARRESTED.
   (A)   The Chief of Police or his or her designee is hereby authorized to
take any person s fingerprints, who has been arrested for a misdemeanor, as
soon as is practical after an arrest.
   (B)   If the individual accused, is thereafter released without a charge
made against him or her, or the charge is dismissed and no other charge arising
out of that transaction or occurrence is made, or is found not guilty of the
offense charged, or a lesser included offense, the official taking or holding
of such individual's fingerprinting information shall, pursuant to state law,
being M.C.L.A. § 28.243, return such fingerprint information to the individual.
   (C)   The provisions of division (B) above shall not apply where a person
arrested has a prior conviction, except a misdemeanor traffic offense, unless a
judge of a court of record, except Probate Court, by express order entered of
record, orders the return.
(Ord. 396, passed 7-2-07)
 50.899 PENALTY.
   Any person whose fingerprints may be taken, as authorized by §
50.801, and who refuses to allow or resists the taking of his or her
fingerprints, after such person has been advised that his or her refusal
constitutes a misdemeanor, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 396, passed 7-2-07)
CHAPTER 55: PARKS AND RECREATION
Article
      
I.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
II.   SPECIAL EVENTS
ARTICLE I: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
55.100   Definitions
   
55.105   Park hours
   
55.110   Minors on park property
   
55.115   Beverages in park, including alcohol
   
55.120   Motor-driven vehicles
   
55.125   Fires
   
55.130   Animals in park
   
55.135   Reward for information leading to the arrest and conviction
   
55.140   Prohibitions for publicly owned or publicly operated skateboard
facilities
   
55.199   Penalty
 55.100 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage having an alcoholic content of more than
.5% by volume.
   BIKE PATH. A non-motorized transportation trail that is a collection of city
trails generally running along the Pine Run Creek floodplain with paths leading
to Jennings Road (in Vienna Township), Willard Road (in Vienna Township), to
Pine Run (in Vienna Township) and Wilson Road (in Vienna Township).
   CITY. The City of Clio.
   CITY PARK SYSTEM. Encompasses all city parks to include the bike path, Clio
City Park (inclusive of the Clio Amphitheater, Rogers Lodge and skatepark),
Clock Park and the Veterans Park.
   CLIO AMPHITHEATER. An outdoor concert venue located in the Clio City Park at
301 Rogers Lodge.
   CLIO CITY PARK. Hereinafter referred to as the CITY PARK, is a city park
that runs along the Pine Run Creek floodplain from Vienna Street to the
railroad to the west and includes the Clio Amphitheater, Rogers Lodge and the
skatepark.
   CLOCK PARK. A city park located at the northeast corner of Vienna Street and
North Mill Street.
   COMMERCIAL. Related to or connect with trade and traffic and commerce in
general.
   INLINE SKATE. A shoe, metal frame that can be fitted to the sole of a shoe,
or similar device with wheels attached.
   PARK. A playground, recreation center or any other area in the city, owned
or used by the city, and devoted to active or passive recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   ROGERS LODGE. A city community building located in the City Park at 219
Rogers Lodge Drive.
   SKATEBOARD. A rectangular board or other surface mounted on wheels for the
purpose of personal locomotion, sporting activity or similar purpose.
   SKATEPARK. The City Skatepark, the concrete portion of the facility to
include the ramps and apparatus located thereon for the use of skateboards
located in the City Park between Center Street and North Mill Street in what
was known as McCormick Park.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor powered, animal-drawn, or
self-propelled. The term includes any trailer in tow of any size, kind or
description. Exception is made for authorized vehicles.
   VETERANS PARK. Located at the southeast corner of Vienna Street and Railroad
Street.
(Ord. 339, passed 6-17-02; amended by Ord. 349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord.
440, passed 4-16-12)
 55.105 PARK HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be or remain on any part of the City
Park between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless a special event or activity is
taking place pursuant to Chapter 55, Article II.
(Ord. 202, passed 6-18-84; amended by Ord. 339, passed 6-17-02; amended by Ord.
349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord. 440, passed 4-16-12) § Penalty, see §
55.199(A)
 55.110 MINORS ON PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years who is
enrolled as a student at a primary or secondary school, whether suspended or
not, to enter into or remain upon City Park property during regular school
hours of a normal school day except as follows:
   (A)   Unless accompanied by a parent or guardian;
   (B)   Unless on a class assignment and accompanied by a teacher or school
administrator;
   (C)   Except as stated above in the body of this section.
(Ord. 206, passed 8-25-85; amended by Ord. 339, passed 6-17-02; amended by Ord.
349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord. 440, passed 4-16-12) Penalty, see §
55.199(B)
 55.115 BEVERAGES IN PARK, INCLUDING ALCOHOL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to consume or possess any open alcoholic
beverage in any part of the City Park System, unless approved pursuant to
Chapter 55, Article II.
(Ord. 202, passed 6-18-84; amended by Ord. 339, passed 6-17-02; amended by Ord.
349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord. 440, passed 4-16-12) Penalty, see §
55.199(B)
 55.120 MOTOR-DRIVEN VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or operate any motor-driven
vehicle in any area of a City Park System other than designated parking areas
or roadways. Further, it shall be unlawful to operate a motor-driven vehicle or
leave a motor-driven vehicle in the City Park between 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.,
unless approved pursuant to Chapter 55, Article II.
(Ord. 202, passed 6-18-84; amended by Ord. 349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord.
440, passed 4-16-12) Penalty, see §
55.199(B)
 55.125 FIRES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave a fire unattended in the City
Park System. All fires shall be extinguished upon leaving the vicinity. No
person shall wilfully set or cause to be set a fire upon City Park System
property except within cooking grills or other receptacles provided for cooking
as designated by the city for cooking purposes.
(Ord. 202, passed 6-18-84; amended by Ord. 349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord.
440, passed 4-16-12) Penalty, see §
55.199(B)
 55.130 ANIMALS IN PARK.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or allow any animal or fowl to
run at large within the City Park System without a leash, unless approved
pursuant to Chapter 55, Article II. All persons shall be responsible for the
removal of all solid waste generated by any animal under their control.
(Ord. 202, passed 6-18-84; amended by Ord. 339, passed 6-17-02; amended by Ord.
349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord. 440, passed 4-16-12) Penalty, see §
55.199(A)
 55.135 REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO THE ARREST AND CONVICTION.
   The city may offer a reward to any person who supplies information leading
to the arrest and conviction of any person for the theft of park property, the
malicious destruction or damage to park property or the skatepark, or operation
of unauthorized vehicles on park property, including, but not limited to, motor
vehicles, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, or mopeds, on the City Park Bike
Path, skatepark, or within the City Park System. The reward to the individual
may be in an amount not to exceed $500, as determined by the City Commission by
resolution for any incident that is of public concern or safety.
(Ord. 229, passed 4-16-90; amended by Ord. 339, passed 6-17-02; amended by Ord.
349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord. 440, passed 4-16-12)
 55.140 PROHIBITIONS FOR PUBLICLY OWNED OR PUBLICLY OPERATED SKATEBOARD
FACILITIES.
   (A)   All skaters shall follow all posted rules and regulations while using
the skatepark.
   (B)   No person may use any tobacco product within the fenced in area of the
skatepark.
   (C)   No person may possess, propel or ride a scooter, bicycle, or other
pedal- or chain-driven device within the boundaries of any publicly owned or
publicly operated skateboard facility. Skateboards and inline skates are the
only acceptable device to be used in the skatepark.
   (D)   No ramp(s) located in a publicly owned or publicly operated skatepark
shall exceed six feet in height. No equipment or ramps are allowed to be
brought into a skatepark area by participants.
   (E)   Ejection period. Any person may be ejected from the skatepark for a
violation of the City Code of Ordinances or state law. The person ejected may
be prohibited from return to the skatepark for any period of time up to 24
hours. If the ejected person enters upon or remains upon the skatepark in
violation of such directive, the individual shall be guilty of criminal
trespass and subject to prosecution therefor.
   (F)   Seizure of property. Any law enforcement officer shall have the
authority to seize and confiscate any property, thing, or device in the
skatepark which is used in violation of this article or has not been purchased
by or installed by the city.
(Ord. 339, passed 6-17-02; amended by Ord. 349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord.
440, passed 4-16-12) Penalty, see §
55.199
 55.199 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this article, wherein the
penalty is designated as a penalty under §
55.199(A), shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall be
subject to the penalties and sanctions provided by this Code under Chapter 1,
Article II §
1.201 through
1.205.
   (B)   Any person violating any provision of this article, wherein the
penalty is designated as a penalty under §
55.199(B), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, be
sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days or
by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 202, passed 6-18-84; amended by Ord. 229, passed 4-16-90; amended by Ord.
339, passed 6-17-02; amended by Ord. 349, passed 4-7-03; amended by Ord. 424,
passed 12-6-10; amended by Ord. 428, passed 5-16-11; amended by Ord. 440,
passed 4-16-12)
ARTICLE II: SPECIAL EVENTS
Section
   
55.201   Purpose
   
55.202   Special event permit required
   
55.203   Permit application
   
55.204   Insurance coverage required
   
55.205   Rules and regulations
   
55.206   Fees
   
55.207   Alcoholic beverages in the City Park
   
55.208   Consideration for issuance or denial
   
55.209   Conditions and restrictions
   
55.210   Parades
   
55.211   Prohibited conduct
   
55.299   Penalty
 55.201 PURPOSE.
   An ordinance to establish procedures and requirements for conducting special
events in the city in order to properly provide for traffic and crowd control,
for street, park and property maintenance, for the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.202 SPECIAL EVENT PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No special event, including assemblages, concerts, demonstrations, fairs,
marches, parades, and/or other gatherings, shall be held upon any city park,
street, or other public area of the city unless a permit is first obtained for
the event. Funeral processions and peaceful demonstrations (including lawful
picketing) conducted on public sidewalks so as not to impede pedestrian or
vehicular traffic are not considered special events.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.203 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application to conduct a special event shall be made to the City
Administrator or his or her designee, in writing, by the person or persons in
charge or responsible therefor. All applications for special event permits
shall be made at least 45 days prior to the date on which the special event is
sought to be held. Such application shall set forth the following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the person requesting the
permit;
      (2)   The name and address of the sponsoring group or organization
involved;
      (3)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person who will act
as director or person in charge of the special event and be responsible for the
conduct thereof;
      (4)   The purpose of the special event and the number of persons expected
to attend;
      (5)   The date the event is to be conducted and the hours it will
commence and terminate;
      (6)   The specific assembly and dispersal locations, and specific route
plans, if any; and
      (7)   Such other information as the city reasonably deems necessary to
properly prepare for and/or evaluate the potential impact on the public health,
safety, and welfare.
   (B)   Denials of requests for a special event permit shall be made in
writing, setting forth the reasons of such denial.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.204 INSURANCE COVERAGE REQUIRED.
   All sponsors of a special event shall carry general liability insurance with
coverage for bodily injury, death and property damage as required by the city.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.205 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Administrator is hereby authorized to promulgate rules and/or
regulations, not in conflict with this article, to supplement and specify in
more detail requirements relating to special events, provided that such rules
or regulations are approved by the City Commission. Failure to observe any rule
or regulation adopted pursuant to this section shall be a violation of this
code. Any rule and/or regulations adopted under this section shall be available
at City Hall.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.206 FEES.
   Fees shall be charged for city services provided for a special event.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.207 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN THE CITY PARK.
   To preserve the nature of the Clio City Park as a family oriented
environment; to prevent the casual consumption of alcohol in the Clio City Park
that may be encouraged by the general permitting of alcohol in the Clio City
Park; and to preserve a unique experience the City Commission may permit
alcohol in the Clio City Park for one city sponsored event or one Downtown
Development Authority event per calendar year.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.208 CONSIDERATION FOR ISSUANCE OR DENIAL.
   In determining whether to approve a special event permit the City Commission
may consider any factors reasonably deemed relevant for the proposed event
including, but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Whether the special event appears to be held for any unlawful purpose;
   (B)   Whether it appears the special event may be conducted in a manner so
as to cause a breach of peace;
   (C)   Whether the special event will unnecessarily interfere with the public
use of the parks, sidewalks, streets, and/or other public areas;
   (D)   Whether the special event may have some special right or priority
under the law; and
   (E)   Whether the special event, in any way, be detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.209 CONDITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The permit evidencing approval under this section may include reasonable
time, place, and manner restrictions as a condition to granting any permit if
such restrictions are reasonable and necessary for the protection of the public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.210 PARADES.
   All drivers of floats and vehicles must hold a valid driver s license.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.211 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly participate in a special event for which no
permit has been obtained.
   (B)   No person shall continue to organize, or participate in the further
planning or organizing, of a special event that is conducted without a permit
after a permit has been denied.
   (C)   No person shall violate any condition of a special event permit.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
 55.299 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be responsible for
a municipal civil infraction and subject to the penalties and sanctions
provided by this Code.
(Ord. 439, passed 4-16-12)
2012 S-15   55-12
CHAPTER 60: SEWERS
   Article
      
I.   SEWERS
ARTICLE I: SEWERS
Section
   
60.101      Title
   
60.102      Definitions
   
60.103      Use of public sewers required
   
60.104      Private sewage disposal
   
60.105      Private sewer leads and connections
   
60.106      Connection of privately installed sewer mains to city system
   
60.107      Protection from damage
   
60.108      Power and authority of inspectors
   
60.109      Charges for use
   
60.110      Notice of violation
   
60.111      Liability
   
60.112      Remedy; costs borne by city
   
60.199      Penalty
 60.101 TITLE.
   This article shall be referred to and known as The City of Clio Sewer
Ordinance.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72)
 60.102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CITY. The City of Clio, Genesee County, Michigan.
   CITY SUPERINTENDENT and SUPERINTENDENT. That person now commonly known as
the Clio City Administrator.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial processes as distinct
from sanitary sewage.
   MAY. This term is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation, or
group.
   PRIVATE SEWER LEAD. The extension from the private sewer lead to the public
sewer main. The private sewer lead is not owned, operated or maintained by the
City of Clio.
   PRIVATE SEWER MAIN OR SYSTEM. A sanitary building drain and/or sewer
privately owned and not directly controlled, operated or maintained by public
authority.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to such degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normal prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than § inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled, owned, operated and maintained by the City of Clio.
   PUBLIC SEWER MAIN. The main line sewer usually running parallel to the
street owned, operated and maintained by the City of Clio.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
ground waters as may be present.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, and disposing of
sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. This term is mandatory.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage or other liquids; and which are removable by
laboratory filtering.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 141, passed 1-6-75; amended by Ord.
337, passed 4-1-02)
 60.103 USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in an unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of said city, any sanitary sewage,
industrial wastes, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment
has been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this article.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct any
privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used
for the disposal of sewage, unless approval is obtained from the City
Commission on the basis of undue hardship or unavailability of other
facilities.
   (D)   In the event any private sewage system shall, in the opinion of the
City Commission, become a hazard to health, safety, or general welfare of any
persons or property, then the owner thereof shall be required at his expense to
install suitable sewage facilities therein, and to connect such facilities
directly with the proper public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this
article, within 90 days after the date of official notice to do so.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72) Penalty, see §
60.199
 60.104 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary sewer is not available under the provisions of
§
60.103(D), the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system, according to specifications of the Genesee County Health Department and
the City Health Officer.
   (B)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system, as provided in §
60.103(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this article, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned for sanitary use.
   (C)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the city.
   (D)   In the event that the owner or occupant of the property upon which the
same is located shall fail to abandon and correct upon reasonable notice a
private sewage disposal system, then and in such case the city may do so, and
charge the cost thereof to the property owner and to the occupant of said
property, and such charges shall become a debt, collectible as such.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72) Penalty, see §
60.199
 60.105 PRIVATE SEWER LEADS AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Superintendent. Tapping
of any public sewer or the installation of any portion of a private sewer lead
situated between the property line and the public sewer shall be done only by a
licensed contractor under the supervision of the City Superintendent or his/her
designee.
   (B)   After the permit for a service connection has been granted and before
the connection is made, the owner shall pay the following permit fee for
tapping into the public sewer main:
      (1)   The tap-in fee for tapping the sewer main shall be:
Fee to Tap into City of Clio Sewer System
Meter Size, Inches Rate
Fee to Tap into City of Clio Sewer System
Meter Size, Inches Rate
5/8                $2,335
1                  $3,891
1-1/2              $7,782
2                  $12,451
3                  $23,346
4                  $38,910
6                  $77,820
8                  $124,513
10                 $178,987
The City Commission may from time to time adjust this tap-in fee by
resolution.
 
      (2)   When a licensed contractor is ready to install the sewer tap-in to
the public sewer main, such installation shall be made under the direct
supervision of the Superintendent of Public Services or his/her designee and in
accordance with the requirements of the Superintendent of Public Services or
his/her designee; and such licensed contractor making such installation shall
obtain an inspection by the Superintendent of Public Services or his/her
designee of the installation prior to the commencement of any backfilling. The
fee for such inspection shall be $50. The City Commission may from time to time
adjust this inspection fee by resolution.
      (3)   If the City Commission, upon request being made, shall find that it
would be a financial hardship for the owner to pay the foregoing fees in cash,
the City Commission shall have the authority to allow payment on an installment
basis of 12 approximately equal consecutive monthly payments. This section
applies only to residential sewer customers. If a residential customer fails to
make the required
installment payments within the 12-month period, the city may assess the
remaining payments to the individual s property tax. A person, firm,
corporation or similar entity developing property to sell for profit will not
be allowed to make monthly installments except as provided under §
60.105(B)(4). (The city would have no recourse to recover the debt if they
defaulted.)
   (C)   A separate and independent private sewer lead shall be provided for
every building; that where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot, the rear building shall install an independent private sewer lead
to the nearest public sewer main. If no public sewer main is available for
connection, the private sewer lead from the front building may be extended to
the rear building, only upon permission from the Superintendent of Public
Services and payment of the tap-in fee as outlined in §
60.105(B)(1). The failure of an individual to secure an easement to the nearest
public sewer main will not qualify the person for any exceptions.
   (D)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the City Department of Public
Services Supervisor, to meet all requirements of this article. A $50 inspection
fee will be charged to examine old lines. The owner shall expose old lines for
inspection. If the City Department of Public Services Supervisor approves the
use of old lines, an additional $50 final hook up fee will be charged. If the
City Department of Public Services Supervisor determines the old lines cannot
be used, the owner will have to meet all requirements for a new tap in and
installation of new lines.
   (E)   The private sewer lead shall be PVC (polyvinyl chloride). Joints shall
be tight and water proof. Six-inch PVC (polyvinyl chloride Schedule 40 pipe)
meeting the City of Clio design standards, may be used. Provided further, that
in the event of the use of such polyvinyl chloride, only city-approved solvent
cements, fittings and transitions shall be used.
   (F)   The size and slope of the private sewer lead shall be subject to the
approval of the City Engineer, but in no event shall the diameter be less than
six inches. The slope of such private sewer lead shall be not less than one-
eighth inch per foot if six-inch or larger diameter pipe is used.
   (G)   Whenever possible the private sewer lead shall be brought to the
building at an elevation below the basement floor. No private sewer lead shall
be laid parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might
thereby be weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from
frost. The private sewer lead shall be laid at uniform grade and in straight
alignment insofar as possible. Changes in direction shall be made only with
properly curved pipe and fittings.
   (H)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by approved artificial means and discharged to the private sewer
main.
   (I)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight.
Existing cast iron pipe joints shall be firmly packed with oakum or hemp and
filled with molten lead, not less than one inch deep if it is necessary to
repair an existing line. Lead shall be run in one pouring and chalked tight. No
paint, varnish or other coatings shall be permitted on the jointing materials
until after the joint has been tested and approved. All joint in vitrified clay
pipe or between such pipe and metals shall be made with approved premium hot-
poured jointing material or other approved premium jointing material, and not
asphalt. In the event of the use of such polyvinyl chloride, only city-approved
solvent cements, fittings (fernco) and transitions shall be used.
   (J)   All excavations required for the installation of a private sewer lead
shall be open-trench work unless otherwise approved by the City Superintendent.
Pipe laying and backfill shall be performed in accordance with good practice,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected.
   (K)   The connection of the private sewer lead into the public sewer shall
be made at the Wye branch, if such branch is available at a suitable location.
The invert of the private sewer lead at the point of connection shall be at
least two inches higher than the invert of the public sewer, but the private
sewer lead shall not extend past the inner surface of the public sewer. A
smooth, neat joint shall be made, and an adapter shall be used, and the
connection made secure and watertight by encasement in concrete. The connection
shall be made under the supervision of the City Superintendent.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 141, passed 1-6-75; amended by Ord.
161, passed 5-23-77; amended by Ord. 311, passed 4-17-00; amended by Ord. 337,
passed 4-1-02; amended by Ord. 382, passed 5-15-06; amended by Ord. 406, passed
6-16-08; amended by Ord. 412, passed 6-15-09; amended by Ord. 421, passed 6-21-
10; amended by Ord. 429, passed 6-20-11; Amended by Ord. 455, passed 6-17-13;
amended by Ord. 470, passed 6-16-14; amended by Ord. 478, passed 6-1-15;
amended by Ord. 486, passed 6-6-16; amended by Ord. 491, passed 6-5-17; amended
by Ord. 493, passed 8-21-17; amended by Ord. 500, passed 6-4-18; amended by
Ord. 506, passed 6-3-19; amended by Ord. 511, passed 6-1-20; amended by Ord.
515, passed 5-17-21; amended by Ord. 521, passed 5-16-22; amended by Ord. 524,
passed 5-15-23; amended by Ord. 529, passed 6-3-24) Penalty, see §
60.199
 60.106 CONNECTION OF PRIVATELY INSTALLED SEWER MAINS TO CITY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation, after the effective date of this
article, installing sewer mains at their own expense shall first submit plans
and specifications for such work to the city for engineering review and the
engineer s recommendation to the City Administrator for his/her approval. After
such plans and specifications have been approved by the City Administrator, the
work shall be done under the oversight of a representative of the city, at the
person, firm or corporation s own expense, who shall require that such tests be
made as he/she may consider necessary and no sewage shall be admitted into such
mains until he/she accepts the installation on behalf of the city. The
provisions of this division shall apply to any installation of sewer mains and
appurtenances outside the corporate limits of the city where permission has
first been granted by the City Commission to connect such mains and
appurtenances to the existing city public sewer system.
   (B)   The City Commission shall not, after the effective date of this
article, grant permission to connect sewer mains constructed outside the
corporate limits of the city to the existing city public sewer system, except
upon the following conditions:
      (1)   That all engineering relative to said sewer main outside the
corporate limits of the city shall be done by the city's engineer.
      (2)   That all construction relative to said sewer main shall have been
done under the supervision of the City Superintendent and according to the
city's specifications.
      (3)   That all costs of installation or laying of the sewer main outside
the corporate limits of the city, including all legal, engineering and
incidental costs, shall have been paid for by the properties involved and no
part shall have been paid by the city.
      (4)   That all properties to be serviced by the said sewer main
constructed outside the corporate limits of the city shall also be served by
the City Water Department.
   (C)   Subsequent to February 1, 1975, no plat of subdivided lands shall be
accepted or approved by the City Commission until the installation and
construction and completion of the improvements hereinafter enumerated shall
have been approved by the City Commission, except as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Sanitary sewers and storm sewers with the necessary manholes shall
be constructed and laid in all streets or in easements approved by the City
Commission. There shall be provided at least one sanitary sewer connection and
one storm sewer connection to every lot fronting on either side of said
streets, or at such other intervals as the City Commission shall require, which
connection shall extend from the sewer mains to the lot lines.
      (2)   Other provisions of this article notwithstanding, the City
Commission may accept and approve a proposed plat without the installation or
construction of the improvements required hereunder, provided the proprietor of
such proposed plat shall have filed with the City Commission a good and
sufficient surety bond of a surety company authorized to do business in this
state, or a personal bond, approved by the City Commission, secured by a
deposit of cash to be released to the obligor as and when no longer required
for full assurance of complete payment of the cost of the improvement. The said
bond shall be conditioned that the proprietor of the property platted will
within a specified period, as determined by the City Commission and set forth
in said bond, cause to be installed and constructed, without expense to the
city, all of the improvements as hereinbefore provided. The City Commission may
further require that the bond provide that in case of default in the
performance of the conditions of such bond, the city or its nominee may enter
into and upon the platted property, with necessary machinery and equipment, for
the purpose of installing or constructing improvements not installed or
constructed by the obligor, at the expense of the obligor and the surety or
sureties named in the bond. If the City Commission shall at any time after the
giving of such bond determine that any improvement covered thereby is not
required by the public interest or safety the bond may be canceled or modified
pro tanto to release the obligor s liability with respect to such improvement.
      (3)   A fee of two percent of the cost of the improvements required by
this article shall be paid to the city prior to the approval of any proposed
plat to provide for the expense of inspection of such improvements, and other
related expenses; as to improvements not installed at the time of the approval
of the plat, the fee shall be based upon estimated costs, as determined by the
City Commission.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 141, passed 1-6-75; amended by Ord.
337, passed 4-1-02) Penalty, see §
60.199
 60.107 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, wilfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure, appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72) Penalty, see §
60.199
 60.108 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The City Superintendent and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72)
 60.109 CHARGES FOR USE.
   (A)   Sewage charges shall be made monthly and shall be made in conjunction
with water charges and billed as provided in The City of Clio Water Ordinance.
   (B)   Owners of property benefitted by or using public sewer facilities
shall pay the following charges for such benefit or use:
      (1)   If such property is furnished a metered service by the City Water
Department, then the owner shall pay a per-month Ready to Serve Charge of (see
Rates for Readiness to Serve Charge in division (B)(3)). The Readiness to Serve
Charge consists of 98% of Department 536 (Sewer-General), 100% of Department
537 (Sewer-Lift Station), 100% of Department 538 (Sewer-New), 23% of Department
539 (Sewer-Billing), 70% of Department 905 (Debt Service). The sewer debt
principal and debt interest are made up of bond payment fees designated for
upgrades. The charge for every 1,000 gallons of water consumed will be $5.24
per month. The per-1,000 gallons charge consists of 2% of Department 536
(Sewer-General), 0% of Department 537 (Sewer Lift Station), 77% of Department
539 (Sewer-Billing) and 30% of Department 905 (Debt Service). The sewer debt
principal and debt interest are made up of bond payment fees designated for
upgrades. The City Commission may from time to time adjust these sewer use
charges by resolution.
      (2)   If such property does not have a water meter for water service from
the City Water Department, then the owner thereof shall pay a Ready to Serve
Charge of $13.63 per month. The Ready to Serve Charge consists of 98% of
Department 536 (Sewer-General), 100% of Department 537 (Sewer-Lift Station),
100% of Department 538 (Sewer-New), 23% of Department 539 (Sewer-Billing), 70%
of Department 905 (Debt Service). The sewer debt principal and debt interest
are made up of bond payment fees designated for upgrades. The City Commission
may from time to time adjust these sewer charges by resolution.
      (3)   Charges for sewage treatment services to each premises within the
city connected with the water supply system shall be determined as follows:
Rates for Readiness to Serve Charge
Meter Size Rate
Rates for Readiness to Serve Charge
Meter Size Rate
5/8 inch   $13.63
1 inch     $22.72
1-1/2 inch $45.44
2 inch     $72.70
3 inch     $136.30
4 inch     $227.17
6 inch     $454.34
8 inch     $726.94
10 inch    $1,044.97
 
      (4)   The City of Clio will charge for different size water meters
according to the above Rates for Readiness to Serve Charge. In case of
apartments, the $13.36 Readiness to Serve Charge is charged per each apartment,
that is, per unit. The city will charge the Ready to Serve Charge every month
for every residence, apartment or business with access to city sewage treatment
services, if the water has been turned off or if the building or apartment is
vacant will not affect the Ready to Serve Charge. The city, upon written
request, will inspect and make a determination as to whether an apartment or
business has removed the possibility of being separate from the primary
residence or business when it comes to the Ready to Serve Charge.
   (C)   Sewer charges or sewer use fees which have been billed to the owner of
occupant of premises or property in accordance with the above rates and within
the time described herein, shall be a lien upon said premises or property as of
the due date thereof, and on May 1st of each year the City Treasurer shall
certify any such charges which have been delinquent , plus penalties and
interest accrued thereon, to the City Assessor who shall enter the same upon
the next tax roll against the premises to which such service shall have been
rendered, and said charges, with penalties and interest accrued thereon, shall
be collected and said lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided in
respect to taxes assessed upon such rolls.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 189, passed 2-1-82; amended by Ord.
265, passed 1-4-93; amended by Ord. 271, passed 2-21-94; amended by Ord. 326,
passed 5-21-01; amended by Ord. 337, passed 4-1-02; amended by Ord. 359, passed
5-17-04; amended by Ord. 366, passed 3-7-05; amended by Ord. 369, passed 5-2-
05; amended by Ord. 384, passed 7-5-06; amended by Ord. 395, passed 7-2-07;
amended by Ord. 400, passed 11-19-07; amended by Ord. 406, passed 6-16-08;
amended by Ord. 412, passed 6-15-09; amended by Ord. 421, passed 6-21-10;
amended by Ord. 429, passed 6-20-11; amended by Ord. 444, passed 6-4-12;
amended by Ord. 455, passed 6-17-13; amended by Ord. 462, passed 12-16-13;
amended by Ord. 470, passed 6-16-14; amended by Ord. 478, passed 6-1-15;
amended by Ord. 486, passed 6-6-16; amended by Ord. 493, passed 8-21-17;
amended by Ord. 500, passed 6-4-18; amended by Ord. 506, passed 6-3-19; amended
by Ord. 511, passed 6-1-20; amended by Ord. 515, passed 5-17-21; amended by
Ord. 521, passed 5-16-22; amended by Ord. 524, passed 5-15-23; amended by Ord.
529, passed 6-3-24)
 60.110 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person, firm or corporation found to be violating any of the provisions
of this article, except §
60.107(A), shall be served by the city with written notice stating the nature
of the violation and providing a reasonable time limit (but not exceeding 60
days) for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender shall, within the
period of time stated in such notice, permanently cease all violations.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72) Penalty, see §
60.199
 60.111 LIABILITY.
   Any person, firm or corporation violating any of the provisions of this
article shall become liable to the city for any expense, loss or damage
occasioned to the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72)
 60.112 REMEDY; COSTS BORNE BY CITY.
   In the event that the owner or occupant of the property upon which the same
is located, shall fail to correct any connection to the public sewer which is
in violation of this article, upon reasonable notice, the city shall cause such
correction to be made and the costs of such correction shall be charged to the
occupant of said property and such costs shall become a debt, collectible as
such.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72)
 60.199 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall continue any violation beyond the
time limit provided for in §
60.110 of this article or who shall be in violation of §
60.107(A), shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine in an amount not to exceed $300
and costs of prosecution or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a
period not to exceed 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the court. Each day in which any violation of this article shall
continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(Ord. 124, passed 5-15-72)
CHAPTER 62: STORM WATER MANAGEMENT
   Article
      
I.   STORM WATER
      
II.   STORM WATER PERMITS
      
III.   STORM WATER SYSTEM
      
IV.   PROHIBITIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
      
V.   INSPECTION, MONITORING, REPORTING, AND RECORD KEEPING
      
VI.   ENFORCEMENT
      
VII.   STORM WATER EASEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS
      
VIII.   PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN STANDARDS
      
IX.   OTHER MATTERS
ARTICLE I: STORM WATER
Section
   
62.101   Title
   
62.102   Findings
   
62.103   Purpose
   
62.104   Applicability
   
62.105   Definitions
62.101 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "City of Clio Storm Water Management" and
may be so cited.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.102 FINDINGS.
   The City of Clio finds that:
   (A)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of the city are at times subjected to flooding.
   (B)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the city and the region.
   (C)   Land development alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased storm water runoff rates and volumes, increased
flooding, increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport
and deposition.
   (D)   Storm water runoff produced by land development contributes to
increased quantities of water-borne pollutants.
   (E)   Increases of storm water runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source
pollution have occurred as a result of land development, and cause
deterioration of the water resources of the city and downstream municipalities.
   (F)   Storm water runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution, due
to land development within the city, have resulted in a deterioration of the
water resources of the city and downstream municipalities.
   (G)   Increased storm water runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments and
pollutants associated with storm water runoff from future development projects
within the city will, absent reasonable regulation and control, adversely
affect the city's water bodies and water resources, and those of downstream
municipalities.
   (H)   Storm water runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution can
be controlled and minimized by the regulation of storm water runoff from
development.
   (I)   Adopting the standards, criteria and procedures contained in this
chapter and implementing the same will address many of the deleterious effects
of storm water runoff.
   (J)   Adopting these standards is necessary for the preservation of the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.103 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum storm water
management requirements and controls to accomplish, among others, the following
objectives:
   (A)   To reduce artificially induced flood damage.
   (B)   To minimize increased storm water runoff rates and volumes from
identified new land development.
   (C)   To minimize the deterioration of existing watercourses, culverts and
bridges, and other structures.
   (D)   To encourage water recharge into the ground where geologically
favorable conditions exist.
   (E)   To prevent an increase in non-point source pollution.
   (F)   To maintain the integrity of stream channels for their biological
functions, as well as for drainage and other purposes.
   (G)   To minimize the impact of development upon stream bank and streambed
stability.
   (H)   To reduce erosion from development or construction projects.
   (I)   To preserve and protect water supply facilities and water resources by
means of controlling increased flood discharges, stream erosion, and runoff
pollution.
   (J)   To reduce storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, and non-
point source pollution, wherever practicable, from lands that were developed
without storm water management controls meeting the purposes and standards of
this chapter.
   (K)   To reduce the adverse impact of changing land use on water bodies and,
to that end, this chapter establishes minimum standards to protect water bodies
from degradation resulting from changing land use where there are insufficient
storm water management controls.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.104 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   To prevent an increase in non-point source pollution; this chapter
shall apply to any earth-disturbing activities greater than or equal to one
acre ( one acre) for new development or redevelopment projects or earth
disturbing activities less than one acre on parcels with greater than or equal
to 50% (50%) impervious surface which will alter storm water drainage
characteristics of the development site.
   (B)   Typically these developments require approval of a plat, a site
development plan, building permit, and other permits to be obtained. However,
this chapter shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   Development on one single-family lot, parcel, or condominium unit
where the city determines that due to the size of the development site or other
circumstances, the quantity, quality, and or rate of stormwater flow does not
materially alter storm water flow from the property in terms of rate and/or
volume.
      (2)   The installation or removal of individual mobile homes within a
mobile home park. This exemption shall not be construed to apply to the
construction, expansion, or modification of a mobile home park.
      (3)   Ongoing farm operations such as tilling or plowing. Earth
disturbances that are not directly related to farming are not exempt from this
chapter.
      (4)   Plats with preliminary plat approval and other developments with
final land use approval prior to the effective date of this chapter, where such
approvals remain in effect.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.105 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section unless the context
in which they are used specifically indicates otherwise:
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). A practice, or combination of practices
and design criteria that comply with the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources and Environment's Guidebook of BMPs for Michigan Watersheds, the Low
Impact Development Manual for Michigan, or equivalent practices and design
criteria that accomplish the purposes of this chapter (including, but not
limited to minimizing storm water runoff and preventing the discharge of
pollutants into storm water) as determined by the City Engineer, and, where
appropriate, the standards of the Genesee County Drain Commissioner.
   BUILDING OPENING. Any opening of a solid wall such as a window or door,
through which floodwaters could penetrate.
   CITY. City of Clio, Genesee County, Michigan.
   CITY ATTORNEY. The attorney appointed by the City Commission.
   CITY COMMISSION. The city's legislative body.
   CITY ENGINEER. The engineer appointed by the City Commission.
   CITY TREASURER. The treasurer appointed by the City Commission.
   CONSTRUCTION SITE STORM WATER RUNOFF. Storm water runoff from a development
site following an earth change.
   DETENTION. A system which is designed to capture storm water and release it
over a given period of time through an outlet structure at a controlled rate.
   DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT. The installation or construction of impervious
surfaces on a development site that require, pursuant to state law or local
ordinance, the city's approval of a site plan, plat, site condominium, special
land use, planned unit development, rezoning of land, land division approval,
private road approval or other approvals required for the development of land
or the erection of buildings or structures; provided, however, that for
purposes of Article II only, DEVELOPED or DEVELOPMENT shall not include the
actual construction of, or an addition, extension or modification to, an
individual single-family or a two-family detached dwelling or appurtenances to
the same, if the Zoning Administrator finds that such construction, addition,
extension or modification will not result in adverse storm water runoff.
   DEVELOPER. Any person proposing or implementing the development of land.
DEVELOPER can also be interpreted to include their designated design
representative (e.g. architects and engineers).
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any land that is being or has been developed, or that a
developer proposes for development.
   DISCHARGER. Any person who, or entity that, directly or indirectly
discharges storm water from any property. DISCHARGER also means any employee,
officer, director, partner, contractor, or other person who participates in, or
is legally or factually responsible for, any act or omission which is or
results in a violation of this chapter.
   DRAIN. Any drain as defined in the Drain Code of 1956, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. § 280.1 et seq., other than an established county or inter-county
drain.
   DRAINAGE. The collection, conveyance, or discharge of ground water and/or
surface water.
   DRAINAGEWAY. The area within which surface water or ground water is carried
from one part of a lot or parcel to another part of the lot or parcel or to
adjacent land.
   EARTH CHANGE. Any human activity which removes ground cover, changes the
slope or contours of the land, or exposes the soil surface to the actions of
wind and rain. EARTH CHANGE includes, but is not limited to, any excavating,
surface grading, filling, landscaping, or removal of vegetative roots.
   EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
   EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn away by action of
wind, water, gravity or a combination thereof.
   EXEMPTED DISCHARGES. Discharges other than storm water as specified in §
62.104 and §
62.402 of this chapter.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of water
bodies or the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface water runoff from any
source.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area subject to periodic flooding ( two square miles).
   FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The Base Flood Elevation plus one foot at
any given location.
   GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling, and stockpiling of soil or any
combination thereof and the land in its excavated or filled condition.
   HAZARDOUS or TOXIC MATERIAL. OSHA defines hazardous and toxic substances as
those chemicals which are capable of causing harm. In this definition, the term
chemical includes dusts, mixtures, and common materials such as paints, fuels,
and solvents. OSHA currently regulates exposure to approximately 400 substances
and the OSHA Chemical Sampling Information file contains listings for
approximately 1,500 substances. Some industrial libraries maintain files of
material safety data sheets (MSDS) for more than 100,000 substances.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any method or means for conveying an illicit discharge
into water bodies or the city's storm water system.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to water bodies that does not consist
entirely of storm water, discharges pursuant to the terms of an NPDES permit,
or exempted discharges as defined in this chapter.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surface that does not allow storm water runoff to slowly
percolate into the ground.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Those features and actions associated with a project that are
considered necessary by the body or official granting zoning approval to
protect natural resources or the health, safety, and welfare of the residents
of a local unit of government and future users or inhabitants of the proposed
project or project area, including roadways, lighting, utilities, sidewalks,
screening, and drainage. Improvements do not include the entire project that is
the subject of zoning approval.
   MS4. Municipal Separate Storm Water Sewer System.
   MDNRE. Michigan Department of Natural Resources and Environment.
   NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System
   PERSON. An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, public agency, instrumentality, or any other legal entity.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. A commission created under the Michigan Zoning Enabling
Act, 2006 PA 110, M.C.L.A. § 125.3101 et seq.
   POLLUTANT. A substance discharged which includes, but is not limited to the
following: any dredged spoil, solid waste, vehicle fluids, yard wastes, animal
wastes, agricultural waste products, sediment, incinerator residue, sewage,
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological wastes,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, commercial and agricultural waste, or
any other contaminant or other substance defined as a pollutant under the Clean
Water Act.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to property or
any person having or exercising care, custody, or control over any property.
   RETENTION. A system which is designed to capture storm water and contain it
until it infiltrates the soil or evaporates.
   RUNOFF. The water flow that occurs when soil is infiltrated to full capacity
and excess water from rain, snowmelt, or other sources flows over the land.
   SENSITIVE AREAS. Inland lakes, watercourses and wetlands ( five acres as
specified by MDNRE unless a stricter local requirement is specified).
   SITE PLAN. A plat, a site development plan, construction drawings, a
building permit, and any other permits that need to be obtained before
development can occur. These documents and drawings, required by the zoning
ordinance, are to insure that a proposed land use or activity is in compliance
with local ordinances and state and federal statutes.
   SOIL EROSION. The stripping of soil and weathered rock from land creating
sediment for transportation by water, wind or ice, and enabling formation of
new sedimentary deposits.
   STATE OF MICHIGAN WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. All applicable state rules,
regulations, and laws pertaining to water quality, including the provisions of
Section 3106 of Part 31 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Act, 1994 PA 451, as amended.
   STORM DRAIN. A system of open or enclosed conduits and appurtenant
structures intended to convey or manage storm water runoff, ground water and
drainage.
   STORM WATER PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
   STORM WATER PLAN. Written narratives, specifications, drawings, sketches,
written standards, operating procedures, or any combination of these which
contain information pursuant to this chapter.
   STORM WATER RUNOFF FACILITY. The method, structure, area, system, or other
equipment or measures which are designed to receive, control, store, or convey
storm water as well as treat it for pollutants.
   STREAM. A river, stream or creek which may or may not be serving as a drain,
or any other water body that has definite banks, a bed, and visible evidence of
a continued flow or continued occurrence of water.
   SURFACE WATERS OF THE STATE. Defined consistent with the Part 4 Rules (Rules
323.1041 through 323.1117 of the Michigan Administrative Code) to mean all of
the following, but not including drainage ways and ponds (detention and
retention ponds or lagoons) used solely for wastewater conveyance, treatment,
or control:
      (1)   The Great Lakes and their connecting waters;
      (2)   All inland lakes;
      (3)   Rivers;
      (4)   Streams;
      (5)   Impoundments;
      (6)   Open drains; and
      (7)   Other surface bodies of water within the confines of the state.
   WATERBODY. A river, lake, stream, creek or other watercourse or wetlands.
   WATERCOURSE. One that has not been altered artificially.
   WETLANDS (REGULATED). Land characterized by the presence of water at a
frequency and duration sufficient to support wetland vegetation or aquatic
life.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator appointed by the City
Commission.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
ARTICLE II: STORM WATER PERMITS
Section
   
62.201   Storm water standards
   
62.202   Storm water permit review procedures
   
62.203   Storm water plan
   
62.204   Storm water permit review fees
   
62.205   Financial guarantee
   
62.206   Certificate of occupancy
   
62.207   No change in approved facilities
   
62.208   Terms and conditions of permits
62.201 STORM WATER STANDARDS.
   Developments subject to this chapter shall require a storm water permit and
a storm water plan, and shall be designed, constructed, and maintained to
prevent flooding, minimize stream channel impacts, protect water quality, and
achieve the purposes of this chapter, as stated above. The city has adopted the
Genesee County Storm Water and Flood Control Design Standard Requirements to
meet the objectives of managing the quantity and quality of storm water runoff
from a site as its city engineering standards.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.202 STORM WATER PERMIT REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The city shall grant a storm water permit, which may impose terms and
conditions in accordance with §
62.208, and which shall be granted only upon compliance with each of the
following requirements:
   (B)   The developer will engage in the following sequence of events:
      (1)   Pre-development information gathering. For all applicable projects,
developers will contact representatives from each of the following: the County
Road Commission, Health Department, city officials, and Drain Commissioner's
Office (Water and Waste Services and Surface Water). The purpose will be to
gather information on design standards, development guidelines, and to identify
the type of information developers and their representatives must furnish to
comply with this chapter. In some instances it may be expedient to hold one
conference with all the involved parties.
      (2)   Development and review of conceptual site plan. Review of the
conceptual site plan for approval at the county level by the appropriate
personnel in Water and Waste Services, soil erosion, surface water, the Road
Commission and the Health Department. Comments are returned to the owner/client
and designer. At this time the design engineer will submit a statement that
this site has been reviewed and determined sufficient to accommodate soil
erosion and soil conservation measures.
      (3)   Coordinated review and approval. Review of the Storm Water Plan and
the proposed BMPs will occur at the same time as the review of the site plan by
representatives from the appropriate agencies.
      (4)   Municipal review and approval. Developers shall provide a storm
water plan for post-construction management of storm water to the city for
review and approval. Guidance will be provided to the Zoning Administrator and
Planning Commission on the ordinance and design standards by the City Engineer.
The Zoning Administrator and Planning Commission will be provided with a
checklist for reference during site plan review. At this stage all necessary
permits should have been obtained from federal, state, and county agencies.
Once all of the above documents have been obtained a building permit will be
issued by the city.
   (C)   The developer has submitted a storm water plan complying with §
62.203.
   (D)   The storm water plans contain adequate storm water BMPs to address the
requirements laid out in the Genesee County Storm Water Standards and
Requirements (GCSWS&R). At a minimum the developer will have to satisfy one of
the following conditions:
      (1)   A permanent on-site storm water system that includes on-site
detention of storm water runoff (see Genesee County Storm Water and Flood
Control Design Standard Requirements for requirements); and
      (2)   A direct connection for all storm water runoff that will be
discharged from and through the development site (see GCSWS&R/BMP Requirement
Manual for requirements); or
      (3)   The developer provides a permanent on-site storm water system with
a restricted outlet designed to result in no net increase in storm water runoff
volume or rate onto any adjacent property. (See GCSWS&R/BMP Requirement Manual
for requirements).
   (E)   The developer has paid or deposited the storm water permit review fee
pursuant to §
62.204.
   (F)   The developer has paid or posted the applicable financial guarantee
pursuant to §
62.205.
   (G)   The developer provides all easements necessary to implement the
approved storm water plan and to otherwise comply with this chapter including,
but not limited to, §
62.702. All easements shall be acceptable to the city in form and substance and
shall be recorded with the Genesee County Register of Deeds.
   (H)   The storm water plan is designed in conformity with the city's design
and performance standards for drains and storm water management systems, as set
forth in Article VIII.
   (I)   All storm water runoff facilities shall be designed in accordance with
the then-current BMPs.
   (J)   The developer provides the required maintenance agreement for routine,
emergency, and long-term maintenance of all storm water runoff facilities and
in compliance with the approved storm water plan and this chapter. The
maintenance agreement shall be acceptable to the city in form and substance and
at minimum contain the requirements outlined in Article VII.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15; amended by Ord. 498, passed 5-21-18)
62.203 STORM WATER PLAN.
   (A)   The Storm Water Management Plan must be designed to meet the Genesee
County Storm Water Standards as set out in the companion document to the Low
Impact Development Manual for Michigan.
   (B)   The county is authorized to establish minimum design standards for
storm water discharge release rates and to require dischargers to implement on-
site retention, detention or other methods necessary to control the quality,
rate and volume of surface water runoff discharged into the storm water
drainage system and surface waters of the state. The county water quality and
quantity standards are to be achieved through the techniques and methodologies
outlined in the Low Impact Development Manual for Michigan (Chapters 6, 7 and
9). The storm water plan shall identify and contain all of the following:
      (1)   The location of the development site and water bodies that will
receive storm water runoff (National Wetland database). Information to consider
and include where appropriate should be the drainage district ID, zoning,
aerial imagery, soils and floodplain maps, traffic and utility information.
      (2)   The existing and proposed natural feature of the development site,
including the vegetation, topography, and alignment and boundary of the natural
drainage courses, with contours having a maximum interval of two feet (using
USGS datum). The information shall be superimposed on the pertinent Genesee
County soil map.
      (3)   The development drainage area to each point of discharge from the
development.
      (4)   Calculations for the existing and final peak discharge rates (based
on design criteria).
      (5)   Calculations for any facility or structure size and configuration.
      (6)   A drawing showing all proposed storm water runoff facilities with
existing and final grades, as well as storm water easements.
      (7)   The sizes and locations of upstream and downstream culverts serving
the major drainage routes flowing into and out of the development site. Any
significant off-site and on-site drainage outlet restrictions other than
culverts should be noted on the drainage map.
      (8)   An implementation plan for construction and inspection of all storm
water runoff facilities necessary to the overall storm water plan, including a
schedule of the estimated dates of completing construction of the storm water
runoff facilities shown on the plan and an identification of the proposed
inspection procedures to ensure that the storm water runoff facilities are
constructed in accordance with the approved storm water plan.
      (9)   Drawings, profiles, and specifications for the construction of the
storm water runoff facilities (BMP) reasonably necessary to ensure that storm
water runoff will be drained, stored, or otherwise controlled in accordance
with this chapter.
      (10)   A maintenance agreement, in form and substance acceptable to the
city, for ensuring maintenance of any privately-owned storm water runoff
facilities. The maintenance agreement shall include the Developer's written
commitment to provide routine, emergency, and long-term maintenance of the
facilities and, in the event that the facilities are not maintained in
accordance with the approved storm water plan, the agreement shall authorize
the city to maintain any on-site storm water runoff facility as reasonably
necessary, at the Developer's expense (see Article VII).
      (11)   The name of the engineering firm and the registered professional
engineer that designed the storm water plan and that will inspect final
construction of the storm water runoff facilities.
      (12)   All design information must be compatible for conversion to
standard GIS shape files.
      (13)   Any other information necessary for the city to verify that the
storm water plan complies with the city's design and performance standards for
drains and storm water management systems.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.204 STORM WATER PERMIT REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   All expenses and costs incurred by the city directly associated with
processing, reviewing and approving or denying a storm water permit application
shall be paid (or reimbursed) to the city from the funds in a separate escrow
account established by the Developer, as provided in division (B). The city may
draw funds from a Developer's escrow account to reimburse the city for out-of-
pocket expenses incurred by the city relating to the application. Such
reimbursable expenses include, but are not limited to, expenses related to the
following:
      (1)   Services of the City Attorney directly related to the application.
      (2)   Services of the City Engineer directly related to the application
including inspections fees.
      (3)   Services of other independent contractors working for the city
which are directly related to the application.
      (4)   Any additional public hearings, required mailings and legal notice
requirements necessitated by the application.
   (B)   At the time a Developer applies for a storm water permit, the
Developer shall deposit with the City Treasurer, as an escrow deposit, an
initial amount as determined by resolution of the City Commission for such
matters and shall provide additional amounts as requested by the city in such
increments as are specified in said resolution. Any excess funds remaining in
the escrow account after the application has been fully processed, reviewed,
and the final city denial or approval and acceptance of the development has
occurred will be refunded to the Developer with no interest to be paid on those
funds. At no time prior to the city's final decision on an application shall
the balance in the escrow account fall below the required initial amount. If
the funds in the account are reduced to less than the required initial amount,
the Developer shall deposit into the account the additional amount needed to
restore the account to the required amount before the application review
process will be continued. Additional amounts may be required to be placed in
the escrow account by the Developer, at the discretion of the city.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.205 FINANCIAL GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The City Engineer shall not approve a storm water permit until the
Developer submits to the city, in a form and amount satisfactory to the city, a
letter of credit or other financial guarantee for the timely and satisfactory
construction of all storm water runoff facilities and site grading in
accordance with the approved storm water plan. Upon certification by a
registered professional engineer that the storm water runoff facilities have
been completed in accordance with the approved storm water plan including, but
not limited to, the provisions contained in §
62.203(B)(8), the city may release the letter of credit, or other financial
guarantee subject to final city acceptance and approval.
   (B)   The letter of credit or other financial guarantee may be accessed
when:
      (1)   Violation of this chapter has occurred as determined by the city;
      (2)   Three notifications to the developer detailing the infraction have
been issued; and
      (3)   No corrective action has being taken by the developer within 30
days of final notification.
   (C)   Except as provided in division (E), the amount of the financial
guarantee shall be as determined by the City Commission in a Resolution of Fees
for city services, unless the city determines that a greater amount is
appropriate, in which case the basis for such determination shall be provided
to the Developer in writing. In determining whether an amount greater than the
amount established by Resolution of the City Commission is appropriate, the
city shall consider the size and type of the development, the size and type of
the on-site storm water system, and the nature of the off-site storm water
runoff facilities the development will utilize.
   (D)   The letter of credit or other financial guarantee will not be
permitted to expire until any necessary maintenance agreements for storm water
facilities established by the developer has been signed.
   (E)   A maintenance bond shall be provided to the appropriate agency. The
maintenance bond shall be provided for a period of two years commencing from
the date of the final approval of the storm water plan.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator, based on the recommendation of the City
Engineer, may reduce or waive the amount of the financial guarantee for a
development that will not increase the percentage of impervious surface of the
development site by more than 10%.
   (G)   This chapter shall not be construed or interpreted as relieving a
developer of its obligation to pay all costs associated with on-site private
storm water runoff facilities as well as those costs arising from the need to
make other storm water improvements in order to reduce a development's impact
on a drain consistent with adopted design standards.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.206 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until storm water runoff
facilities have been completed in accordance with the approved storm water
plan; provided, however, the city may issue a certificate of occupancy if an
acceptable letter of credit or other financial guarantee has been submitted to
the city, for the timely and satisfactory construction of all storm water
runoff facilities and site grading in accordance with the approved storm water
plan.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.207 NO CHANGE IN APPROVED FACILITIES.
   (A)   Storm water runoff facilities, after construction and approval, shall
be maintained in good condition, in accordance with the approved storm water
plan, and shall not be subsequently altered, revised or replaced except in
accordance with the approved storm water plan, or in accordance with approved
amendments or revisions in the plan.
   (B)   The city has the right to take corrective action if alterations to
approved storm water facilities occur and to seek compensation from the
responsible party for all costs associated with the corrective action.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.208 TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF PERMITS.
   In granting a storm water permit, the city may impose such terms and
conditions as are reasonably necessary to implement the purposes of this
chapter. A Developer shall comply with such terms and conditions.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
ARTICLE III: STORM WATER SYSTEM
Section
   
62.301   Management of and responsibility for storm water system
   
62.302   Storm water system
   
62.303   Floodplain and sensitive area standards
   
62.304   Building openings
   
62.305   Public health, safety or welfare
62.301 MANAGEMENT OF AND RESPONSIBILITY FOR STORM WATER SYSTEM.
   The city is not responsible for providing drainage facilities on private
property for the management of storm water on said property. It shall be the
responsibility of the property owner to provide for, and maintain, private
storm water runoff facilities serving the property and to prevent or correct
the accumulation of debris that interferes with the drainage function of a
water body.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.302 STORM WATER SYSTEM.
   All storm water runoff facilities shall be constructed and maintained in
accordance with all applicable federal, state and local ordinances, and rules
and regulations.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.303 FLOODPLAIN AND SENSITIVE AREAS STANDARDS.
   (A)   All new buildings and substantial improvements to existing buildings
shall be protected from flood damage up to the Flood Protection Elevation (FPE)
and shall be in accordance with all applicable federal, state and local
ordinances, and rules and regulations. Floodway alteration shall be permitted
only upon review and approval by the city, in accordance with an approved storm
water plan.
   (B)   A storm water plan providing for the filling or alteration of a
floodway may include provisions for maintaining stability of the banks of
streams or other water bodies, by means of the establishing of buffer zones and
other means of providing protection of the slopes and banks of water bodies.
   (C)   Within any required buffer zone, no earth change shall take place
except in accordance with the approved storm water plan. Such a plan may also
include provisions for the replacement of flood plain storage volume, where
such storage volume is lost or diminished as a result of approved development.
   (D)   Where appropriate, permanent setbacks based on site slopes and soils
will be established in accordance with the specifications outlined in the
Genesee County Requirement Manual.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.304 BUILDING OPENINGS.
   (A)   No building openings, including basement walkouts, shall be
constructed below the following elevations:
      (1)   One foot above the 100-year floodplain.
      (2)   The building opening established at the time of plat or development
approval and on file in the city's property files.
      (3)   Three feet above the top of any downstream culvert.
      (4)   Four feet above the bottom of any permanent and defined drain.
      (5)   One foot above an adjacent detention basin design high water.
   (B)   A waiver from elevations stated in § 3.06(1a) may be granted by the
City Engineer following receipt of a certification from a registered
professional engineer demonstrating that the proposed elevation does not pose a
risk of flooding.
   (C)   Upon completion of construction of the structure's foundation and or
slab on grade, a registered land surveyor shall certify any minimum building
opening elevation specified by this chapter. This certificate shall attest that
the building opening elevation complies with the standards of this chapter. The
permittee for the building permit shall submit the certificate to the city's
building inspector prior to the commencement of framing and/or structural steel
placement. If the surveyor should find that the minimum building opening
elevation is below the elevation specified in § 79.276(a)(2) or (3), that
opening must be raised using a method that meets with the approval of the city.
After reconstruction, a registered land surveyor or engineer shall re-certify
that the minimum building opening elevation complies with the standards of this
chapter prior to the commencement of framing and or structural steel placement.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.305 PUBLIC HEALTH, SAFETY OR WELFARE.
   Protection of the public health, safety or welfare shall be a primary
consideration in the design of all storm water runoff facilities.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
ARTICLE IV: PROHIBITIONS AND EXEMPTIONS
Section
   
62.401   Illicit discharges
   
62.402   Exempted discharges
   
62.403   Interference with natural or artificial drainageway
   
62.404   Storage of hazardous or toxic materials in drainageway
62.401 ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to a water body, directly or indirectly
(i.e. via an illicit connection), any substance other than storm water or an
exempted discharge. Any person discharging storm water shall effectively
prevent pollutants from being discharged with the storm water, except in
accordance with best management practices.
   (B)   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement pollution
prevention measures, utilizing BMPs, necessary to prevent or reduce the
discharge of pollutants into the city's storm water drainage system or surface
waters of the state. Discharges to storm drains and waters of the state other
than storm water and the exempted discharges listed in §
62.402 is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.402 EXEMPTED DISCHARGES.
   The following non-storm water discharges shall be permissible, provided that
they do not result in a violation of State of Michigan water quality standards:
   (A)   Water supply line flushing.
   (B)   Landscape irrigation.
   (C)   Diverted stream flows.
   (D)   Rising ground water.
   (E)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration to storm drains.
   (F)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water.
   (G)   Discharges from potable water sources.
   (H)   Foundation drains.
   (I)   Air conditioning condensate.
   (J)   Individual residential car washing.
   (K)   Dechlorinated swimming pool waters from single, two, or three family
residences.
   (L)   Residual street wash water.
   (M)   Discharges or flows from emergency fire fighting activities.
   (N)   Discharges for which a specific federal or state permit has been
issued.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.403 INTERFERENCE WITH NATURAL OR ARTIFICIAL DRAINAGEWAY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, fill, dam, confine, pave, alter
the course of, or otherwise interfere with any natural or constructed drain, or
drainage way without first submitting a storm water plan to the city and all
appropriate agencies (state, Genesee County Drain Commissioner's office) and
receiving approval of that plan. Any deviation from the approved plan is a
violation of this chapter. This section shall not prohibit, however, necessary
emergency action so as to prevent or mitigate drainage that would be injurious
to the environment, the public health, safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.404 STORAGE OF HAZARDOUS OR TOXIC MATERIALS IN DRAINAGEWAY.
   Except as permitted by law, it shall be unlawful for any person to store or
stockpile within a drainageway any hazardous or toxic materials unless adequate
protection and/or containment has been provided so as to prevent any such
materials from entering a waterway.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
ARTICLE V: INSPECTION, MONITORING, REPORTING AND RECORD KEEPING
Section
   
62.501   Investigate, inspect and monitor suspected illicit discharges
   
62.502   Storm water monitoring facilities
   
62.503   Accidental discharges
   
62.504   Record keeping requirement
62.501 INVESTIGATE, INSPECT AND MONITOR SUSPECTED ILLICIT DISCHARGES.
   To investigate potential illicit discharges or connections and to assure
compliance with the standards set forth in this chapter, the city may
investigate, inspect and/or obtain monitor any discharge. Upon request, the
discharger shall allow the city's properly identified representative to enter
upon the premises of the discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of
such inspection or sampling. The city shall provide the discharger reasonable
advance notice of such inspection and/or sampling. The city or its properly
identified representative may place on the discharger's property the equipment
or devices used for such sampling, monitoring or inspection.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.502 STORM WATER MONITORING FACILITIES.
   The city may require, in writing, that a discharger of storm water runoff
provide and operate equipment or devices for the monitoring of storm water
runoff, so as to provide for inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of each
discharge to a water body or a storm water runoff facility. The city may
require a discharger to provide and operate such equipment and devices if it is
necessary or appropriate for the inspection, sampling and flow measurement of
discharges in order to determine whether adverse effects from or as a result of
such discharges may occur. All such equipment and devices for the inspection,
sampling and flow measurement of discharges shall be installed and maintained
in accordance with applicable laws, ordinances and regulations. All monitoring
results will be made available and reported to the city at an agreed upon time.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.503 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Any discharger who accidentally discharges into a MS4 or water of the
state any substance other than storm water or an exempted discharge shall
inform the city within 24 hours of knowledge of the incident. If such
information is given orally, a written report concerning the discharge shall be
filed with the city within five days. The written report shall specify:
      (1)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof.
      (2)   The exact date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge.
      (3)   All measures taken to clean up the accidental discharge, and all
measures proposed to be taken to reduce and prevent any recurrence.
      (4)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report, and
the name of a person who may be contacted for additional information on the
matter.
   (B)   A properly-reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief as a result of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of § 5.03(a).
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.504 RECORD KEEPING REQUIREMENT.
   Any person subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve for no less
than three years any and all books, drawings, plans, prints, documents,
memoranda, reports, correspondence and records, including records on magnetic
or electronic media and any and all summaries of such records, relating to
monitoring, sampling and chemical analysis of any discharge or storm water
runoff from any property.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
ARTICLE VI: ENFORCEMENT
Section
   
62.601   Sanctions for violation
   
62.602   Stop work order
   
62.603   Failure to comply; completion
   
62.604   Emergency measures
   
62.605   Cost recovery for damage to storm drain system
   
62.606   Collection of costs; lien
   
62.607   Appeals
62.601 SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATION.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to a fine to cover
costs, damages, expenses, and other sanctions as authorized under Chapter 87 of
the Revised Judicature Act of 1961 and other applicable laws, including,
without limitation, equitable relief; provided, however, that the violation
stated in § 6.01(b) shall be a misdemeanor. Each day such violation occurs or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable
for the imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for
in this section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided
by law. An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the
offender from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of
the provisions of this chapter committed by the same person within 12 months of
a previous violation of the same provision of this chapter for which said
person admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible.
   (C)   Police officers of the city are authorized to issue municipal civil
infraction citations to any person alleged to be violating any provision of
this chapter.
   (D)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
issued under §
62.602 shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine
of not more than $500 per violation per day or imprisonment in the county jail
for not more than 93 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, and such person
shall also pay such costs as may be imposed in the discretion of the court.
   (E)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this chapter
shall be subject to the sanctions provided in this section.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.602 STOP WORK ORDER.
   Where there is work in progress that causes or constitutes in whole or in
part, a violation of any provision of this chapter, the city is authorized to
issue a Stop Work Order so as to prevent further or continuing violations or
adverse effects. All persons to whom the Stop Work Order is directed, or who
are involved in any way with the work or matter described in the stop work
order shall fully and promptly comply therewith. The city may also undertake or
cause to be undertaken, any necessary or advisable protective measures so as to
prevent violations of this chapter or to avoid or reduce the effects of
noncompliance herewith. The cost of any such protective measures shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the property upon which the work is being done
and the responsibility of any person carrying out or participating in the work,
and such cost shall be a lien upon the property.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.603 FAILURE TO COMPLY; COMPLETION.
   In addition to any other remedies, should any owner fail to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the city may, after the giving of reasonable notice
and opportunity for compliance, have the necessary work done, and the owner
shall be obligated to promptly reimburse the city for all costs of such work.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.604 EMERGENCY MEASURES.
   When emergency measures are necessary to moderate a nuisance, to protect
public safety, health and welfare, and/or to prevent loss of life, injury or
damage to property, the city is authorized to carry out or arrange for all such
emergency measures. Property owners shall be responsible for the cost of such
measures made necessary as a result of a violation of this chapter, and shall
promptly reimburse the city for all of such costs.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.605 COST RECOVERY FOR DAMAGE TO STORM DRAIN SYSTEM.
   A discharger shall be liable for all costs incurred by the city as the
result of causing a discharge that produces a deposit or obstruction, or causes
damage to, or impairs a storm drain, or violates any of the provisions of this
chapter. Costs include, but are not limited to, those penalties levied by the
Environmental Protection Agency or MDNRE for violation of an National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System permit, attorney fees, and other costs and
expenses.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.606 COLLECTION OF COSTS; LIEN.
   Costs incurred by the city pursuant to §§
62.602 through
62.605 shall be a lien on the premises which shall be enforceable in accordance
with Act No. 94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as amended from time to time. Any
such charges which are delinquent for six months or more may be certified
annually to the City Treasurer who shall enter the lien on the next tax roll
against the premises and the costs shall be collected and the lien shall be
enforced in the same manner as provided for in the collection of taxes assessed
upon the roll and the enforcement of a lien for taxes. In addition to any other
lawful enforcement methods, the city shall have all remedies authorized by Act
No. 94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as amended, and any other remedies available
under applicable law.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.607 APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person as to whom any provision of this chapter has been applied
may appeal in writing, not later than 30 days after the action or decision
being appealed from, to the city Commission the action or decision whereby any
such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall identify the matter being
appealed, and the basis for the appeal.
   (B)   The City Commission shall consider the appeal and make a decision
whereby it affirms, rejects or modifies the action being appealed. In
considering any such appeal, the City Commission may consider the
recommendations of the City Engineer and the comments of other persons having
knowledge of the matter. In considering any such appeal, the City Commission
may grant a variance from the terms of this chapter so as to provide relief, in
whole or in part, from the action being appealed, but only upon finding that
the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The application of the ordinance provisions being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
the ordinance; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
the goals and purposes sought to be accomplished by this chapter, nor result in
less effective management of storm water runoff.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
ARTICLE VII: STORM WATER EASEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS
Section
   
62.701   Applicability of requirements
   
62.702   Storm water management easements
   
62.703   Maintenance agreements
   
62.704   Establishment of county drains
62.701 APPLICABILITY OF REQUIREMENTS.
   The requirements of this article concerning storm water easements and
maintenance agreements shall apply to all persons required to submit a storm
water and/or storm water plan to the city for review and approval.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.702 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT EASEMENTS.
   The Developer shall provide all storm water management easements necessary
to implement the approved storm water plan and to otherwise comply with this
chapter in form and substance required by the city and shall record such
easements as directed by the city. The easements shall assure access for proper
inspection and maintenance of storm water runoff facilities and shall provide
adequate emergency overland flow-ways.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.703 MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Purpose of maintenance agreement. The purpose of the maintenance
agreement is to provide the means and assurance that maintenance of stormwater
BMPs shall be undertaken.
   (B)   Maintenance agreement required.
      (1)   A maintenance agreement shall be submitted to the city, for review
by the Zoning Administrator and his/her designee and the City Attorney, for all
development, and shall be subject to approval in accordance with Stormwater
Plan. A formal maintenance plan shall be included in the maintenance agreement.
      (2)   Maintenance agreements shall be approved by the City Commission
prior to final subdivision plat or condominium approval, as applicable, and
prior to construction approval in other cases.
      (3)   A maintenance agreement is not required to be submitted to the city
for Chapter 18: Drains that will be maintained by the Genesee County Drain
Commission.
   (C)   Maintenance agreement provisions.
      (1)   The maintenance agreement shall include a plan for routine,
emergency, and long-term maintenance of all stormwater BMPs, with a detailed
annual estimated budget for the initial three years, and a clear statement that
only future maintenance activities in accordance with the maintenance agreement
plan shall be permitted without the necessity of securing new permits. Written
notice of the intent to proceed with maintenance shall be provided by the party
responsible for maintenance to the city at least 14 days in advance of
commencing work.
      (2)   The maintenance agreement shall be binding on all subsequent owners
of land served by the stormwater BMPs and shall be recorded in the office of
the Genesee County Register of Deeds prior to the effectiveness of the approval
of the City Commission.
      (3)   If it has been found by the City Commission, following notice and
an opportunity to be heard by the property owner, that there has been a
material failure or refusal to undertake maintenance as required under this
chapter and/or as required in the approved maintenance agreement as required
hereunder, the city shall then be authorized, but not required, to hire an
entity with qualifications and experience in the subject matter to undertake
the monitoring and maintenance as so required, in which event the property
owner shall be obligated to advance or reimburse payment (as determined by the
city) for all costs and expenses associated with such monitoring and
maintenance, together with a reasonable administrative fee. The maintenance
agreement required under this chapter shall contain a provision spelling out
this requirement and, if the applicant objects in any respect to such provision
or the underlying rights and obligations, such objection shall be resolved
prior to the commencement of construction of the proposed development on the
property.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.704 ESTABLISHMENT OF COUNTY DRAINS.
   Prior to final approval, all storm water management facilities for platted
subdivisions shall be established as county drains, as authorized in Section
433, Chapter 18 of the Michigan Drain Code (PA 40 of 1956, as amended) for
long-term maintenance.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
ARTICLE VIII: PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN STANDARDS
Section
   
62.801   Reference to Requirement Manual
   
62.802   Requirement Manual
   
62.803   Changes to standards and specifications
   
62.804   Amendments to Requirement Manual
   
62.805   Conflict of laws
   
62.806   Private agreements
   
62.807   Violations continue
62.801 REFERENCE TO REQUIREMENT MANUAL.
   (A)   The city or its designate shall use the policy, criteria, and
information, including technical specifications and standards, in the Genesee
County Requirement Manual as the basis for decisions about storm water permits
and about the design, implementation and performance of structural and non-
structural storm water BMPs.
   (B)   The State LID Manual includes a list of storm water treatment
practices, including the specific design criteria for each them. Storm water
treatment practices that are designed and constructed in accordance with these
design and sizing criteria should meet the minimum water quality and channel
protection performance standards outlined in the Genesee County Storm Water and
Flood Control Design Standard Requirements and the federal Phase II Storm Water
Rules. Calculations to demonstrate that BMP designs will perform to meet
required water quality, channel protection and flood control standards are to
be submitted to the appropriate reviewing agency. Failure to construct storm
water treatment practices in accordance with these standards may subject the
violator to a civil penalty as described in Article VI of this chapter.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.802 REQUIREMENT MANUAL.
   If the specifications or guidelines of the Genesee County Storm Water and
Flood Control Design Standard Requirements are more restrictive or apply a
higher standard than other laws or regulations, that fact shall not prevent
application of the specifications or guidelines in the Requirement Manual.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.803 CHANGES TO STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   Standards, specifications, guidelines, policies, criteria, or other
information in the Requirement Manual in affect at the time of acceptance of a
complete application shall control and shall be utilized in reviewing the
application and in implementing this chapter with regard to the application.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.804 AMENDMENTS TO REQUIREMENT MANUAL.
   The Requirement Manual may be updated and expanded from time to time, based
on advancements in technology and engineering, improved knowledge of local
conditions, or local monitoring or maintenance experience. Prior to amending or
updating the Requirement Manual, proposed changes shall be generally publicized
and made available for review, and an opportunity for comment by interested
persons shall be provided.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.805 CONFLICT OF LAWS.
   This chapter is not intended to modify or repeal any other ordinance, rule,
regulation or other provision of law. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to the requirements of any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other
provision of law, and where any provision of this chapter imposes restrictions
different from those imposed by any other ordinance, rule, regulation or other
provision of law, whichever provision is more restrictive or imposes higher
protective standards for human or environmental health, safety, and welfare,
shall control.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.806 PRIVATE AGREEMENTS.
   This chapter is not intended to revoke or repeal any easement, covenant, or
other private agreement. However, where the regulations of this chapter are
more restrictive or impose higher standards or requirements than such easement,
covenant, or other private agreement, then the requirements of this chapter
shall govern. Nothing in this chapter shall modify or repeal any private
covenant or deed restriction, but such covenant or restriction shall not
legitimize any failure to comply with this chapter. In no case shall the county
or city be obligated to enforce the provisions of any easements, covenants, or
agreements between private parties.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
62.807 VIOLATIONS CONTINUE.
   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter existing as of the effective
date of this chapter shall continue to be a violation under this chapter and be
subject to penalties and enforcement unless the use, development, construction,
or other activity complies with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
ARTICLE IX: OTHER MATTERS
Section
   
62.901   Interpretation
62.901 INTERPRETATION.
   Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed according to their
common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases defined in §
62.105 shall be construed according to the respective definitions given in that
section. Technical words and technical phrases that are not defined in this
chapter but which have acquired particular meanings in law or in technical
usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
(Ord. 475, passed 5-4-15)
CHAPTER 63: STORM WATER ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
   Article
      
I.   STORM WATER ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
ARTICLE I: STORM WATER ILLICIT DISCHARGE AND CONNECTION
Section
   63.101   Purpose
   63.102   Definitions
   63.103   Applicability
   63.104   Responsibility for administration
   63.105   Ultimate responsibility
   63.106   Discharge prohibitions
   63.107   Suspension of MS4 access
   63.108   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   63.109   Monitoring of discharges
   63.110   Requirement to prevent, control, and rescue storm water pollutants
by the use of best management practices
   63.111   Watercourse protection
   63.112   Notification of spills
   63.113   Enforcement
   63.114   Appeal of notice of violation
   63.115   Enforcement measures after appeal
   63.116   Cost of abatement of the violation
   63.117   Injunctive relief
   63.118   Compensatory action
   63.119   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   63.199   Penalty
63.101 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this article is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the public through the regulation of non-storm water
discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent practicable as
required by federal and state law. This article establishes methods for
controlling the introduction of pollutants into the MS4 in order to comply with
requirements of the NPDES permit process. The objectives of this article are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 by storm water
discharges by any user;
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the MS4; and
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with
this article.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
storm water, receiving waters, or storm water conveyance systems. BMPS also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The City Administrator or their designee.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
Currently these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
five acres or more. Beginning in March 2003, NPDES storm water phase II permits
will be required for construction projects resulting in land disturbance of one
acre or more. Such activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by the EPA (or by a state under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   EPA. The Environmental Protection Agency or its successor.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-storm water discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in § 63.106(A)(2).
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. An ILLICIT CONNECTION is either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-storm water discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR 122.26(b)(14).
   MDEQ. Michigan Department of Environmental Quality or its successor.
   MS4. Municipal separate storm sewer system.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   NPDES. The National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation, or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner
or as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; non-hazardous liquid, solid wastes, and yard wastes; refuse,
rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances,
and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which storm water is
collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to, any roads with
drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped storm
drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and human-
made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage structures.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.103 APPLICABILITY.
   This article shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
an authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.104 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Code Official or their designee shall administer, implement, and enforce
the provisions of this article. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the
authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in writing by the Director of
the authorized enforcement agency to persons or entities acting in the
beneficial interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.105 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this article are
minimum standards; therefore, this article does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.106 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, into the
municipal storm drain system or watercourses, any materials, including, but not
limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or
contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards, other than
storm water.
      (2)   The commencement, conduct, or continuance of any non-authorized
discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as
follows:
         (a)   The following discharges are exempt from the discharge
prohibitions established by this article:
               1.   Water line flushing or other potable water sources;
               2.   Landscape irrigation or lawn watering, and irrigation
waters;
               3.   Diverted stream flows and flows from riparian habitats and
wetlands;
               4.   Rising ground water and springs;
               5.   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration and seepage;
               6.   Uncontaminated pumped ground water except for groundwater
cleanups specifically authorized by NPDES permits;
               7.   Foundation drains, water from crawl space pumps, footing
drains and basement sump pumps (not including active groundwater dewatering
systems);
               8.   Air conditioning condensation;
               9.   Waters from non-commercial washing of vehicles;
               10.   Street wash water;
               11.   De-chlorinated swimming pool water from single, two, or
three family residences;
               12.   Firefighting activities; and
               13.   Any other water source not containing pollutants.
         (b)   Dye testing done under the authorization of the MDEQ (general
rule 97) is an allowable discharge but requires a complete notice of intent to
the MDEQ prior to the time of the test.
         (c)   The prohibition shall not apply to any non-storm water discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the EPA, provided that the
discharger is in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver,
or order and other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written
approval has been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this article if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4 or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.107 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The Code
Official or their designee may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this article may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the authorized
enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
   (C)   A person commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to
premises terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.108 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the Code
Official prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.109 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have storm
water discharges associated with industrial activity, including construction
activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The Code Official or their designee shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this article as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this article. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the Code Official or their designee
ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, examination, and copying of records that must be kept under the
conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the performance of
any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The Code Official or their designee shall have the right to set up
on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility's storm water discharge.
      (4)   The Code Official or their designee has the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the Code Official or their designee,
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the Code Official or their designee
access to a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water discharge permit
and of this article. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES
permit to discharge storm water associated with industrial activity commits an
offense if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable
access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity
authorized or required by this article.
      (7)   If the Code Official or their designee has been refused access to
any part of the premises from which storm water is discharged, and he or she is
able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of
this article, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this
article or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety, and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement agency
may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.110 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND RESCUE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The City Commission will adopt requirements identifying BMPs for any
activity, operation, or facility which may cause or contribute to pollution or
contamination of storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of the United
States. The owner or operator of a commercial or industrial establishment shall
provide, at their own expense, reasonable protection from accidental discharge
of prohibited materials or other wastes into the municipal storm drain system
or watercourses through the use of these structural and non-structural BMPs.
Further, any person responsible for a property or premise, which is, or may be,
the source of an illicit discharge, may be required to implement, at said
person's expense, additional structural and non-structural BMPs to prevent the
further discharge of pollutants to the municipal separate storm sewer system.
Compliance with all terms and conditions of a valid NPDES permit authorizing
the discharge of storm water associated with industrial activity, to the extent
practicable, shall be deemed compliance with the provisions of this section.
These BMPs shall be part of a storm water pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as
necessary for compliance with requirements of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.111 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.112 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation, has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting, or may result, in illegal discharges or
pollutants discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or waters of
the United States, said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the
discovery, containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a
release of hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency
response agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the
event of a release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the
authorized enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than
the next business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed
by written notice addressed and mailed to the city within three business days
of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a
commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for
at least three years.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.113 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Code Official or their designee finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this article, the
authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require, without
limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.114 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a written notice of violation may appeal the
determination of the authorized enforcement agency. The notice of appeal must
be received within 20 days from the date of the notice. Hearing on the appeal
before the City Commission shall take place at their next regular meeting, but
not less than 15 days from the date of receipt of the notice of appeal. The
decision of the City Commission shall be final.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.115 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the written notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within
30 days of the decision of the City Commission upholding the decision of the
authorized enforcement agency, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent, or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency
or designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.116 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. The property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of
the assessment within ten days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the municipal authority or by the
expiration of the time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a
special assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the
property for the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.117 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision, or fail to
comply with, any of the requirements of this article. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this article, the authorized
enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction
restraining the person from activities which would create further violations,
or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.118 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this article, the authorized enforcement agency may impose upon a violator
alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, creek cleanup, and the like.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.119 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this article is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, is declared and
deemed a nuisance, may be summarily abated or restored at the violator's
expense, and/or a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the
cessation of such nuisance may be taken.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
63.199 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the penalties and
sanctions provided by this code. The authorized enforcement agency may recover
all attorney's fees, court costs, and other expenses associated with
enforcement of this article, including sampling and monitoring expenses.
   (B)   The remedies listed in this article are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state, or local law, and it is
within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 497, passed 5-21-18)
CHAPTER 65: STREETS, SIDEWALKS, AND SIGNS
   Article
      
I.   SIDEWALKS
      
II.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT METHOD
      
III.   SIGNS
ARTICLE I: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
65.101   Title
   
65.102   Definitions
   
65.103   Permit from City Superintendent
   
65.104   Costs assessed against property owner
   
65.105   Apportionment of costs among property owners
   
65.106   Certain costs to be shared by city
   
65.107   Notice to build, rebuild or repair sidewalk
   
65.108   Owners failure to build or repair; building or rebuilding by city;
assessment of costs and penalty
   
65.109   Request by owner to have city repair sidewalk
   
65.110   Obstructions on sidewalks
   
65.111   Barricades
   
65.112   Removal of snow and/or ice accumulations
   
65.113   Owner's liability for obstructions and hazards
   
65.199   Penalty
 65.101 TITLE.
   This article shall be known as and may be cited as the City of Clio Sidewalk
Ordinance.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70)
 65.102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK or SIDEWALKS. All permanent public walks in business, residential
or suburban areas.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70; amended by Ord. 333, passed 1-22-02)
 65.103 PERMIT FROM CITY SUPERINTENDENT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall construct, repair, rebuild or remove
any sidewalk within the city without first obtaining a written permit from the
City Superintendent. All such construction, repairing, rebuilding, or removing
of any sidewalk shall be in accordance with the line, grade, slope and
specifications established by the City Superintendent.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70) Penalty, see §
65.199
 65.104 COSTS ASSESSED AGAINST PROPERTY OWNER.
   In the event that any sidewalks shall be damaged or destroyed as a result of
the negligence of any adjacent property owner or his tenants, employees or
agents, then the full cost of the required repair or replacement of such
damaged or destroyed sidewalk shall be assessed against such adjacent property
owner. In the event that the construction or alteration of a building shall, in
the opinion of the City Superintendent, require the changing of the grade of
any existing sidewalk, then the cost of such changing of the grade shall be
assessed against the owner of said building.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70)
 65.105 APPORTIONMENT OF COSTS AMONG PROPERTY OWNERS.
   The entire cost of any new sidewalk constructed within said city shall be
assessed against the adjacent property owners on a pro-rata basis according to
the benefit received by each such adjacent property owner.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70)
 65.106 CERTAIN COSTS TO BE SHARED BY CITY.
   One-half of the cost of rebuilding or repairing any existing sidewalk within
said city shall be assessed against the adjacent property owners on a pro rata
basis according to the benefit received by each such adjacent property owner;
and the remaining one-half of such cost shall be paid by the city at large.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70)
 65.107 NOTICE TO BUILD, REBUILD OR REPAIR SIDEWALK.
   (A)   Whenever the City Administrator shall determine that a sidewalk is
defective, unsafe, or in need of repair, he shall give written notice of such
condition to the owner of the adjacent property. Such notice shall provide a
brief description of the condition of said sidewalk, and shall further provide
that the owner is thereby requested to obtain a written permit from the City
Administrator for the repair of said sidewalk, and to correct said condition
within 30 days and receive reimbursement from the city for one-half of the cost
of doing so; and that, upon his failure to do so, said condition will be
corrected by the city and one-half of the cost thereof shall be assessed
against said adjacent property owner together with a penalty of 10% of the
amount so assessed, and the total amount of such assessment and penalty shall
become a lien against the said adjacent premises. Such notice may be served
upon the said adjacent property owner personally by registered mail with return
receipt requested, or by posting in a conspicuous place upon the said adjacent
premises; and the City Administrator shall make and file a return of his doings
which shall be conclusive of the matters set forth in said return.
   (B)   Whenever the City Administrator shall determine to build a new
sidewalk, he shall give written notice of such construction to the owner(s) of
the adjacent property. Such notice shall provide a brief description of the
building specifications, and shall further provide that the owner is thereby
requested to obtain a written permit from the City Administrator for the
building of the sidewalk, and to build said sidewalk within 30 days; and that,
upon failure to do so, said sidewalk will be built by the city and the cost
will be assessed against the adjacent property owner together with a penalty of
10% of the amount so assessed, and the total amount of such assessment and
penalty shall become a lien against the premises. Such notice may be served
upon the said adjacent property owner personally by registered mail with return
receipt requested, or by posting in a conspicuous place upon the adjacent
premises; and the City Administrator shall make and file a return of his doings
which shall be conclusive of the matters set forth in the return.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 65.108 OWNERS FAILURE TO BUILD OR REPAIR; BUILDING OR REBUILDING BY CITY;
ASSESSMENT OF COSTS AND PENALTY. 
   In the event that the said owner of the adjacent premises shall fail to
build, repair or rebuild such sidewalk within 30 days after service of the
aforementioned notice upon him, then the City Administrator shall report such
failure to the City Commission and request authorization to build, repair or
rebuild said sidewalk. The City Commission may thereupon determine to build,
repair or rebuild such sidewalk and order the City Administrator to do all the
work required to accomplish such end. One-half of the cost incurred by
repairing or rebuilding an existing sidewalk, or the entire cost of building a
new sidewalk, shall be then assessed against the owner of the adjacent property
together with a penalty of 10% of the amount so assessed. The total amount of
such assessment and penalty shall be charged against the said adjacent premises
and shall be considered a lien of the city against said premises.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 65.109 REQUEST BY OWNER TO HAVE CITY REPAIR SIDEWALK.
   The City Commission may, upon request by any property owner, construct,
change, or repair any sidewalk upon such terms and conditions as may be agreed
upon by said property owner and the City Commission. Such portion of the
expense to be paid by such property owner, pursuant to said agreement, if not
paid on demand or as agreed, shall be considered a lien of the city against
those premises of the property owner which are adjacent to said sidewalk.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70)
 65.110 OBSTRUCTIONS ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall permit or cause any building materials, rubbish or any other
article or substance or merchandise for sale to be dropped, delivered or placed
upon any sidewalk within the city unless he shall first have obtained
permission to do so from the City Superintendent or the City Commission. This
section shall not prohibit the necessary delivery of merchandise on a sidewalk
if such merchandise shall be immediately removed from said sidewalk with no
detrimental effect to said sidewalk.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70) Penalty, see §
65.199
 65.111 BARRICADES.
   Whenever any excavating dirt, rubbish, building material, article,
substance, merchandise or thing is allowed to remain on any sidewalk in such a
manner as to obstruct or be dangerous to public travel, then suitable
barricades, approved by the City Superintendent, shall be placed by the person
responsible for said obstruction or danger in such manner as to indicate the
location and extent of said obstruction and danger. In the event that any such
obstruction or danger is allowed to continue during the whole or part of any
night, then the person responsible therefor shall place lights, approved by the
City Superintendent as to number, type and location, to indicate the location
and extent of such obstruction or danger.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70) Penalty, see §
65.199
 65.112 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND/OR ICE ACCUMULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. Snow and ice accumulation on sidewalks poses a threat to
pedestrian traffic. It is the city's policy to place the responsibility of
removal of snow and/or ice from sidewalks on the abutting property owner and in
instances where the abutting property owner fails to properly remove and/or
treat snow and/or ice accumulations, the city may take appropriate action at
the owner s expense to secure the removal of snow and ice. It is the intent of
this section to provide for certain procedures relative to the removal of snow
and ice from sidewalks and for certain penalties for failure to act hereunder.
   (B)   Enforcement. The Chief of Police or his/her designated representative
shall enforce the provisions of the section.
   (C)   Definitions. Unless otherwise expressly stated or the context clearly
indicates a different intention, the following terms shall have the meanings
given in this section:
      ACCUMULATIONS. Snow and/or ice deposits.
      PERSON. Includes an individual or group or association of individuals; a
firm or any member thereof; a corporation, or any executive officer, manager,
person in charge or employee thereof; and the use of a pronoun specifying one
gender shall include both genders.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The record titleholder or the contract purchaser of
record, if any.
   (D)   Obligation of property owner.
      (1)   
Ch. 65, Art I The owner of any property abutting a public sidewalk with the
exception of bike paths and combination bike paths/pedestrian walkways
maintained by the city, shall remove snow, ice and accumulations from sidewalks
within a reasonable time but in no case more than 24 hours following the
cessation of the weather or other event by which they were deposited; provided,
however, that in extraordinary weather circumstances the Superintendent of
Public Services or his/her designated representative may extend the period of
time provided herein. In those situations the Superintendent of Public Services
or his/her designated representative will deliver to representative news media
a statement indicating the amount of additional time the property owners shall
have to remove accumulations from sidewalks.
      (2)   If accumulations are not removed as required above, including any
extraordinary weather circumstances, or required treatment pursuant to
subsection (E) of this section is not completed and maintained, the Chief of
Police or his/her designated representative may give to the property owner a
notice entitled  Official Notice - Failure to Remove Snow or Ice Accumulation
on Sidewalk and/or Failure to Treat Snow and/or Ice Accumulation on Sidewalk on
a form approved by the city setting forth the location/address of the violation
and to whom the notice is directed with the explanation of the violations. This
notice shall be personally served upon an adult person residing at the address
of the party being served. If personal service is not possible, written notice
of such violation shall be affixed to the primary entrances to the premises and
the garage door if they are accessible. A second attempt at personal service
shall be made not less than six hours after the first unsuccessful attempt. If
personal service is not possible, a second written notice of violation shall be
affixed to the primary entrances to the premises and the garage door if they
are accessible. The 24-hour period for the owner of the property to take action
shall commence from the time of delivery of the earlier personal service or
affixing the second notice. The owner of the property in violation shall have
24 hours from the time of service of this notice in which to take corrective
action and bring the sidewalk into compliance with this code. The existence of
extraordinary weather conditions as determined by the Director of Public
Services, pursuant to this subsection, shall extend the 24 hours until such
extraordinary weather conditions have dissipated. Upon notification by the
Superintendent of Public Services of the end of extraordinary weather
conditions, the 24 hours will start. If the accumulations are not timely
removed or the required treatment pursuant to subsection (E) of this section is
not completed and maintained, the Chief of Police or his/her designated
representative is authorized to issue a citation.
      (3)   A second subsequent violation of this section shall not be
considered a repeat offense for the purposes of increasing the civil penalty
provided in said code section, unless the prior or preceding offenses have
occurred within the current snow season.
   (E)    Treatment of unremovable snow and/or ice.  When accumulations have
formed upon any sidewalk so that it cannot be reasonably removed, the abutting
property owner shall within the period set forth in subsection (D) keep and
maintain such accumulations sprinkled with fine cinders, sand or de-icing
chemicals in such manner as to provide traction and prevent the sidewalk from
being dangerous to persons using the same. Nothing in this subsection shall be
construed to be a substitute for the removal of accumulations, as required in
subsection (D) of this section. This subsection shall only apply when
accumulations cannot be reasonably removed; however, all accumulations shall be
removed as soon as practical.
   (F)   Unlawful deposit of snow and/or ice.  No person shall remove, or cause
to be removed, accumulations from private premises and deposit the same or
cause the same to be deposited upon any public street, avenue, alley, public
square or traveled area within the city. The Chief of Police or his/her
designated representative is authorized to issue a citation to anyone violating
this subsection indicating said person is in violation of this subsection and
is subject to the penalties provided.
   (G)   Alternative relief. In any proceeding seeking a penalty for violations
of the provisions of this section, the Chief of Police or his/her designated
representative may seek additional alternative relief appropriate to the
condition to be abated, including relief set forth in subsection (H) of this
section.
   (H)    Removal by the City Of Clio. Whenever accumulations have remained on
any sidewalk in violation of subsection (D) of this section and/or whenever
unremovable accumulations have formed on any sidewalk in violation of
subsection (E) of this section, and the time for the property owner to take
action after service of the notice has expired, the city may cause such
accumulations to be removed and/or treatment of unremovable accumulations
either by use of city personnel and equipment or by contracting for the work to
be undertaken.
   (I)    Right to assess. When the city removes or causes to be removed
accumulations and/or treats accumulations, the city may assess the actual cost
plus any administrative costs of removing such accumulations from the abutting
property owner s sidewalks and/or treatment of unremovable accumulations, in
addition to taking any other action provided for in this section.
   (J)   Assessment of costs.  The actual cost, including any administrative
costs as determined by the Superintendent of Public Services or his/her
designated representative, in removing accumulations or treatment of
accumulations from sidewalks abutting private property shall be paid by the
owner of the property abutting thereon. The property owner shall be sent a bill
by the City Treasurer for said costs to permit voluntary payment thereof by the
property owner. The bill shall be sent within 30 days of the city's action as
set forth in subsection (H) of this section. Failure to pay said bill within 30
days after mailing of bill will cause the action to appear on a schedule of
assessments to be forwarded to the City Clerk for consideration by the City
Commission.
   (K)   Schedule of assessments.  Whenever any accumulations have been removed
from any sidewalks or treatment of the sidewalks for unremovable accumulations
by the city as provided in this section, and the right to assess provided for
in subsection (H) of this section is invoked, the city shall cause to be
prepared a schedule giving the name of the owner, so far as known, a
description of the property, the date when the work was done, the amount
charged to each lot, and for what work and materials the charge was made. As
soon thereafter as practicable the schedule shall be filed with the City Clerk
for consideration by the City Commission.
   (L)   Adoption of assessment schedule. The City Commission shall consider
all objections to the schedule of assessments for the removal of accumulations
from sidewalks, duly filed, and shall by resolution approve a schedule of
assessments.
(Ord. 333, passed 1-22-02)
 65.113 OWNER'S LIABILITY FOR OBSTRUCTIONS AND HAZARDS.
   The owner of the property adjacent to any sidewalk is hereby declared to be
liable to any person suffering damages arising out of the failure to keep such
sidewalk in a safe and passable condition, free from ice, snow, mud and other
obstructions or hazards.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70; amended by Ord. 333, passed 1-22-02) Penalty, see §
65.199
 65.199 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this article shall, upon
conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not more than $500 and costs
of prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not
to exceed 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 108, passed 7-20-70; amended by Ord. 261, passed 12-7-92)
ARTICLE II: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT METHOD
Section
   
65.201   Purpose
   
65.202   Cost of improvement
   
65.203   Initiation of special assessment project
   
65.204   Declaration of commission
   
65.205   Public hearing
   
65.206   Approval; objection in writing
   
65.207   Preparation of special assessment roll
   
65.208   Notice of hearing
   
65.209   Confirming or correcting assessment roll
   
65.210   Work to commence after confirmation of assessment roll
   
65.211   Assessments payable in one or more installments
   
65.212   Delinquency; lien upon property
   
65.213   Collectment of assessments
   
65.214   Action of assumpsit
   
65.215   Lots divided after special assessment
   
65.216   Additional pro rata assessments
   
65.217   Reassessments
   
65.218   Disposition of funds
   
65.219   Bills to owner
   
65.220   Obligations of city to pay
 65.201 PURPOSE.
   The making and financing of public improvements by the special assessment
method shall be governed by this article and all proceedings therefor shall be
taken in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.202 COST OF IMPROVEMENT.
   The term PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT, as used in this article, shall include the
reconstruction in whole or in part of any structure or work as well as the
original construction thereof. The cost of surveys, maps, drawings, plans and
specifications for a public improvement and all expenses incident to the
proceedings for the making of such improvement, the making and collecting of
the special assessments therefor, and the issuance of bonds in anticipation of
such special assessments, shall be deemed a part of the cost of said
improvement. Whenever any property is acquired by condemnation, or otherwise,
for the purpose of any public improvement, all or any part of the cost thereof
may be included as a part of the cost of such improvement. Any assessment may
be made upon the basis of the estimated cost of the improvement if the actual
cost has not been definitely determined.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.203 INITIATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECT.
   (A)   By Commission. Whenever the Commission proposes to make any public
improvement and to defray the whole or any part of the cost thereof by special
assessment upon the property specially benefited, it shall declare its
intention to do so by resolution, stating therein the nature and the route or
location of the proposed improvement and the lands and premises proposed to be
included in the special assessment district and assessed therefor, and cause to
be prepared and submitted to the Commission a map or drawing showing the route
or location of such proposed improvement and such proposed special assessment
district, plans and specifications for such proposed improvement, and an
estimate of the cost thereof.
   (B)   By petition of property owners. A public improvement may be proposed
by filing with the City Clerk petitions signed by at least 50% of the owners of
the property to be assessed for the improvements requesting that the
improvements be made and that the cost thereof be defrayed by special
assessment upon the property benefitted. The petition shall set forth the
location, extent and character of the desired public improvement. After
receiving the petition, the Commission shall proceed in the same manner as
provided herein for public improvements initiated by the Commission.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 65.204 DECLARATION OF COMMISSION.
   Upon the submission of the above-mentioned map or drawing, plans,
specifications and cost estimate, the Commission shall, if it desires to
proceed with the making of said improvement and the special assessments
therefor, so declare by resolution. The Commission, by said resolution, shall
order the aforesaid map or drawing, plans, specifications and cost estimate, to
be filed in the office of the City Clerk for public examination, shall
determine the necessity of said improvement, shall state the estimated cost
thereof and what part or proportion, if less than all, shall be paid by special
assessment and what part or proportion, if any, shall be a general obligation
of the city, shall specify the number of installments in which assessments may
be paid, and shall designate the district or lands and premises upon which the
special assessments shall be levied.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.205 PUBLIC HEARING.
   Before finally determining to make said improvement and the special
assessments therefor, the Commission shall hold a public hearing at a time and
place to be fixed by the Commission, and at such hearing shall hear and
consider any objections which may be submitted by any interested person with
respect to the making of said improvement and the assessing to the designated
special assessment district of all or that part of the cost of the improvement
which the Commission has proposed to so assess. The Commission shall cause
notice of such hearing to be given by the City Clerk not less than ten days
prior to the date of said hearing by publication thereof at least once in a
newspaper having general circulation in the city (and having had such general
circulation for at least two years immediately preceding such publication), and
by sending by first class U.S. Mail, postage thereon fully prepaid, a copy of
said notice addressed to each person in whose name any land in the special
assessment district is assessed on the last preceding tax assessment roll of
the city, at the last known address of such person or persons, and also (if
such address is different from the address of the premises in the district) a
copy of said notice addressed to the occupant of each such premises which has
an address served by U.S. Mail. Such notice shall specify the improvement,
describe the district, state the estimated cost and the division thereof as
between the district and the city at large, and give notice that the map or
drawing, plans, specifications and cost estimate of the improvement are on file
with the City Clerk for public examination. At the time of such hearing, or any
adjournment held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act as amended, being
M.C.L.A. § 15.261 et seq., the Commission shall hear and consider such
objections as are submitted and shall record in the minutes of said meeting the
names of all persons objecting, the properties owned by them, and the nature of
their objections. The Commission may revise, correct, amend or change the map
or drawing, plans, specifications, estimate and/or district; provided that if
the amount of work is increased or additions are made to the district, then an
additional hearing(s) shall be held with respect to the changes and notices of
such hearing shall be given in the same manner as required for the first
hearing.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 65.206 APPROVAL; OBJECTION IN WRITING.
   After the hearing provided for in the preceding section, if the Commission
desires to proceed with the making of said improvement and the special
assessments therefor, it shall adopt a resolution approving the map or drawing,
plans, specifications and cost estimate as originally presented or as revised,
corrected, amended, or changed, determining to make the improvement,
designating the lands and premises constituting the special assessment district
therefor, stating what part of the cost of the improvement, if any, shall be
assumed and paid from the general funds of the city and directing that the
remainder be assessed in accordance with benefits to the lands and premises
constituting said special assessment district, specifying the number of
installments in which the assessments shall be payable, and ordering the City
Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll for all or that part of the cost
to be so assessed; provided, that if, prior to the adoption of said resolution,
written objections to the improvement have been filed by more than 50% of the
number of owners of privately owned real property to be assessed for the
improvement, or in the case of paving or similar improvement, more than 50% of
the number of owners of frontage to be assessed shall object in writing to the
proposed improvement, then such resolution shall not be adopted and said
improvement shall not be made, except in case of sidewalk construction, without
a 5/7 vote of the members-elect of the Commission.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.207 PREPARATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The City Assessor shall thereupon, after the adoption of such resolution so
directing, prepare the special assessment roll in which shall be entered and
described all the lands and premises to be assessed, with the names of the
respective owners thereof, if known, and the amount to be assessed against each
such parcel of land or premises, which amount shall be such relative portion of
the whole sum to be levied against all lands and premises in the special
assessment district as the benefit to such parcel of land or premises bears to
the total benefits to all lands and premises in the special assessment
district. There shall also be entered upon said roll the amount which has been
assumed by the city at large. When the City Assessor shall have completed the
assessment roll, he shall file the same in the office of the City Clerk, after
first having affixed thereto a certificate stating that it was made pursuant to
a resolution of the Commission of said city adopted on a specified date and
that in making such assessment roll he has, according to his best judgment,
conformed in all respects to such resolution, this article, and the Charter of
the city.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.208 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   Before confirming any assessment roll, the Commission shall appoint a time
and place when it will meet and review the same and hear any objections
thereto, and shall cause notice of such hearing and of the filing of such
assessment roll to be given by the City Clerk not less than 10 days prior to
the date of said hearing by publication thereof at least once in a newspaper
having general circulation in the city (and having had such general circulation
for at least two years preceding such publication). The notice shall contain
the following:
      (1)   The time and place of the hearing;
      (2)   A description of the section or area of the city determined by the
Commission to be within the assessment district as contained in the special
assessment roll;
      (3)   Where the special assessment roll is on file and may be examined;
      (4)   That any person aggrieved by the assessment as contained in the
special assessment roll, or the necessity of the improvement, may file a
written objection thereto which must be delivered to the City Clerk prior to
the close of the hearing, or the person may appear and protest the same at the
public hearing in person or by his or her representative;
      (5)   That the appearance and protest or written protest in the manner
described is required if the person desires to appeal the amount of the
assessment to the Michigan Tax Tribunal; and
      (6)   That any appeal to the Michigan Tax Tribunal must be taken within
30 days of the confirmation of the special assessment roll, provided a protest
was timely made.
   (B)   In addition, the Clerk shall give notice of hearings in special
assessment proceedings to each owner of, or party in interest in, property to
be assessed, whose name appears upon the last local tax assessment records, by
first class mail addressed to such owner or party at the address shown on the
tax records, at least ten days before the date of such hearing. As used in this
section, last local tax assessment records means the last local board of
review, as supplemented by any subsequent changes in the names and addresses of
owners or parties listed thereon. Notice given under this subsection shall
comply with any mandatory statutory provision governing the same.
   (C)   Where any person claims an interest in real property whose name and
correct address do not appear upon the last local tax assessment records, he or
she shall be obligated to file immediately his or her name and address with the
City Assessor and to provide evidence acceptable to the City Assessor that he
or she is entitled to be the taxpayer of record. The Assessor shall immediately
enter on the local tax assessment records any changes in the names and
addresses of owners or parties in interest filed with him or her and shall at
all times keep such tax assessment records current, complete and available for
public inspection.
   (D)   The Commission shall meet at the appointed time and place and at such
meeting or any adjourned meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act
as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 15.261 et seq.,  shall review the special
assessment roll and hear and consider any objections thereto, and shall record
in the minutes of said meeting the names of all persons who objected to said
roll, the properties owned by them, and the nature of their objections. The
Commission may revise, correct, amend or change the map or drawing, plans,
specifications, estimate and/or district; provided that if the amount of work
is increased or additions are made to the district, then an additional hearing
(s) shall be held with respect to the changes and notice of hearing shall be
given as required by this section.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 65.209 CONFIRMING OR CORRECTING ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   After the hearing on the special assessment roll, the Commission by
resolution may confirm the same, or may correct it as to any matter appearing
therein and confirm it as so corrected, or may refer it back to the City
Assessor for revision, or may annul it and direct a new roll to be made. No
special assessment roll shall be confirmed except with the affirmative vote of
at least four members of the Commission. If, at or prior to final confirmation
of any special assessment roll, more than 50% of the number of owners of
privately owned real property to be assessed thereon, or in the case of paving
or similar improvement, more than 50% of the number of owners of frontage to be
assessed thereon, shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the
special assessment roll shall not be confirmed, except in case of sidewalk
construction, without a 5/7 vote of the members-elect of the Commission. When a
special assessment roll shall be confirmed, the City Clerk shall endorse
thereon the date of confirmation. After such confirmation the special
assessment roll and all assessments therein shall be final and conclusive.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.210 WORK TO COMMENCE AFTER CONFIRMATION OF ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   No work shall be commenced on any public improvement to be financed in whole
or in part by special assessment until after confirmation of the special
assessment roll therefor, nor shall any contract or expenditure be made for
such improvement prior to such confirmation, except for legal, engineering,
administrative and other services required for the preparation of the map,
drawings, plans, specifications and cost estimate for the improvement and the
taking of necessary proceedings, including the making of the special assessment
roll, for the levying of the special assessments.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.211 ASSESSMENTS PAYABLE IN ONE OR MORE INSTALLMENTS.
   Special assessments may be made payable in one or more installments, as
determined by the Commission, but such installments may not exceed five in the
case of sidewalk improvements, 15 in the case of paving or similar street
improvements, and 20 in the case of water, storm sewer, sanitary sewer or other
improvements. The first installment shall be due at such time after
confirmation as the Commission shall provide and the several subsequent
installments shall be due at intervals of 12 months from the due date of the
first installment. The amount of each installment (if more than one) need not
be extended upon the special assessment roll until after confirmation. All
installments not paid by a date to be fixed by the Commission shall bear
interest thereafter at the rate of 2/3 of 1% for each month or fraction thereof
that the same remain unpaid prior to their transfer to the city tax roll. Such
accrued interest on all unpaid installments shall be due and payable annually
on the due dates of the respective installments. Any one of more installments
may be paid at any time before due together with accrued interest on such
installments.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61; amended by Ord. 176, passed 12-15-80)
 65.212 DELINQUENCY; LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   (A)   If any installment is not paid when due, then the same shall be deemed
to be delinquent, and there shall be collected thereon, in addition to interest
as above provided, a collection fee of 1% and a penalty of 2% of such
installment. In case any assessment or any installment thereof shall remain
unpaid on the first Monday of May following the date when the same became
delinquent, the same shall be reported unpaid by the City Treasurer to the
Commission, and such delinquent assessments, together with all accrued
interest, shall be transferred and reassessed on the next annual city tax roll
in a column headed Special Assessments, with a penalty of 4% upon such total
amount added thereto, and when so transferred and reassessed upon said tax roll
shall be collected in all respects as provided for the collection of city
taxes.
   (B)   Special assessments and all interest, charges and penalties thereon,
from the date of confirmation of the roll and until paid, shall be and remain a
lien upon the property assessed of the same character and effect as the lien
created by general law for the state and county taxes and by the City Charter
for city taxes. No judgment or decree, nor any act of the Commission vacating a
special assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the city upon the
property assessed, for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably
charged against the same, or as by a regular mode of proceeding might be
lawfully assessed thereon.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.213 COLLECTMENT OF ASSESSMENTS.
   When any special assessment shall be confirmed, the Commission shall direct
the assessments so made in the special assessment roll to be collected. The
City Clerk shall thereupon deliver to the City Treasurer said special
assessment roll to which he shall attach his warrant commanding the City
Treasurer to collect from each of the persons assessed in said roll the amount
of money assessed to and set opposite his name therein. Upon receiving such
special assessment roll and warrant, the City Treasurer shall proceed to
collect the several amounts assessed therein.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.214 ACTION OF ASSUMPSIT.
   In addition to any other remedies and without impairing the lien therefor,
any delinquent special assessment together with interest and penalties may be
collected in an action of assumpsit in the name of the city against the person
assessed, in any court having jurisdiction. If in any such action it shall
appear that by reason of any irregularities or informalities the assessment has
not been properly made against the defendant or upon the premises sought to be
charged, the court may, nevertheless, on satisfactory proof that expense has
been incurred by the city, which is a proper charge against the defendant or
the premises in question, render judgment for the amount properly chargeable
against such defendant or upon such premises.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.215 LOTS DIVIDED AFTER SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   Should any lot or parcel of land be divided after a special assessment
thereon has been confirmed and before the collection thereof, the Commission
may require the City Assessor to apportion the uncollected amounts upon the
several parts of such lot or parcel of land. The report of such apportionment
when confirmed shall be conclusive upon all parties, provided that before such
confirmation, notice of hearing shall be given to all the interested parties by
personal service or by publication and mailing as above provided in case of an
original assessment roll.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.216 ADDITIONAL PRO RATA ASSESSMENTS.
   Additional pro rata assessments may be made when any special assessment roll
proves insufficient to pay for the improvement for which it was levied and the
expenses incidental thereto, or insufficient to pay the principal and interest
on bonds issued in anticipation of such assessment roll; provided, that the
additional pro rata assessment shall not exceed 25% of the assessment as
originally confirmed, unless a meeting of the Commission be held to review such
additional assessment, for which meeting notices shall be published and mailed
as provided in the case of review of the original special assessment roll.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.217 REASSESSMENTS.
   Whenever any special assessment roll shall, in the opinion of the
Commission, be invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the
proceedings, or if any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge such
assessment to be illegal, the Commission shall, whether the improvement shall
have been made or not, or whether any part of the assessment shall have been
paid or not, have power to cause a new assessment to be made for the same
purpose for which the former assessment was made. All proceedings on such
reassessment and for the collection thereof shall be conducted in the same
manner as provided for in original assessment except as to corrections in the
proceedings required to make the assessment legal. Whenever any sum or part
thereof, levied upon any property in the assessment so set aside, has been paid
and not refunded, the payment so made shall be applied upon the reassessment.
If the payments exceed the amount of the reassessment, refunds shall be made.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.218 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   Moneys raised by special assessments for any public improvement shall be
credited to a special assessment account and shall be used to pay for the costs
of the improvement for which the assessment was levied and of incidental
thereto, to repay any principal and interest on money borrowed therefor, and to
refund excessive assessments. The excess by which any special assessment proves
larger than the actual cost of the improvement and expense incidental there to
may be placed in the General Fund of the city if such excess is 5% or less of
the assessment, but should the assessment prove larger than necessary by more
than 5% the entire excess shall be refunded on a pro rata basis to the owners
of the property assessed. Such refund shall be made by credit against future
unpaid installments to the extent such installments then exist and the balance
of such refund shall be in cash. No refunds may be made which contravene the
provisions of any outstanding evidence of indebtedness secured in whole or in
part by such special assessment.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.219 BILLS TO OWNER.
   When any expense shall have been incurred by the city upon or in respect to
any single premises, which expense is chargeable against such premises and the
owner thereof under the provisions of the Charter or any ordinance of the city
or law of the State of Michigan, and is not of that class required to be
prorated among the several lots and parcels of land in a special assessment
district, an account of the labor, material and service for which such expense
was incurred, with a description of the premises upon or in respect to which
the expense was incurred, and the name of the owner, if known, shall be
reported to the City Treasurer, who shall immediately charge and bill the
owner, if known. In the event that the City Treasurer finds that such amount is
not otherwise collectible, he shall report the same to the Commission which may
direct the City Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll covering all such
charges reported to it, together with a penalty of 10%. Such roll shall be
filed with the City Clerk, who shall present the same to the Commission.
Thereafter the same proceedings shall be followed in respect to such special
assessment roll as are provided in §
65.208 and subsequent sections of this article and all the provisions of said
sections with reference to special assessments generally shall apply to special
assessments under this section, insofar as the same may be applicable.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
 65.220 OBLIGATIONS OF CITY TO PAY.
   In the event that payment of any assessment or installment thereof is
deferred by reason of poverty as provided in Section 7.9 of the City Charter,
then the obligation of the owner to make such payment shall thereby become the
obligation of the city, and the city shall pay from its General Fund any such
deferred assessment or installment, together with any interest and penalties
thereon.
(Ord. 1961-D, passed 11-22-61)
ARTICLE III: SIGNS
Section
   
65.301   Purpose
   
65.302   Definitions
   
65.303   General provisions
   
65.304   Design, construction and maintenance
   
65.305   Application process
   
65.306   General restrictions
   
65.307   Provisions for electronic messaging centers (EMCs)
   
65.308   Exemptions
   
65.309   Removal of certain signs
   
65.310   Non-conforming signs; illegal signs; signs accessory to non-conforming
uses
   
65.311   Computations and sign/area calculations
   
65.312   Sign regulations applicable to all zoning districts
   
65.313   Downtown Overlay Zone
   
65.314   Violations
   
65.315   Enforcement; remedies
   
65.316   Transfer of ownership
   
65.317   Appeals; variances
   
65.318   Permit/fee schedule
   
65.319   Time of compliance § non-conforming signs; signs without permits
   
65.399   Penalty
   
65.400   Other enforcement actions
 65.301 PURPOSE.
   The standards contained herein are intended to be content neutral. The
purpose of this chapter is to regulate signs and outdoor advertising within the
city so as to protect public safety, health, and welfare; to minimize the
possible adverse effects on nearby public and private property; to reduce
motorist distraction; to promote public-convenience; to support and complement
land use objectives as set forth in the city's Comprehensive Master Plan and
this chapter; to enhance the appearance and quality of life within the city;
and to enable the fair and consistent enforcement of these sign regulations
(requirements). These objectives are accomplished by establishing the minimum
amount of regulations necessary concerning the size, placement, construction,
illumination, and other aspects of signs in the city.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12)
 65.302 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. Any sign that is still on the premises 30 days after a
business ceases to operate or moves from the location.
   AGGREGATE SQUARE FOOTAGE. The total sum of all signs and their areas per
parcel.
   ANIMATED. Signs that involve motion or rotation of any part of the
structure, running animation, or displays, or flashing or moving lights. For
the purposes of this chapter, this term does not refer to changeable copy
signs.
   AWNING OR CANOPY. A retractable or fixed shelter constructed of rigid or
non-rigid materials on a supporting framework that projects from the exterior
wall of a building.
   AWNING OR CANOPY SIGN. Printing affixed flat against the surface of an
awning or canopy which advertises the business(es) located within the building.
   BANNER SIGN. A fabric, plastic, or other sign made of non-rigid material
without a supporting structural framework, suspended from a rope, wire or
string.
   BILLBOARD. A sign that advertises an establishment, product, service, or
activity not available on the lot on which the sign is located. Permitted off-
premises directional signs shall not be considered BILLBOARDS for the purpose
of this article.
   BONA FIDE BUSINESS. A business establishment with set hours for conducting
business, and open to the general public.
   BUSINESS CENTER. Any group of three or more commercial establishments which:
      (1)   Are under one common ownership or management;
      (2)   Have a common arrangement for the maintenance of the grounds and
are connected by party walls, partitions, covered canopies or other structural
members to form one continuous structure;
      (3)   Share a common parking area; or
      (4)   Otherwise present the appearance of one continuous commercial area.
   BUSINESS CENTER SIGN. A freestanding or monument identification sign for a
group of three or more businesses.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN. A sign or portion thereof with characters, letters or
illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without altering the face of
the surface of the sign. A sign on which the message changes more than eight
times per day shall be considered an animated sign and not a changeable copy
sign for purposes of this chapter.
   CITY. The City of Clio.
   COLONIAL SIGN. A historical style sign attached to a building or wall that
extends more than 12 inches from the face of the building.
   COMMERCIAL MESSAGE. Any sign wording, logo, or other representation that
directly or indirectly names, advertises, or calls attention to a business,
product, service, or other commercial activity.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. A sign that identifies the financiers, contractors,
architects, engineers and/or other parties responsible for a project under
construction.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign that gives directions, instructions, or facility
information for use on the lot on which the sign is located, such as parking or
exit and entrance signs.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGING CENTER. A digital illuminated sign that uses movement
or change of lighting to depict action or create a special effect or scene.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Those services that pertain to the health, safety, and
welfare of the general public.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign supported on poles and not attached to a wall or
building.
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. A temporary or permanent sign erected by the city, or the
state or federal government.
   HISTORICAL SIGN. A sign constructed to identify and in accordance with a
designation by the National Register of Historic Place, designated by the Clio
Area Historical Association, or a government sign identifying an officially
designated landmark.
   INFLATABLE SIGNS. Any device, including balloons, that are capable of being
inflated with air, helium or other gas and mounted, tied or tethered in such a
manner as to hold such inflatable sign or balloon from being carried away by
the wind.
   MARQUEE. A permanent roof-like structure constructed of rigid materials
projecting beyond a building or extending along and projecting beyond the wall
of the building, generally designed and constructed to provide protection from
the weather.
   MARQUEE SIGN. Any sign attached to, in any manner, or made a part of a
marquee.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A sign supported by a solid base with zero ground clearance,
not attached to a wall or building, and not taller than it is wide. Height not
to exceed six feet unless otherwise allowed by zoning district.
   MURAL. A design or representation painted or drawn on a wall that does not
advertise the establishment, product, service or activity.
   PENNANT. A sign produced on lightweight flexible fabric such as canvas,
cloth or similar material that is mounted to a pole or a building at one or
more edges and which is more or less subject to movement by the wind. A pennant
is distinguished from a banner in that a pennant does not contain a commercial
message and is intended primarily to be for decorative and eye-catching
purposes. A pennant is distinguished from a flag in that it is not used as a
symbol of a national, state or municipal government, political subdivision,
educational institution, or other noncommercial entity.
   POLITICAL SIGN. A temporary sign used in connection with an official city,
school district, township, county, state, federal election, referendum or
ballot proposal.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign designed to be moved easily and not permanently
affixed to the ground, structure and/or building, including, but is not limited
to, signs attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public
right-of-way for the purposes of advertisement.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached to a building or wall that extends more
than 12 inches from the face of the building or wall.
   REAL ESTATE SIGNS. A sign advertising the property upon which the sign is
located as being for sale, rent, or lease.
   ROOF LINE. The top edge of a roof or parapet wall, whichever is higher.
   SIDEWALK SIGN. A portable sign or A-frame used to advertise a business
seasonally during hours a business is open and stored inside when not in use.
This excludes handwritten paper or cardboard signs. Also see §
65.306(L)(2).
   SIGN. A device, structure, or fixture using graphics, symbols, and/or
written copy designed specifically for advertisement or identifying an
establishment, product, service, or activity.
   SIGN COPY. Those letters, numerals, figures, symbols, logos and graphics
elements comprising the content of message of a sign.
   SPECIAL EVENTS SIGN. Temporary and portable signs containing public messages
concerning special events sponsored by governmental agencies or nonprofit
organizations, and/or those special events for profit organizations as
determined by established policy and the City Administrator.
   STOREFRONT. The predominant frontage occupied by a singular tenant,
incremental in lengths of 20 feet, and an additional percentage thereof.
   SUSPENDED SIGN. A sign suspended from a horizontal plane surface is
supported by such surface.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign used only temporarily and is not attached/affixed
in any permanent manner.
   WALL SIGN. A sign painted or attached directly to and parallel to the
exterior wall of a building.
   WINDOW SIGN. Painted graphics or other material conveying an advertising
message designed for or placed behind any window visible to the public. This
term does not include merchandise displayed in a window. This excludes
handwritten paper or cardboard signs.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 472, passed 8-18-14; amended by Ord. 485, passed 5-2-16)
 65.303 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, alter, place, or replace any sign or commercial
message without first obtaining a sign permit, unless expressly exempt
elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B) Any sign that can be displayed under the provisions of this article may
contain a noncommercial message.
   (C)   Any sign not expressly authorized by this chapter is prohibited.
   (D)   Substitution clause. Any commercial sign may be covered or replaced
with a non-commercial message.
   (E)   The intent of this chapter is to permit signs that are content
neutral. However, explicit lewd language, sexual or nude materials are
prohibited.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12) Penalty, see §
65.399
 65.304 DESIGN, CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All signs shall be designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with
the following standards:
   (A)   All signs at all times shall comply with applicable provisions of the
appropriate building and electrical codes used by the city.
   (B)   Except for banners, flags, temporary signs, and non-permanent window
signs conforming in all respects with the requirements of this chapter, all
signs shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with the Michigan
Building Code § 3107.1 and shall be permanently attached to the ground, a
building, or another structure by direct attachment to a rigid wall, frame, or
structure.
   (C)   All signs shall be constructed and maintained at all times in good
structural condition, in compliance with all building and electrical codes. All
signs and components thereof shall be kept in a neat, clean and attractive
condition.
   (D)   Banners, inflatable and pennants are considered to be temporary signs
allowed by permit for a period not to exceed 30 days per calendar year. The
time period shall be used a follows: continuous 30 day period, ten continuous
days three times per year, or 15 continuous days two times per year.
   (E)   The Planning Commission may approve the use of banners, flags and
pennants for a period of time exceeding 30 days for businesses with at least
500 square feet of outdoor sales, subject to the following requirements:
      (1)   The use of banners, flags and pennants does not cause a distraction
or obstruction;
      (2)   The size of banners, flags, and pennants, in total, shall not
exceed the size allowed for permanent signs in the district in which the
business is located;
      (3)   No banners, flags or pennants shall be located in any required
setback area or exceed the height limitation within the district the business
is located; and
      (4)   The business owner must maintain the banners, flags and/or pennants
pursuant to an approved maintenance plan filed with the City Administrator or
his or her designee.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 472, passed 8-18-14; amended by Ord. 485, passed 6-2-16)
 65.305 APPLICATION PROCESS.
   Applications for sign permits shall include the following information:
   (A)   The name, address and telephone numbers for the applicant, property
owner, and sign contractor; street address or property location where the sign
is to be located; and written consent of the property or sign owner to perform
the proposed work.
   (B)   Where a proposed sign would be located along a state right-of-way,
copies of permits or approvals from the Michigan Department of Transportation
shall be provided.
   (C)   Any other information required by the City Administrator or Building
Inspector to show compliance with this chapter, and other codes and ordinances
of the city.
   (D)   Each application for a sign permit shall be accompanied with an
application fee. The City Commission will establish this fee that may be
changed from time to time. No action will be taken on any application until all
applicable fees have been paid.
   (E)   If construction is not complete within six months of the issuance date
of the permit, the permit shall lapse and become void.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 485, passed 5-2-16)
 65.306 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Signs shall be maintained free of peeling paint or paper, fading,
staining, rust, or other condition which impairs legibility.
   (B)   Sign supports, braces, guys and anchors shall be maintained in such a
manner as not to cause a hazard. All signs must be installed in accordance with
the most recently adopted building construction code.
   (C)   Signs may be illuminated internally or externally, unless prohibited
elsewhere in this chapter. Lighting otherwise prohibited may be permitted by
variance. All lighting shall be enclosed or directed to prevent light from
shining onto traffic or residential property. (See § 252.316 of the Michigan
Home Rule Act). Flashing signs are prohibited, (see M.C.L.A. § 252.318(f) for
specific explanation of flashing signs).
   (D)   No sign shall be placed in, upon, or over any public right-of-way,
alley, or other public place, unless otherwise permitted.
   (E)   No light pole, utility pole, or other supporting member shall be used
for the placement of any sign unless specifically designed and approved for
such use.
   (F)   No sign shall be placed where it might, due to its positions, shape,
color, or other characteristic, interfere with, or obstruct the view of, or be
confused with a traffic signal, sign, or device.
   (G)   No wall sign shall extend beyond the edge of the wall to which it is
affixed or beyond the roof
line.
   (H)   No sign shall be erected horizontally or vertically over the roof
line.
   (I)   Trimming or removal of trees in the city's right-of-way is prohibited
for the construction of, or for the visibility to any sign unless approved by
the city.
   (J)   No signs shall be placed on any trees in the city right-of-way.
   (K)   Awnings, suspended signs, canopies, and marquees are permissible
within the right-of-way with the approval of the City Administrator or his or
her designee as to compliance with current construction code. Awnings may not
project over eight feet into the public right-of-way, and must have a clearance
of eight feet from grade.
   (L)   (1)   In the Central Business District, A-frames, sandwich boards, and
menu sidewalk-signs shall be allowed under the following provisions:
         (a)   Only one per storefront or per tenant;
         (b)   Height may not exceed 42 inches as the sign stands;
         (c)   Width may not exceed 24 inches;
         (d)   The sign must be placed a minimum of 24 inches from the curb;
and
         (e)   Shall be allowed only during business hours.
      (2)   Permits for sidewalk signs shall be issued on an annual basis at a
fee to be determined by the City Commission. As a prerequisite to the issuance
of a new permit or the renewal of a prior permit, the business owner shall
provide proof satisfactory to the city of liability insurance coverage.
      (3)   In the General Business District, signs must be placed a minimum of
12 inches from the curb and are not to obstruct pedestrian traffic.
   (M)   Portable signs are allowed only as a conditional use in C-2 and
industrial zones.
   (N)   Window signage using poster board, cardboard or paper mounted to the
inside surface of the window as a business sign is prohibited.
   (O)   Signs which obstruct the ingress to or egress from a required door,
window, fire escape or other required exit way are prohibited.
   (P)   Signs that are mounted or displayed on a vehicle parked within a
public right-of-way when such vehicle is parked for the purpose of advertising
are prohibited.
   (Q)   Signs painted directly upon walls, sidewalks, or driveways are
prohibited except for directional signs and notices of ordinance violations.
   (R)   Signs and/or frames shall not be constructed from used/scrap materials
that are remnants.
   (S)   Persons wearing costumes for advertising purposes are considered to be
signs and are not permitted on the public right-of-way due to distractibility.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 485, passed 5-2-16) Penalty, see §
65.399
 65.307 PROVISIONS FOR ELECTRONIC MESSAGING CENTERS (EMCs).
   Safety and consideration of effects on nearby properties are key reasons for
this chapter. Therefore, EMCs are regulated and described as follows.
   (A)   EMCs that involve running animation or displays, or flashing or moving
lights are prohibited. EMCs may display static messages or images that change
if the rate of change between two static messages or images does not exceed
more than one change per six seconds, each change is complete in one second or
less, and the sign possesses and utilizes automatic dimming capabilities so
that the maximum luminescence level is not more than 0.3 foot candles over
ambient light levels measured at a distance of 150 feet for those sign faces
less than or equal to 300 square feet, measured at a distance of 200 feet for
those sign faces greater than 300 square feet but less than or equal to 378
square feet, measured at a distance of 250 feet for those sign faces greater
than 378 square feet and less than 672 square feet, and measured at a distance
of 350 feet for those sign faces equal to or greater than 672 square feet. In
addition, EMCs shall be configured to default to a static display in the event
of mechanical failure. (Modified from M.C.L.A. § 252.318(f)). While this
applies to state highways (including M-57), for consistency the intent is that
this standard be applied to the city as a whole.
   (B)   EMCs are not permitted in residential zones. However, signs already
present can remain as legal non-conforming uses.
   (C)   Non-conforming EMCs are subject to the same restrictions listed
elsewhere in this article.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12)
 65.308 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following signs are exempt from permit requirements but must conform
with all other provisions of this chapter:
   (A)   Government signs;
   (B)   Temporary holiday or special events (non-profit) decorations and
signs; also see §
65.312(C);
   (C)   Name plates (two square feet or less);
   (D)   Election/political signs; Political signs are permitted with the
following provisions:
      (1)   A maximum size of four feet by four feet.
      (2)   Shall not be erected on any city properties or within any public
right-of-way and shall not create a traffic vision hazard.
      (3)   Shall be removed within three days after the official election or
referendum to which the sign pertains.
   (E)   Residential real estate signs shall be removed upon possession of the
properties by new owners or lessees;
   (F)   Commercial real estate signs are permitted in Industrial, C-1 and C-
2 zones if they do not exceed 32 square feet in area and eight feet in height.
They must be removed within ten days of occupancy by a new owner or lessee.
   (G)   Real estate signs (32 square feet or less);
   (H)   Interior building signs, not visible from the exterior;
   (I)   Directional signs (six square feet or less);
   (J)   Garage or occasional sale signs (six square feet or less); also see §
65.312(D);
   (K)   Window signs with coverage of up to 25% of an individual window;
   (L)   Historical markers;
   (M)   Memorial signs or tablets;
   (N)   Murals;
   (O)   Signs for essential services; and
   (P)   Flags of any nation, state, city, not-for-profit organization,
educational institution, or company emblems providing no other advertisement is
present.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12)
 65.309 REMOVAL OF CERTAIN SIGNS.
   (A)   In the event that a bona fide business ceases to operate for a period
of 30 days, the sign owner and/or property owner shall immediately remove any
sign identifying the business or use announced thereby.
   (B)   Any sign that is found to be constructed, painted, installed, or
maintained in a manner not consistent with this chapter, or without the proper
permit, shall be forthwith removed.
   (C)   In the event a sign subject to removal pursuant to the preceding
division is not removed as provided therein, the City Administrator or his or
her designee, shall forthwith notify the sign owner and/or property owner in
writing to remove the sign within 14 calendar days of the date of the notice.
   (D)   The words remove, § removal, and removed as used in this section and
its subsections shall mean and include the demolition, destruction, removal,
and disposal of the sign face, post column, backing material, and supports of
all signs.
   (E)   Should the sign owner and/or property owner fail to remove or cause
the removal of the sign within the time established pursuant to this chapter,
the City Administrator, or his/her designee, is hereby authorized to remove or
cause the removal of the sign. Any expense incidental to the removal shall be
charged to the owner of the property on which the sign is located.
   (F)   Any sign placed within the right-of-way shall be forfeited to the
public and subject to immediate confiscation and removal at the sign owner s
sole expense.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 472, passed 8-18-14; amended by Ord. 485, passed 5-2-16) Penalty, see §
65.399
 65.310 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS; ILLEGAL SIGNS; SIGNS ACCESSORY TO NON-CONFORMING
USES.
   (A)   A sign which is in existence as of the effective date of this
ordinance, or on a later date when the property is annexed into the city, and
that was constructed in accordance with the ordinances and applicable laws in
effect as of the date of its construction, but because of its size, height,
location, design, or construction is not in conformance with the requirements
of this chapter, is hereby deemed to be non-conforming. It shall be allowed to
remain in place and be maintained as part of a bona fide business.
   (B)   Non-conforming signs or their commercial messages may not be altered,
expanded, enlarged or extended. Non-conforming signs may be maintained so as to
continue its useful life as a sign.
   (C)   Any non-conforming sign destroyed or damaged by fire or other casualty
loss shall not be restored or rebuilt.
   (D)   A sign accessory to a non-conforming use may be erected in the city in
accordance with the sign regulation for the subject zoning district.
   (E)   Any sign which for a period of 30 days or more no longer advertises a
bona fide business conducted, or product sold shall be removed by the owner of
the property on which the sign is located,
within 14 days of the receipt of the written notice by the City Administrator,
as provided in §
65.316, the provisions of which shall apply to the removal of such signs, the
sign owners and the property owners in question.
   (F)   Any non-conforming or illegal signs herein must be registered by
application to the city. Applications submitted for existing signs within six
months of the effective date of this ordinance shall be exempt from the initial
registration fees. Fees will be set by the City Commission, for registration
after the stated date.
   (G)   Historical signs, as defined herein, will not be considered non-
conforming with the following provisions:
      (1)   Verification from the Clio Area Historical Association using
historic documents and/or pictures; and
      (2)   Verification of historical significance from official government
sources.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 485, passed 5-2-16) Penalty, see §
65.399
 65.311 COMPUTATIONS AND SIGN/AREA CALCULATIONS.
   (A)   Computation of the area of an individual sign. The area of a sign face
(which is also the sign area of a wall sign or other sign with only one face)
shall be computed by means of the smallest square, circle, rectangle, triangle,
or combination thereof. The area will encompass the extreme limits of the
writing, representation emblem or other display, together with any material or
color forming an integral part of the background of the display or used to
differentiate the sign from the backdrop or structure against which it is
placed. This will not include any supporting framework, bracing, or decorative
fence or wall when such fence or wall otherwise meets zoning ordinance
regulations and is clearly incidental to the display itself.
   (B)   Computation of the area of multi-faced signs. The sign area for a sign
with more than one face shall be computed by adding together the area of all
sign faces visible from any one point. When two
identical sign faces are placed back-to-back so that both faces cannot be
viewed from any point at the same time, and when such sign faces are part of
the same sign structures and are not more that 42 inches apart, the sign area
shall be computed by the measurement of one of the faces.
   (C)   Computation of height. The height of a sign shall be computed as the
distance from the base of the sign at normal grade to the top of the highest
attached component of the sign. Normal grade shall be construed to be the lower
of (1) existing grade prior to construction, or (2) the newly established grade
after construction, exclusive of any filling, berming, mounding or excavating
solely for the purpose of locating the sign. In cases in which the normal grade
cannot reasonably be determined, sign height shall
be computed on the assumption that the elevation of the normal grade at the
base of the sign is equal to the elevation of the nearest point of the crown of
a public street or the grade of the land at the principal entrance to the
principal structure on the lot, whichever is lower.
   (D)   For buildings with multiple tenants, the sign areas for wall signs,
projecting signs, and awning or canopy signs shall be determined by taking that
portion of the front wall of the building applicable to each tenant and
computing sign requirements for that portion of the entire wall.
   (E)   Awning or canopy signs will be calculated by the area encompassing the
lettering and graphic. Calculations will not include the material or fabric of
the awning itself.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12)
 65.312 SIGN REGULATIONS APPLICABLE TO ALL ZONING DISTRICTS.
   The following sign regulations are applicable to all zoning districts:
   (A)   Portable and temporary signs are prohibited, unless provided for
elsewhere in this chapter.
   (B)   Construction signs are permitted within any zoning district, if they
do not exceed 32 square feet in area. They may not exceed eight feet in height,
or be erected until a proper building permit for the construction has been
approved. They must be removed upon an occupancy permit being issued.
   (C)   Special events signs for governmental and non-profit organizations,
including banners, are permitted within any zoning district provided that no
more than five such signs shall be allowed per event. They shall be limited to
21 days previous to the event, and 48 hours after the event. They may not
exceed 32 square feet or five feet in height, and shall comply with district
setback requirements.
   (D)   Garage and occasional sale signs are allowed. One sign on premises per
lot on which the sale is being conducted and up to two additional signs for
direction to the sale is permitted on private property. Each sign may not
exceed six square feet in area. The sign may be erected one day prior to, and
removed one day after the sale. The signs shall not be placed on public utility
poles.
   (E)   All signs shall be set back at least eight feet from the property line
in all zoning districts, unless provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
Commercial C-2 District Permitted Signs
Type of Sign Number Size Location Height Other Requirements
Commercial C-2 District Permitted Signs
Type of Sign  Number        Size            Location  Height       Other
                                                                   Requirements
              1 per 300                     Minimum
              feet of                       of 5 feet
              lineal road   Business center from      No higher
              frontage,     identification, adjacent  than 6 feet
Freestanding  only 1        freestanding    property  for
and business  monument,     and monument    and 4     monument, 28  
center        freestanding, signs not to    feet      feet for
              or business   exceed 100      outside   freestanding
              center sign   square feet     of the    or business
              per 300 feet                  right-of- center
              of lineal                     way
              road footage
              1 per tenant, No greater than
              a secondary   8% of the face
Wall          sign will be  of the wall on                        
              allowed       which it is
              permitted     located
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                                            from
                                            adjacent
              1 sign per    No greater than property  No higher
Political     issue or      16 square feet  and 4     than 6 feet   
              candidate                     feet
                                            outside
                                            of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                                            from
              1 per lot or                  adjacent
              parcel for    No greater than property  No higher
Real Estate   real estate   32 square feet  and 4     than 6 feet   
              signs                         feet
                                            outside
                                            of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
                                                                   Shall be allowed
                                                                   only during
                                                                   business hours.
                                                                   Permits for
                                                                   sidewalk signs
                                                                   shall be issued
                                                                   on an annual
                                                                   basis at a fee
                            Height may not  The sign               to be determined
                            exceed 42" as   must be                by the City
              1 per         the sign stands placed a               Commission. As a
Sidewalk      storefront or in the open     minimum               prerequisite to
              per tenant    position; width of 12"                 the issuance of
                            may not exceed  from the               a new permit or
                            24"             sidewalk               the renewal of a
                                                                   prior permit,
                                                                   the business
                                                                   owner shall
                                                                   provide proof
                                                                   satisfactory to
                                                                   the city of
                                                                   liability
                                                                   insurance
                                                                   coverage.
                                                                   Portable signs
              1 portable                                           require a
Portable      sign per                                          conditional use
              parcel                                               permit under the
                                                                   City Zoning
                                                                   Ordinance
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                                            from
                                            adjacent
Monument and  1 per lot or  No greater than property, No more than
freestanding  major parcel  60 square feet  minimum   8 feet in     
              entrance                      of 8 feet height
                                            outside
                                            of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
                            No greater than On wall
                            5% of the wall  of
Wall          1 per street  area to which   building,              
              front         the sign is     facing
                            affixed         the
                                            street
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                            No greater than from
                            12 square feet  adjacent
                            (permit not     property, No more than
Directional                required for    minimum   6 feet        
                            less than 6     of 8 feet
                            square feet)    outside
                                            of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                                            from
              1 per issue                   adjacent
              or candidate  No greater than property, No more than
Political     for political 16 square feet  minimum   6 feet        
              signs                         of 8 feet
                                            outside
                                            of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                                            from
              1 per lot or                  adjacent
              parcel for    No greater than property  No higher
Real Estate   real estate   32 square feet  and 4     than 6 feet   
              signs                         feet
                                            outside
                                            of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
                                                                   Portable signs
              1 portable                                           require a
Portable      sign per                                          conditional use
              parcel.                                              permit under the
                                                                   City Zoning
                                                                   Ordinance
Monument and
freestanding
signs, for
residential
subdivisions,
manufactured                                Minimum
homes,                                      of 8 feet
multiple                                    outside
family                                      of the
complexes,                                  right-of-
schools,                                    way and a
churches and                                minimum
other non-    1 per major   No greater than of 5 feet
residential   entrance      24 square feet  from      No higher than 6 feet
uses; no                                    adjacent
illumination                                property
is to be                                    lines
allowed                                     (clear
inside                                      vision
residential                                 standards
districts,                                  apply)
except
churches.
EMCs are not
permitted in
residential
zones.
                                            On wall
Wall sign for 1 per lot     No greater than of
home          parcel        4 square feet   building
occupations                                 facing
                                            street
                            No greater than On wall
Wall sign for               5% of the wall  of
non-          1 per street  area to which   building,
residential   front         it is affixed,  facing
uses                        not to exceed   the
                            28 square feet  street
                                            Minimum
              1 sign per                    of 8 feet
Political     issue or      No greater than outside   No higher than 6 feet
              candidate     16 square feet  of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                                            from
              1 per lot or                  adjacent
              parcel for    No greater than property
Real Estate   real estate   32 square feet  and 4     No higher than 6 feet
              signs                         feet
                                            outside
                                            of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
                            No sign or
                            combination of
              1 per         signs may       On wall
              business,     exceed 24       of
              plus 1        square feet per building
Banner and    secondary     storefront, no  facing                 
projecting    sign facing a allowed         street,
              parking area, secondary sign  alley or
              side street   or combination  parking
              or alley      of signs may    area
                            exceed 24
                            square feet
              1 per tenant, No greater than
              a secondary   8% of the face
Wall          sign will be  of the wall on                        
              allowed       which it is
                            located
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                                            from
                                            adjacent
                                            property,
                                            minimum
              1 per lot or                  of 8 feet
Political     parcel, per   No greater than outside   No higher     
              issue or      16 square feet  of the    than 6 feet
              candidate                     right-of-
                                            way,
                                            unless
                                            placed on
                                            the wall
                                            of the
                                            building
                                            Minimum
                                            of 5 feet
                                            from
              1 per lot or                  adjacent
              parcel for    No greater than property  No higher
Real Estate   real estate   32 square feet  and 4     than 6 feet   
              signs                         feet
                                            outside
                                            of the
                                            right-of-
                                            way
              Only 1                        Minimum   No higher
              monument or                   of 8 feet than 6 feet
Monument and  freestanding  No greater than outside   for           
freestanding  sign per lot  24 square feet  of the    monuments,
              or parcel                     right-of- 21 feet for
                                            way       freestanding
                                                      Minimum
                                            On face   clearance of
                            No greater than of awning 8 feet from
Marquee,                    24 square feet  or        bottom of
suspended and 1 per         per storefront, marquee   sign,         
awning        business      on awning face, or        maximum
                            or 40% of       suspended overhang of
                            marquee face    from      8 feet into
                                            plane     the right-
                                                      of-way
                                                                   Shall be allowed
                                                                   only during
                                                                   business hours.
                                                                   Permits for
                                                                   sidewalk signs
                                                                   shall be issued
                                                                   on an annual
                                                                   basis at a fee
                                                                   to be determined
                                                                   by the City
                            Height may not  The sign               Commission. As a
                            exceed 42" as   must be a Sign may not prerequisite to
              1 per         the sign stands minimum   exceed 48"   the issuance of
Sidewalk      storefront or in the open     of 24"    when folded  a new permit, or
              1 per tenant  position and    from the  up           the renewal of a
                            width may not   curb                   prior permit,
                            exceed 24"                             the business
                                                                   owner shall
                                                                   provide proof
                                                                   satisfactory to
                                                                   the city of
                                                                   liability
                                                                   insurance
                                                                   coverage.
                                                                   Costumes are not
                                                                   permitted due to
                                                                   distractibility.
 
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 474, passed 9-2-14)
 65.313 DOWNTOWN OVERLAY ZONE.
   The following exceptions and additional requirements apply to signs within
the Downtown Overlay Zone as described in the City Zoning Ordinance.
   (A)   Signage shall not cover or otherwise obscure attractive architectural
details.
   (B)   A letter style in the Serif face or Sans Serif type is recommended.
Avoid hard to read letterstyles. Flashy day-glow colors are prohibited,
although the use of accent colors sparingly to call attention is allowed.
   (C)   Window signage coverage of over 25% is permitted by permit for 30 days
in a calendar year. Poster board, cardboard or paper mounted to the inside
surface of the window as a business sign is prohibited.
   (D)   The lettering for the primary business identification sign shall not
exceed 24 inches in height. Lettering on awning valances and projecting signs
shall not be more than eight inches in height. Lettering on glass storefronts
shall be no more than 12 inches in height.
   (E)   The Downtown Overlay Zone is a part of the C-l Commercial (Central
Business) District as defined in § 4.05 of the City of Clio Zoning Ordinance.
The boundaries of the Downtown Overlay Zone is described as follows: Those
properties fronting West Vienna Street between Mill Street and the railroad
tracks in the Central Business district of the city of Clio, Michigan.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12)
 65.314 VIOLATIONS.
   Any of the following shall be a violation of this article and shall be
subject to the enforcement remedies and penalties provided by this article,
and/or by state law.
   (A)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in violation of any
provision of this chapter;
   (B)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign in a manner that is
inconsistent or not in conformity with any approved plan or permit governing
such sign or the property on which it is located;
   (C)   To install, create, erect, or maintain any sign requiring a permit
without such permit;
   (D)   To fail to remove any sign that is installed, created, erected, or
maintained, in violation of this chapter, or for which the sign permit has
lapsed;
   (E)   Each sign installed, created, erected, or maintained in violation of
this chapter shall be considered a separate violation; and
   (F)   Each day on which a violation continues may, at the discretion of the
court, constitute a separate violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12) Penalty, see §
65.39
 65.315 ENFORCEMENT; REMEDIES.
   (A)   Any violation, or attempted violation of this chapter, or of any
condition or requirement adopted pursuant hereto may be restrained, corrected,
or abated, as the case may be, by injunction or other appropriate proceedings
pursuant to state law. The remedies of the city shall include the following:
      (1)   Issuing a stop work order for any, and all work on any signs; this
order shall be posted on the premises on which the sign is located;
      (2)   Seeking an injunction or other order of restraint or abatement that
requires the removal of the sign(s) or the correction of its non-conformity;
      (3)   Imposing any penalties that can be imposed directly by the city
under this chapter;
      (4)   Seeking in court the imposition of any penalties that can be
imposed by such court; and
      (5)   In the case of a sign that imposes an immediate danger to the
public health and safety, taking such measures as are available to the city
under the applicable provisions of Municipal and Building Code for such
circumstances.
   (B)   The city shall have other such remedies as are, and from time to time
be provided for or allowed by state law for the violation of the city's code of
ordinances.
   (C)   All remedies provided herein shall, to the extent allowed by law, be
cumulative for each violation.
   (D)   Any costs or expenses incurred by the city in enforcing this chapter
shall be paid by the owner of the sign found to be in violation of this
chapter, or upon default thereof, by the owner of the sign or the owner of the
property to reimburse the city for costs and expenses incurred in such
enforcement. The owner of the property shall be billed for such cost and
expenses in the same manner as other taxes.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12)
 65.316 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any property who has received a
compliance order or upon whom a notice of violation has been served to sell,
transfer, mortgage, lease or otherwise dispose of such property to another
until the provisions of the compliance order or notice of violation have been
complied with, or until such owner shall first furnish the grantee, transferee,
mortgagee or lessee a true copy of any compliance order or notice of violation
issued by the City Administrator or his or her designee and shall furnish to
the City Administrator or his or her designee a signed and notarized statement
from the grantee, transferee, mortgagee, or lessee, acknowledging the receipt
of such compliance orders or notice of violation and fully accepting the
responsibility without condition for making corrections or repairs required by
such compliance order or notice of violation.
(Ord. 472, passed 8-18-14; amended by Ord. 485, passed 5-2-16)
 65.317 APPEALS; VARIANCES.
   Any person aggrieved by a decision of the Building Inspector or the City
Administrator, or his or her designee relative to the placement, area, height
or construction of a sign, may appeal such
decision to the City Commission. The City Commission must uphold the provisions
of this chapter as written but may grant a variance from the requirements of
this chapter when exceptional circumstances warrant it and after a public
hearing as follows.
   (A)   On a factual proof presented by the applicant for such variance that
is found to be satisfactory and credible by the City Commission that:
      (1)   The variance would not be contrary to the public interest or
general purpose, and intent of this chapter;
      (2)   The variance does not adversely affect properties in the immediate
area of the proposed sign; and
      (3)   The petitioner has a hardship or practical difficulty resulting
from the unusual characteristics of the property that precludes reasonable use
of the property and where the hardship was not created by the applicant.
   (B)   An appeal shall be filed with the City Clerk specifying the grounds
for the appeal.
   (C)   Applications for appeals of administrative actions shall be submitted
to the City Clerk within 21 days of the date of such actions.
   (D)   An appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of action appealed
from, unless the officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to the City
Commission after the notice of appeal shall have been filed with them, that by
reason of facts stated in the certificate, a stay would in their opinion cause
imminent peril to life or property, in which case proceedings shall not be
stayed.
   (E)   The City Commission may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may
modify the order, requirements or determination appealed from and in making an
order, requirement, decision or determination, shall have the powers of the
officer of body from whom the appeal is taken. The City Commission shall only
reverse an administrative decision if a preponderance of the evidence indicates
that administrative decision did not comply with the requirements or standards
of this chapter.
   (F)   Public hearing notice.
      (1)   The City Clerk shall post a notice of public hearing in a newspaper
of general circulation within the city not less than 15 days before the next
regular meeting of the City Commission. The content of the notice shall
describe the nature of the request, indicate the property that is the subject
of the request by street address, state when and where the request will be
considered and indicate when and where written comments can be received per §
103(3) of PA 110.
      (2)   The City Clerk shall mail, by first class mail, a copy of such
notices to each resident and owner or all properties as listed on the tax roll
and located within 300 feet from the property involved in the application
regardless of municipal boundaries.
   (G)   The City Commission shall hear any person wishing to express an
opinion on the petition and review the variance application.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 472, passed 8-18-14; amended by Ord. 485, passed 5-2-16)
 65.318 PERMIT/FEE SCHEDULE.
   The permit and fee schedule shall be set by resolution of the City
Commission.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 472, passed 8-18-14)
 65.319 TIME OF COMPLIANCE - NON-CONFORMING SIGNS; SIGNS WITHOUT PERMITS.
   Except as otherwise provided herein, the owner of any lot or other premises
on which exists a sign that does not conform with the requirements of this
chapter or for which there is no current and valid sign permit, shall be
obligated to remove such sign, or in the case of a non-conforming sign, to
bring it into compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (A)   Non-conforming existing signs, permits and terms. Sign(s) which were
made non-conforming by the adoption of this chapter may remain in place and be
maintained in accordance with this chapter, provided, that no action is taken
which increases the degree or extent of non-conformity. Any non-conforming sign
shall either be eliminated or made to conform with the requirements of this
chapter if the sign is to be altered in any way. All signs must conform to this
chapter within ten years from the time of final adoption of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any person with a non-conforming sign in place as of the
effective date of this chapter shall file with the City Clerk, within 90 days
of the adoption of this chapter, notice of the non-conforming sign, which shall
include the following information:
         (a)   The name of the property owner where the sign is located;
         (b)   The address of the property;
         (c)   A brief description of the sign;
         (d)   The information conveyed by the sign; and
         (e)   The location of the sign on the property.
      (2)   The notice shall be dated and signed by the property owner.
      (3)   In the event a dispute arises as to whether a particular sign
constitutes a valid non-conforming use under this chapter, and a notice has
been filed with the Clerk with respect to the sign, it will be presumed that
the sign was not in place as of the date this chapter was adopted, and the
burden shall be upon the property owner to prove the sign constitutes a valid
non-conforming use.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 472, passed 8-18-14) Penalty, see §
65.399
 65.399 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless otherwise provided in this code, any person, firm, or
corporation, or any owner of any building, structure, or premises, or part
thereof, where any condition in violation of this code shall exist or shall be
created, shall be responsible for a civil infraction. A violation includes any
act which is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful or an offense by
this code, or any omission or failure to act where the act is required by this
code. Upon a finding of responsibility, a defendant shall be responsible for a
civil fine for each infraction as provided for in this section, infra, plus any
costs, damages, expenses, and other sanctions, as authorized under Chapter 87
of Act Number 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended, and other applicable
laws.
   (B)   For the first violation of any provision of this code, a civil fine of
not less than $200 plus costs shall be levied. A civil fine for the second or
any subsequent violation of any provision of this code shall not be less than
$500 plus costs. A sanction shall be a civil fine as provided for above, plus
cost,
damages, expenses, and other sanctions, as authorized under Chapter 87 of Act
Number 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended, and other applicable laws.
As used in this section, SECOND OR ANY SUBSEQUENT VIOLATION means a second or
any subsequent civil infraction violation of any provision of this code (i)
committed by a person or entity within a two-year period; and (ii) for which
the person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
   (C)   Each day on which any violation of this article continues shall
constitute a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties and sanctions
as a separate offense. In addition to any remedies available at law, the city
may bring an action for an injunction or other process against a person to
restrain, prevent or abate any violation of any section of this code which is
declared to be a civil infraction.
   (D)   In the event any person or entity who is found responsible fails to
obey any correction order or order of mandamus which may be issued by a court,
such person or entity may be required by a court of law to pay all reasonable
costs and expenses which are incurred by the city in making the corrective
action or actions.
(Ord. 436, passed 1-17-12; amended by Ord. 453, passed 11-19-12; amended by
Ord. 461, passed 10-21-13; amended by Ord. 477, passed 6-1-15)
 65.400 OTHER ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS.
   The city shall have the right to obtain an order of mandamus and/or
injunction so as to enforce the terms and conditions of this section. All
remedies which are provided by this code shall be cumulative.
(Ord. 477, passed 6-1-15)
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC CODE
   Article
      
I.   UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE
      
II.   BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, AND THE LIKE
      
III.   PARKING REGULATIONS
      
IV.   MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
      
V.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
VI.   MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT
ARTICLE I: GENERAL
Section
   
70.101   Uniform Traffic Code adopted
   
70.102   Changes in the Uniform Traffic Code
 70.101 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Uniform Traffic Code adopted. The 2003 Edition of the Manual on
Uniform Traffic Control Services, which has been approved by the Federal
Highway Administration as the national standard for all highways and which has
been adopted by reference by the Michigan Department of Transportation and
Michigan State Police as the 2005 Michigan Manual on Uniform Traffic Devices,
is hereby adopted by reference. (M.C.L.A. § 257.951 through 257.954.)
   (B)   References in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Services Code. References
in the Code to governmental unit shall mean the City of Clio, Michigan.
References to traffic control devices shall include all signs, signals,
markings and other devices used to regulate, warn or guide traffic, placed on,
over or adjacent to a street, highway, pedestrian facility or bikeway by
authority of a public agency having jurisdiction.
   (C)   Notice to be published. The City Clerk shall, at the same time the
Clio City Code is published, publish a supplementary notice setting forth the
purpose of the Uniform Traffic Code and of the fact that complete copies of the
code are available at the office of the City Clerk for inspection by and
distribution to the public at all times.
(Amended by Ord. 401, passed 11-19-07)
Statutory reference:
   Uniform Traffic Code, see Mich. Admin. Code R. 28.1001 et seq.
 70.102 CHANGES IN THE UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   The following sections and subsections of the Uniform Traffic Code for
Cities, Townships and Villages are hereby amended or deleted as set forth and
additional sections and subsections are added as indicated. Subsequent section
numbers used in this article shall refer to the like numbered sections of the
Uniform Traffic Code:
Sections 2.5 Impounding of Vehicles through Sec. 2.7 Abandoned Scrap Vehicles,
repealed.
Sections 2.5a, 2.5b, 2.5c, 2.5d, 2.5e, 2.5f and 2.5g added to read as set forth
in M.C.L.A. § 257.252a through 257.252g, as amended.
Section 2.59 added to read:
   Sec. 2.59. Current Regulations. All intersection stops and yield right-of-
way requirements, regulations on stopping, standing or parking, prima facie
speed limits, one-way streets, roadways and alleys, crosswalks, restricted
turns, through streets, play streets, angle parking zones, all-night parking
restrictions, curb loading zones, public carrier stands, parking meter zones
and spaces, weight restrictions, no passing zones, and traffic control devices
heretofore established and effective on the effective date of this code shall
be deemed established hereunder and shall remain effective until rescinded or
modified as herein provided.
   Sec. 5.82. Mandatory Child Restraints.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, or as otherwise provided by
law, a rule promulgated pursuant to The Administrative Procedure Act of 1969,
Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. § 24.201 et seq., as amended, or a
federal regulation, each driver transporting a child in a motor vehicle shall
properly secure each child in a child restraint system as follows:
         (a)   Any child less than one year of age in a child restraint system
which meets the standards prescribed in 49 CFR 571.213, except as provided in
subsection (6).
         (b)   Any child one year of age or more but less than four years of
age, when transported in the front seat, in a child restraint system which
meets the standards prescribed in 49 CFR 571.213, except as provided in
subsection (6).
         (c)   Any child one year of age or more but less than four years of
age, when transported in the rear seat, in a child restraint system which meets
the standards prescribed in 49 CFR 571.213, unless the child is secured by a
safety belt provided in the motor vehicle, except as provided in subsection
(6).
      (2)   This section does not apply to any child being nursed.
      (3)   This section does not apply if the motor vehicle being driven is a
bus, school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle not
required to be equipped with safety belts under federal law or regulations.
      (4)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
      (5)   Points shall not be assessed under M.C.L.A. § 257.320a for a
violation of this section. An abstract required under M.C.L.A. § 257.732 shall
not be submitted to the Secretary of State regarding a violation of this
section.
      (6)   The Secretary of State may exempt by rules promulgated pursuant to
Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. § 24.201 et seq., as amended, a class of
children from the requirements of this section, if the Secretary of State
determines that the use of the child restraint system required under division
(1) is impractical because of physical unfitness, a medical problem, or body
size. The Secretary of State may specify alternate means of protection for
children exempted under this division.
(M.C.L.A. § 257.710d)
ARTICLE II: BICYCLES, SKATEBOARDS, AND THE LIKE
Section
   
70.201   Title
   
70.202   Definitions
   
70.203   Number and manner of carrying persons
   
70.204   Riding on roadways and bicycle paths
   
70.205   Riding single file; exceptions
   
70.206   Use of paths when provided
   
70.207   Clinging to other vehicles
   
70.208   Speed and careless operation
   
70.209   Riders to obey traffic laws
   
70.210   Obedience to traffic control devices
   
70.211   Exceptions
   
70.212   Riding in straight line; use of both hands
   
70.213   Carrying articles
   
70.214   Emerging from alley or driveway
   
70.215   Parking bicycles and scooters
   
70.216   Signs prohibiting vehicle operation
   
70.217   Riding vehicles on sidewalk in Central Business District
   
70.218   Riding on sidewalks; right-of-way
   
70.219   Vehicle bell or warning device
   
70.220   Brake devices
   
70.221   Light and red reflector
   
70.222   Parental responsibility
   
70.299   Penalty
 70.201 TITLE.
   This article shall be known and may be cited as City of Clio Bicycle,
Scooter, Skateboard and Roller Skating Ordinance.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89)
 70.202 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BICYCLE, SCOOTER, SKATEBOARD AND ROLLER SKATES. Every device propelled by
human power upon which any person may ride, and which has wheels.
   HIGHWAY or STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   OPERATE. To ride, propel, or be in control of a bicycle, scooter, skateboard
and roller skates.
   OPERATOR. Any person who rides, propels, or is in actual physical control of
a bicycle, scooter, skateboard and roller skates.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a highway improved, designed, or ordinarily used
for vehicular travel.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curblines, or the lateral
lines of roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for use of
pedestrians.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89)
 70.203 NUMBER AND MANNER OF CARRYING PERSONS.
   A person operating a bicycle shall not ride other than astride a permanent
and regular seat attached thereto, and such person shall not carry more persons
at one time than the number for which the bicycle is designed and equipped.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.204 RIDING ON ROADWAYS AND BICYCLE PATHS.
   (A)   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right-hand side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when
passing a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (B)   No person operating a bicycle shall pass between lines of traffic but
may pass on the left of traffic moving in his direction in the case of a two-
way street, or on the left or right of traffic in the case of a one-way street,
in an unoccupied lane.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.205 RIDING SINGLE FILE; EXCEPTIONS.
   Every person operating a bicycle upon a roadway or alley shall ride single
file except on paths or parts of roadways set aside for the exclusive use of
bicycles.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.206 USE OF PATHS WHEN PROVIDED.
   Whenever a usable path for bicycles has been provided adjacent to a roadway,
bicycle riders shall use such path and shall not use the roadway.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.207 CLINGING TO OTHER VEHICLES.
   No person riding upon any bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or roller skates
shall attach the same or himself to any vehicle upon a roadway or sidewalk.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.208 SPEED AND CARELESS OPERATION.
   No person shall operate a bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or roller skates in
a careless manner or at a speed greater than is reasonable and proper under the
conditions then existing, or at a speed greater than will permit him to bring
his vehicle to a stop within the assured clear distance ahead.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.209 RIDERS TO OBEY TRAFFIC LAWS.
   Every person riding a bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or roller skates upon a
roadway shall be granted all of the right and shall be subject to all of the
duties applicable to the driver of a vehicle by the state laws of Michigan
declaring rules of the road applicable to vehicles or by the traffic ordinances
of the city applicable to the driver of a vehicle, except as to special
regulations in this article and except as to those provisions of laws and
ordinances which by their nature can have no application.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.210 OBEDIENCE TO TRAFFIC CONTROL DEVICES.
   Any person operating a bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or roller skates shall
obey the instructions of official traffic control signals, signs, and other
control devices applicable to vehicles, unless otherwise directed by a police
officer.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.211 EXCEPTIONS.
   Whenever authorized signs are erected indicating that no right or left or U-
turn is permitted, no person operating a bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or
roller skates shall disobey the direction of any such sign, except where such
person dismounts from the vehicle to make such turn, in which event such person
shall then obey the regulations applicable to pedestrians.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89)
 70.212 RIDING IN STRAIGHT LINE; USE OF BOTH HANDS.
   Every person operating a bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or roller skates
shall ride the same in a straight line and shall not sway or curve to and fro
or cause his vehicle to zigzag. Further, every person operating either a
bicycle or a scooter shall keep both hands on the handlebars at all times,
except for the purpose of signaling.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.213 CARRYING ARTICLES.
   No person operating a bicycle or scooter shall carry any package, bundle or
article which prevents the operator from keeping both hands upon the handlebars
of said vehicle.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.214 EMERGING FROM ALLEY OR DRIVEWAY.
   The operator of a bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or roller skates emerging
from an alley, driveway, or building, shall, upon approaching a sidewalk or the
sidewalk area extending across the alleyway or driveway or other sidewalk on
which the operator is emerging, yield the right-of-way to all pedestrians
approaching on said sidewalk or sidewalk area, and upon entering the roadway
shall yield the right-of- way to all vehicles approaching on said roadway.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.215 PARKING BICYCLES AND SCOOTERS.
   No person shall park a bicycle or scooter upon a street other than upon the
roadway against the curb or upon the sidewalk in a rack to support the bicycle
or scooter or against a building or at the curb, in such manner as to afford
the least obstruction to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.216 SIGNS PROHIBITING VEHICLE OPERATION.
   When signs are posted or painted on any sidewalk, street or alley which
prohibits the riding of bicycles, scooters, skateboards, or roller skates
thereon by any person, no person shall disobey such signs.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.217 RIDING VEHICLES ON SIDEWALK IN CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   No bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or roller skates shall be ridden upon those
sidewalks of the Central Business District lying along and on both sides of
Vienna Street between Mill Street and Railway Street and along both sides of
Mill Street between Griffes Street and Young Street and those sidewalks lying
along the east side of Center Street between Griffes Street and Vienna Street.
Provided, however, dismounting and walking bicycles, scooters, skateboard, or
roller skates on said sidewalks shall be permitted.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.218 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS; RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Whenever a person is riding a bicycle, scooter, skateboard, or roller skates
upon a sidewalk, such person shall yield the right-of-way to any pedestrian and
shall give audible signals before overtaking and passing such pedestrian.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.219 VEHICLE BELL OR WARNING DEVICE.
   No person shall operate a bicycle or scooter unless it is equipped with a
bell or other warning device capable of giving a signal audible for a distance
of at least 100 feet, except that such bicycle or scooter shall not be equipped
with nor shall any person use any whistle or siren.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.220 BRAKE DEVICES.
   Every bicycle and scooter shall be equipped with a brake which will enable
the operator to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.221 LIGHT AND RED REFLECTOR.
   Every bicycle or scooter when in use during the period of darkness shall be
equipped with a lamp on the front which shall emit a white light visible from a
distance of at least 500 feet to the front of such bicycle, and with a red
reflector of not less than two and one-half inches in diameter on the rear of
such bicycle or scooter, which reflector shall be plainly visible at night in
the lawful headlights of motor vehicles from all distances from 50 feet to 300
feet to the rear of such bicycle or scooter. A lamp emitting a red light
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear of such bicycle or scooter may
be used in addition to the red reflector.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.222 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   No parent or guardian shall authorize or knowingly permit his or her child
or ward to violate any of the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89) Penalty, see §
70.299
 70.299 PENALTY.
   Any provision of this article which describes an act or omission which
constitutes a civil infraction under the terms of the Michigan Vehicle Code,
being M.C.L.A. § 257.1 et seq. as amended, shall be processed as a civil
infraction and any person found to have committed a civil infraction may be
ordered to pay a civil fine of not more than $100 and costs in accordance with
M.C.L.A. § 257.907.
(Ord. 226, passed 9-5-89)
ARTICLE III: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   70.301   All night parking prohibited
   70.302   Standing for loading only
   70.303   [Reserved]
   70.304   Standing or parking close to curb
   70.305   Unlawful parking
Parking in Outlawn Areas
   70.325   Definitions
Handicapped Parking
   70.340   Title
   70.341   Handicapped parking areas designated
   70.342   Definitions
   70.343   Spaces near intersection
   70.344   Off-street parking
   70.345   Use of handicapper spaces
Parking in Central Business District
   70.355   Definitions
   70.356   Parking restricted
   70.356A   Residential apartment dwellers
   70.357   Identification of parking areas
   70.358   Snow removal
Enforcement of Motor Vehicle Code and Parking Regulations on Private Streets
and Private Property
   70.370   Authority to issue motor vehicle code and parking violations
notices and citations
   70.371   Parking on private property
   70.372   Stopping, standing or parking prohibited in certain places; parking
zones on file
   70.398   Fine schedule
   70.399   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Parking regulations in Uniform Traffic Code amendments, see §
70.102
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 70.301 ALL NIGHT PARKING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street between the hours of 2:00 a.m.
and 5:00 a.m. of any day, except with a temporary permit issued by the Police
Department.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-7-38; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
319, passed 7-1-02; amended by Ord. 402, passed 12-17-07) Penalty, see §
70.399
 70.302 STANDING FOR LOADING ONLY.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for the loading or
unloading of passengers in any place except at the street curb line.
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand, or park a vehicle for any purpose or
length of time other than for the expeditious unloading and delivery or pickup
and loading of materials in any place marked as a loading zone during hours
when the provisions applicable to loading zones are in effect. Where facilities
are available for deliveries from the alley, such loading zones shall not be
established.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-7-38; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
319, passed 7-1-02) § Penalty, see §
70.399
 70.303 [RESERVED].
 70.304 STANDING OR PARKING CLOSE TO CURB.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway, headed in the direction of traffic and with the
curbside wheels of the vehicle within six inches of the edge of the curb or
roadway, except as provided as follows: Upon those streets which have been
marked or signed for angle parking, vehicles shall be parked at the angle to
the curb indicated by suchn ark or sign; provided, however, no vehicle shall
cross or straddle any such line which marks angular parking.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-7-38; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
319, passed 7-1-02) § Penalty, see §
70.399
 70.305 UNLAWFUL PARKING.
   (A)   A vehicle shall not be parked, except if necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the law or the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (1)    On a sidewalk or part of a sidewalk in such a manner that hinders
the flow of pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      (2)    In front of a public or private driveway.
      (3)   Within an intersection.
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant.
      (5)   On a crosswalk.
      (6)    Within 20 feet of a crosswalk, or if there is not a crosswalk,
then within 15 feet of the intersection of property lines at an intersection of
highways.
      (7)    Within 30 feet of the approach to a flashing beacon, stop sign, or
traffic control signal located at the side of a highway.
      (8)    Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of a
point on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by an official sign or marking.
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing.
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station and, on
the side of a street opposite the entrance to a fire station, within 75 feet of
the entrance if properly marked by an official sign.
      (11)   Alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction, if the
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic.
      (12)   On the roadway side of a vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street.
      (13)   Upon a bridge or other elevated highway structure or within a
highway tunnel.
      (14)   At a place where an official sign prohibits stopping or parking.
      (15)   Within 500 feet of an accident at which a police officer is in
attendance at the scene of the accident.
      (16)   In front of a theater.
      (17)   In a place or in a manner that blocks immediate egress from an
emergency exit conspicuously marked as an emergency exit of a building.
      (18)   In a place or in a manner that blocks or hampers the immediate use
of an immediate egress from a fire escape conspicuously marked as a fire escape
providing an emergency means of egress from a building.
      (19)   In a parking space clearly identified by an official sign as being
reserved for use by disabled persons that is on public property or private
property available for public use, unless the individual is a disabled person
as described in M.C.L.A. § 257.19a or unless the individual is parking the
vehicle for the benefit of a disabled person. In order for the vehicle to be
parked in the parking space, the vehicle shall display one of the following:
         (a)   A certificate of identification or windshield placard issued
under M.C.L.A. § 257.675 to a disabled person.
         (b)    A special registration plate issued under M.C.L.A. § 257.803d
to a disabled person.
         (c)   A similar certificate of identification or windshield placard
issued by another state to a disabled person.
         (d)   A similar special registration plate issued by another state to
a disabled person.
         (e)   A special registration plate to which a tab for persons with
disabilities is attached issued under this act.
      (20)   In a clearly identified access aisle or access lane immediately
adjacent to a space designated for parking by persons with disabilities.
      (21)   On a street or other area open to the parking of vehicles that
results in the vehicle interfering with the use of a curb-cut or ramp by
persons with disabilities.
      (22)   Within 500 feet of a fire at which fire apparatus is in
attendance. However, volunteer firefighters responding to the fire may park
within 500 feet of the fire in a manner not to interfere with fire apparatus at
the scene. A vehicle parked legally previous to the fire is exempt from this
subparagraph.
      (23)   In violation of an official sign restricting the period of time
for or manner of parking.
      (24)   In a space controlled or regulated by a meter on a public highway
or in a publicly owned parking area or structure, if the allowable time for
parking indicated on the meter has expired, unless the vehicle properly
displays one or more of the items listed in M.C.L.A. § 275.675(8).
      (25)   On a street or highway in such a way as to obstruct the delivery
of mail to a rural mailbox by a carrier of the United States postal service.
      (26)   In a place or in a manner that blocks the use of an alley.
      (27)   In a place or in a manner that blocks access to a space clearly
designated as a fire lane.
   (B)   A person shall not move a vehicle not owned by the person into a
prohibited area or away from a curb a distance that makes the parking unlawful.
   (C)   A bus, for the purpose of taking on or discharging passengers, may be
stopped at a place described in subsection (1)(b), (d), or (f) or on the
roadway side of a vehicle illegally parked in a legally designated bus loading
zone. A bus, for the purpose of taking on or discharging a passenger, may be
stopped at a place described in subsection (1)(n) if the place is posted by an
appropriate bus stop sign, except that a bus shall not stop at such a place if
the stopping is specifically prohibited by the responsible local authority, the
state transportation department, or the director of the department of state
police.
   (D)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
   (E)   A person shall not park a vehicle between the house and the sidewalk
or the road edge, unless the vehicle is parked in the driveway.
   (F)   A person shall not park a motor vehicle in the park lawn area, defined
as the area between the curb or roadway and the sidewalk, of any street or
highway in the city.
(Ord. 13, passed 3-7-38; amended by Codification Ordinance; amended by Ord.
319, passed 7-1-02) § Penalty, see §
70.399
PARKING IN OUTLAWN AREAS
 70.325 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subarticle, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FRONT LAWN. That area lying between the sidewalk and the dwelling determined
by the lineal distance of that part of the dwelling facing the sidewalk, and
not used for garage purposes, and including all of that area lying therein
between the house and sidewalk.
   LINEAL DISTANCE. The width across any part of the front of a residential
dwelling not including any porch, steps, or doors.
   OUTLAWN. That portion of a street or highway, regardless of whether it is
planted with grass or other vegetation, lying between the curb or shoulder of a
roadway and the sidewalk running parallel with said roadway; or, in the event
no such sidewalk exists, then the area between the curb or shoulder of the
roadway and adjacent property lines.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   SHOULDER. That portion of a highway improved, designed or ordinarily used
for the parking of motor vehicles and lying between the roadway and the
outlawn.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the rise of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 155, passed 12-6-76; amended by Ord. 191, passed 8-16-82)
HANDICAPPED PARKING
 70.340 TITLE.
   This subarticle shall be known and may be cited as the City of Clio
Handicapped Parking Ordinance.
(Ord. 178, passed 4-20-81)
 70.341 HANDICAPPED PARKING AREAS DESIGNATED.
   There shall be handicapped parking facilities as specified in this
subarticle in all parking areas of:
   (A)   Shopping centers;
   (B)   Public buildings;
   (C)   Private buildings utilized by the public;
   (D)   Public parking areas/public parking for recreational areas and
facilities;
   (E)   Businesses;
   (F)   Factories;
   (G)   Public schools;
   (H)   Private schools;
   (I)   Transportation facilities;
   (J)   Institutions;
   (K)   Similar buildings or locations.
(Ord. 178, passed 4-20-81) Penalty, see §
70.399
 70.342 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subarticle, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HANDICAPPER. A person who, for purposes of this act has a physical
characteristic categorized as a handicap, which limits ambulation, or
necessitates the use of a wheelchair for mobility, or a person who is blind.
   PUBLIC PARKING AREA. Off-street parking and on-street parking maintained by
the municipality.
   SHOPPING CENTER. One or more stores or business establishments, and where
there is provided a parking area.
(Ord. 178, passed 4-20-81)
 70.343 SPACES NEAR INTERSECTION.
   Parking spaces in residential areas shall be placed as near as possible to
the intersection to provide accessibility from a distance of one block.
(Ord. 178, passed 4-20-81)
 70.344 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Off-street parking facilities, required for buildings shall be
provided in accordance with the following table and identified by signs as
being reserved for handicappers.
   (B)   Signs shall be located approximately six feet above grade.
   (C)   Each reserved parking space shall be not less than 12 feet wide.
   (D)   There shall be no curbs, abrupt changes in grade, or barriers placed
between handicapper parking spaces and the accessible entrance to malls and
stores. Where a curb exists between a parking lot surface and a sidewalk
surface, an inclined approach or curb cut with a gradient of not more than one
foot in 12 feet and a width of not less than four feet shall be provided for
wheelchair access.
   (E)   Handicapper pathways and parking spaces shall not cross drains,
grates, or other barriers.
   (F)   Parking spaces for handicappers shall be located as close as possible
to code-complaint walkways and code-complaint entrances. There shall be no
traffic lanes, nor service drives nor alleys placed between handicapper parking
spaces and code-complaint entrances. Signs shall be provided, when necessary,
indicating the direction of travel to a code-complaint entrance.
   (G)   A code-complaint entrance means that entrance which utilizes a non-
revolving door, 36 inches wide minimum, with a five pound opening pressure
maximum, and with a threshold not exceeding one- half inch height and beveled
on both sides and otherwise conforming to the Michigan Building Code Rule 427,
Section 31.
   (H)   Handicapper parking spaces and handicapper ramps and curb cuts shall
be painted traffic yellow.
   (I)   A slope of no more than 2% is recommended for handicapper parking
spaces in existing parking spaces. A slope of no more than 2% is required when
spaces are constructed or resurfaced.
   (J)   Required parking spaces.
 
Total Parking in Lot Required Number of Accessible Space
Up to 25             1
26 to 45             2
46 to 65             3
66 to 85             4
86 to 100            5
More than 100        One for each additional 20 spaces
 
   (K)   Handicapper parking spaces in parking garages shall be provided with,
or where there exists,
a code-complaint route of travel to elevators, where furnished, and shall
otherwise conform to the off- street parking facilities specifications as
defined above.
(Ord. 178, passed 4-20-81) Penalty, see §
70.399
 70.345 USE OF HANDICAPPER SPACES.
   Every vehicle parking in parking spaces designated for handicappers shall be
equipped with special plates or serially numbered registration displayed on the
handicapper's vehicle.
(Ord. 178, passed 4-20-81) Penalty, see §
70.399
PARKING IN CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
 70.355 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subarticle, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT. That portion of the downtown area of the city
defined as follows:
      (1)   North Mill Street between Griffes Street and Young Street.
      (2)   Vienna Street between Railway Street and the 100 block of East
Vienna Street.
      (3)   Griffes Street between Mill Street and Center Street.
      (4)   Center Street between Griffes Street and Vienna Street.
      (5)   Railway Street between Vienna Street and Young Street.
      (6)   West Young Street between Railway Street and Mill Street.
      (7)   All public parking within the area defined hereinabove.
   STREET. The entire width between boundary lines of every way publicly
maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for purposes
of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 272, passed 3-21-94)
 70.356 PARKING RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, renter, employer, employee, agent of the
employer, servant or other person engaged in the business of its owner or
employer, to park in any area described as the Central Business District of the
city as described hereinabove and where the parking place is designated as an
area for customer parking only. All areas not designated for customer parking
only shall be available for parking by owners, renters, employers, employees,
servants, agents, and other engaged in the business of such businesses located
within the Central Business District, except as provided in §
70.356A. The westerly three tiers of the south alley parking lots shall be
designated as area for parking by owners, renters, employers, employees,
servants, agents and others engaged in the businesses of the Central Business
District.
(Ord. 272, passed 3-21-94; amended by Ord. 351, passed 5-19-03) Penalty, see §
70.399
 70.356A RESIDENTIAL APARTMENT DWELLERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, who is a Central Business District
residential apartment dweller to park a motor vehicle within the Central
Business District, as defined in §
70.355, without first obtaining a parking permit as hereinafter provided:
   (A)   A fee shall be charged as part of the application for the permit.
   (B)   Upon filing an application for a permit, the Chief of Police, or his
designee, shall be authorized to issue said applicant a parking permit, which
shall expire on December 31 next subsequent thereto.
   (C)   No permit may be transferred by the holder to any other person, except
upon prior approval of the Chief of Police, or his designee. The Chief of
Police, or his designee, reserves the right to revoke permits at any time for
violation of §
70.356 and this section.
   (D)   A visitor permit, upon request, may be issued by the Chief of Police,
or his designee, once a year for overnight parking.
   (E)   Residential apartment dwellers and visitors may only park in areas
designated for apartment dwellers. Only one motor vehicle for each apartment
residence may be parked in the north alley parking lot. All others must park in
the south alley lots and where designated. The westerly three tiers of the
south alley parking lots shall be designated as an area for overflow parking
for apartment dwellers and their guests.
(Ord. 351, passed 5-19-03) Penalty, see §
70.399
 70.357 IDENTIFICATION OF PARKING AREAS.
   Signs identifying customer parking only areas shall be provided by the city
through its Downtown Development Authority and be placed in reasonably
conspicuous places to identify those areas restricted for customer use only.
(Ord. 272, passed 3-21-94; amended by Codification Ordinance)
 70.358 SNOW REMOVAL.
   No person shall park, abandon or leave unattended any vehicle on any public
street, alley, or city-owned off-street parking area during any snow emergency
proclaimed by the Mayor unless the snow has been removed or plowed from said
street, alley or parking area and the snow has ceased to fall. A snow emergency
parking ban shall continue from its proclamation through the duration of a snow
or ice storm and the 48-hour period after cessation of such storm, except as
provided upon streets which have been fully opened. Such a parking ban shall be
of uniform application, and the Chief of Police is directed to widely publicize
the requirements, using all available news media, in early November of each
year. When predictions or occurrences indicate the need, the Mayor shall
proclaim the snow emergency, and the Chief of Police shall inform the news
media to publicize the proclamation and the parking rules thereunder. Such
emergency may be extended or shortened as the emergency warrants or when
conditions warrant. This section shall not be construed as suspending parking
limitations or restrictions imposed by any other section of this title.
(Ord. 334, passed 12-17-01)
ENFORCEMENT OF MOTOR VEHICLE CODE AND PARKING REGULATIONS ON PRIVATE STREETS
AND PRIVATE PROPERTY
 70.370 AUTHORITY TO ISSUE MOTOR VEHICLE CODE AND PARKING VIOLATIONS NOTICES
AND CITATIONS.
   The Police Chief of the City of Clio may authorize police officers of the
City of Clio to issue motor vehicle code and parking violation notices and
citations as defined in the Motor Vehicle Code and § 742(8)(a) of Public Act
No. 66 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. 257.742(8)(a), and MSA 9.2442, for parking
violations. Provided, however that the entity of person that owns the private
street or parking area has made a formal verbal request for police services and
provided further that the proposal is acceptable to the Clio City Commission.
(Ord. 377, passed 1-17-06)
 70.371 PARKING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle in violation
of the zoning regulations of the City of Clio.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park any vehicle on any
property except upon a driveway or parking lot designed for such purpose or
otherwise permitted by law.
   (C)   No vehicle shall be parked or permitted to remain upon private
property without the express or implied consent authorization or ratification
of the owner, occupant, lessee, agent or trustee of such property. Complaints
for violation of this paragraph shall be made by the owner, occupant, lessee,
agent or trustee of such property.
(Ord. 377, passed 1-17-06)
 70.372 STOPPING, STANDING, OR PARKING PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES; PARKING
ZONES ON FILE.
   (A)   Except when necessary to avoid conflict with other traffic, or in
compliance with law or other directions of a police officer, or official
traffic control device, no person shall:
      (1)   Stop, stand or park a vehicle:
         (a)   On the roadway side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge
or curb of a street;
         (b)   On a sidewalk;
         (c)   Within an intersection;
         (d)   On a crosswalk;
         (e)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless the
Traffic Engineer indicates a different length by signs or markings;
         (f)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
         (g)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a highway or
within a highway tunnel;
         (h)   On any railroad tracks;
         (i)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping; or
         (j)   Within 500 feet where fire apparatus has stopped in answer to a
fire alarm. Within 500 feet of any traffic accident or other emergency
situation when police officers are in attendance, provided that motor buses,
for the purpose of taking on or discharging passengers may be stopped in the
places designated as bus zones, or on the highway side of a vehicle illegally
parked in a legally designated bus loading zone.
      (2)   Stand or park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except
momentarily to pick up or discharge a passenger or passengers:
         (a)   In front of a public or private driveway;
         (b)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
         (c)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk at an intersection;
         (d)   Within 30 feet upon approach to any flashing signal, stop sign
or traffic control signal located at the side of a roadway;
         (e)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance of any fire station and
on the side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75
feet of such entrance when properly sign posted; or
         (f)   At any place where official signs prohibit standing.
      (3)   Park a vehicle, whether occupied or not, except temporarily for the
purpose of and while
actually engaged in loading or unloading merchandise or passengers:
         (a)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
         (b)   At any place where official signs prohibit parking;
         (c)   In any place or in any manner so as to block immediate egress
from any emergency exit or exits conspicuously marked as such of buildings; or
         (d)   In any place or in any manner so as to block or hamper the
immediate use of and immediate egress from any fire escape conspicuously marked
as such providing an emergency means of egress from any building.
      (4)   A vehicle shall not be parked in a parking space clearly identified
by an official sign as being reserved for the use of handicappers, which is on
public property or private property open to use by the public, unless the
vehicle has identification issued by the Michigan Secretary of State or similar
identification issued by another state properly displayed, indicating that such
vehicle has been certified as being used by a handicapper.
         (a)   Any person who is the owner or managing agent for private
property available for public use may apply to the City of Clio for help in
establishing posted handicapper parking spaces;
         (b)   The Police Department may provide for the immediate removal of a
vehicle parked in a posted tow away zone in violation of this section to a
place of safekeeping at the expense of the registered owner of the vehicle; and
         (c)   No person shall move a vehicle not lawfully under his control
into any such prohibited area or away from a curb such a distance as is
unlawful.
(Ord. 377, passed 1-17-06)
 70.398 FINE SCHEDULE.
   The following schedule of civil fines is adopted for violations:
         Offense                  Civil fine
         Handicapped zone            $110.00
         Fire lane                   $50.00
         Private property               min. $100.00, max. fine allowable by
State law
         All other violations             $20.00
(Ord. 1969-B, passed 1-20-69; amended by Ord. 1969-C, passed 5-20-69; amended
by Ord. 319, passed 7-1-02; amended by Ord. 377, passed 1-17-06)
 70.399 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a
municipal civil infraction and upon conviction shall be punished with civil
fines as established by Ord. 319, passed July 1, 2002 and as amended from time
to time by resolution of the Clio City Commission.
(Ord. 319, passed 7-1-02)
ARTICLE IV: MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
Section
   
70.401   Adoption of Michigan Motor Vehicle Code by reference
 70.401 ADOPTION OF MICHIGAN MOTOR VEHICLE CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   The operator of every motor vehicle shall operate the vehicle on that
portion of the roadway set aside for vehicular use and shall conform to:
      (1)   The provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The provisions of the Michigan Vehicle Code which are hereby
incorporated by reference as if fully set out herein. For purposes of this
section, the Michigan Vehicle Code is composed of Public Act 300 of 1949, being
M.C.L.A. § 257.1 through 257.923, as amended and as it may, from time to time,
be amended, specifically including, but not limited to, Public Act 211 of 1994
and Public Acts 55-59 of 1999.
      (3)   The order or direction of a police officer, notwithstanding the
provisions of existing traffic laws, when such officer is directing or
regulating traffic in the interest of public safety.
      (4)   Any violation of the Michigan Vehicle Code, as incorporated herein
by reference, shall be a violation of this chapter except as otherwise provided
in this code.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter relating to the operation of vehicles
shall refer to the operation of vehicles upon the streets of the city and to
places open to the general public or to a portion of the general public for the
operation of vehicles.
   (C)   Any provision of this code to the contrary notwithstanding, any
provision of the Michigan Vehicle Code or of this chapter which describes an
act, omission or condition which is declared to be a civil infraction shall be
processed as a civil infraction as provided for under this code. Any person
found to be responsible for a civil infraction may be ordered to pay a civil
fine of not more than $500 together with costs and the Judge or Magistrate may
impose such additional penalties as are provided for by law, § 1-15 of this
code entitled General Penalties and the procedures set forth in § 1-14 entitled
Municipal Civil Infraction shall be applicable to the extent not inconsistent
with the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code.
(Ord. 442, passed 5-21-12)
ARTICLE V: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.501   Impounding of vehicles; release fee
   
70.502   Alcohol offenses
   
70.503   Driving with suspended license
 70.501 IMPOUNDING OF VEHICLES; RELEASE FEE.
   (A)   Authority; procedure. A police officer is hereby authorized to remove,
or cause to be removed, a vehicle from a street, public alley, public or
private parking lot or highway or any other place open to travel by the public,
and impound the vehicle under the circumstances hereinafter enumerated:
      (1)   When a vehicle is in such a condition that the continued operation
of the vehicle upon the highway would constitute an immediate hazard to the
public.
      (2)   When a vehicle is parked upon the highway in such a manner as to
create an immediate public hazard or an obstruction of traffic.
      (3)   When a vehicle is left unattended on a bridge, viaduct, causeway,
subway, tube, or tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic.
      (4)   When a disabled vehicle on a street constitutes an obstruction to
traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is, by reason of physical
injury, incapacitated and unable to provide for the vehicle's custody or
removal.
      (5)   When a vehicle is left unattended on a street and is parked in a
manner which constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
      (6)   When a vehicle is found being driven on the streets or highways in
an unsafe condition which endangers persons or property.
      (7)   When a vehicle is left continuously unattended on public or private
property for 48 hours, after the Police Department has affixed a written notice
on the vehicle.
      (8)   When the driver of the vehicle is taken into custody by the Police
Department and the vehicle would thereby be left unattended on the street.
      (9)   When removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because
of fire, flood, storm or other emergency reason and when any vehicle is left
parked upon a street during a snow storm or immediately following a snow storm,
when it is deemed advisable that snow removal apparatus must be used on said
street. The police officer shall make a reasonable attempt to contact the owner
of the vehicle prior to said vehicle being impounded under this subsection. The
City Administrator may waive the impound release fee required under §
70.501(A)(1), if, in the discretion of the City Administrator, circumstances
merit a waiver of the impound release fee.
      (10)   When a vehicle is found parked in a tow-away zone which is
designated by the Chief of Police and which is properly signposted.
      (11)   When signs have been duly erected or parking meters have been
capped indicating that parking is prohibited.
      (12)   When the vehicle is involved in a DWLS, OUIL or OWI offense,
pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 257.625 et seq.
      (13)   When the Police Department determines that the vehicle is parked
in violation of a city ordinance.
      (14)   When the Police Department deems it necessary that the vehicle be
towed for the help, safety and welfare of the community.
   (B)   The Police Department, when impounding a vehicle under this section,
shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Check to determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (2)   Within 24 hours after impounding the vehicle, enter the vehicle as
impounded into the law enforcement information network.
      (3)   Within seven days, and if the vehicle has not been released,
excluding Saturday, Sunday, and legal holidays, after impounding the vehicle,
send a notice that the vehicle has been impounded to the owner and the secured
party, if any, by certified mail. Each notice shall contain all of the
following information:
         (a)   The year, make and vehicle identification number of the vehicle.
         (b)   The location from which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         (c)   The date on which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         (d)   The name and address of the Police Department in whose custody
the vehicle is being held.
         (e)   The location where the vehicle is being held.
         (f)   The procedure to redeem the vehicle.
         (g)   The date by which the vehicle must be redeemed.
         (h)   That a procedure exists to contest the impoundment of the
vehicle.
         (i)   A warning that the failure to redeem the vehicle or to contest
the impoundment of the vehicle within 20 days after the date of this notice may
result in the sale of the vehicle and termination of all rights of the owner
and the secured party to the vehicle or the proceeds of the sale or to both the
vehicle and the proceeds.
   (C)   No impounded vehicle shall be discharged or removed from its storage
area except upon payment by the owner of such vehicle or his or her
representative of such sums as are set by ordinance of the City Commission for
the release fee. However, no release fee shall be charged for a stolen vehicle
if the vehicle is claimed within four days of receipt or seven days after
mailing of the notice of impounding, whichever first occurs, and if the
claimant has a police report stating that the claimant is the owner of the
vehicle and that the vehicle was stolen. If the stolen vehicle is not claimed
within four days of receipt of the notice or seven days of the sending of the
notice, whichever first occurs, then the vehicle owner shall pay the release
fee before the vehicle shall be discharged or removed from its storage area.
However, upon a showing of good cause to the Police Department by the vehicle
owner as to why the vehicle was not claimed within the earlier of four days of
receipt of the notice or seven days after mailing of the notice, the release
fee may be waived.
   (D)   If the owner contests the impoundment of the vehicle, the matter shall
be resolved after a hearing conducted in the district court for the city. An
owner who contests the impoundment of the vehicle may obtain release of the
vehicle by posting a bond as determined by the court.
   (E)   If a vehicle remains unclaimed for more than 20 days, the Police
Department shall, upon request from the towing agency, provide any necessary
documentation for form TR-52 (10/96) or any revisions of said form thereof for
the private or public sale of the vehicle by the towing agency. In the event
the vehicle is sold at a private or public sale by the towing agency, the city
shall waive its release fee.
   (F)   The Police Department is hereby authorized to impound or immobilize a
vehicle whose owner has failed to answer six or more parking violation notices
or citations regarding illegal parking issued subsequent to January 1, 2000.
Any vehicle impounded or immobilized pursuant to this subsection may remain
impounded or immobilized until all such parking violation notices or citations
issued to the vehicle have been answered.
   (G)   Abandoned vehicle defined. As used in this section, ABANDONED VEHICLE
means a vehicle which has remained on public property or private property for a
period of 48 hours after the Police Department or other governmental agency
designated by the Police Department has affixed a written notice to the
vehicle.
   (H)   Abandoned vehicle procedures. If a vehicle has remained on public or
private property for a period of time so that it appears to the Police
Department to be abandoned, the Police Department shall do all of the
following:
      (1)   Determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen;
      (2)   Affix a written notice to the vehicle. The written notice shall
contain the following information:
         (a)   The date and time the notice was affixed.
         (b)   The name and address of the Police Department taking the action.
         (c)   The name and badge number of the police officer affixing the
notice.
         (d)   The date and time the vehicle may be taken into custody and
stored, at the owner's expense, or scrapped if the vehicle is not removed.
         (e)   The year, make and vehicle identification number of the vehicle,
if available.
   (I)   Release fee. A release fee of $50 shall be paid to the city prior to
release of any vehicle taken into impound by the Police Department. The fee may
be waived by the City Administrator in those instances where the vehicle was
taken by the Police Department under circumstances not involving the registered
owner of the vehicle. The waiver of fees shall comply with city policy.
(Ord. 302, passed 12-20-99; amended by Ord. 334, passed 12-17-01)
 70.502 ALCOHOL OFFENSES.
   (A)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within the city if either of the following applies:
      (1)   The person is under the influence of intoxicating liquor, a
controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance.
      (2)   The person has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
   (B)   The owner of a vehicle or a person in charge or in control of a
vehicle shall not authorize or knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of motor vehicles
within the city by a person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance, who has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100 milliliters
of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine, or whose
ability to operate the motor vehicle is visibly impaired due to the consumption
of intoxicating liquor, a controlled substance, or a combination of
intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance.
   (C)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within the city when, due to the consumption of intoxicating liquor, a
controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance, the person's ability to operate the vehicle is visibly impaired. If
a person is charged with violating division (A), a finding of guilty under this
subsection may be rendered.
   (D)   A person who is less than 21 years of age, whether licensed or not,
shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles, within the city if the person has any bodily
alcohol content. As used in this subsection "any bodily alcohol content" means
either of the following:
      (1)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more than 0.07
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
      (2)   Any presence of alcohol within a person's body resulting from the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
   (E)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle in
violation of division (D) while another person who is less than 16 years of age
is occupying the vehicle. A person who violates this subdivision is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable as follows:
      (1)   Community service for not more than 60 days.
      (2)   A fine of not more than $500.
      (3)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
   In the judgement of sentence under this section, the court may, unless the
vehicle is ordered forfeited under M.C.L.A. § 257.625b order vehicle
immobilization as provided in section M.C.L. § 257.904d.
   (F)   If a person is convicted for violating division (A) the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
      (1)   Community service for not more than 45 days.
      (2)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
      (3)   A fine of not less than $100 or more than $500.
   (G)   A person who is convicted of violating division (B) is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of
not less than $100 or more than $500, or both.
   (H)   A person who is convicted of violating division (C), is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
      (1)   Community service for not more than 45 days.
      (2)   Imprisonment of not more than 93 days.
      (3)   A fine of not more than $300.
   (I)   If a person is convicted of violating division (D), all of the
following apply:
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (2) below, the person
is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 45 days.
         (b)   A fine of not more than $250.
      (2)   If the violation occurs within seven years of one or more prior
convictions, the person may be sentenced to one or more of the following:
         (a)   Community service for not more than 60 days.
         (b)   A fine of not more than $500.
         (c)   Imprisonment of not more than 93 days.
   (J)   In addition to imposing the sanctions prescribed under this section,
the court may order the person to pay the costs of the prosecution under the
code of criminal procedure, Public Act 175 of 1927, being M.C.L.A. § 760.1 -
776.22.
   (K)   A person sentenced to perform community service under this section
shall not receive compensation and shall reimburse the state or appropriate
local unit of government for the cost of supervision incurred by the state or
local unit of government as a result of the person's activities in that
service.
   (L)   If a person is charged with a violation of division (A), (C), or (E),
or section M.C.L.A. § 275.625m, the court shall not permit the defendant to
enter a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to a charge of violating division (D)
in exchange for dismissal of the original charge. This subsection does not
prohibit the court from dismissing the charge upon the prosecuting attorney's
motion.
   (M)   Except as otherwise provided in division (O), if a person is charged
with operating a vehicle while under the influence of a controlled substance or
a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance in violation of
division (A), the court shall require the jury to return a special verdict in
the form of a written finding or, if the court convicts the person without a
jury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court shall make a
finding as to whether the person was under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance at
the time of the violation.
   (N)   Except as otherwise provided in division (O), if a person is charged
with operating a vehicle while his or her ability to operate the vehicle was
visibly impaired due to his or her consumption of a controlled substance or a
combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance in violation of
division (C), the court shall require the jury to return a special verdict in
the form of a written finding or, if the court convicts the person without a
jury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court shall make a
finding as to whether, due to the consumption of a controlled substance or a
combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance, the person's
ability to operate a motor vehicle was visibly impaired at the time of the
violation.
   (O)   A special verdict described in divisions (M) and (N) is not required
if a jury is instructed to make a finding solely as to either of the following:
      (1)   Whether the defendant was under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance at
the time of the violation.
      (2)   Whether the defendant was visibly impaired due to his or her
consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor
and a controlled substance at the time of the violation.
   (P)   If a jury or court finds under divisions (M), (N) or (O) that the
defendant operated a motor vehicle under the influence of or while impaired due
to the consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of a controlled
substance and an intoxicating liquor, the court shall do both of the following:
      (1)    Report the finding to the Secretary of State.
      (2)   On a form or forms prescribed by the state court administrator,
forward to the department of state police a record that specifies the penalties
imposed by the court, including any term of imprisonment, and any sanction
imposed under sections M.C.L.A. § 257.625n or M.C.L.A. § 257.906d.
   (Q)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a record described in subsection
(P)(2) is a public record and the department of state police shall retain the
information contained on that record for not less than seven years.
   (R)   In a prosecution for a violation of division (D), the defendant bears
the burden of proving that the consumption of intoxicating liquor was a part of
a generally recognized religious service or ceremony by a preponderance of the
evidence.
   (S)   If a person refuses a chemical test offered pursuant to section
M.C.L.A. § 257.625a(6) or submits to a chemical test or a chemical test is
performed pursuant to a court order and the test reveals an unlawful alcohol
content, the peace officer who requested the person to submit to the test shall
do all of the following:
      (1)   On behalf of the Secretary of State, immediately confiscate the
person's license or permit to operate a motor vehicle and, if the person is
otherwise eligible for a license or permit, issue a temporary license or permit
to the person. The temporary license or permit shall be on a form provided by
the Secretary of State.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (S)(1), immediately do all of the
following:
         (a)   Forward a copy of the written report of the person's refusal to
submit to a chemical test required under section M.C.L.A. § 257.625d to the
Secretary of State.
         (b)   Notify the Secretary of State by means of the law enforcement
information network that a temporary license or permit was issued to the
person.
         (c)   Destroy the person's driver's license or permit.
   (T)   If a person submits to a chemical test offered pursuant to section
M.C.L.A. § 257.625a(6) that requires an analysis of blood or urine and a report
of the results of that chemical test is not immediately available, the peace
officer who requested the person to the test shall comply with subsection (A)
(1) pending receipt of the test report. If the report reveals an unlawful
alcohol content, the peace officer who requested the person to submit to the
test shall immediately comply with subsection (A)(2). If the report does not
reveal an unlawful alcohol content, the peace officer who requested the person
to submit to the test shall immediately notify the person of the test results
and immediately return the person's license or permit by first-class mail to
the address given at the time of arrest.
   (U)   A temporary license or permit issued under this section is valid for
one of the following time periods:
      (1)   If the case is not prosecuted, for 90 days after issuance or until
the person's license or permit is suspended pursuant to section M.C.L.A. §
257.625f, whichever occurs earlier. The prosecuting attorney is not prosecuted.
The arresting law enforcement agency shall notify the Secretary of State if a
case is not referred to the prosecuting attorney for prosecution.
      (2)   If the case is prosecuted, until the criminal charges against the
person are dismissed, the person is acquitted of those charges, or the person's
license or permit is suspended, restricted, or revoked.
   (V)   As used in this section, UNLAWFUL ALCOHOL CONTENT means any of the
following, as applicable:
      (1)   If the person tested is less than 21 years of age, 0.02 grams or
more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per
67 milliliters of urine.
      (2)   If the person tested was operating a commercial motor vehicle
within this state, 0.04 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood,
per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
      (3)   If the person tested is not a person described in subsections (1)
or (2) above, 0.10 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood, per
210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
(Ord. 303, passed 9-20-99)
 70.503 DRIVING WITH SUSPENDED LICENSE.
   (A)   A person whose operator's or chauffeur's license or registration
certificate has been suspended or revoked and who has been notified as provided
in section M.C.L.A. § 257.212 of that suspension or revocation, whose
application for license has been denied, or who has never applied for a
license, shall not operate a motor vehicle upon a highway or other place open
to the general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an
area designated for the parking of motor vehicles, within the city.
   (B)   A person shall not knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by the
person to be operated upon a highway or other place open to the general public
or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles, within the state by a person whose license or registration
certificate is suspended or revoked, whose application for license has been
denied, or who has never applied for a license, except as permitted under this
act.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person who violates
divisions (A) or (B) above is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as follows:
For a first violation, by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of
not more than $500, or both. Unless the vehicle was stolen or used with the
permission of a person who did not knowingly permit an unlicensed driver to
operate the vehicle, the registration plates of the vehicle shall be canceled
by the Secretary of State upon notification by a peace officer.
   (D)   Before a person is arraigned before a District Court Magistrate or
Judge on a charge of violating this section, the arresting officer shall obtain
the person's driving record from the Secretary of State and shall furnish the
record to the court. The driving record of the person may be obtained from the
Secretary of State's computer information network.
   (E)   This section does not apply to a person who operates a vehicle solely
for the purpose of protecting human life or property if the life or property is
endangered and summoning prompt aid is essential.
   (F)   A person whose vehicle group designation is suspended or revoked and
who has been notified as provided in M.C.L.A. § 257.212 of that suspension or
revocation, or whose application for a vehicle group designation and who
operates a motor vehicle within this state, except as permitted under this act,
while any of those conditions existing is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable,
except as otherwise provided in this section, by imprisonment for not less than
three days or more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $100, or both.
   (G)   For purposes of this section, a person who never applied for a license
includes a person who applied for a license, was denied, and never applied
again.
   (H)   When a peace officer detains the driver of a motor vehicle for a
violation of a state law or local ordinance for which vehicle immobilization is
required, the peace officer shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Immediately confiscate the vehicle's registration plate and destroy
it.
      (2)   Issue a temporary vehicle registration plate for the vehicle in the
same form prescribed by the Secretary of State for temporary registration
plates issued under M.C.L.A. § 257.226a or .226b.
      (3)   Place the temporary vehicle registration plate on the vehicle in
the manner required by the Secretary of State.
      (4)   Notify the Secretary of State through the law enforcement
information network in a form prescribed by the Secretary of State that the
registration plate was confiscated and destroyed, and a temporary plate was
issued.
   (I)   A temporary vehicle registration plate issued under this section is
valid until the charges against the person are dismissed, the person pleads
guilty or nolo contendere to those charges, or the person is found guilty of or
is acquitted of those charges.
   (J)   A court shall order a vehicle immobilized under M.C.L.A. § 257.904d by
the use of any available technology approved by the court that locks the
ignition, wheels, or steering of the vehicle or otherwise prevents any person
from operating the vehicle or that prevents the defendant from operating the
vehicle. If a vehicle is immobilized under this section, the court may order
the vehicle stored at a location and in a manner considered appropriate by the
court. The court may order the person convicted of violating M.C.L.A. § 257.625
or a suspension, revocation, or denial under M.C.L.A. § 257.904 to pay the cost
of immobilizing and storing the vehicle.
   (K)   A vehicle subject to immobilization under this section may be sold
during the period of immobilization, but shall not be sold to a person who is
exempt from paying a use tax under Section 3(3)(a) of the use tax act, Public
Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. § 205.93 without a court order.
   (L)   A defendant who is prohibited from operating a motor vehicle by
vehicle immobilization shall not purchase, lease, or otherwise obtain a motor
vehicle during this immobilization process.
   (M)   A person shall not remove, tamper with, or bypass or attempt to
remove, tamper with, or bypass a devise that he or she knows or has reason to
know has been installed on a vehicle by court order by vehicle immobilization
or operate or attempt to operate a vehicle that he or she knows or has reason
to know has been ordered immobilized.
   (N)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of not more than
$100 or both.
   (O)   To the extent that a local ordinance regarding the storage or removal
of vehicles conflicts with an order of immobilization issued by the court, the
local ordinance is preempted.
   (P)   If a peace officer stops a vehicle that is being operated in violation
of an immobilization order, the vehicle shall be impounded pending an order of
a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (Q)   The court shall require the defendant or a person who provides
immobilization services to the court under this section to certify that a
vehicle ordered immobilized by the court is immobilized as required.
(Ord. 304, passed 9-20-99)
ARTICLE VI: MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT
Section
   
70.601   Adoption of Motor Carrier Safety Act
   
70.602   References in Motor Carrier Safety Act
 70.601 ADOPTION OF MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT.
   The Motor Carrier Safety Act, being M.C.L.A § 480.11 - 480.22, as amended,
is hereby incorporated by reference as if fully set out herein.
(Ord. 350, passed 5-19-03)
 70.602 REFERENCES IN MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT.
   References in the Motor Carrier Safety Act for Michigan cities, townships
and villages to "government unit" shall mean the City of Clio.
(Ord. 350, passed 5-19-03)
CHAPTER 75: VEGETATION
   Article
      
I.   TREES AND SHRUBS
      
II.   NOXIOUS WEEDS AND GRASS
ARTICLE I: TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
75.101   Planting, care and protection of trees, shrubs, and the like
   
75.102   Permit to plant necessary
   
75.103   Permit to cut, trim or prune
   
75.104   City's rights in outlying areas
   
75.105   Responsibility of all permit holders
   
75.106   Certain trees or shrubs absolutely prohibited
   
75.107   Right to enter upon private property to preserve or remove trees
   
75.108   Obstruction of trees and plants prohibited
   
75.199   Penalty
 75.101 PLANTING, CARE AND PROTECTION OF TREES, SHRUBS, AND THE LIKE.
   The City Administrator or such other persons as may from time to time be
appointed by the City Commission shall have the right, power and authority to
direct, regulate and supervise the planting, care, maintenance, protection and
removal of all trees, plants, shrubs, and grassy areas planted in or upon the
public highways or public places in the city. A survey of such trees, plants,
shrubs and grasses may be taken from time to time to determine the condition of
such and what actions should be taken.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11)
 75.102 PERMIT TO PLANT NECESSARY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or establishment to
plant or set out any tree or shrub or cause, authorize or procure any person to
plant or set out any tree or shrub in or upon any part of any public highway or
public place within the city without first obtaining from the City
Administrator a written permit to do so and without first complying in all
respects with the conditions set forth in such written permit and with the
provisions of this article.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11) Penalty, see §
75.199
 75.103 PERMIT TO CUT, TRIM OR PRUNE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or establishment to
remove, destroy, deface, cut, break, injure, misuse or remove any devise set
for protection of any tree, plant, or shrub or portion thereof that is planting
or growing in or upon any public highway or public place within the city, or
cause or authorize or procure any person to remove, destroy, deface, cut,
break, injure, misuse, or remove any devise set for the protection of any such
tree, plant or shrub or part thereof without a written permit to do so signed
by the City Administrator, or such other person appointed pursuant to §
75.101 of this article.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11) Penalty, see §
75.199
 75.104 CITY'S RIGHTS IN OUTLYING AREAS.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve and
remove trees, plants and shrubs within any public highway, including the
outlying areas, and upon all public places in order to insure the safety of or
preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public highways or places.
   (B)   The city shall have the further right and power to remove any tree,
plant, shrub, tree stump or part thereof which is in an unsafe condition, dead,
diseased or infected with an injurious fungus, insect or other pest, if such
tree, plant, shrub or tree stump is located on a public highway or other public
grounds.
   (C)   For purposes of this article, OUTLYING AREA is defined as that portion
of land lying between the curb or shoulder of a roadway and the sidewalk
running parallel with said roadway; or in the event no such sidewalk exists,
then the area between the curb or shoulder of the roadway and adjacent property
lines.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11)
 75.105 RESPONSIBILITY OF ALL PERMIT HOLDERS.
   All permits authorizing any person, firm, corporation or establishment to
remove, destroy, cut, trim or prune any tree, plant, shrub, tree stump, or
portion thereof, that is planted or growing in or upon any public highway,
public place or on privately owned property, will hold the city harmless from
any liability. All liability will become the responsibility of the property
owner or abutting property owner receiving the permit.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11)
 75.106 CERTAIN TREES OR SHRUBS ABSOLUTELY PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or establishment to
plant or have or keep growing on any property, either public or private, within
the city, any tree, plant or shrub which is diseased or infected with any
injurious fungus, insect or other pest, or which is likely to cause damages to
any public sewer, sidewalk or other public installation.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11) Penalty, see §
75.199
 75.107 RIGHT TO ENTER UPON PRIVATE PROPERTY TO PRESERVE OR REMOVE TREES.
   (A)   The City Administrator or such other person appointed pursuant to §
75.101, shall have the right and power to enter upon any private property in
the city and to spray any tree, plant or shrub infected or infested by any
disease, parasite or insect pest when it shall be necessary in his opinion to
prevent the spreading or scattering of any disease or parasite or insect pest.
Provided, however, before undertaking such treatment or spraying, the city
shall first cause to be served upon the owner of the property a three-day
notice of the city's intention to do so. Service of such notice shall be in the
manner set forth above in §
75.105*.
   (B)   Whenever, in the opinion of the City Administrator or other person
appointed pursuant to §
75.101, it shall be advisable to trim or remove any infected or diseased tree,
plant or shrub or part thereof located on private property, the city shall have
the right and power to do so. Provided, however, before trimming or removing
any tree, plant or shrub pursuant to this section, the city shall first cause a
written notice to be served upon the owner or owners of the property in the
same manner set forth in §
75.105* and ordering and directing the owner or owners to trim or remove such
tree, plant or shrub within ten days after the receipt of such notice. In the
event that such owner or owners fail to comply with said order within said ten
days, the city shall do the necessary trimming or removing.
   (C)   Whenever, in the opinion of the City Administrator or other person
appointed pursuant to §
75.101, it shall be advisable to remove any dead tree, plant or shrub or part
thereof located on private property, the city shall have the right and power to
do so. Provided, however, before removing any dead tree, plant or shrub
pursuant to this section, the city shall first cause a written notice to be
served upon the owner or owners of the property in the same manner set forth in
§
75.105* and ordering and directing the owner or owners to trim or remove such
tree, plant or shrub within ten days after the receipt of such notice. In the
event that such owner or owners fail to comply with said order within said ten
days, the city shall do the necessary trimming or removing.
   (D)   In the event that the city shall remove any tree, plant or shrub or
part thereof pursuant to this section, the city shall have the right to charge
the costs of such removal upon the real property on which such tree or shrub or
part thereof was located. Such costs shall be certified by the City
Administrator to the City Treasurer and shall thereupon become and be a lien
upon such real property and shall be included in the next tax bill rendered to
the owner or owners thereof, unless paid before; and shall be collected in the
same manner as other taxes against such real property.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11) Penalty, see §
75.199
* Editor s note:
   Ordinance 426, passed 1-3-11, deleted the former §
75.105 to which divisions (A) through (C) refer. The intent was probably § to
delete the phrase in the same manner set forth in §
75.105 from these provisions. Future legislation will correct the § provision
if needed.
 75.108 OBSTRUCTION OF TREES AND PLANTS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, except with a
written permit from the City Administrator, to place or maintain upon the
ground in any public highway or public place, any stone, cement or other
impervious material or substance in such a manner as may obstruct the free
access of air and water to the roots of any tree, plant or shrub in any such
highway or place. Unless otherwise provided for in such written permit, there
must be maintained about the base of the trunk of each tree in such highway or
place at least nine square feet of ground for a tree three inches in diameter
and for every two inches of increase of such diameter there must be an increase
of at least one square foot of open ground.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11) Penalty, see §
75.199
 75.199 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this article shall,
upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and costs of
prosecution, or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 212, passed 7-21-86; amended by Ord. 426, passed 1-3-11)
ARTICLE II: NOXIOUS WEEDS AND GRASS
Section
   
75.201   Definitions
   
75.202   Duty of owners
   
75.203   Notice and orders
   
75.299   Penalty
 75.201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. This term shall include Canada Thistle (Circium Arvense),
Dodders (any species of Cuscuta), Mustards (Chariock, Black Mustard and Indian
Mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis), Wild Carrot (Daucus Carota), Bindweed
(Convolvulus Arvensis), Perennial Sowthistle (Sonchus Arvensis), Hoary Alyssum
(Berteroa Incana), Ragweed (Ambrosia Clatior 1.) and Poison Ivy (Rhus
Toxicondendron), Poison Sumac (Toxicodendron Vernix) or other plant that, in
the opinion of the City Administrator, is regarded as a common nuisance.
(Ord. 361, passed 11-15-04; amended by Ord. 459, passed 7-15-13)
 75.202 DUTY OF OWNERS.
   It shall be the duty of every person who owns any subdivided land or land
along public streets and roads or improved streets in common usage, for a depth
of 300 feet or the depth of the lot, whichever is the lesser, within the
corporate limits of the City of Clio, to cut down on said land all noxious and
poisonous weeds growing thereon, at least six times each year, once before the
first day of May, June, July, August, September, and October, to prevent such
weeds from going to seed or to blossom, as the case may be, and to prevent such
dead grass and brush from becoming a fire hazard. No person shall allow any
weeds or grass to exceed seven inches in height.
(Ord. 361, passed 11-15-04; amended by Ord. 386, passed 7-5-06; amended by Ord.
459, passed 7-15-13) Penalty, see §
75.299
 75.203 NOTICES AND ORDERS.
   Any person violating this chapter shall be given notice pursuant to the
provisions of the City of Clio Maintenance Code, which is currently the 2012
Edition of the International Property Maintenance Code, including but not
limited to, Section 107 (Notices and Orders), Section 106 (Violations), and
Section 302
(Exterior Property Areas), and such other sections of the Property Maintenance
Code as may be necessary under the circumstances. It shall be the duty of the
City of Clio Administrator, in the months of April and July of each year, to
publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation within Genesee County,
giving notice of this chapter. Said notice shall be substantially in the
following form:
    TO ANY OWNERS OF LANDS SITUATED IN THE CITY OF CLIO,
   GENESEE COUNTY AND STATE OF MICHIGAN:
   NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT ALL NOXIOUS WEEDS GROWN AND ALL TALL OR DEAD
GRASS AND BRUSH ON ANY SUBDIVIDED LAND OR LAND ALONG PUBLIC STREETS OR ROADS OR
IMPROVED STREETS, FOR A DEPTH OF 300 FEET OR THE DEPTH OF THE LOTS WHICHEVER IS
THE LESSER, WITHIN THE CITY OF CLIO, COUNTY OF GENESEE AND STATE OF MICHIGAN,
MUST BE CUT DOWN ON OR BEFORE THE 1ST DAY OF MAY, JUNE, JULY, AUGUST,
SEPTEMBER, AND OCTOBER, TO PREVENT WEEDS FROM GOING TO SEED OR TO BLOSSOM, AS
THE CASE MAY BE, AND TO PREVENT TALL OR DEAD GRASS AND BRUSH FROM BECOMING A
FIRE HAZARD. NO PERSON SHALL ALLOW ANY WEEDS OR GRASS TO EXCEED SEVEN INCHES IN
HEIGHT.
   FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH THIS NOTICE ON OR BEFORE THE ABOVE MENTIONED DATES
SHALL MAKE ANY PARTY LIABLE FOR THE COSTS OF CUTTING NOXIOUS WEEDS AND TALL OR
DEAD GRASS AND BRUSH BY THE CITY OF CLIO, AND THE COST SHALL BE LEVIED AND
COLLECTED AGAINST SAID LANDS IN THE SAME MANNER AS OTHER TAXES ARE LEVIED AND
COLLECTED, PURSUANT TO:
(Ordinance No. 459, effective July 17, 2013.)
(Ord. 361, passed 11-15-04; amended by Ord. 386, passed 7-5-06; amended by Ord.
459, passed 7-15-13)
 75.299 PENALTY.
   Any person, persons, firm or corporation failing to comply with this
chapter, shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor, be
sentenced to pay a fine not exceeding $500, or incarceration for a period of 93
days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 361, passed 11-15-04; amended by Ord. 386, passed 7-5-06; amended by Ord.
459, passed 7-15-13)
CHAPTER 80: WATER
   Article
      
I.   GENERAL
      
II.   CROSS CONNECTIONS
ARTICLE I: GENERAL
Section
   
80.101   Title
   
80.102   Water mains
   
80.103   Service pipes
   
80.104   Meters
   
80.105   Use of water
   
80.106   Water rates
   
80.107   Water shut-off; notice
   
80.108   Buildings to be properly serviced with connections
   
80.109   Conditions for use of private water supply
   
80.110   Outside toilet, privy, privy vault or toilet seat
   
80.199   Penalty
 80.101 TITLE.
   This article shall be referred to and known as The City of Clio Water
Ordinance.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72)
 80.102 WATER MAINS.
   (A)   The water mains of the city shall be under the exclusive control of
the Superintendent and no person or persons other than agents or employees of
the Water Department shall tap, change, obstruct, interfere with, or in any way
disturb the system of water mains.
   (B)   All extensions and alterations to the system of water mains shall be
made under the supervision of the Superintendent who shall act only upon
authorization of the Commission. Proper petitions for the extension of water
mains shall be addressed to the City Commission, which will thereupon consider
the same and advise the petitioners of their decision. In case water mains are
constructed by special assessment, reference should be made to the pertinent
Charter provisions.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation, after the effective date of this
article, installing water mains at their own expense shall first submit plans
and specifications for such work to the Commission for its approval. After such
plans and specifications have been approved by the Commission, the work shall
be done under the supervision of the Superintendent who shall require that such
tests be made as he may consider necessary and no water shall be admitted into
such mains until he accepts the installation on behalf of the Commission. The
provisions of this division shall apply to any installation of water mains
outside the corporate limits of the city where permission has first been
granted by the City Commission to connect such mains to the existing
distribution system.
   (D)   The City Commission shall not, after the effective date of this
article, grant permission to connect water mains constructed outside the
corporate limits of the city to the existing distribution system, except upon
the following conditions:
      (1)   That all engineering relative to said water main outside the
corporate limits of the city shall be done by the city's engineer.
      (2)   That all construction relative to said water main shall have been
done under the supervision of the City Superintendent and according to the
city's specifications.
      (3)   That all costs of installation or laying of the water main outside
of the corporate limits of the city, including all legal, engineering and other
incidental costs, shall have been paid for by the properties involved and no
part shall have been paid by the city.
      (4)   That all properties to be serviced by the said water main
constructed outside the corporate limits of the city shall also be served by
the city sanitary sewer system or some other public sewer system approved by
the City Commission.
      (5)   That the charge for water supplied by any main constructed outside
the corporate limits of the city, whether constructed before or after the
effective date of this article, shall be at the rate of 150% of the prevailing
rate charged for such water service within the corporate limits of the city.
   (E)   Subsequent to February 1, 1975, no plat of subdivided lands shall be
accepted and approved by the City Commission until the installation and
construction and completion of the improvements hereinafter enumerated shall
have been approved by the City Commission, except as hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Water mains with the necessary appurtenances shall be constructed
and laid in all streets or in casements approved by the City Commission. There
shall be provided at least one connection to every lot fronting on either side
of said streets, or at such intervals as the City Commission shall require,
which connection shall extend from the water main to the lot lines.
      (2)   Other provisions of this article notwithstanding, the City
Commission may accept and approve a proposed plat without the installation or
construction of the improvements required hereunder, provided the proprietor of
such proposed plat shall have filed with the City Commission a good and
sufficient surety bond of a surety company authorized to do business in this
state, or a personal bond, approved by the City Commission, secured by a
deposit of cash to be released to the obligor as and when no longer required
for full assurance of complete payment of the cost of the improvement. The said
bond shall be conditioned that the proprietor of the property platted will
within a specified period, as determined by the City Commission and set forth
in said bond, cause to be installed and constructed, without expense to the
city, all of the improvements as hereinbefore provided. The City Commission may
further require that the bond provide that in case of default in the
performance of the conditions of such bond, the city or its nominee may enter
into and upon the platted property, with necessary machinery and equipment, for
the purpose of installing or constructing improvements not installed or
constructed by the obligor, at the expanse of the obligor and the surety or
sureties named in the bond. If the City Commission shall at any time after the
giving of such bond determine that any improvement covered thereby is not
required by the public interest or safety the bond may be canceled or modified
pro tanto to release the obligor s liability with respect to such improvement.
      (3)   A fee of 2% of the cost of the improvements required by this
article shall be paid to the city prior to the approval of any proposed plat to
provide for the expense of inspection of such improvements, and other related
expenses; as to improvements not installed at the time of the approval of the
plat, the fee shall be based upon estimated costs, as determined by the City
Commission. The City Commission may from time to time adjust this fee by
resolution.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 142, passed 1-6-75; amended by Ord.
338, passed 9-18-02) Penalty, see §
80.199
 80.103 SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   All service pipe on either public or private property shall be laid on
solid ground not less than four feet below the established grade of the street.
Service pipe laid in the same trench with a sewer shall be at least 18 inches
distant from the sewer horizontally, and if the sewer is laid at a greater
depth shall be shelved into the bank to a solid bottom. In no case shall a
service pipe be laid on a fill.
   (B)   From the main to the water meter all service shall be of copper or
other materials of like nature, not less than 3/4-inch in diameter, approved by
the Superintendent. Service stops shall be at least 3/4-inch, extra heavy round
way stop and waste type, placed 12 inches outside of the sidewalk line. The
stop box shall be set so that the cover is one inch above the grade.
   (C)   A separate waste stop shall be placed on the service pipe just inside
the building wall on the influent side of the water meter. Such stops shall be
equal in quality to the service stop.
   (D)   The corporation stop, the service pipe from the main to the service
stop, the service stop and the stop box will be provided in place and
maintained by the Water Department after payment of the fee charged for a water
permit as provided in this section. The service pipe from the service stop to
the building on private property shall be installed by a licensed contractor
and properly maintained by the owner. The owner shall keep the stop box free
from dirt, stones, or other substances that will prevent access to the service
stop.
   (E)   All service pipe on private property and all water piping in all
premises shall be installed by a licensed contractor/plumber. Licensed
contractors/plumbers shall not interfere in any way with the service pipes
installed by the Water Department and shall not be permitted to turn water on
or off at the service stop. The Department of Public Services shall be notified
for the purpose of shutting off the water at the service stop for the licensed
contractor/plumber for the purpose of testing their work. Any licensed
contractor/plumber called upon to shut off water and drain pipes in any
premises shall do so inside the building only.
   (F)   Before any connection is made to any water main, application for a
permit must be made in writing by the owner of the premises to be served, or by
his, or her or their authorized representative at the office of the Treasurer.
Such application shall be made on forms provided by the Water Department, and
shall contain such information as the Commission may require.
   (G)   At the time that a building permit is issued for any building
requiring a water service connection (or in the case of existing buildings, at
the time of proper application by or on behalf of the owner) and before the
water main is tapped, a permit for such service connection shall be issued and
the owner shall thereupon pay the following fees for tapping the water main,
installation of the service pipes from the main to the service stop, the
service stop and stop box:
      (1)   The tap-in fee for tapping the water main shall be determined as
follows:
 
Fee to Tap into City of Clio Water System
Meter Size, Inches Rate
5/8                $2,229
1-1/2              $7,429
The City Commission may from time to time adjust this tap-in fee by
resolution.
 
      (2)   The installation fee for the installation of the service pipe from
the water main to the service stop, the service stop and stop box shall be
$400, if the city makes such installation. The property owner shall be
responsible for all excavating from the water main to the service stop which
shall be completed by a licensed contractor/plumber. In the event that a person
or firm, other than the city, shall make such installation, such installation
shall be made under the direct supervision of the Superintendent of Public
Services or his/her designee and in accordance with the requirements of the
City Administrator; and such person or firm making such installation shall
obtain an inspection by the Superintendent of Public Services or his/her
designee of the installation prior to the commencement of any backfilling. The
fee for such inspection shall be $50.
      (3)   If the City Commission, upon request being made, the City
Commission shall have the authority to allow payment on an installment basis of
12 approximately equal consecutive monthly installments.
   (H)   When a permit is required for service to a building under construction
the owner shall pay to the Water Department, in addition to the fee provided in
division (G), a fee for water used during construction. This fee shall be
estimated by the Superintendent in accordance with the size of the building and
class of construction. It shall in no case be less than $5. In case the owner
is not satisfied with the estimate made by the Superintendent, the
Superintendent may install a meter temporarily on the line and measure the
consumption of water during construction, and the owner shall pay for water
used at the prevailing rate. The owner shall be responsible for the meter and
any damage to it shall be repaired at his expense.
   (I)   Old building water lines may be used in connections with new buildings
only when they are found on examination and test by the City Department of
Public Services Supervisor, to meet all requirements of this article. A $50
inspection fee will be charged to examine old lines. The owner shall expose old
lines for inspection. If the City Department of Public Service Supervisor
approves the use of old lines an additional $50 final hook up fee will be
charged. If the City Department of Public Services Supervisor determines the
old lines cannot be used, the owner will have to meet all requirements for a
new tap in and installation of new lines.
   (J)   All fire suppression pipe on either public or private property shall
comply with the requirements of this article, being §
80.101 through
80.199. Fire suppression pipe can only be used as a service pipe in the event
of fire and for the suppression of the fire only. Except, that costs associated
with the installation of fire suppression pipe to the water main will be borne
by the person, firm, or corporation desiring a fire suppression connection.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 142, passed 1-6-75; amended by Ord.
160, passed 5-23-77; amended by Ord. 310, passed 4-17-00; amended by Ord. 338,
passed 9-18-02; amended by Ord. 374, passed 11-7-05; amended by Ord. 383,
passed 5-15-06; amended by Ord. 407, passed 6-16-08; amended by Ord. 413,
passed 6-15-09; amended by Ord. 423, passed 6-23-10; amended by Ord. 430,
passed 6-20-11; amended by Ord. 456, passed 6-17-13; amended by Ord. 471,
passed 6-16-14; amended by Ord. 479, passed 6-1-15; amended by Ord. 487, passed
6-6-16; amended by Ord, 492, passed 6-5-17; amended by Ord. 494, passed 8-21-
17; amended by Ord. 501, passed 6-4-18; amended by Ord. 507, passed 6-3-19;
amended by Ord. 512, passed 6-1-20; amended by Ord. 516, passed 5-17-21;
amended by Ord. 522, passed 5-16-22; amended by Ord. 525, passed 5-15-23;
amended by Ord. 530, passed 6-3-24) Penalty, see §
80.199
 80.104 METERS.
   (A)   All premises connected to the city water system and using water shall
be metered and payment shall be made for water at rates as herein set forth. In
no case will water be supplied at fixtures or flat rates, except for temporary
supplies as are herein provided, or in special cases, reviewed and approved by
formal resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   All meters connected to the city water system shall become and remain
the property of the City Water Department, and will at all times be under the
control of said Department.
   (C)   For ordinary domestic consumption of water, a 5/8-inch x 3/4-inch
meter will be furnished, and the expense of installing and maintaining meters
will be the responsibility of the Water Department; provided, however, that
where replacements, repairs, or adjustments of a meter are made necessary by
the act, negligence, or carelessness of the owner or occupant of the premises,
the expense to the Department caused thereby shall be charged and collected
from the owner of the premises. In case said owner or occupant fails to pay
these charges, the same shall be treated as a lien upon the premises as
provided in §
80.106(F). Where application is made for a larger than 5/8-inch x 3/4-inch
meter, the City Superintendent shall determine whether a meter of such size is
required. Where a meter larger than 5/8-inch x 3/4-inch is required, or needs
to be replaced, the customer shall pay the difference between the cost of the
larger meter and the cost of a 5/8-inch x 3/4-inch meter and also the cost of
installing the replacement meter.
   (D)   Meters shall be set in an accessible location and in a manner
satisfactory to the City Administrator, and plumbing for meter shall be
installed or altered to permit installation as directed by the City
Administrator.
   (E)   No person other than the City Administrator or an authorized employee
of the City Water Department may change the location of, alter, or interfere in
any way with any meter.
   (F)   The owner or occupant of the premises where a meter is installed will
be held responsible for its care and protection from freezing and from injury
or interference by any person or persons (freezing is considered negligence as
outlined in §
80.104(F)). In case of injury to the meter or in case of its stoppage or
imperfect operation, the owner or occupant of the premises shall give immediate
notice to the Water Department. All water furnished by the city and used on any
premises must pass through the meter. No by-pass or connection around the meter
will be permitted. If any meter gets out of order or fails to register, the
consumer will be charged at the average, monthly consumption rate as shown by
the meter over the period of the preceding year, when the meter was accurately
registering.
   (G)   The accuracy of the meter on any premises will be tested by the Water
Department upon written request of the owner, who shall pay in advance a fee
established by resolution of the City Commission to cover the cost of the test.
If on such test, the meter shall be found to register over 3% more water than
actually passes through it, another meter will be substituted therefor, and the
fee charged will be refunded to the owner, and the water bill may be adjusted
in such manner as may be fair and just. The fee for this service may be changed
from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 338, passed 9-18-02; amended by Ord
437, passed 3-19-12) Penalty, see §
80.199
 80.105 USE OF WATER.
   (A)   When new service pipes are put into any premises, the owner or his/her
agent must make a written request to the city requesting that the service stop
be opened. Until the time that a written request is made the service stop shall
be left closed and will thereafter be opened only by an authorized employee of
the Water Department.
   (B)   In case a permit is issued as provided in §
80.103(H) of this article and a water meter has been installed for the
temporary use of water, the owner shall notify the Water Department upon the
completion of his work so that the water meter may be read and the connection
shut off.
   (C)   No person shall take or use city water from premises other than his
own, and no person shall sell or give away water from his own premises for any
purpose. No connection through which water may pass from one property to
another shall be constructed, regardless of unity or divergence of ownership.
   (D)   Where the water has been turned off by the Water Department for any
reason, no person or persons, except authorized employees or agents of the
Water Department, may turn it on again. Whenever this rule is violated, the
Water Department may shut the water off at the corporation stop at the main and
the owner shall pay in advance double the established rate for water used in
violation of this provision, in addition to the entire expense incurred by the
Water Department for doing this work before the water may be turned on again.
   (E)   No steam boiler shall be directly connected to the service pipe. The
owner shall make such provisions as may be required by the Water Department
before water may be supplied to such an installation.
   (F)   The City Superintendent or any of his authorized agents shall have
free access at all reasonable hours to inspect any premises supplied with water
and to read or inspect water meters. No person shall refuse to admit authorized
agents of the Water Department to any premises for such purpose. In case an
authorized employee be refused admittance, or is in any way hindered in making
the necessary inspection or examination, the water may be turned off from such
premises after giving 24 hours notice to the owner or occupant thereof.
   (G)   Where pipes are provided for fire protection on any premises or where
hose connections for fire apparatus are provided, each connection or opening of
the service pipes shall have not less than 25 feet of fire hose constantly
attached thereto and no water shall be taken through such opening or hose for
any purpose other than for extinguishing fires, except for the purpose of
testing such fire equipment. No such test of fire equipment may be conducted
unless special permit be first secured from the Water Department.
   (H)   Fire hydrants may be opened and used only by the water and fire
departments of the city or by such persons as may be specifically authorized by
the Water Department. No person, firm or corporation shall in any manner
obstruct or prevent free access to any fire hydrant by placing or storing,
temporarily or otherwise, any objects or materials of any kind within 15 feet
of the fire hydrant. The repair or replacement of fire hydrants located within
the city shall be the responsibility of the city, however, any repair or
replacement to fire hydrants located as part of a private water system supplied
by the city water system shall be done under the direction of the City
Superintendent. The city shall be responsible for the periodic flushing of all
fire hydrants, private or public, if the private system is not a metered
system, within the city.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 198, passed 8-15-83; amended by Ord.
338, passed 9-18-02) Penalty, see §
80.199
 80.106 WATER RATES.
   (A)   The city shall obtain monthly readings of all water meters and shall
submit or cause to be submitted to all water consumers monthly billings for all
water used by consumers. All water bills shall indicate a payment due date
which shall be 15 days following the mailing of the water bill. In the event
that any such water bill shall be unpaid on the payment due date, then a
penalty of 10% of the original total of said bill shall be added.
   (B)   If a water bill shall remain unpaid for 30 days following the due date
of such bill, then a ten-day shut-off notice shall be mailed, and thereafter,
the water shall be turned off from the premises against which such charges have
been made and to which such water bill applies. Then, the total charges for all
water used and billed and all accrued penalties shall be paid in full, plus a
nonpayment fee of $35 will be added to the amount owed. All fees must be paid
before the water is turned on.
   (C)   [Reserved]
   (D)   In the case of a temporary vacancy, water shall be turned off at the
service stop and the meter removed by the Water Department. Provided, however,
that a written request, addressed to the City Water Department is made by the
owner of the premises. The water shall be turned on again and the meter
reinstalled when requested and upon the payment of a turn-on fee of $50. The
Ready to Serve charge will be charged every month. In the case of an installed
sprinkler meter, the meter will be read and usage charged at the per thousand
rate each month, there will be no Ready to Serve charge for sprinkler meters.
Sprinkler meters shall be removed at the end of each summer season, no later
than November 30th, and reinstalled upon written request of the owner of the
premises addressed to the Water Department and shall be turned on again upon
payment of a turn-on fee of $50.
   (E)   Owners of property benefitted by or using public water facilities
shall pay the following charges for such benefit or use:
      (1)   A per-month Ready to Serve Charge of (see Rates for Readiness to
Serve Charge in division (E)(3)). The Ready to Serve Charge consists of 86% of
Department 540 (Water System-General), 50% of Department 541 (Water Systems-
New), 11% of Department 542 (Water Systems-Read and Bill), and 70% of
Department 905 (Debt Service). The water debt principal and debt interest are
made up of bond payment fees designated for upgrades.
      (2)   A charge for every 1,000 gallons of water consumed will be $11.71
per month. The per-1,000 gallons charge is made up of 14% of Department 540
(Water Systems-General), 50% of Department 541 (Water Systems-New), 89% of
Department 542 (Water Systems-Read and Bill), and 30% of Department 905 (Debt
Service). The water debt principal and debt interest are made up of bond
payment fees designated for upgrades.
      (3)   Charges for water supply services to each premise within the city
connected with the water supply system shall be determined as follows:
Rates for Readiness to Serve Charge
Meter Size Rate
Rates for Readiness to Serve Charge
Meter Size Rate
5/8 inch   $16.62
1 inch     $27.70
1-1/2 inch $55.40
2 inch     $88.64
3 inch     $166.20
4 inch     $277.00
6 inch     $554.00
8 inch     $886.40
10 inch    $1,274.20
 
      (4)   The City of Clio will charge for different size water meters
according to the above Rates for Reading to Serve Charge. In case of
apartments, the $16.62 Readiness to Serve Charge is charged per each apartment,
that is, per unit. The city will charge the Ready to Serve Charge every month
for every residence, apartment or business with access to city water, if the
water has been turned off or if the building or apartment is vacant will not
affect the Ready to Serve Charge. The city, upon written request, will inspect
and make a determination as to whether an apartment or business has removed the
possibility of being separate from the primary residence or business when it
comes to the Ready to Serve Charge.
   (F)   In the event any person, persons, firm, co-partnership or corporation
shall fail to pay for any water furnished by said city in accordance with above
rates within the time prescribed herein, then and in that event the said city
shall have a lien upon the house or other buildings and upon the premises or
lot, or lots, or parcel or parcels upon which such house or other building
shall be situated or to which such water was supplied in accordance with the
provisions of Public Act 178 of 1939, being M.C.L.A. § 123.161 through 123.167,
as amended.
   (G)   Where a building is divided into separate business and/or apartment
units, water may be supplied through either individual water connections or
through a manifold; provided, however, that manifolds shall be permitted only
upon express written permission of the Superintendent of Public Services. In
cases where a manifold system is desired, the parties desiring same shall
furnish to the Superintendent of Public Services sufficient diagrams and plans
as to enable him to determine whether such a system is feasible in the
particular circumstances. The City Commission does hereby express its general
intent that manifold connections should be generally avoided and should be
permitted only in special circumstances where such a system will not hamper the
city's enforcement functions. In case a manifold connection is allowed, there
must be a master stop and a stop for each branch. Where each branch is
individually metered, all branch stop valves must be readily accessible from
the exterior of the building.
   (H)   Each property owner is solely responsible for the water consumed at
his/her premises and the water bill. All water bills will be put in the
property owner s name and mailed to the property owner s address currently on
file at the city. It is the owner s responsibility to notify the city of any
changes in address. Further, if the property owner desires a separate bill
mailed to a separate address other than what is on file with the city as the
property owner s current address, the city shall assess a fee of $.50 to each
bill mailed.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72; amended by Ord. 237, passed 1-6-92; amended by Ord.
269, passed 2-21-94; amended by Ord. 282, passed 6-3-96; amended by Ord. 316,
passed 12-4-00; amended by Ord. 325, passed 5-21-01; amended by Ord. 338,
passed 9-18-02; amended by Ord. 352, passed 6-16-03; amended by Ord. 353,
passed 9-2-03; amended by Ord. 358, passed 5-17-04; as amended by Ord. 365,
passed 3-7-04; as amended by Ord. 368, passed 5-2-05; amended by Ord. 373,
passed 8-15-05; amended by Ord. 385, passed 7-5-06; amended by Ord. 395, passed
7-2-07; amended by Ord. 400, passed 11-19-07; amended by Ord. 407, passed 6-16-
08; amended by Ord. 413, passed 6-15-09; amended by Ord. 415, passed 9-8-09;
amended by Ord. 423, passed 6-23-10; amended by Ord. 430, passed 6-20-11;
amended by Ord. 445, passed 6-4-12; amended by Ord. 456, passed 6-17-13;
amended by Ord. 463, passed 12-16-13; amended by Ord. 471, passed 6-16-14;
amended by Ord. 479, passed 6-1-15; amended by Ord. 487, passed 6-6-16; amended
by Ord. 494, passed 8-21-17; amended by Ord. 501, passed 6-4-18; amended by
Ord. 507, passed 6-3-19; amended by Ord. 512, passed 6-1-20; amended by Ord.
516, passed 5-17-21; amended by Ord. 522, passed 5-16-22; amended by Ord. 525,
passed 5-15-23; amended by Ord. 530, passed 6-3-24)
 80.107 WATER SHUT-OFF; NOTICE.
   Should it become necessary to shut off water from any section of the city
because of any accident or for the purpose of making repairs or extensions, the
Water Department will endeavor to give timely notice to the consumers affected
thereby and will, so far as practical, use reasonable efforts to prevent
inconvenience and damage arising from and such causes, but the failure to give
such notice shall not render the Water Department or the city responsible or
liable in damage for any inconvenience, injury, or loss which may result
therefrom.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72)
 80.108 BUILDINGS TO BE PROPERLY SERVICED WITH CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, being the owner of or having any
interest in or being in charge or control of any factory, place of business, or
dwelling house or other place of residence in the city to use the same or rent
or continue to rent the same to another for use unless such factory, place of
business or dwelling house or residence house shall be equipped with suitable
and sanitary plumbing connections, connecting a toilet seat or seats therein
with a public sanitary sewer and water main, provided such public sanitary
sewer and water main shall be accessible to such premises in the street
adjacent thereto. In the event that any such person, being the owner of or
having any interest in or being in charge or control of any factory, place of
business, or dwelling house or other place of residence in the city, is using
the same or renting the same to another for use without proper connection of a
toilet seat or seats therein with a public sanitary sewer and water main on the
effective date of this article (provided public sanitary sewer and water main
are accessible to such premises in the street adjacent thereto) or at a time
hereafter when public sanitary sewer and water main shall become accessible to
such premises in the street adjacent thereto, then such person shall be
required at his expense to install suitable and sanitary plumbing connections,
connecting a toilet seat or seats therein with a public sanitary sewer and
water main in accordance with the provisions of this article, within 90 days
after date of official notice to do so.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72) Penalty, see §
80.199
 80.109 CONDITIONS FOR USE OF PRIVATE WATER SUPPLY.
   No private water supply shall be used for any purpose in the city until the
owner or occupant of the premises to receive said private water supply shall
have first taken all necessary steps to eliminate any possibility of the
entrance of water from said private water supply into the public water main of
the city public water supply system. In this regard, there shall be either a
complete air break between the pipes, lines and fixture connected to the
private water supply and the pipes, lines, and fixtures connected to the public
water supply; or, there shall be installed such apparatus as shall be approved
by the State of Michigan Department of Public Health to eliminate the
possibility of water from the private water supply from entering the public
water main.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72) Penalty, see §
80.199
 80.110 OUTSIDE TOILET, PRIVY, PRIVY VAULT OR TOILET SEAT.
   The City Commission hereby declares that any outside toilet, privy, privy
vault or toilet seat which shall be used as such on any land or in any factory,
place of business or dwelling or residence house in the city on any premises
adjacent to a street upon which there has been laid or shall hereafter be laid
a public sanitary sewer and water main, shall constitute a nuisance, and that
it shall be unlawful for any person to permit such nuisance to exist or
continue after a period of 60 days from the time that such public sewer and
water main are available.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72) Penalty, see §
80.199
 80.199 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 123, passed 5-15-72)
ARTICLE II: CROSS CONNECTIONS
Section
   
80.201   Title
   
80.202   Cross connection rules adopted by reference
   
80.203   Inspections
   
80.204   Right of entry to inspect
   
80.205   Enforcement by water shut-off
   
80.206   Testable backflow prevention
   
80.207   Protection; labeling
   
80.208   Supplement to other codes and ordinances
   
80.299   Penalty
 80.201 TITLE.
   This article shall be referred to and known as the The City of Clio Water
Cross Connections Ordinance.
(Ord. 167, passed 1-8-79; amended by Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12)
 80.202 CROSS CONNECTION RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The city adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules of the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality being R 325.11401 to R 325.11407
of the Michigan Administrative Code.
(Ord. 167, passed 1-8-79; amended by Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12)
 80.203 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the City's Department of Public Service to cause
inspections to be made of all properties served by the public water supply
where cross connections with the public water supply is deemed possible. The
frequency of inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards
involved shall be as established by the Department and as approved by the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality.
(Ord. 167, passed 1-8-79; amended by Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12)
 80.204 RIGHT OF ENTRY TO INSPECT.
   The representative of the City's Department of Public Service shall have the
right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to
the public water supply system of the city for the purpose of inspecting the
piping system or systems thereof for cross connections. On request the owner,
lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection
agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such
property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested,
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(Ord. 167, passed 1-8-79; amended by Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12)
 80.205 ENFORCEMENT BY WATER SHUT-OFF.
   The City's Department of Public Service is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this article exists, and to take such other
precautionary measures necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of
the public water supply system. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this article.
(Ord. 167, passed 1-8-79; amended by Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12)
 80.206 TESTABLE BACKFLOW PREVENTION.
   All testable backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at the time of
installation or relocation and after any repair. Subsequent testing of devices
shall be conducted at a time interval specified by the City's Department of
Public Service and in accordance with Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality requirements. Only individuals that hold a valid Michigan plumbing
license and have successfully passed an approved backflow testing class shall
perform such testing. Each tester shall also be approved by the City's
Department of Public Service. Individual(s) performing assembly testing shall
certify the results of his or her testing.
(Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12)
 80.207 PROTECTION; LABELING.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this article and by the state and City Plumbing Code. Any water outlet which
could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the
potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as: Water Unsafe for
Drinking.
(Ord. 167, passed 1-8-79; amended by Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12) Penalty, see §
80.299
 80.208 SUPPLEMENT TO OTHER CODES AND ORDINANCES.
   This article does not supersede the State Plumbing Code and City Ordinance
but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 167, passed 1-8-79; amended by Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12)
 80.299 PENALTY.
   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this article, or any written order of the City's Department of Public Service,
in pursuance thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500 and costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment in the Genesee County Jail for a period not to
exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court. Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this article shall
occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the purpose of
this article.
(Ord. 167, passed 1-8-79; amended by Ord. 443, passed 6-4-12)
CHAPTER 85: TAXATION
   Article
      
I.   TAX EXEMPTION
      
II.   TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN
      
III.   NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY DEVELOPMENT AND TAX INCREMENT
FINANCING PLAN
ARTICLE I: TAX EXEMPTION
Section
   
85.101   Sponsor
   
85.102   Definitions
   
85.103   Class of housing developments
   
85.104   Annual service charge
   
85.105   Contractual effect or ordinance
   
85.106   Duration
 85.101 SPONSOR.
   The city acknowledges that Royal Castle Development Company ( sponsor ) has
offered, subject to receipt of an allocation under the low income housing tax
credit (LIHTC), to erect, own, and operate a housing development identified as
Roxbury Court in the city to serve persons of low income, and that the sponsor
has offered to pay the city on account of this housing development an annual
service charge for public services in lieu of all taxes.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-19-00)
 85.102 DEFINITIONS.
   All terms shall be defined as set forth in the State Housing Development
Authority Act of 1966, being Public Act 346 of 1966, as amended, except as
follows:
   ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346 of
1966, of the State of Michigan, as amended.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENT. The total collections during an agreed annual period
from all occupants of a housing development representing rent or occupancy
charges, exclusive of charges for gas, electricity, heat, or other utilities
furnished to the occupants.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   ELDERLY. A single person who is 55 years of age or older, or a household in
which at least one member is 55 years of age or older, and all other members
are 50 years of age or older.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for persons of low income and such elements of other housing,
commercial, recreational, industrial, communal, and educational facilities as
the authority determines improve the quality of the development as it relates
to housing for persons of low income.
   HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY. Housing occupied by a single person who is 55 years
of age or older, or housing occupied by a family and/or household in which at
least one member is 55 years of age or older and all other members are 50 years
of age or older.
   LOW INCOME PERSONS OR FAMILIES. As used herein, the same meaning as found in
§ 15(a)(7) of the Act.
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer and/or electrical service which are
paid by the housing development.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-19-00)
 85.103 CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   It is determined that the class of housing developments to which the tax
exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu of
such taxes shall be housing for families, which are financed or assisted
pursuant to the Act. It is further determined that Roxbury Court is of this
class.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-19-00)
 85.104 ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A) Establishment. The housing development identified as Roxbury Court and
the property on which it shall be constructed shall be exempt from all property
taxes from and after the commencement of construction. The city, acknowledging
that the sponsor and the authority have established the economic feasibility of
the housing development in reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of
this article and the qualifications of the housing development for exemption
from all property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this
article and in consideration of the sponsor's offer, subject to receipt of an
allocation under the LIHTC program, to construct, run and operate the housing
development, agrees to accept payment of an annual service charge for public
services in lieu of all property taxes. The annual service charge shall be 5%
of the annual shelter rents from the first year in which the housing
development is subject to such service charge through the tenth year. The
annual service charge shall be 7.5% of the annual shelter rents in the eleventh
and through the twentieth year. The annual service charge shall be 10% of the
annual shelter rents in the twenty-first and subsequent years. Provided,
further, that the annual service charge shall not be less than 5% of the
potential gross income for the first ten years, not less than 7.5% of the
potential gross income for the eleventh through twentieth year and not less
than 10% of the potential gross income for the twenty-first through thirtieth
year. A penalty of 3% and 1% per month thereafter shall apply to any unpaid
annual service charge. The City Assessor shall annually prepare an assessment
of the premises, using the potential gross income approach for valuation of
property for comparison purposes to the Pilot Plan. A report shall be filed by
the Assessor with the City Administrator and the City Commission for their
information and review.
   (B)   Limitation. Notwithstanding division (A) above, the service charge to
be paid each year in lieu of taxes for the part of the housing development
which is tax exempt and which is occupied by other than low income persons or
families shall be equal to the full amount of the taxes which would be paid on
that portion of the housing development if the housing development were not tax
exempt.
   (C)   Payment. The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this
article shall be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are
payable to the city except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before
September 30 of each year.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-19-00, amended by Ord. 356, passed 11-3-03)
 85.105 CONTRACTUAL EFFECT OR ORDINANCE.
   Notwithstanding the provision of § 15(a)(5) of the Act, to the contrary, a
contract between the city and the sponsor, with the authority as third party
beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax exemption and accept payments in
lieu of taxes, as previously described, is effectuated by enactment of this
article.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-19-00)
 85.106 DURATION.
   This article shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as the
authority's mortgage remains outstanding and unpaid or the authority has any
interest in the property; or the housing development remains subject to income
and rent restrictions pursuant to Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, provided that construction of the housing development
commences within one year from the effective date of this article.
(Ord. 314, passed 6-19-00)
ARTICLE II: TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN
Section
   
85.201   Establishment
   
85.202   Duration of plan
   
85.203   Amendments
   
85.204   Designation of boundaries
   
85.205   Bonding
 85.201 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of and under the authority of Act 197 of the
Public Acts of 1975, as amended, there is hereby created and approved a City of
Clio Downtown Development Authority, Genesee County, Michigan, Development and
Tax Increment Financing Plan; an official copy of which shall be maintained by
the City Clerk and available for copy or inspection at the Clio City Hall. The
City Commission does ordain by this section that the proposed Development and
Tax Increment Financing Plan is a feasible plan and that its Downtown
Development Authority has the ability to implement the plan with the consent
and approval of this City Commission.
(Ord. 371, passed 7-5-05; amended by Ord. 484, passed 12-21-15)
 85.202 DURATION OF PLAN.
   The Tax Increment Financing Plan so created by this chapter shall be in
effect for ten years, commencing January 1, 2006 and terminating December 31,
2006. However, the Clio City Commission may abolish the Tax Increment Financing
Plan when the purposes for which it was established are accomplished.
(Ord. 371, passed 7-5-05)
 85.203 AMENDMENTS.
   No amendment to the Tax Increment Financing Plan may be made by the Downtown
Development Authority without prior approval by the Clio City Commission.
(Ord. 371, passed 7-5-05)
 85.204 DESIGNATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of the Tax Increment Financing Plan are hereby adopted by
reference as determined in Ordinance 371.
(Ord. 371, passed 7-5-05)
 85.205 BONDING.
   The Clio City Commission may, by resolution, authorize, issue and sell
general obligation bonds to finance the development program of the Tax
Increment Financing Plan. Before such action would be commenced, the Downtown
Development Authority shall submit an estimate of the anticipated tax increment
revenue to be available for payment of principal and interest on such bonds to
the Clio City Commission. This estimate shall be approved or rejected by the
Clio City Commission by resolution adopted by majority vote of the members of
the Clio City Commission; and, if approved, the Clio City Commission shall not
pledge for annual debt service requirements in any one year an amount in excess
of 80% of the estimated tax increment revenue to be received from a development
area for that year pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 5.3010 (16).
(Ord. 371, passed 7-5-05)
ARTICLE III: NEIGHBORHOOD IMPROVEMENT AUTHORITY  DEVELOPMENT AND TAX INCREMENT
FINANCING PLAN
Section
   
85.301   Establishment
   
85.302   Amendments
 85.301 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of and under the authority of Act 67 of the
Public Acts of 2007, as amended, there is hereby created and approved a City of
Clio Neighborhood Improvement Authority, Genesee County, Michigan, Development
and Tax Increment Financing Plan; an official copy of which shall be maintained
by the City Clerk and available for copy or inspection at the Clio City Hall.
The City Commission does ordain by this section that the proposed Development
and Tax Increment Financing Plan is a feasible plan and that its Neighborhood
Improvement Authority has the ability to implement the plan with the consent
and approval of this City Commission.
(Ord. 483, passed 12-21-15)
 85.302 AMENDMENTS.
   No amendment to the Tax Increment Financing Plan may be made by the
Neighborhood Improvement Authority without prior approval by the Clio City
Commission.
(Ord. 483, passed 12-21-15)
CHAPTER 90: INSPECTIONS
   Article
      
I.   RENTAL UNIT INSPECTIONS
ARTICLE I: RENTAL UNIT INSPECTIONS
Section
   
90.101   Registration required; certificate of compliance required
   
90.102   [Reserved]
   
90.103   Inspection procedures
   
90.104   Fees
   
90.105   Collection of fees
   
90.106   [Reserved]
   
90.107   Issuance of certificate of compliance
   
90.108   [Reserved]
   
90.109   [Reserved]
   
90.110   [Reserved]
   
90.111   [Reserved]
   
90.112   Definitions
   
90.191   Penalty
 90.101 REGISTRATION REQUIRED; CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Registration required.
      (1)   No person shall rent, lease, let or otherwise make available for
occupancy any dwelling unit designed for human occupation unless the building
is registered with the Code Official or their designee.
      (2)   Registration shall be on a form provided by the Code Official or
their designee. Required information shall include the name, address and
telephone number of the owner and any managing agent. For each individual owner
and agent, a driver's license number or a State of Michigan identification
number must be provided. The form must be signed by all owners and any agents.
      (3)   All changes in the required information must be provided to the
Code Official or their designee in writing within 30 days of the change.
      (4)   If the owner s address is more than 40 miles from the subject
property, the registration form must designate an agent who may be served with
process in an action to enforce compliance with this article.
      (5)   If the owner is a corporation, the names, addresses and telephone
numbers of its officers shall be listed. If such corporation has no substantial
assets other than the dwelling in question and is controlled in whole or in
part by another corporation or corporations, then the name and address of those
corporations and the names, addresses and telephone numbers of those officers
shall be listed.
   (B)   Inspections and certificates of compliance required.
      (1)   No person shall rent, lease, let or otherwise make available for
occupancy any building designed for human occupation unless a certificate of
compliance has been issued for the building and each individual dwelling unit
within it.
      (2)   Owner occupied residential dwellings are exempt from registration
if the only other occupants of the dwelling are members of the owner s family
or household.
(Ord. 495, passed 11-6-17; amended by Ord. 505, passed 4-15-19; amended by Ord.
523, passed 6-6-22)
 90.102 [RESERVED].
 90.103 INSPECTION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A residential building or any dwelling unit covered by this article,
which is damaged by fire, windstorm, building failure, shifting of soil or land
thereunder, or any other catastrophe, or is reported to be otherwise in
violation of the city's Property Maintenance Code, shall be inspected after
such occurrence.
   (B)   The Code Official or their designee may periodically cause an
inspection to be made of the entire residential building in which a rental
dwelling regulated by this article is located. Upon notice from the Code
Official or their designee to the registered owner, manager or designated agent
that an inspection is due, the registered owner, manager or designated agent
shall arrange for that inspection within the time as specified in the notice.
   (C)   Inspections shall be conducted as permitted in (1) through (5):
      (1)   A complaint basis, such that complaint of violation will be
inspected upon receipt of a verbal or written complaint, by the Code Official,
Building Department, or other authorized official.
      (2)   A recurrent violation basis such that any premises which are found
to have a high incidence of recurrent or uncorrected violations will be
inspected.
      (3)   Geographically, such that regulated premises in a predetermined
geographical area will be inspected within a short period of time.
      (4)   A follow-up inspection or re-inspection, such that previous
violations are inspected for correction and compliance.
      (5)   Every two years, a registered owner, manager, or designated agent
shall arrange this inspection.
   (D)   If any owner, tenant or other person in charge of any rental property
or dwelling unit fails or refuses to permit or prevents free access and entry
to the structure or dwelling unit under his or her control or any part thereof
when an inspection authorized by this section is sought to be made, the Code
Official will petition for and, upon such showing as is required by law, obtain
a search warrant from a court of competent jurisdiction permitting inspection
of the premises, as well as any additional order directing compliance with the
inspection requirements of this article and such other directive and remedies
as the court deems appropriate under the circumstances.
   (E)   An inspection shall be performed by the Code Official or their
designee.
   (F)   An inspection may be rescheduled for just cause. Once a date for
inspection is scheduled, the owner or agent shall:
      (1)   Notify each tenant of the date when the inspection is scheduled to
occur.
      (2)   Notify each tenant or occupant that the registered owner, manager
or designated agent is required to accompany the inspector during the
performance of all inspections and in the event that the tenant or occupant is
not present, the owner/agent must provide access to the inspector by unlocking
the dwelling unit s door, verifying that no occupant is present and securing
the unit after the inspection is completed.
   (G)   If a registered owner, manager or designated agent fails to request an
inspection before the expiration of a certificate of compliance, the Code
Official or their designee will obtain an administrative search warrant to be
served on the owner, manager, designated agent or tenant.
   (H)   Inspections shall be subject to fees, which shall be those fees as set
by resolution by the City Commission from time to time.
   (I)   If the cost of performing any inspection referred to in this section
remains uncollected or unpaid for a period of 90 days after the bill for the
same has been rendered, the cost shall be certified to the tax roll.
(Ord. 495, passed 11-6-17; amended by Ord. 505, passed 4-15-19; amended by Ord.
523, passed 6-6-22)
 90.104 FEES.
   (A)   The owner of the property shall be responsible for payment of the fees
for each first dwelling unit and for each additional dwelling unit offered for
rent, lease, let or otherwise made available for occupancy within the city that
are set by resolution by the City Commission from time to time and on file with
the Code Official or the Office of the City Clerk.
   (B)   Applicable fees. The following applications and inspections are
applicable with fees per the aforementioned schedule:
      (1)   Registration. Property owner and or agent recorded for the
submission of an application under this article. Failure to register prior to
occupancy will result in failure to register fee.
      (2)   Certification inspection. The fee for the inspection of each
dwelling unit that has not previously received a certificate of compliance.
      (3)   Renewal inspections. Inspections for the purpose of renewing a
certificate of compliance if the unit complies with the city's adopted Property
Maintenance Code and the certificate is renewed after one inspection.
      (4)   Reinspection. Any subsequent inspection required for purpose of
determining that cited violations have been corrected.
      (5)   Broken appointments. Broken appointments shall be defined as
situations where the owner or agent fails to honor an appointment scheduled by
the Code Official or their designee. Where the owner or occupant appears for
the appointment but refuses entry to an inspector who does not have a search
warrant, then it is not a broken appointment. In the event the owner or agent
fails to show for the scheduled inspection, and/or the owner or agent fails to
adequately arrange access to necessary areas of the building or building for
inspection, the inspection shall be deemed a broken appointment and shall be
subject to additional fees.
      (6)   Expired certificate of compliance. Expired certificate of
compliance fee assessed plus the cost of enforcing agency scheduled inspection
fees.
      (7)   Tenant complaints. The Code Official or their designee shall make
an initial inspection after receiving a written complaint and the required fee,
if any, from the tenant. If a violation is found and re-inspection is required,
the owner shall be billed for all required re-inspections and associated fees.
      (8)   Appeals. Appeals shall be available through the City Commission.
(Ord. 495, passed 11-6-17; amended by Ord. 505, passed 4-15-19; amended by Ord.
523, passed 6-6-22)
 90.105 COLLECTION OF FEES.
   (A)   All required fees shall be paid before commencement of scheduled
inspections. However, the city may inspect a property whether or not a fee has
been paid under this article.
   (B)   When other fees are imposed pursuant to §
90.104, a statement of the fees shall be mailed to the owner. If the fees are
not paid within 90 days, a certificate of nonpayment shall be filed with the
City Treasurer, upon the filing of the certificate the unpaid fees shall be
certified to the tax roll.
(Ord. 495, passed 11-6-17; amended by Ord. 505, passed 4-15-19; amended by Ord.
523, passed 6-6-212)
 90.106 [RESERVED].
 90.107 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Procedure for issuance. A certificate of compliance may be issued for
a residential building and/or dwelling units covered by this article only
after:
      (1)   An inspection of the premises by the Code Official or their
designee verifies that no violations of the International Property Maintenance
Code exist and the building is in good repair, structurally sound and in a
sanitary condition;
      (2)   All fees have been paid and all current registration information
has been provided by the owner/agent of the property; and
      (3)   The submission of an affidavit that the applicant is not in default
to the city. Specifically, that the applicant has not failed to pay any
property taxes, special assessments, sewer/water bills, fines, costs, fees,
judgments or other financial obligations to the city.
   (B)   Certificates of compliance approval or denial. The Code Official shall
make a determination based upon satisfactory compliance with this article
including application requirements, inspections, re-inspections, cure or
abatement of any violations, cure or abatement of any complaints, and
compliance with all other permits, certificates, rules, or regulations and do
one of the following:
      (1)   Approve and issue the certificate of compliance under this article;
or
      (2)   Reject the application and inspection, revoke any registration or
prior certificate of compliance and state the reasons for such rejection.
   (C)   All decisions of the Code Official may be appealed to the City
Commission.
(Ord. 495, passed 11-6-17; amended by Ord. 505, passed 4-15-19; amended by Ord.
523, passed 6-6-22)
 90.108 [RESERVED].
 90.109 [RESERVED].
 90.110 [RESERVED].
 90.111 [RESERVED].
 90.112 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE OFFICIAL. The person charged with the administration and enforcement of
this article or his or her designee. For the purposes of this article, the City
Administrator or his or her designee may undertake any action of the Code
Official under this article.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, mobile home, or portion thereof, or a particular
living quarter designed for occupancy for residential purposes and having
cooking facilities and sanitary facilities, except:
      (1)   Units required to be occupied by an employee or agent of an owner
as a condition of employment (i.e., parsonages); and
      (2)   Any dwellings, dwelling units or mobile homes, which the state has
exclusive authority under state law to inspect and regulate.
   MANAGING AGENT/AGENT. An individual or company representing the owner having
a place of residence or business within the county or within 20 miles of the
city if residing outside the county. The local agent is responsible for the
operation of the owner s residential rental dwelling unit(s) located within the
city regarding compliance with the provisions of this article, and the terms
and conditions of all other codes and ordinances of the city. A local agent is
required if the owner s address is more than 40 miles from the subject
property.
   OWNER. The individual(s), company, corporation, or governmental or private
agency listed on the recorded deed as the owner or purchaser under a recorded
land contract of a property containing residential rental dwelling unit(s).
(Ord. 505, passed 4-15-19; amended by Ord. 523, passed 6-6-22)
 90.191 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provisions of this article shall be responsible for
a municipal civil infraction and subject to the penalties and sanctions
provided by this code.
(Ord. 495, passed 11-6-17; amended by Ord. 505, passed 4-15-19; amended by Ord.
523, passed 6-6-22)
PARALLEL REFERENCES
   
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
   
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section    Code Section
5.3010(16)          85.205
15.231 et seq.      Charter, Ch. 10, § 4
                    15.709,
15-231 - 15.246     45.804,
                    45.817
15.241 et seq.      15.604
15.261 - 15.275     15.306,
                    15.706
                    15.603,
15.261 et seq.      65.205,
                    65.208
24.201 et seq.      70.102
27a.8701 et seq.    30.199
28.243              50.801
41.806(a)           25.201
117.1 et seq.       15.101
117.3               20.101
117.5b              1.104
117.5 et seq.       Charter § 2.1
117.5c              15.107
123.161 et seq.     Charter § 7.14
123.161 - 123.167   80.106
                    5.220 -
125.1501 - 125.1531 5.222,
                    20.101,
                    20.199
125.1509            20.101
125.1651 - 125.1680 15.201
125.31 - 125.45     15.301
125.3101 et seq.    62.105
125.3101 - 125.3702 15.311
                    15.301,
125.3801 - 125.3885 15.308,
                    15.311
125.4204(8)         15.201
141.121             Charter § 7.14
141.421 et seq.     5.202,
                    35.105
205.93              70.502
247.651 et seq.     45.813
252.318(f)          65.306,
                    65.307
257.1 et seq.       70.299
257.1 - 257.923     70.401
257.19a             70.305
257.212             70.502
257.226a            70.502
257.226b            70.502
257.252a - 257.252g 70.102
257.320a            70.102
257.625 et seq.     70.501,
                    70.502
257.625a(6)         70.502
257.625b            70.502
257.625d            70.502
257.625f            70.502
257.625n            70.502
257.675             70.305
257.675(8)          70.305
257.707(a) et seq.  50.504
257.710d            70.102
257.732             70.102
257.74(8)(a)        70.370
257.803d            70.305
257.904             70.502
257.904d            70.502
257.906d            70.502
257.907             70.299
257.951 - 257.954   70.101
275.625m            70.502
280.1 et seq.       62.105
289.1101 - 289.8111 45.1401
324.1103            40.101
324.20101 et seq.   25.202
324.3101 et seq.    20.309,
                    20.313
333.26421 et seq.   Charter, Ch. 10 §§ 1, 2
333.27101 et seq.   Charter, Ch. 10 §§ 1, 2
333.27951 et seq.   Charter, Ch. 10 § 2
333.7521 - 333.7524 50.225
333.7524(a)         50.225
333.7525            50.225
333.7527            50.225
333.7531            50.225
333.17766(a)        50.225
436.1 et seq.       50.309
445.401 - 445.407   45.1202
445.471 et seq.     45.502
445.472             45.516
446.201 et seq.     45.502
446.202             45.504
446.203             45.503
446.204             45.505
446.205             45.506
446.206             45.507
446.208             45.508
446.209             45.509
446.210             45.510
446.211             45.511
446.212             45.512
446.213             45.513
446.214             45.514
446.215             45.515
446.218             45.599
480.11 - 480.22     70.601
484.2102            45.803
484.2251            45.804
                    45.801,
484.3101 et seq.    45.802,
                    45.803
484.3103            45.803
484.3104(2)         45.816
484.3104(3)         45.807
484.3105(1)         45.804
484.3105(3)         45.804
484.3105(4)         45.804
484.3106(1)         45.804,
                    45.805
484.3106(2)         45.805
484.3106(5)         45.804
484.3106(6)         45.805
484.3106(7)         45.808
484.3106(8)         45.808
                    45.810,
484.3108            45.811,
                    45.812
484.3109(4)         45.813
484.3110(5)         45.814
484.3113(1)         45.811
484.3113(4)         45.811
484.3113(5)         45.812
484.3113(6)         45.815
484.3115            45.805
484.3115(2)         45.818
484.3115(3)         45.805
484.3115(4)         45.805
484.3115(5)         45.809
600.101             1.201
600.83.96           1.201
600.8701 - 600.8735 30.302
600.8705            1.203,
                    1.205
600.8707(6)         1.201
600.8709            1.205
712a.2              50.301
750.243a et seq.    Ch. 30, Art. II
750.411a            25.202,
                    25.203
760.1 - 776.22      70.502
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
                      70.301,
                      70.302,
13        3-7-38      70.304,
                      70.305,
                      70.399
1961-D    11-22-61    65.201 -
                      65.220
1969-B    1-20-69     70.398
1969-C    5-20-69     70.398
106       1-1-70      10.101
                      50.501,
105       5-18-70     50.502,
                      50.599
                      65.101 -
108       7-20-70     65.111,
                      65.113,
                      65.199
110       8-3-70      50.102
                      15.301 -
                      15.306,
112       9-21-70     15.308,
                      15.310,
                      15.311
122       3-20-72     50.502
                      80.101 -
123       5-15-72     80.110,
                      80.199
                      60.101 -
124       5-15-72     60.112,
                      60.199
                      35.101,
132       11-5-73     35.103,
                      35.199
134       1-21-74     50.403
137       6-17-74     50.101
140       11-6-74     20.101
                      60.102,
141       1-6-75      60.105,
                      60.106
142       1-6-75      80.102,
                      80.103
155       12-6-76     70.325
157       2-7-77      15.101 -
                      15.107
160       5-23-77     80.103
161       5-23-77     60.105
159       6-20-77     10.101
165       2-6-78      50.502
                      30.201 -
166       6-19-78     30.208,
                      30.299
                      80.201 -
                      80.205,
167       1-8-79      80.207,
                      80.208,
                      80.299
                      45.501 -
                      45.508,
173       7-7-80      45.510 -
                      45.516,
                      45.599
                      20.301 -
174       7-7-80      20.316,
                      20.399
176       12-15-80    65.211
                      70.340 -
178       4-20-81     70.345,
                      70.399
180       6-2-81      50.601,
                      50.699
                      45.601 -
184       9-21-81     45.609,
                      45.699
                      45.101 -
188       2-1-82      45.112,
                      45.199
189       2-1-82      60.111
191       8-16-82     70.325,
                      70.399
193       11-1-82     5.201 -
                      15.211
195       2-7-83      45.401 -
                      45.408
198       8-15-83     80.105
                      55.105,
                      55.115,
202       6-18-84     55.120,
                      55.125,
                      55.130,
                      55.199
206       8-25-85     55.110
                      50.210 -
211       6-2-86      50.212,
                      50.299
                      75.101 -
212       7-21-86     75.108,
                      75.199
                      70.201 -
226       9-5-89      70.222,
                      70.299
229       4-16-90     55.135,
                      55.199
230       6-4-90      35.104,
                      35.105
234       12-1-91     50.103
235       12-16-91    50.104
237       1-6-92      80.106
239       3-16-92     50.201,
                      50.299
241       5-4-92      50.401
242       5-4-92      50.402
244       11-2-92     25.101 -
                      25.103
246       11-16-92    75.199
261       12-7-92     65.199
263       12-7-92     50.599
265       1-4-93      60.111
                      50.415,
266       4-5-93      50.416,
                      50.499
                      45.201 -
                      45.208,
267       6-7-93      45.299,
                      45.301 - 45.304,
                      45.499
268       11-1-93     50.106,
                      50.199
269       2-21-94     80.106
271       2-21-94     60.111
                      70.355 -
272       3-21-94     70.357,
                      70.399
273       12-5-94     15.211
276       3-6-95      1.201 -
                      1.205
                      40.101 -
277       3-20-95     40.105,
                      40.199
278       6-5-95      50.503
281       - -         45.604
283       2-5-96      50.105,
                      50.199
282       6-3-96      80.106
285       9-1-96      25.101 -
                      25.103
                      50.301 -
                      50.305,
286       10-7-96     50.315 -
                      50.319,
                      50.399
                      15.301 -
288       9-15-97     15.304,
                      15.310
289       11-3-97     5.201 -
                      5.205
290       11-3-97     5.101 -
                      5.105
291       11-3-97     5.210,
                      5.215
293       5-18-98     20.201,
                      20.202
294       6-15-98     1.202,
                      1.205
295       6-15-98     1.301
                      1.101 -
                      1.115,
                      1.201 -
                      1.205,
                      1.301,
                      5.101 - 1.505,
                      5.201 -
                      5.205,
                      5.210,
                      5.215,
                      10.101 -
                      10.107,
                      10.199,
                      15.101 -
                      15.107,
                      15.201 -
                      15.211,
                      15.301 -
                      15.306,
                      15.308,
                      15.310,
                      15.311,
                      20.101,
                      20.199,
                      20.201,
                      20.202,
                      20.301 -
                      20.316,
                      20.399,
                      25.101 -
                      25.103,
                      30.101 -
                      30.104,
                      30.199,
                      30.201 -
                      30.208,
                      30.299,
                      35.101 -
                      35.105,
Ordinance - -         35.199,
                      40.101 -
                      40.105,
                      40.199,
                      45.101 -
                      45.112,
                      45.199,
                      45.201 -
                      45.208,
                      45.299,
                      45.301 -
                      45.303,
                      45.399,
                      45.401 -
                      45.408,
                      45.499,
                      45.501 -
                      45.516,
                      45.599,
                      45.601 -
                      45.609,
                      45.699,
                      50.104,
                      50.105,
                      50.304,
                      50.315 -
                      50.318,
                      50.320,
                      50.399,
                      50.503,
                      65.107,
                      65.108,
                      65.203,
                      65.205,
                      65.208,
                      70.301,
                      70.302,
                      70.304,
                      70.305,
                      70.357
302       12-20-99    70.501
303       9-20-99     70.502
304       9-20-99     70.503
305       11-15-99    70.401
306       1-7-00      5.220
307       1-7-00      5.221
308       1-7-00      5.222
309       4-17-00     45.701,
                      45.702
310       4-17-00     80.103
311       4-17-00     60.105
312       5-15-00     15.401 -
                      15.403
314       6-19-00     85.101 -
                      85.106
316       12-4-00     80.106
                      30.101 -
317       1-8-01      30.105,
                      30.199
                      15.302,
                      20.202,
318       1-8-01      20.303,
                      20.312,
                      20.313
                      70.301,
                      70.302,
319       7-1-02      70.304,
                      70.305,
                      70.398,
                      70.399
324       6-18-01     25.201 - 25.209
325       5-21-01     80.106
326       5-21-01     60.111
                      35.101,
332       9-17-01     35.102,
                      35.104,
                      35.106
                      65.102,
333       1-22-02     65.112,
                      65.113
334       12-17-01    70.358,
                      70.501
                      50.701 -
335       3-18-02     50.703,
                      50.799
336       3-18-02     50.107
                      60.102,
337       4-1-02      60.105,
                      60.106,
                      60.111
338       9-18-02     80-102 -
                      80.106
                      55.100,
                      55.105,
                      55.110,
339       6-17-02     55.115,
                      55.130,
                      55.135,
                      55.140,
                      55.199
                      50.107,
344       10-7-02     50.306 -
                      50.309
                      45.801 -
346       10-7-02     45.819,
                      45.899
                      55.100,
                      55.105,
                      55.110,
                      55.115,
349       4-7-03      55.120,
                      55.125,
                      55.130,
                      55.135,
                      55.140,
                      55.199
350       5-19-03     70.601,
                      70.602
351       5-19-03     70.356,
                      70.356A
352       6-16-03     80.106
353       9-2-03      80.106
356       11-3-03     85.104
357       4-5-04      50.225
358       5-17-04     80.106
359       5-17-04     60.111
                      75.201 -
361       11-15-04    75.203,
                      75.299
365       3-7-05      80.106
366       3-7-05      60.111
368       5-2-05      80.106
369       5-2-05      60.111
370       7-5-05      15.211
371       7-5-05      85.201 -
                      85.205
373       8-15-05     80.106
374       11-7-05     80.103
376       1-3-06      20.202
                      70.370 -
377       1-17-06     70.372,
                      70.398
378       1-17-06     15.501 -
                      15.511
                      50.501,
379       2-6-06      50.504,
                      50.599
381       4-17-06     20.201,
                      20.202
382       5-15-06     60.105
383       5-15-06     80.103
384       7-5-06      60.111
385       7-5-06      80.106
386       7-5-06      75.202,
                      75.203
391       9-5-06      35.103
                      45.901 -
394       4-16-07     45.903,
                      45.999
395       7-2-07      60.111,
                      80.106
396       7-2-07      50.801,
                      50.899
400       11-19-07    60.111,
                      80.106
401       11-19-07    70.101
402       12-17-07    70.301
406       6-16-08     60.105,
                      60.111
407       6-16-08     80.103,
                      80.106
                      50.202,
409       4-20-09     50.211,
                      50.212
410       4-20-09     45.1001
412       6-15-09     60.105,
                      60.109
413       6-15-09     80.103,
                      80.106
414       8-17-09     10.106,
                      10.199
415       9-8-09      80.106
416       10-5-09     20.101,
                      20.102
—       11-3-09     Charter 3.4, 3.14
418       1-19-10     50.108
419       2-1-10      45.205
420       2-1-10      45.604
421       6-21-10     60.105,
                      60.109
423       6-21-10     80.103,
                      80.106
424       12-6-10     55.199
425       12-20-10    50.599
                      75.101 -
426       1-3-11      75.108,
                      75.199
428       5-16-11     55.199
429       6-20-11     60.105,
                      60.109
430       6-20-11     80.103,
                      80.106
431       7-5-11      1.401 -
                      1.403
432       7-5-11      45.1002
433       7-18-11     15.105
                      65.301 -
436       1-17-12     65.318,
                      65.399
437       3-19-12     80.104
438       4-2-12      45.1101 -
                      45.1105
                      55.201 -
439       4-16-12     55.211,
                      55.299
                      55.100,
                      55.105,
                      55.110,
                      55.115,
440       4-16-12     55.120,
                      55.125,
                      55.130,
                      55.135,
                      55.140,
                      55.199
441       5-21-12     45.1201 -
                      45.1204
442       5-21-12     70.401
                      80.201 -
443       6-4-12      80.208,
                      80.299
444       6-4-12      60.109
445       6-4-12      80.106
452       9-17-12     30.301,
                      30.302
                      65.301 -
453       11-19-12    65.318,
                      65.399
454       4-1-13      15.601 -
                      15.614
455       6-17-13     60.105,
                      60.109
456       6-17-13     80.103,
                      80.106
                      20.101 -
457       7-1-13      20.103,
                      20.199
                      75.201 -
459       7-15-13     75.203,
                      75.299
461       10-21-13    65.399
462       12-16-13    60.109
463       12-16-13    80.106
470       6-16-14     60.105,
                      60.109
471       6-16-14     80.103,
                      80.106
472A      6-25-14     15.211
                      65.302,
                      65.304,
472       8-18-14     65.309,
                      65.316 -
                      65.319
474       9-2-14      65.312
                      62.101 -
                      62.105,
                      62.201 -
                      62.208,
                      62.301 -
                      62.305,
                      62.401-
                      62.404,
475       5-4-15      62.501 -
                      62.504,
                      62.601 -
                      62.607,
                      62.701 -
                      62.704,
                      62.801 -
                      62.807,
                      62.901
476       5-18-15     20.201,
                      20.202
477       6-1-15      65.399,
                      65.400
478       6-1-15      60.105,
                      60.109
479       6-1-15      80.103,
                      80.106
481       11-2-15     15.701 -
                      15.713
482       12-21-15    15.211
483       12-21-15    85.301,
                      85.302
484       12-21-15    85.201
                      65.302,
                      65.304 -
                      65.306,
485       5-2-16      65.309,
                      65.310,
                      65.316,
                      65.317
486       6-6-16      60.105,
                      60.109
487       6-6-16      80.103,
                      80.106
488       10-3-16     20.201,
                      20.202
489       10-17-16    15.301 -
                      15.311
491       6-5-17      60.105
492       6-5-17      80.103
493       8-21-17     60.105,
                      60.109
494       8-21-17     80.103,
                      80.106
                      90.101,
                      90.103 -
495       11-16-17    90.105,
                      90.107,
                      90.191
                      20.401 -
496       4-16-18     20.410,
                      20.499
                      63.101 -
497       5-21-18     63.119,
                      63.199
498       5-21-18     62.202
500       6-4-18      60.105,
                      60.109
501       6-4-18      80.103,
                      80.106
503       2-4-19      45.1301 -
                      45.1303
                      20.401 -
504       4-1-19      20.410,
                      20.499
                      90.101,
                      90.103 -
505       4-15-19     90.105,
                      90.107,
                      90.112,
                      90.191
506       6-3-19      60.105,
                      60.109
507       6-3-19      80.103,
                      80.106
—       11-5-19     Charter 4.10, 4.12 - 4.19, 5.3, 6.5, 8.11
511       6-1-20      60.105,
                      60.109
512       6-1-20      80.103,
                      80.106
513       2-1-21      20.201,
                      20.202
515       5-17-21     60.105,
                      60.109
516       5-17-21     80.103,
                      80.106
518       6-21-21     52.03
519       12-20-21    15.201 -
                      15.211
521       5-16-22     60.105,
                      60.109
522       5-16-22     80.103,
                      80.106
                      90.101,
                      90.103 -
523       6-6-22      90.105,
                      90.107,
                      90.112, 90.999
—       11-8-22     Charter 4.8,
—       11-8-22     Charter 2.2, Ch. 10 §§ 1 - 7
524       5-15-23     60.105,
                      60.109
525       5-15-23     80.103,
                      80.106
526       5-15-23     20.202
527       5-15-23     20.199
529       6-3-24      60.105,
                      60.109
530       6-3-24      80.103,
                      80.106
                      45.1401 -
531       12-16-24    45.1405,
                      45.1499
532       1-6-25      30.301,
                      30.302
                     
 
