CITY OF CROSWELL, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-14 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 350, passed 5-1-23
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
CITY CHARTER
CITY OF CROSWELL, MICHIGAN
APPROVED NOVEMBER 5, 1985
EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 31, 1985
INDEX
PREAMBLE
Section
Incorporation, Organization and Powers
   
1.1   Incorporation
   
1.2   Wards
   
1.3   Powers
Elections
   
2.1   Officers to be Elected
   
2.2   Regular Elections
   
2.3   Primary Elections Eliminated
   
2.4   Terms of Office
   
2.5   Notice of Election
   
2.6   Election Procedure
   
2.7   Voting Hours
   
2.8   Qualification of Electors
   
2.9   Nominating Petitions
   
2.10   Approval of Petitions
   
2.11   Names on Ballots
   
2.12   Election Commission
   
2.13   Public Inspection of Petitions
   
2.14   Forms of Ballots
   
2.15   Tie Vote
   
2.16   Recount
   
2.17   Recall
Plan of Government
   
3.1   Council-Administrator Government
   
3.2   The City Council
   
3.3   Qualifications of Councilpersons
   
3.4   Compensation of Councilpersons
   
3.5   Selection of Mayor
   
3.6   Duties of Mayor and Mayor Pro Tem
   
3.7   City Administrator: Appointment
   
3.8   City Administrator Removal
   
3.9   Functions and Duties of City Administrator
   
3.10   Acting City Administrator
   
3.11   Relationship of Council to Administrative Service
   
3.12   City Clerk: Functions and Duties
   
3.13   City Treasurer: Functions and Duties
   
3.14   City Attorney: Appointment and Compensation
   
3.15   City Attorney: Functions and Duties
   
3.16   City Assessor: Appointment
   
3.17   City Assessor: Functions and Duties
   
3.18   Other Administrative Officers: Appointment and Compensation
   
3.19   Planning Commission
General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel of the City
   
4.1   Eligibility for Office in City
   
4.2   Vacancies in Office
   
4.3   Resignations
   
4.4   Vacancies in Elective Offices
   
4.5   Change in Term of Office or Compensation
   
4.6   Oath of Office and Bond
   
4.7   Surety Bonds
   
4.8   Liability and Bond to Continue
   
4.9   Delivery of Office and its Effects by Officer to His/Her Successor
   
4.10   Pecuniary Interests Prohibited
   
4.11   Nepotism
   
4.12   Employment and Removal of Personnel Other than Officers
   
4.13   Retirement System
   
4.14   Employee Welfare Benefits
   
4.15   Fees of Officers to Belong to the City
   
4.16   City Personnel Policy
Procedure of the City Council
   
5.1   Regular Meetings
   
5.2   Special Meetings
   
5.3   Business at Special Meetings
   
5.4   Meetings to be Public
   
5.5   Quorum
   
5.6   Compelling Attendance
   
5.7   [Removed]
   
5.8   Publication of Council Proceedings
   
5.9   Council Rules: Miscellaneous
Legislation
   
6.1   Prior City Ordinances and Regulations
   
6.2   Ordinance Enactment
   
6.3   Enactment, Amendment and Repeal of Ordinance
   
6.4   When Ordinances Take Effect
   
6.5   Penalties
   
6.6   Publication of Ordinances
   
6.7   Ordinances Granting Franchises and Contracts
   
6.8   Compilation and Codification of Ordinances
   
6.9   Initiative and Referendum
   
6.10   Initiatory and Referendary Petitions
   
6.11   Council Procedure on Petitions
   
6.12   Submission to Electors
   
6.13   Ordinance Suspended
   
6.14   Ordinance Record
   
6.15   Publication of Ordinances
   
6.16   Compilation and Revision
Miscellaneous Powers and Duties of Council/Restriction of Powers of Council
   
7.1   Public Health and Safety
   
7.2   Streets and Alleys
   
7.3   Licenses
   
7.4   Acquisition of Property
   
7.5   Cemeteries and Parks
   
7.6   Trusts
   
7.7   Mobile Homes and House Trailers
   
7.8   Appropriation of Private Property
   
7.9   Adoption of Zoning Ordinance
   
7.10   Investigations
   
7.11   Restrictions of Powers of the Council
   
7.12   Restriction of Powers to Lease City Property
General Financial Provisions Budget, Audit, Purchasing
   
8.1   Fiscal Year
   
8.2   Budget Procedure
   
8.3   Budget Document
   
8.4   Budget Hearing
   
8.5   Adoption of Budget-Tax Limit
   
8.6   Budget Control
   
8.7   Depository
   
8.8   Independent Audit: Annual Report
   
8.9   Purchasing Procedure
Taxation
   
9.1   Power to Tax
   
9.2   Subjects of Taxation
   
9.3   Exemptions
   
9.4   Tax Day and Assessments
   
9.5   Board of Review
   
9.6   Meeting of the Board of Review
   
9.7   Notice of Meetings
   
9.8   Organization and Function of the Board of Review
   
9.9   Endorsement of Roll
   
9.10   Clerk to Certify Tax Levy
   
9.11   City Tax Roll
   
9.12   Tax Roll Certified for Collection
   
9.13   Tax Lien on Property
   
9.14   Taxes Due - Notification Thereof
   
9.15   Administration Fees and Interest
   
9.16   Sale of Goods and Chattels
   
9.17   Tax Roll to County Treasurer
   
9.18   Jeopardy Assessment
   
9.19   State, County and School Taxes
Borrowing Power
   
10.1   General Borrowing
   
10.2   Special Assessment Bonds
   
10.3   Mortgage Revenue Bonds
   
10.4   Other Bonds
   
10.5   Preparation and Record
   
10.6   Unissued Bonds
   
10.7   Emergency Loans
   
10.8   Deferred Payment Contracts
Special Assessments
   
11.1   General Power Relative to Special Assessments
   
11.2   Detailed Procedure to be Fixed by Ordinance
   
11.3   Objections to Improvements
   
11.4   Hazards and Nuisances
   
11.5   Lien Not Destroyed by Judgement
Municipal Utilities
   
12.1   General Powers Respecting Utilities
   
12.2   Management of Public Utilities
   
12.3   Rates
   
12.4   Utility Charges - Collection
   
12.5   Accounts
   
12.6   Disposal of Utility Plants and Property
Miscellaneous
   
13.1   City Liability
   
13.2   No Estoppel by Representation
   
13.3   Headings
   
13.4   Tense
   
13.5   Records to the Public
   
13.6   Effect of Illegality of Any Part of Charter
   
13.7   Amendments
   
13.8   Vested Rights Continued
   
13.9   Definition of Default
Schedule
   
14.1   Election to Adopt This Charter
   
14.2   Form of Ballot
   
14.3   Effective Date of This Charter
   
14.4   Status of Schedule Chapter
PREAMBLE
   We, the People of the City of Croswell, pursuant to authority granted by the
constitution and statutes of the State of Michigan, and, in order to secure the
benefits of efficient self-government, and otherwise to promote our common
welfare, do hereby ordain and establish this charter.
CHAPTER I
INCORPORATION, ORGANIZATION AND POWERS
SECTION 1.1 INCORPORATION.
   The municipal corporation now existing and known as the City of Croswell
shall be and continue a municipal corporation under the name of "City of
Croswell".
SECTION 1.2 WARDS.
   The City shall constitute one ward which shall be divided into as many
election precincts as the Council may by ordinance prescribe consistent with
the general election law of the state.
SECTION 1.3 POWERS.
   All of the powers, not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter,
possessed by the City of Croswell by virtue of Action No. 215 of the Public
Acts of 1895 as granted by Act No. 368 of the Michigan Local Acts of 1905 are
hereby expressly reserved to the City of Croswell under this charter. Further
the City shall be vested with any and all powers which cities are, or hereafter
may be, required or permitted to exercise or to provide for in their charters
under the constitution and statutes of the State of Michigan, as fully and
completely as though those powers were specifically enumerated herein, except
for such limitations and restrictions as are provided in this charter and no
enumeration of particular powers in this charter shall be held to be exclusive.
CHAPTER II
ELECTIONS
SECTION 2.1 OFFICERS TO BE ELECTED.
   The elective officers of the City shall be five (5) councilpersons, all of
whom shall be elected by the City at large.
SECTION 2.2 REGULAR ELECTIONS.
   A regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday following the
first Monday in November of each even-year beginning with 2014.
(Am. Res. 05-20-2013, passed 5-20-2013)
SECTION 2.3 PRIMARY ELECTIONS ELIMINATED.
   As of the election of November 2, 2010, non-partisan city primary elections
shall be eliminated within the city. Instead, the nominating of candidates for
elective city office shall be by nominating petition pursuant Charter Section
2.9.
(Amendment Approved at the General Election of November 2, 2010)
SECTION 2.4 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   Effective in 1985 there shall be three (3) members elected to the City
Council and in 1987 there shall be two (2) members elected and elections shall
be staggered in such manner hereafter. Those whose terms have not expired shall
fulfill their terms.
SECTION 2.5 NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   Notice of the time and place of holding any election and the officers to be
elected and the questions to be voted upon shall, except as herein otherwise
provided, given by the Clerk in the same manner and at the same times as
provided in the State election laws for the giving of notices by city clerks in
state elections.
SECTION 2.6 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   The general election laws of the State shall apply to and control, as near
as may be all procedures relating to registration and elections, except as such
general laws relate to political parties or partisan procedure, or require more
than one publication of notice, and except as otherwise provided by this
charter.
SECTION 2.7 VOTING HOURS.
   The polls of all City elections shall be opened at 7:00 a.m., or as soon
thereafter as may be, on election day and shall remain open until 8:00 p.m. of
the same day.
SECTION 2.8 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   The inhabitants of the City having the qualifications of the electors in the
State of Michigan, and no others, shall be electors of the City.
SECTION 2.9 NOMINATING PETITIONS.
   Persons desiring to qualify as candidates for any elective office under this
charter shall file with the City Clerk a petition therefor signed by not less
than twenty (20) nor more than forty (40) registered electors of the City not
later than the closing time of the City offices on the twelfth Tuesday prior to
the date of the regular and/or special city election. Blank petitions in
substantially the same form as required by state law for state and county
officers, except for references to party, shall be prepared and furnished by
the Clerk. At least one week before, and not more than three weeks before, the
last day for filing nominating petitions, the Clerk shall publish notice to
that effect. NOTE: The Charter language pertaining to filing nominating
petitions for the regular city election is superseded by Michigan Election Law
MCL 168.646(a)(1) as amended under PA 276 of 2012. The candidate nomination
petition filing deadline is the August Primary election date at 5:00 p.m.
(Amendment Approved at the General Election of November 2, 2010; Am. Res. 11-
06-2017-1, passed 11-6-17; Am. Res. 02-05-2018-2, passed 2-5-18)
SECTION 2.10 APPROVAL OF PETITIONS.
   The Clerk shall accept for filing only nominating petitions on official
blanks containing the required number of signatures for qualified candidates.
When petitions are filed by persons other than the person whose name appears
thereon as a candidate, they may be accepted for filing only when accompanied
by the written consent of the person in whose behalf the petition or petitions
were circulated. The Clerk shall forthwith determine the sufficiency of the
signatures on each petition filed, and if he/she finds that any petition does
not contain the required number of legal signatures of registered electors, he/
she shall immediately notify the candidate, who may file an amended petition
not later than five (5) days after the date and hour for filing the original
petition. Petitions which are found by the Clerk to contain the required number
of signatures of registered electors for candidates shall be marked
"Qualified", with the date thereof.
SECTION 2.11 NAMES ON BALLOTS.
   The form of the ballot used in any city election shall conform as nearly as
may be to that prescribed by the general laws of the state, except that no
party designation or emblem shall appear upon any city ballot. The names of
qualified candidates for each office shall be listed in a single column and
shall be rotated on the ballots. In all other respects the printing and
numbering of ballots shall conform to the general laws of the state relating to
elections.
SECTION 2.12 ELECTION COMMISSION.
   An election commission is hereby created, consisting of the City Clerk, the
City Treasurer, and the Mayor. The City Clerk shall be chairperson. The
commission shall have charge of all other activities and duties relating to the
conduct of elections in the City as required by state law. The compensation of
election personnel shall be determined in advance by the commission, and shall
be a fixed amount for each election; provided, such compensation shall not
exceed the amount appropriated for elections in the budget, unless such
increase shall first have been approved by the City Council as are other
increases in appropriations for any department or function. The commission
shall perform all of the duties required of city election commissions by state
law and this charter. In the event of a conflict in election procedure as
between the general election laws of the state and the provisions of this
charter, or in any case where election procedure is in doubt, the election
commission shall prescribe the procedure to be followed. When a city election
is held on the same day as a national, state or county election or primary, the
same election officials shall act in both the city election and the national,
state or county election or primary.
(Amendment Approved at the General Election of November 2, 2010)
SECTION 2.13 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF PETITIONS.
   All nomination petitions shall be open to public inspection in the office of
the Clerk beginning five (5) days after the filing date for such petitions.
SECTION 2.14 FORM OF BALLOTS.
   The form, printing, and numbering of ballots or the preparation of the
voting machines used in any city election shall conform as nearly as may be to
that prescribed by the general laws of the state, except that no party
designation or emblem shall appear.
SECTION 2.15 TIE VOTE.
   If at any municipal election there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two (2) or more candidates having received an equal number of votes,
then the Board of Canvassers shall name a date for the appearance of such
candidates for the purpose of determining the election of such candidates by
lot as provided by state law.
SECTION 2.16 RECOUNT.
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office, or upon any
proposition, may be had in accordance with the general election laws of the
state.
SECTION 2.17 RECALL.
   Any official may be removed from office by the electors in the manner
provided by the general law of the State. A vacancy created by the recall of
any elective official shall be filled in the manner prescribed by law.
CHAPTER III
PLAN OF GOVERNMENT
SECTION 3.1 COUNCIL-ADMINISTRATOR GOVERNMENT.
   It is the intent of this charter to provide for the council-administrator
form of government.
SECTION 3.2 THE CITY COUNCIL.
   All powers of the City except as otherwise provided in this charter shall be
vested in and all matters of policy of the City shall be exercised and
determined by an elected City Council of five (5) members who shall be elected
from the City at large. In all cases where the word "Council" is used in the
charter, the same shall mean and shall be synonymous with the terms
"commission", "common council", "board of aldermen", "governing body", or
"legislative body", or any other synonymous terms, as the same may be used in
any state or federal law in referring to legislative or governing bodies of
cities.
SECTION 3.3 QUALIFICATIONS OF COUNCILPERSONS.
   No person shall be eligible to any elective office who is in default to the
City and unless he/she is a duly registered elector in the City, and has been a
resident of the City for one (1) year immediately prior to the election at
which he/she is a candidate for office. All votes for, or appointments of, any
such defaulter shall be void.
SECTION 3.4 COMPENSATION OF COUNCILPERSONS.
   The Mayor and Councilpersons shall receive such compensation as is
determined by the Local Officers Compensation Commission of the City of
Croswell in accordance with the provisions of Act 8 of the Public Acts of 1972,
as amended, and the appropriate ordinance adopted by the City of Croswell in
pursuance thereto. The compensation presently established for the Mayor and
Council by the Local Officers Compensation Commission of the City of Croswell
shall continue after the adoption of this section of the Charter for the
remainder of the terms of the Mayor and Council unless otherwise changed by
said Local Officers Compensation Commission pursuant to said Ordinance and the
Law.
   Such compensation shall be paid as best determined by the Local Officers
Compensation Commission, but at least annually. Except as otherwise provided in
this charter, such compensation shall constitute the only compensation which
may be paid the Mayor or Council for the discharge of any official duty for or
on behalf of the City during their tenure of office. However, the Mayor and
Council may be paid such necessary bona fide expenses incurred in service on
behalf of the City as are authorized and itemized.
SECTION 3.5 SELECTION OF MAYOR.
   The Council shall, at the first meeting in January following each regular
city election, elect one of its members to serve as Mayor and one to serve as
Mayor Pro Tem, both for a term expiring at the first council meeting in January
following the next regular city election.
SECTION 3.6 DUTIES OF MAYOR AND MAYOR PRO TEM.
   (a) Insofar as required by law, and for all ceremonial purposes, the Mayor
shall be recognized as the executive head of the City. He/she shall have an
equal voice and vote in the proceedings of the Council, but shall have no veto
power.
   (b) He/she shall be a conservator of the peace, and may exercise within the
City the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress disorder, and shall have
the power to command the assistance of all able-bodied citizens to aid in the
enforcement of the ordinances of the City, and to suppress riot and disorderly
conduct.
   (c) He/she shall authenticate by his/her signature such instruments as the
Council, this charter, or the laws of the State of Michigan or of the United
States shall require.
   (d) He/she shall exercise only such powers as the state laws, this charter,
or the Council shall specifically confer upon or require of him/her.
   (e) The Mayor Pro Tem shall perform the duties of the Mayor when, on account
of absence from the City, disability, or otherwise, the Mayor is temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his/her office, and in case of vacancy in the
office of Mayor, until such vacancy is filled by the Council. He/she shall
preside over the meetings of the Council at the call of the Mayor. In the event
of a vacancy occurring in the office of Mayor Pro Tem, the Council shall
appoint from its elected membership to fill such vacancy.
SECTION 3.7 CITY ADMINISTRATOR: APPOINTMENT.
   The Council shall, as soon as possible with all due diligence after any
vacancy exists in the position of City Administrator, appoint a City
Administrator for an indefinite period and shall fix his/her compensation. The
City Administrator shall be the Chief Administrative office of the city
government. He/she shall have a college baccalaureate degree or its equivalent
in a field pertinent to city administration, or he/she shall have had at least
four (4) years experience in such public administrative work as would qualify
him/her for the position of administrator, and said appointment shall be made
without regard to his/her political or religious preferences. The City
Administrator need not be a resident of the City at the time of his/her
appointment and pursuant to state law shall not be required to become a
resident thereafter. No member of the Council shall be eligible for the
position of City Administrator within two (2) years of the expiration of his/
her last term on the Council.
(Amendment Approved at the General Election of November 2, 2010)
SECTION 3.8 CITY ADMINISTRATOR; REMOVAL.
   The City Administrator shall hold office at the pleasure of a majority of
the City Council, provided that he/she shall not be removed from office during
a period of ninety (90) days following the swearing in of the Council after any
regular city election except by the affirmative vote of four (4) members of the
City Council.
SECTION 3.9 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The functions and duties of the City Administrator shall be:
   (a) To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
   (b) To recommend the heads of the several city departments to the City
Council, to recommend removal of such department heads, to act as Personnel
Director, and to administer labor contracts, personnel management and
disciplinary actions in accordance with the policies of the City;
   (c) To oversee the management and supervision of all public improvements,
works and undertakings of the City. He/she shall have charge of the
construction, repair, maintenance and cleaning of streets, sidewalks, bridges,
pavements, sewers and of all public buildings or other property belonging to
the City. He/she shall oversee the management and supervision of all city
utilities and shall be responsible for the preservation of property, tools and
appliances of the City;
   (d) To see that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the City or its
inhabitants in any public utility franchise, or in any contract are faithfully
kept and performed;
   (e) To recommend an annual budget to the Council; to administer the budget
as finally adopted under policies formulated by the Council and to keep the
Council fully advised at all times as to the financial condition and needs of
the City;
   (f) To recommend to the Council for adoption such measures as he/she may
deem necessary or expedient;
   (g) To exercise and perform all administrative functions of the City that
are not imposed by this charter or any city ordinance upon some other official;
   (h) To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this charter or as
may be required of him/her by ordinance or by direction of the Council.
SECTION 3.10 ACTING CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Council shall appoint or designate an Acting City Administrator during
the period of a vacancy in the office or during the absence of the City
Administrator from the City. Such Acting City Administrator shall, while he/she
is in such office, have all the responsibilities, duties, functions and
authority of the City Administrator.
SECTION 3.11 RELATIONSHIP OF COUNCIL TO ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
   The City Administrator shall be responsible to the Council for the efficient
administration of all departments of the city government under his/her
jurisdiction. Even though the Council must approve all appointments made by the
Administrator by a majority vote, neither the Council nor any of its members or
committees shall dictate the appointment of any person to office by the City
Administrator. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the Council and its members
should deal with the administrative service through the City Administrator, and
no councilperson shall give orders to any of the subordinates of the City
Administrator.
SECTION 3.12 CITY CLERK; FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   (a) The Clerk shall be appointed by the Council to be the Clerk of the
Council and shall attend all meetings of the Council and shall keep a permanent
journal in the English language of its proceedings. He/She shall keep a record
of all ordinances, resolutions and regulations of the Council;
   (b) He/She shall be custodian of the City seal, and shall affix it to all
documents and instruments requiring the seal, and shall attest the same. He/She
shall also be custodian of all papers, documents and records pertaining to the
City of Croswell, the custody of which is not otherwise provided for. He/she
shall give to the proper department or officials ample notice of the expiration
or termination of any franchises, contracts, or agreements;
   (c) He/she shall certify by his/her signature all ordinances and resolutions
enacted or passed by the Council and perform any other duties required of him/
her by state law, this charter or by the Council;
   (d) He/she shall provide and maintain in his/ her office a supply of forms
for all petitions required to be filed for any purpose by the provisions of
this charter, and shall accept no petitions for any purpose set forth in this
charter which are not on the forms provided by him/her for such purpose;
   (e) He/she shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him/her
by this charter, state or federal law, or the City Administrator;
   (f) He/she shall be responsible for the maintenance of a system of accounts
of the City which shall conform to any uniform system required by state law and
by the Council. All accounts of the City shall be balanced at the end of each
calendar month, and a report made thereof by the Clerk to the Council and the
City Administrator.
SECTION 3.13 CITY TREASURER; FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   (a) The Treasurer shall be appointed by the Council to have the custody of
all moneys of the City, the Clerk's bond, and all evidences of value belonging
to the City, or held in trust by the City;
   (b) He/she shall receive all moneys belonging to and receivable by the City,
that may be collected by any officials or employees of the City, including
license fees, taxes, assessments, utility charges and all other charges
belonging to and payable to the City, and shall in all cases give a receipt
therefor;
   (c) He/she shall keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such manner and
only in such places as the Council may determine and shall report the same in
detail to the Clerk;
   (d) He/she shall have such powers, duties and prerogatives in regard to the
collection and custody of state, county and school district, and city taxes and
moneys as are conferred by law to enforce the collection of state, county,
township and school district taxes upon real and personal property;
   (e) He/she shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him/her
by State or Federal law, this charter, or by the City Administrator.
SECTION 3.14 CITY ATTORNEY; APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall appoint a City Attorney who shall serve at its pleasure
and shall fix his/her compensation. The compensation set by the Council for the
City Attorney shall be in contemplation of the normal duties of that office.
Special compensation may be provided at the discretion of the Council in cases
of appeals to or litigation commenced in the Federal Courts, the Circuit Court
or State Supreme Court, work requiring extensive hearings before quasi-judicial
or administrative tribunals, for legal work in connection with the issuance of
bonds of the City, and for condemnation proceedings. No such special
compensation shall be given by the Council except in accordance with an
agreement between itself and the City Attorney made before the service, for
which such special compensation is to be paid, has been rendered.
SECTION 3.15 CITY ATTORNEY; FUNCTION AND DUTIES.
   (a) The City Attorney shall act as legal adviser to, and attorney and
counsel for, the Council and all its members in matters relating to their
official duties. He/ she shall give written opinions to any official or
department of the City when requested in writing by the Council or City
Administrator so to do and shall file a copy of same with Clerk;
   (b) He/she shall conduct for the City all cases in all courts and before all
legally constituted tribunals whenever the City is a party thereto;
   (c) He/she may prepare or officially pass upon, all contracts, bonds and
other instruments in writing, in which the City is concerned, and certify
before execution as to their legality and correctness of form;
   (d) He/she shall file in the office of the Clerk the original copy of all
franchises granted by the City, of all contracts and agreements entered into by
or on behalf of the City, and of all papers constituting a part of the
proceedings in all courts or legally constituted tribunals to which the City is
a party, together with the pertinent data and information concerning the same;
   (e) He/she shall be charged with the responsibility of calling to the
attention of the Council and the City Administrator all matters of law and
changes or developments therein affecting the City;
   (f) He/she shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the
charter or the Council;
   (g) Upon the recommendation of the City Attorney, or upon its own motion,
the Council may retain special legal counsel to handle any matter to which the
City is part or in which the City has an interest, or to assist and counsel
with the City Attorney therein.
SECTION 3.16 CITY ASSESSOR; APPOINTMENT.
   A state certified City Assessor shall be appointed by the City Council upon
the recommendation of the City Administrator.
SECTION 3.17 CITY ASSESSOR: FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The City Assessor shall possess all the powers vested in and shall be
charged with all the duties imposed upon assessing officers by the general laws
of the State. He/she shall make and prepare all regular and special assessment
rolls in the manner prescribed by this charter and the general laws of the
State. He/she shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him/her
in this charter or by the Council or City Administrator.
SECTION 3.18 OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS: APPOINTMENT AND COMPENSATION.
   The other administrative officers may include but not be limited to the
Police Chief, D.P.W. Superintendent, Superintendent of the City Water
Filtration Plant, Superintendent of the City Light and Power Department,
Wastewater Treatment Plant Superintendent, Cemetery Sexton, and Ambulance
Director. All such officers shall be appointed by the City Council upon the
recommendation of the City Administrator. The City Council shall fix the rate
of compensation for all administrative officers of the City within the limits
of budget appropriations.
(Amendment Approved at the General Election of November 2, 2010)
SECTION 3.19 PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Council shall by ordinance establish and maintain a city planning
commission having the powers and duties prescribed by state law. The City
Administrator and/or City Clerk shall be an ex-officio member of the planning
commission.
CHAPTER IV
GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFICERS
AND PERSONNEL OF THE CITY
SECTION 4.1 ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE IN CITY.
   No person shall be elected or appointed to any office who is in default to
the City. The election or appointment of any such defaulter shall be void. No
person shall be eligible to any elective office of the City unless he/she shall
be a qualified elector in the City, and shall have been a resident of the City
for at least one (1) year immediately prior to the date of the election at
which he/she is a candidate for office.
SECTION 4.2 VACANCIES IN OFFICE.
   Any city office shall become vacant upon the occurrence of one or more of
the following events before the expiration of the term of such office:
   (a) For any reason specified by State law creating a vacancy;
   (b) If any appointed officer of the City shall absent him/herself
continuously from the City for more than seven (7) days without the permission
of the Council;
   (c) In the case of the Mayor and members of the Council, where such officers
shall miss three (3) consecutive regular meetings of the Council, or twenty-
five (25%) of such meetings in any fiscal year of the City, unless such
absences shall be excused by the Council and the reason entered in the
proceedings of the Council;
   (d) If the officer shall be convicted of any act constituting misconduct in
office under the provisions of this charter;
   (e) If any elected official shall be elected or appointed to another public
elective office. In that event, the vacancy shall commence when that City
official takes office with the other public elective office. (Amendment
Approved at the General Election of November 3, 1998)
SECTION 4.3 RESIGNATIONS.
   Resignations of elective officers shall be made in writing and filed with
the Clerk and shall be acted upon by the Council at its next regular meeting
following receipt thereof by the Clerk. Resignations of appointed officers
shall be made in writing to the City Administrator, and shall be immediately
acted upon.
SECTION 4.4 VACANCIES IN ELECTIVE OFFICES.
   If a vacancy occurs in any elective office, the Council shall, within thirty
(30) days after such vacancy occurs, appoint by majority vote of the Council a
person to fill such vacancy until the next regular city election, provided that
if any such vacancy in the position of councilperson is not so filled by
appointment within the said thirty (30) days, or if three (3) or more vacancies
in the position of councilperson exist simultaneously, the City Clerk shall
forthwith call a special election to be held within sixty (60) days thereafter
to fill such vacancy or vacancies for the unexpired terms of the individuals
whose offices have become vacant; provided, however, that no vacancy in the
position of Councilperson shall be filled by special election as above provided
if the term of office of the Councilperson whose office has become vacant
expires within ninety (90) days after the vacancy occurs, notwithstanding the
foregoing.
SECTION 4.5 CHANGE IN TERM OF OFFICE OR COMPENSATION.
   Except by procedures provided in this charter, the terms of the elective
officials of the City shall not be shortened. The terms of elective officers of
the City may not be extended beyond the period for which such officer was
elected except that an elective officer of the City shall, after his/her term
has expired, continue to hold office until his/her successor is elected and has
qualified. The Council shall not grant or authorize an extra compensation to
any city officer, agent or contractor, after the service has been rendered or
the contract entered into. Nor shall the salary of any elective city officer be
decreased after his/her election during any fixed term of office for which he/
she was elected.
SECTION 4.6 OATH OF OFFICE AND BOND.
   Every officer, elected or appointed, before entering upon the duties of his/
her office, shall take the oath of office prescribed by Section 1 of Article XI
of the constitution of the State and shall file the same with the Clerk,
together with any bond which he/she may be required by this charter or by the
Council to give. In case of failure to comply with the provisions of this
section within ten days after the first meeting in January following his/her
election or ten days after his/her appointment, such officer shall be deemed to
have declined the office and such office shall thereupon become vacant unless
the Council shall, by resolution, extend the time in which such officer may
qualify as above set forth.
SECTION 4.7 SURETY BONDS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the Council must require all
officers and employees to be covered by bond, to be approved by the Council,
conditioned upon the duties of their office or employment, in such sum as the
Council shall determine. All such officers or employees receiving, disbursing
or responsible for the city funds shall be bonded. The resignation or removal
of any bonded officer or employee shall not, nor shall the appointment of
another to the office or employment, exonerate such officer or employee or his/
her sureties from any liability incurred by him/her or them. All official bonds
shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums thereon shall be paid by the
City, except as otherwise provided in this charter. All bonds of all officers
or employees shall be filed with the Clerk, except that of the Clerk, him/
herself, which shall be filed with the Treasurer.
SECTION 4.8 LIABILITY AND BOND TO CONTINUE.
   The resignation, removal or discharge of any officer or employee of the City
shall not, nor shall the election or appointment of another to his/her office
or employment, exonerate such officer or employee or his/her sureties from any
liability incurred by him/her or them.
SECTION 4.9 DELIVERY OF OFFICE AND ITS EFFECTS BY OFFICER TO HIS/HER
SUCCESSOR. 
   Whenever any officer or employee required by this charter to be a resident,
shall cease to be a resident of the City, resign, or be removed from office, or
the term for which any officer has been elected or appointed has expired, he/
she shall, on demand, deliver to his/her successor in office or to his/her
superior all the books, papers, moneys and effects in his/her custody as such
officer or employee, and which in any way appertain to his/her office or
employment. Every person violating this provision shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor, and may be proceeded against in the same manner as public officers
generally for a like offense under the general laws of the State now or
hereafter in force and applicable thereto. Every officer and employee of the
City shall be deemed an officer within the meaning and provisions of such
general laws of the State for the purpose of this section.
SECTION 4.10 PECUNIARY INTERESTS PROHIBITED.
   No officer elected or appointed for the City shall be interested directly or
indirectly as principal, surety or otherwise in the fulfillment of any
contract, job, work, claim or service in which the City is a party, or in the
sale of property to the City. No elective or appointive officer shall take any
official action on any contract or other matter in which he/she has any
financial interest other than the common public interest.
   This shall not be construed as prohibiting the purchasing department or
other officer of the City from purchasing of, or contracting with an
established business concern in which a Councilperson may be interested,
provided that such business was established and the Councilperson's connection
therewith was well known to the public at the time of his/her election, and
provided further that such purchasing and contracting shall be done under
competitive conditions.
   Violation of this section shall be deemed to be misconduct in office and
punishable as such, and the officer so offending shall forfeit his/her office.
SECTION 4.11 NEPOTISM.
   Unless the Council shall by four-fifths (4/5) vote of the members elect
thereof, other than the member involved, which vote shall be recorded as part
of the official proceedings, determine that the best interests of the City
shall be served, the following relatives of any elective or appointive officer
are disqualified from holding any appointive office or City employment during
the term for which said officer was elected or appointed: spouse, child,
parent, grandchild, grandparent, brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, or
the spouse of any of them. All relationships shall include those arising from
adoption. This section shall in no way disqualify such relatives or their
spouses who are bona fide appointive officers or employees of the City at the
time of the election or appointment of said official.
SECTION 4.12 EMPLOYMENT AND REMOVAL OF PERSONNEL OTHER THAN OFFICERS. 
   Employees of the City, other than those officers provided by this charter,
and other than department heads, shall be employed and removed by department
heads with the approval of the City Administrator, subject to personnel
policies, rules and labor contracts.
SECTION 4.13 RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   A retirement system for the employees of the City of Croswell, Michigan,
shall be continued for the purpose of providing retirement allowances for the
employees of the City.
SECTION 4.14 EMPLOYEE WELFARE BENEFITS.
   The Council shall have the power to make available to the administrative
officers and employees of the City and its departments and boards any
recognized standard plan of group life, hospital, health, or accident
insurance, either independently of, or as a supplement to, any retirement plan
provided for the employees and officers.
SECTION 4.15 FEES OF OFFICERS TO BELONG TO THE CITY.
   The respective salaries and compensation of officers fixed by this charter,
or by ordinance or resolution of the Council, shall be in full for all official
services as such officers for the City or public, and shall be in lieu of all
fees, commissions and other compensation receivable by such officers for their
services in performance of the duties of their offices; which fees, commissions
and compensation shall belong to the City, and be collected and accounted for
by such officers, and be paid to the city treasury, and a statement thereof
filed with the City Clerk as often as once in each week.
SECTION 4.16 CITY PERSONNEL POLICY.
   A City Personnel Policy for personnel management shall be created. Such
system shall provide at least the following:
   (a) For the professional and impartial approach to municipal personnel
problems based solely on the fitness, training, and experience of the
individual with no discrimination on account of political or religious opinion;
   (b) The appointment of a committee by the City Council to administer the
personnel policy with the City Administrator acting as Chairperson with the
title of Personnel Director;
   (c) That the system include all officers and employees of the City except
officials holding elective offices, the City Administrator, City Attorney,
technical consultants employed under contract, and members of boards and
commissions;
   (d) That all newly appointed employees shall serve for a probationary period
of not less than six (6) months or as prescribed by the union contract, during
which period they may be dismissed without cause and without recourse to any
appeal to the Personnel Policy Committee;
   (e) For the formulation by the Personnel Policy Committee of rules and
regulations covering the selection, promotion, and discharge of municipal
employees. Where competitive tests are used and eligible lists created,
appointments shall be made from the three (3) candidates standing highest on
such list. No person covered by the system shall be demoted or discharged
except for cause or without the opportunity for a hearing before the Personnel
Policy Committee, but nothing shall prevent the discharge of any person when
the position he/she holds has been abolished or consolidated with another
position or when a reduction of personnel is necessary;
   (f) For the preparation, installation and maintenance of a classification
plan based on the duties, authority and responsibilities of position;
   (g) For the preparation and recommendation of a systematic salary plan for
the positions covered by the system;
   (h) For the restriction of political activity in the City of Croswell
municipal politics of persons covered by the system;
   (i) Provide a means whereby the City may enter into contractual arrangements
or securing technical services or persons and corporations qualified in
personnel work to assist the Personnel Policy Committee in carrying out its
work;
(Amendment Approved at election of August 4, 1992)
CHAPTER V
PROCEDURE OF THE CITY COUNCIL
SECTION 5.1 REGULAR MEETINGS.
   The Council shall meet at the usual place for holding council meetings at 7:
30 p.m. on the first Monday not a holiday of the new year following each
regular city election, at which session newly elected members of the council
shall be qualified and assume the duties of their office. Regular meetings
shall thereafter be held at least twice each month, at such time and place
within the City as the Council shall prescribe.
SECTION 5.2 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
    Special meetings of the Council may be called by the Clerk on the request
of the Mayor, any three (3) members of the Council, or the City Administrator
on at least eighteen (18) hours notice to each member of the Council,
designating the time, place, and purpose of any such meeting. Any special
meeting of the Council at which not less than four (4) members of the Council
are present or have in writing waived the requirement that notice be given at
least eighteen (18) hours prior to the time specified for the holding of such
meeting and at which a quorum of the Council is present, shall be a legal
meeting.
SECTION 5.3 BUSINESS AT SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the Council unless
the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting. However, if all the
members of the Council are present at any special meeting of the Council, then
any business which might lawfully come before a regular meeting of the Council
may be transacted at such special meeting.
SECTION 5.4 MEETINGS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All regular and special meetings of the Council shall be open to the public
and rules of order of the Council shall provide that citizens shall have a
reasonable opportunity to be heard.
SECTION 5.5 QUORUM.
   Three (3) members of the Council shall be quorum for the transaction of
business at all regular meetings of the Council, but, in the absence of a
quorum, two (2) members may adjourn any regular or special meeting to a later
date.
SECTION 5.6 COMPELLING ATTENDANCE.
   The City Council may enforce the attendance of any Councilperson, officer or
employee at its meetings in such manner as shall by ordinance be prescribed,
and it shall by ordinance prescribe punishment for any misbehavior,
contemptuous act, or disorderly conduct by any member or person present at any
session of the Council; said ordinance to be adopted within one year after the
adoption of this charter.
SECTION 5.7 [REMOVED].
   (Amendment Approved at the General Election of November 2, 2010)
ECTION 5.8 PUBLICATION OF COUNCIL PROCEEDINGS.
   The proceedings of the Council shall be published at least once within
fifteen (15) days after approval of the minutes in a newspaper published in
Sanilac County. The publication of a synopsis of such proceedings, prepared by
the Clerk, showing the substance of each separate proceeding of the Council,
including communications to the Council, shall be a sufficient compliance with
the requirements of this section.
SECTION 5.9 COUNCIL RULES: MISCELLANEOUS.
   Subject to the provisions of this charter, the Council shall determine its
own rules and order of business and shall keep a journal of all its proceedings
in the English language which shall be signed by the Mayor and the Clerk. The
vote upon the passage of all ordinances, and upon the adoption of all
resolutions shall be taken by "Yea" and "Nay" votes and entered upon the
record, except that where the vote is unanimous, it shall only be necessary to
so state. Each member of the Council who shall be recorded as present shall
vote on all questions decided by the Council unless excused by the unanimous
consent of the other members present, or unless excused by the unanimous
consent of the other members present, or unless it involves a conflict of
interest. Any citizen or taxpayer of the City shall have access to the minutes
and records of all regular and special meetings of the Council at all
reasonable times.
CHAPTER VI
LEGISLATION
SECTION 6.1 PRIOR CITY ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   All by-laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the City of
Croswell, which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this charter, in
force and effect at the time of adoption of the charter, shall continue in full
force as by-laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the City of
Croswell until repealed or amended by action of the proper authorities.
SECTION 6.2 ORDINANCE ENACTMENT.
   All legislation of the City of Croswell shall be by ordinance or by
resolution.
   (a) The word "resolution" as used in this charter shall be the official
action of the Council in the form of a motion, and such action shall be limited
to matters required or permitted to be done by resolution by this charter or by
state or federal law and to matters pertaining to the internal affairs or
concerns of this city government.
   (b) All other acts of the Council, and all acts carrying a penalty for the
violation thereof, shall be by ordinance. Each ordinance shall be identified by
a number and a short title. The style of all ordinances passed by the Council
shall be "The City of Croswell Ordains:"
   (c) The Council may adopt any provision of state law or any detailed
technical regulations as a city ordinance or code by reference to the extent
and in the manner provided by state law, provided that any such provision of
state law or code shall be clearly identified in the ordinance adopting the
same as an ordinance of the city, and further, should any changes or amendments
thereafter be made thereto, they should also be made a part of and included in
such adoption. Where any such code is adopted, it may be published in book or
booklet form available for public distribution at a reasonable charge and any
amendment to or change of such adopted code or detailed ordinance may be
published in the same manner.
SECTION 6.3 ENACTMENT, AMENDMENT AND REPEAL OF ORDINANCE.
   Ordinances may be enacted, amended, or repealed by the affirmative vote of
not less than three (3) councilpersons, except that when an ordinance is given
immediate effect, Section 6A will govern. Unless by the affirmative vote of
three councilpersons, no office shall be created or be abolished, no tax or
assessment be imposed, no street, alley, or public ground be vacated, no real
estate or any interest therein be sold or disposed of, no private property be
taken for public use, nor any vote of the council be reconsidered or rescinded
at a special meeting, or any money appropriated except as otherwise provided by
this charter. Except in the case of emergency, no ordinance shall be finally
passed by the Council at the same meeting at which it is introduced.
   No ordinance shall be revised, altered, or amended by reference to the title
only, but the section or sections of the ordinance revised, altered or amended
shall be re-enacted and published. However, an ordinance may be repealed by
reference to its number and title only.
SECTION 6.4 WHEN ORDINANCES TAKE EFFECT.
   The effective date of ordinances shall be prescribed therein, but the
effective date shall not be earlier than fifteen (15) days after the enactment
nor before publication thereof, except that ordinances immediately necessary
for the preservation of the public peace, health or safety may be given earlier
effect by the affirmative vote of not less than three Councilpersons if three
or four Councilpersons are present at the meeting, and by the affirmative vote
of not less than four (4) Councilpersons if five (5) Councilpersons are present
at the meeting. In case an ordinance is given effect earlier than fifteen (15)
days after its enactment, all requirements for publication may be met by
posting copies thereof in conspicuous locations in three (3) public places in
the City; and the Clerk shall, immediately after such posting, enter in the
Ordinance Book under the record of the ordinance a certificate under his/her
hand stating the time and place of such publication by posting, which
certificate shall be prima facie evidence of the due publication and posting of
the ordinance.
SECTION 6.5 PENALTIES.
   The Council shall provide in each ordinance for the punishment of violations
thereof, but, unless permitted by law, no such punishment, excluding the costs
charged, shall exceed a fine of five hundred ($500.00) or imprisonment for not
more than ninety (90) days, or both, in the discretion of the Court.
Imprisonment for violation of ordinances may be in the County jail.
SECTION 6.6 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Each ordinance passed by the Council shall be published at least once within
fifteen (15) days after its adoption in a newspaper published in Sanilac
County. The publication of any ordinance in full after its final passage as a
part of the published proceedings of the Council shall constitute publication
of such ordinance as required herein. All ordinances and revisions,
alterations, or amendments of ordinances shall be recorded by the Clerk in a
book to be called "The Ordinance Book", and it shall be the duty of the Mayor
and Clerk to authenticate such records by their official signatures thereon.
SECTION 6.7 ORDINANCES GRANTING FRANCHISES AND CONTRACTS.
   Every ordinance or resolution granting any franchise or right to occupy or
use the streets, highways, bridges, or public places in the City for any
purpose shall be complete in the form in which it is finally passed, and remain
on file with the Clerk for public inspection for at least one (1) week before
the final passage or adoption thereof. No exclusive franchises or grant of
right to occupy or use the streets or public places of the City shall ever be
granted.
SECTION 6.8 COMPILATION AND CODIFICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Within two years after the adoption of this charter and at least once in
every ten years the Council shall direct and complete the compilation or
codification and the publication of the charter and all ordinances of the city
then in force, in loose-leaf or pamphlet form, and may provide for a reasonable
charge for copies thereof. No further publication of any such compilation or
codification shall be required for the validity thereof. In case the
compilation or codification of the ordinances of the City shall have been
maintained current and up-to-date during any ten-year period, no re-compilation
or re-codification of the ordinances of the City shall be required during or at
the end of such period.
   The copies of the ordinances and any compilation, code, or codes referred to
in the charter may be certified by the Clerk and, when so certified, shall be
competent evidence in all courts and legally established tribunals as to the
matter contained therein.
SECTION 6.9 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum on an ordinance
enacted by the Council may be had, by petition, as hereinafter provided.
SECTION 6.10 INITIATORY AND REFERENDARY PETITIONS.
   An initiatory or a referendary petition shall be signed by not less than
fifteen percent (15%) of the registered electors of the City, who have signed
said petition within six (6) months before date of filing the petition with the
Clerk. Before being circulated for signatures, all such petitions shall be
approved as to form by the Clerk. No such petition need be on one paper, but
may be the aggregate of two (2) or more petition papers. Each signer of a
petition shall sign his/her name and shall place thereon, after his/her name,
the location of his/her place of residence by street and number, or by other
customary designation. To each petition paper there shall be attached a sworn
affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of signers thereto and
that each signature hereon is the genuine signature of the person whose name it
purports to be, and that it was made in the presence of the affiant. Such
petition shall be filed with the Clerk who shall, within ten (10) days, canvass
the signatures thereon to determine the sufficiency thereof. If found to
contain an insufficient number of signatures of registered electors of the
City, or to be improper as to form or compliance with the provisions of this
section, the Clerk shall notify forthwith the person filing such petition and
ten (10) days from such notification shall be allowed for the filing of
supplemental petition papers. When found sufficient and proper, the Clerk shall
present the petition to the Council at its next regular meeting.
SECTION 6.11 COUNCIL PROCEDURE ON PETITIONS.
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the Clerk the
Council shall, within thirty (30) days, unless otherwise provided by law,
either,
   (a) Adopt the ordinance as submitted by an initiatory petition;
   (b) Repeal the ordinance referred to by a referendary petition, or
   (c) Instead determine to submit the proposal provided for in the petition to
the electors.
SECTION 6.12 SUBMISSION TO ELECTORS.
   Should the Council decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it shall
be submitted at the next election held in the city for any other purpose, or,
in the discretion of the Council, at a special election. The result shall be
determined by a majority vote of the electorate voting thereon, except in cases
where otherwise required by the constitution or laws of the State of Michigan.
SECTION 6.13 ORDINANCE SUSPENDED.
   The certification by the Clerk of the sufficiency of a referendary petition
within thirty (30) days after the passage of the ordinance to which such
petition refers shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance
adopted by the electorate through initiatory proceedings may not be amended or
repealed by the Council for a period of two (2) years after the date of the
election at which it was adopted. Should two (2) or more ordinances, adopted at
the same election, have conflicting provisions, the one receiving the highest
vote shall prevail as to those provisions.
SECTION 6.14 ORDINANCE RECORD.
   All ordinances when enacted shall be recorded by the Clerk in a book called,
"The Ordinance Book" and it shall be the duty of the Mayor and the Clerk to
authenticate such record by their official signatures.
SECTION 6.15 PUBLICATION OF ORDINANCES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all ordinances when enacted
shall be published forthwith by the Clerk in the manner provided by this
charter for publication of notices, and the Clerk shall enter his/her
certificate as to the manner and date of publication under each ordinance in
the ordinance book; provided that, if the Council shall direct the Clerk to
make a digest of any ordinance or amendment more than one thousand (1,000)
words in length; and when the Council shall approve such digest and shall order
its publication, such publication shall be deemed to be sufficient publication
of such ordinance or amendment under this section. The Council may adopt any
detailed technical regulations (e.g., building code, electric wiring code,
etc.) as a city ordinance by reference to any recognized standard code,
official or unofficial, or if such a code be written in detail for the City and
adopted as an ordinance, the publication of not less than one hundred (100)
copies in booklet form, available for public distribution at cost, shall be
sufficient publication of such ordinance, and any amendment to or revision of
such adopted code or detailed technical ordinance may be published in same
manner.
SECTION 6.16 COMPILATION AND REVISION.
   If the Council shall, by resolution, order a general revision and
compilation of all city ordinances, the printing and binding of not less than
one hundred (100) copies in booklet form available for public distribution at
cost shall be sufficient publication of such revised and compiled ordinances.
Such compilation shall contain an ordinance indicating, by number and title,
the ordinances of the City which are repealed and shall also contain an
ordinance establishing such revised and compiled ordinances, together with any
amendments thereto, and additions thereto, as the ordinances of the City and
designating when such ordinances shall become effective. Such revised
ordinances need not be recorded in "The Ordinance Book".
CHAPTER VII
MISCELLANEOUS POWER AND DUTIES
OF COUNCIL/RESTRICTIONS ON POWERS
OF COUNCIL
SECTION 7.1 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   Through the established departments and agencies of the city government,
together with any such department or agencies as may be created under authority
of this charter, the Council shall provide for the public peace and health and
for the safety of persons and property.
SECTION 7.2 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Except insofar as limited by State law and the provisions of this charter,
the Council shall have the power to establish, vacate, and use, and to patrol
and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges and public places whether
such public places be located within or without the limits of the City, and
space above and beneath them. Such power shall include, but not be limited to,
the proper policing and supervision thereof, to the licensing and regulation,
or the prohibition of the placing of signs, awnings, awning posts, and other
things which are of such nature as to impede or make dangerous the use of
sidewalks or streets, of the City; the licensing and regulation of the
construction and use of openings of sidewalks and streets and of all vaults,
structures, and excavations under the same.
   Provided, that when the Council shall deem it advisable to vacate,
discontinue or abolish any highway, street, lane, alley or public ground or any
part thereof, it shall appoint a time not less than four (4) weeks thereafter
when it shall meet and hear objections thereto; notice of such meetings, with a
copy of said resolution shall be given in such manner as shall be prescribed by
ordinance or resolution. Objections to such proposed action of the Council may
be filed with the Clerk in writing, and if such shall be filed, the street,
alley or public ground or any part thereof, shall not be vacated or
discontinued, except by vote of four (4) of the members of the Council.
SECTION 7.3 LICENSES.
   The Council shall by ordinance prescribe the terms and conditions upon which
licenses may be granted, suspended, or revoked; and may require an exact
payment of such reasonable sums for any licenses as it may deem proper. The
persons receiving the licenses shall, before the issuing thereof, execute a
bond to the City, when required by ordinance, in such sum and with such
securities as prescribed by such ordinance, conditioned for the faithful
observance of the charter of the City, and the ordinance under which the
license is granted.
SECTION 7.4 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   The Council shall have the power to acquire for the City by purchase, gift,
condemnation, lease, construction, or otherwise, either within or without its
corporate limits, and either within or without the County of Sanilac, property
of every type and nature which may be required for or incidental to the present
or future exercise of the purpose, powers and duties of the city government
established by this charter, and to maintain, develop, operate, lease and
dispose of such property, subject to any restrictions placed thereupon by law
or by this charter.
SECTION 7.5 CEMETERIES AND PARKS.
   The Council shall have power to enact all ordinances deemed necessary for
the establishment, maintenance and protection of all cemeteries and parks
(together with the improvements thereon and appurtenances thereto) now owned or
hereafter acquired by the city, either within or without its corporate limits
and like power with reference to all cemeteries within the city belonging to,
or under the control of any church, religious society, corporation, company or
association.
SECTION 7.6 TRUSTS.
   All trusts established for cemetery, park, or other municipal purposes shall
be used and continued in accordance with the terms of such trusts, subject to
the common law cy pres doctrine. The City may, in its discretion, receive and
hold any property in trust for cemetery, park or other municipal purposes and
shall apply the same to the execution of such trusts and for no other purposes
whatsoever, except in cases where the law cy pres doctrine shall apply.
SECTION 7.7 MOBILE HOMES AND HOUSE TRAILERS.
   The Council shall, by ordinance within ninety (90) days, if not already
enacted, provide for the regulation, pursuant to law, of the use, occupancy,
sanitation and parking of mobile homes, motor homes and house trailers within
the City. The right of the Council to so regulate any mobile home, motor home
or house trailer shall not be abrogated because of any detachment thereof from
its wheels or because of placing it on, or attaching it to, the ground by means
of any temporary or permanent foundation, or in any manner whatsoever.
SECTION 7.8 APPROPRIATION OF PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   Private property may be taken and appropriated, either within or without the
City, for any public use in connection with any acquisition, enlargement, or
extension of municipal public utilities, including, but not by the way of
limitation, utilities for supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage
treatment, and garbage disposal, or any of them; for the purpose of opening,
widening, altering, and extending streets, alleys and avenues; for the
construction of bridges, for public buildings and for other public structures;
for public grounds, parking spaces, parks, market places; for public housing
projects; or the improvement of waters and water courses within the City; for
sewers, drains and ditches; for public hospitals, pest houses, quarantine
grounds and public cemeteries; and for all other lawful and necessary public
use. The ownership of such property shall be acquired by the City by
negotiation and purchase, or in any other manner permitted by the general laws
of the State for the taking of private property for public use.
SECTION 7.9 ADOPTION OF ZONING ORDINANCE.
   The Council shall periodically review and update the existing zoning
ordinance. Insofar as may be, the provisions of such ordinance shall be
coordinated with the work of the City Planning Commission herein required to be
maintained by the City Council.
SECTION 7.10 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Council, or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office, or
officer of the city and to make investigations as to municipal affairs, and for
that purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the
production of books, papers and other evidence. Failure on the part of any
officer of the city to obey such subpoena to produce books, papers, or other
evidence as ordered under the provisions of this section shall constitute
misconduct in office. If such failure shall be on the part of any employee of
the city, the same shall constitute a misdemeanor.
SECTION 7.11 RESTRICTION ON POWERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   The Council shall not have the power to:
   (a) Make any contract with or give any official position to any person who
is in default to the City;
   (b) Sell any property of a value in excess of three hundred and 00/100
dollars ($300.00), as determined by the then market value, unless the said
property is offered for sale and an opportunity for free competition be given;
   (c) Sell any park, cemetery or any part thereof, or any property bordering
on a water front, or vacate any street or public place leading to a water
front;
   (d) Engage in any business enterprise requiring an investment of money in
excess of One Dollar ($1.00) per capita, unless approved by three-fifths (3/5)
of the electors voting thereon at any general or special election.
SECTION 7.12 RESTRICTION ON POWERS TO LEASE CITY PROPERTY.
   The City Council may not rent or lease public property for a period longer
than five (5) years unless such rental or lease agreement shall have been
referred to the people at a public hearing and approved by four-fifths (4/5) of
the Council. No such lease shall be accepted by the City unless the party
leasing or renting the property has filed with the Clerk his/her unconditional
acceptance of all the terms of such lease or rental agreement.
CHAPTER VIII
GENERAL FINANCIAL PROVISIONS
SECTION 8.1 BUDGET, AUDIT, PURCHASING FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July and end on
the thirtieth day of June of the following year. Such year shall constitute the
budget year of the city government.
SECTION 8.2 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   The City Administrator shall submit his/her recommended budget for the
ensuing fiscal year to the City Council on or before the first regular meeting
in May.
SECTION 8.3 BUDGET DOCUMENT.
   The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year. It shall include, at least, the following information:
   (a) Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for each department and
office of the City, showing the expenditures for corresponding items for the
last preceding and current fiscal years, with reasons for increases and
decreases recommended, as compared with appropriations for the current year;
   (b) Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the City, showing the
debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and unissued,
and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
   (c) Detailed estimates of all anticipated income of the City from sources
other than taxes and borrowing, with a comparative statement of the amounts
received by the City from each of the same or similar sources for the last
preceding and current fiscal years;
   (d) A statement of the estimated balance or deficit, as the case may be, for
the end of the current fiscal year;
   (e) An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which, together
with income from other sources, will be necessary to meet the proposed
expenditures;
   (f) Such other supporting schedules as the Council may deem necessary,
including all those required by 1968 PA 2 as amended by 1978 PA 621, #15, MCLA
141.435; MSA 5.3228 (35).
SECTION 8.4 BUDGET HEARING.
   A public hearing on the budget shall be held before its final adoption, at
such time and place as the Council shall direct, and notice of such public
hearing shall be published at least one (1) week in advance by the Clerk. A
copy of the proposed budget shall be published. The budget shall also be on
file and a summary of the budget available to the public for inspection during
office hours at the office of the Clerk for a period of not less than one (1)
week prior to such public hearing.
SECTION 8.5 ADOPTION OF BUDGET - TAX LIMIT.
   Not later than the second regular meeting in the month of May, the Council
shall, by ordinance, adopt the budget for the next fiscal year, and shall, in
such ordinance, make an appropriation for the money needed for municipal
purposes during the ensuing fiscal year of the City, and provide for a levy of
the amount necessary to be raised by taxes upon real and personal property for
municipal purposes, which levy shall not exceed two percent (2%) of the
assessed valuation of all real and personal property subject to taxation in the
City, except as to any additional taxes authorized by the laws of this State,
including excess of roll, a garbage tax, and any other authorized levies beyond
charter limitations. Should the Council take no final action during or prior to
said meeting, the budget as submitted shall be deemed to have been finally
adopted by the Council.
SECTION 8.6 BUDGET CONTROL.
   (a) Except for purposes which are to be financed by the issuance of bonds or
by special assessments, or for other purposes and chargeable to the budget
appropriation, no money shall be drawn from the general fund of the City
without an appropriation thereof, nor shall any obligations for the
expenditures of money be incurred without an appropriation covering all
payments which will be due under such obligation in the current year. The
Council by resolution may transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance, or
any portion thereof, from one department account, fund or agency to another.
   (b) Expenditures shall not be charged directly to any contingent or general
account. Instead, the necessary amount of the appropriation from such account
shall be transferred to the appropriate budget item or account and, the
expenditures then charged thereto.
   (c) At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and
more often if required by the Council, the City Administrator shall submit to
the Council data showing the relation between the estimated and actual revenues
and expenditures to date; and if it shall appear that the revenues are less
than anticipated, the Council may reduce appropriations, except amounts
required for debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to
keep expenditures within the revenues.
   (d)   (1) The Council may, by ordinance, establish and maintain accounts for
accumulating moneys to be used for acquiring, extending, altering,
constructing, or repairing public improvements or public buildings and for the
purchase of equipment of any type, in each case either for a specific item or
items or for future unspecified public improvements or equipment or both.
      (2) Appropriations to such accounts may be made by the Council either in
the annual appropriation resolution or, from time to time during the fiscal
year, from available funds, from whatever source derived, which are not
required for other appropriations or obligations of the City. Such accounts
shall be continuing accounts and the balances therein at the end of each fiscal
year shall remain a part thereof.
      (3) Moneys which are accumulated for the purposes of public improvements
or buildings, as set forth in subsection (e) (1) hereof, shall be used only at
the direction of the Council, and only for the purposes provided in the
original ordinance establishing such account, unless their use for some other
municipal purposes be authorized by a majority vote of the electors of the City
who vote on the proposition to amend such ordinance to provide for a change in
the use of the moneys in such account. After the purpose of any such account
has been fulfilled, any balance remaining therein may be transferred by the
Council to any other account of the City.
      (4) Moneys which are accumulated for the purpose of purchasing equipment,
as set forth in subsection (e) (1) hereof, shall be expended only for the
purpose provided in the ordinance establishing any such account or as such
ordinance may be amended from time to time.
SECTION 8.7 DEPOSITORY.
   The Council shall designate the depository or depositories for city funds,
and shall provide for the regular deposit of all city moneys. The Council shall
provide for such security for city deposits as is authorized or permitted by
the general laws of the State, except that personal surety bonds shall not be
deemed proper security.
SECTION 8.8 INDEPENDENT AUDIT; ANNUAL REPORT.
   An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the city government at
least annually and more frequently if deemed necessary by the Council. Such
audit shall be made by Certified Public Accountants, experienced in municipal
accounting, and who shall have no personal interest, direct or indirect, in the
fiscal affairs of the city government or of any of its officers. The balance
sheet of the audit shall be published within thirty (30) days after the receipt
of same. An annual report of the city business shall be made available to the
public by the City Administrator in such form as will disclose pertinent facts
concerning the activities and finances of the city government.
SECTION 8.9 PURCHASING PROCEDURE.
   The City Administrator shall be responsible for city purchasing. Competitive
prices for all purchases and public improvements shall be obtained, and the
purchase made from, or the contract awarded to the lowest competent bidder
deemed to be in the best interest of the City. On the recommendation of the
City Administrator or department head and four-fifths Council approval, the bid
requirement may be waived for the following reasons: 1) emergency purchases, 2)
purchase of used equipment, 3) one-of-a-kind equipment or merchandise, 4)
specialty services. However, formal sealed competitive bids shall be obtained
in all other transactions involving the expenditure of more than the amount
determined annually by City Council formal resolution in May of each year, and
the transaction evidenced by written contract submitted to and approved by the
Council; provided that in cases where the Council indicates by formal
resolution upon the written recommendation of the City Administrator or
department head that it is clearly to the advantage of the City to contract
without competitive bidding, it may so authorize. Such purchasing without
competitive bids should, however, be limited to the above exceptions and shall
be established by ordinance. The Council may also authorize the making of
public improvements or the performing of any other city work by any city
department or agency without competitive bidding. No contract shall be made
with any person, firm or corporation in default to the City.
(Amendment Approved at the General Election of November 2, 2010)
CHAPTER IX
TAXATION
SECTION 9.1 POWER TO TAX.
   In order to carry out the purposes, powers and duties of the city government
established by this charter, the City Council shall have the power to assess,
levy and collect taxes, rents, tolls and excises or specific taxes.
SECTION 9.2 SUBJECTS OF TAXATION.
   The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same
as for state, county and school purposes under the general law. Except as
otherwise provided by this charter, city taxes shall be levied, collected and
returned in the manner provided by State law
SECTION 9.3 EXEMPTIONS.
   No exemptions from taxation shall be allowed, except such as are expressly
required or permitted to be made by State law.
SECTION 9.4 TAX DAY AND ASSESSMENTS.
   Subject to the exceptions provided or permitted by statute, the taxable
status of persons and property shall be determined as of the 3lst day of
December, which shall be deemed the tax day. Assessments shall be based upon
the uniform application of established rules, techniques and procedures, which
the legislature may provide, under the provisions of Section 3, Article IX of
the Constitution of the State of Michigan of 1963.
SECTION 9.5 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The Board of Review shall be composed of three freeholders of the City who
shall meet the eligibility requirements for elective officers contained in
section 4.1 and who during their term of office shall not be city officers or
employees or be nominees or candidates for elective city office. The filing by
a member of the Board of Review of his/her nomination petition for an elective
office or the filing of a consent thereto shall constitute a resignation from
the Board of Review. On the first January meeting after the adoption of this
charter, the Commission shall appoint the Board of Review. The term of each
member of such Board shall be for three years, provided, however, that the
first term of the first member appointed shall be for one year, the first term
for the second member appointed shall be for two years, and the first term for
the third member appointed shall be for three years, so that one member of such
Board is appointed in each January thereafter.
   The appointment of members of such Board shall be based upon their knowledge
and experience in property valuation. The Council shall fix the compensation of
the members of the Board of Review. The Board shall annually select its own
chairperson for the ensuing year, and the Assessor shall be clerk of the Board
and shall be entitled to be heard at its sessions, but shall have no right to
vote.
SECTION 9.6 MEETING OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (a) The Board of Review shall meet in two sessions in each year at such
place as shall be designated by the Council.
      (1) The first session of the Board shall convene on the first Monday in
March of each year and shall be in session for two (2) days and continue in
session as much longer as may be necessary for the purpose of considering and
correcting the roll. In each case where the assessed value is increased or any
property added to the rolls by the Board, the Assessor shall, forthwith, give
notice to the owners thereof according to the last assessment roll of the City
by first class mail not later than midnight of the Thursday following the first
meeting of the Board, stating further the date, time, place and purpose of the
said second session.
      (2) The second session of the Board shall convene on the second Monday in
March of each year and shall continue in session for not less than six (6)
hours on each day and continue as much longer as may be necessary to consider
any protest filed by any property owner or his/ her agent either in writing or
in person.
   (b) No assessment shall be changed in any way at any session of the Board
except by a motion regularly made and adopted by a majority of the members of
said Board, which motion shall state the amount at which the assessment is
fixed as reviewed by the Board. Each day's proceedings of said Board shall be
read, approved and signed by the Chairperson thereof.
   (c) At the conclusion of the review of said rolls, and prior to the first
Monday in April following, said Board shall prepare a signed statement showing
the final amended amount in gross of the assessed valuations of the real and
personal property made by the Board.
SECTION 9.7 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   Notice of the time and place of the sessions of the Board of Review shall be
published by the Assessor at least ten (10) days prior to the first Monday in
March.
SECTION 9.8 ORGANIZATION AND FUNCTIONS OF THE BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (a) The Assessor shall attend the meetings of the Board of Review with the
privilege of participating therein, but without the right to vote upon any
decision of the Board.
   (b) It shall be the duty of the Assessor to keep a permanent record of all
proceedings, and to enter therein all resolutions and decisions of the Board.
   (c) A majority of the members of the Board shall constitute a quorum and it
shall choose its own Chairperson. The members of said Board shall take the
constitutional oath of office which shall be filed with the Clerk.
   (d) For the purpose of reviewing and correcting assessments, the Board of
Review shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respect as are
by the general tax law conferred upon and required of boards of review in
townships, in reviewing assessments in townships for township, state and county
taxes. It shall hear the complaints of all persons considering themselves
aggrieved by assessments, and if it shall appear that any person or property
has been wrongfully assessed, or omitted from the roll, the Board shall correct
the roll in such manner as it shall deem just. In all cases, the assessment
roll shall be reviewed according to the facts existing on tax day and no change
of the status of any property after said day shall be considered by the Board
in making its decisions. Except as otherwise provided by State law, no person
other than the Board of Review shall make or authorize any change upon or
additions or corrections to the assessment roll.
SECTION 9.9 ENDORSEMENT OF ROLL.
   After the Board shall complete its review of the assessment roll, a majority
of the members shall endorse thereon and sign a statement to the effect that
the same is the assessment roll of the City the year in which it has been
prepared. The omission of such endorsement shall not affect the validity of
such roll. Upon the completion of said roll and from and after midnight
following the last day for meeting of the Board of Review, the same shall be
the assessment roll of the City for county, school and city taxes and for any
other taxes on real and personal property that may be authorized by law and
shall be conclusively presumed by all courts and tribunals to be valid and
shall not be set aside except for causes set forth in the general laws of the
State.
SECTION 9.10 CLERK TO CERTIFY TAX LEVY.
   Within three (3) days after the Council has adopted the budget for the
ensuing year, the Clerk shall certify to the Assessor the total amount which
the Council determines shall be raised by general tax; all amounts of special
assessments which the Council requires to be assessed or reassessed upon any
property or against any person; and all other amounts which the Council may
determine shall be charged, assessed or reassessed against any person or
property.
SECTION 9.11 CITY TAX ROLL.
   After the last day for the meeting of the Board of Review, the Assessor
shall have prepared a copy of the assessment roll to be known as the "City Tax
Roll," and upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to be
raised, as provided in the preceding section, the Assessor shall proceed
forthwith to spread upon said tax roll the several amounts determined by the
Council to be charged, assessed or reassessed against persons or property; and
shall also proceed to spread the amounts of the general city tax according to
and in proportion to the several valuations set forth in said assessment roll.
To avoid fractions in computation on any tax roll, the Assessor may add to the
amount of the several taxes to be raised not more than the amount prescribed by
State law. Any excess created thereby on any tax roll shall belong to the City.
SECTION 9.12 TAX ROLL CERTIFIED FOR COLLECTION.
   After extending the city taxes aforesaid and not later than June 15th in
each year, the Assessor shall certify said tax roll, and the Mayor shall annex
his/her warrant thereto, directing and requiring the Treasurer to collect from
the several persons named in said roll the several sums mentioned therein
opposite their respective names as a tax or assessment and granting to him/her,
for the purpose of collecting the taxes, assessments, and charges on such roll,
all the powers and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the
collection of taxes under the general laws of the State.
SECTION 9.13 TAX LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   The city taxes thus assessed shall become at once a debt due to the City
from the person to whom they are assessed and the amounts assessed on any
interest in real property shall on the first day of July become a lien upon
such real property for such amounts and for all interest and other charges
thereon and all personal taxes shall become a first lien on all personal
property of the persons so assessed. Such tax liens shall take precedence over
all other claims, encumbrances and liens upon said personal property
whatsoever, whether created by chattel mortgage, execution, levy judgment or
otherwise, and whether arising before or after the assessment of said personal
taxes and no transfer of personal property assessed for taxes hereon shall
operate to divest or destroy such lien, except where such personal property is
actually sold in the regular course of retail trade.
SECTION 9.14 TAXES DUE - NOTIFICATION THEREOF.
   City taxes shall be due on the first day of July of each year. The treasurer
shall not be required to call upon the persons named in the city tax roll, nor
to make personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he/she shall give notice
to the taxpayers of the city, at least ten (10) days prior to the due date of
such taxes of each year, of the time when said taxes will be due for collection
by publication, at least once, in one or more of the newspapers published or
circulated in the City, or shall give such notice by first class mail addressed
to the owners of the property upon which taxes are assessed according to the
names of such owners and their addresses as indicated on the tax roll, which
notice shall be deemed sufficient for the payment of all taxes on said tax
roll. Such notice shall also state that payments of taxes may be made to him/
her at any time up to and including the 31st day of August without penalty and
that an addition of three and three-fourths (3.75%) percent shall be made on
the first day of September and three-fourths percent (.75%) on the first day of
each month thereafter that the tax remains unpaid until returned to the county
treasurer by the city treasurer. Failure on the part of the treasurer to give
said notice shall not invalidate the taxes on said tax roll nor release the
person or property assessed from the penalty provided in this chapter in case
of non-payment of the same.
SECTION 9.15 ADMINISTRATION FEES AND INTEREST.
   The taxes assessed in the general city tax roll, for each fiscal year, shall
be due and payable on the first day of July of each year, and may be paid at
any time on or before the last day of August of the same year, with an
administration fee of one percent (1%). An additional charge of three and
three-fourths (3.75%) percent shall be added to all unpaid general city taxes
on the first day of September of the same year, and thereafter an additional
charge of three-fourths of one percent (.75%) shall be made and added to all
such unpaid taxes on the first day of each month during which such taxes shall
remain unpaid, until return thereof, together with such accrued penalties or
charges, shall be made to the county treasurer. And the said county treasurer,
or auditor general of the State, as the case may be, shall account to the City
for all such accrued penalties of charges.
SECTION 9.16 SALE OF GOODS AND CHATTELS.
   In case any person shall neglect or refuse to pay any tax imposed upon a
personal property belonging to him/her, as aforesaid, the Treasurer shall levy
the same by distress and sale of such goods and chattels of said person liable
to pay the same, wherever such goods and chattels may be found, either in said
city or elsewhere within the State, first by giving public notice of such sale
in the manner and for the time required by law in the case of such sale made by
township treasurers, and for the purposes and for the collection of the taxes
aforesaid, the Treasurer may bring suit therefor and shall have all the power
and perform the like duties so far as applicable as are conferred upon or
required of township treasurers in the collection of taxes levied in townships.
SECTION 9.17 TAX ROLL TO COUNTY TREASURER.
   All city taxes on real property remaining uncollected by the Treasurer on
the first day of March following the date when said roll was received by him/
her, shall be returned to the county treasurer in the same manner and with like
effect as returns by township treasurers of township, school and county taxes.
Such returns shall be made upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the
Treasurer and shall include all the additional charges and fees hereinbefore
provided, which charges shall, in such return, be added to the amount assessed
in said tax roll against each description. The taxes thus returned shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to the county treasurer
are collected under the provisions of the general laws of the State and shall
be and remain a lien upon the lands against which they are assessed, until
paid.
SECTION 9.18 JEOPARDY ASSESSMENT.
   If the Treasurer finds or reasonably believes that any person who is, or may
be, liable for taxes upon personal property, the taxable situs of which was in
the City on tax day, intends to depart or has departed from the City; or to
remove or has removed therefrom personal property which is, or may be, liable
for taxation or to conceal or conceals him/herself or his/her property; or does
any other act tending to prejudice, or to render wholly or partly ineffectual,
the proceedings to collect such tax, he/she shall proceed to collect the same
as a jeopardy assessment in the manner provided by law.
SECTION 9.19 STATE, COUNTY AND SCHOOL TAXES.
   For the purpose of assessing, levying and collecting taxes for state, county
and school purposes, the City shall be considered the same as a township, and
all provisions of State law relative to the collection of and accounting for
such taxes shall apply. For these purposes the Treasurer shall perform the same
duties and have the same powers as are granted and imposed upon township
treasurers by law.
CHAPTER X
BORROWING POWER
SECTION 10.1 GENERAL BORROWING.
   Subject to the applicable provisions of State law and this charter, the
Council, by proper ordinance or resolution, may authorize the borrowing of
money for any purpose within the scope of the powers vested in the City and the
issuance of bonds of the City or other evidence of indebtedness therefor, and
may pledge the full faith, credit and resources of the City for the payment of
the obligation created therefor. The amount of such bonds which may be issued
shall not exceed the maximum permitted by State law.
SECTION 10.2 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT BONDS.
   The Council shall subject to the applicable provisions of the general laws
of the State, have authority to borrow money in anticipation of the payment of
special assessments made for the purpose of defraying the cost of any public
improvement, or in anticipation of the payment of any combination of such
special assessments, and to issue bonds therefor. Such special assessment bonds
may be an obligation of the special assessment district or districts or may be
both an obligation of the special assessment district or districts and a
general obligation of the City. All collection on each special assessment roll
or combination of rolls shall be set apart in a separate fund for the payment
of the principal and interest of the bond issued in anticipation of the payment
of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other purpose.
SECTION 10.3 MORTGAGE REVENUE BONDS.
   The City shall have power to issue mortgage bonds beyond the general limits
of bonded indebtedness prescribed by law for the acquiring, owning, purchasing,
constructing, improving or operating of any public utility; provided, such
mortgage bonds issued beyond the general limit of bonded indebtedness
prescribed by law shall not impose any liability upon such city but shall be
secured only upon the property and revenues of such public utility, including a
franchise, stating the terms upon which, in case of foreclosure, the purchaser
may operate the same, which franchise shall in no case extend for a longer
period than twenty (20) years from the date of the We of such utility and
franchise on foreclosure. Such mortgage bonds shall be sold to yield not to
exceed the limit set by State law. A sinking fund shall be created in the event
of the issuance of such bonds, by setting aside such percentage of the gross or
net earnings of the public utility as may be deemed sufficient for the payment
of the mortgage bonds at maturity, provided, however, than no such fund need be
created if serial bonds are issued of such nature that they are paid annually
and no sinking fund is required.
SECTION 10.4 OTHER BONDS.
   The City shall have power to issue revenue or other types of bonds in the
manner and for the purposes permitted by the present or future Constitutions
and general laws of the State of Michigan.
SECTION 10.5 PREPARATION AND RECORD.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement specifying the purpose of which the same is issued and it shall be
unlawful for any officer of the City to use the proceeds thereof for any other
purpose, and any officer who shall violate this provision shall be deemed
guilty of misconduct in office. All bonds and other evidences of indebtedness
issued by the City shall be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the Clerk,
under the seal of the City. Interest coupons may be executed with the facsimile
signatures of the Mayor and Clerk. A complete and detailed record of all bonds
and other evidences of indebtedness issued by the City shall be kept by the
Clerk. Upon the payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the same
shall be marked "Canceled".
SECTION 10.6 UNISSUED BONDS.
   No unissued bonds of the City shall be issued or sold to secure funds for
any purpose other than that for which they were specifically authorized, and if
any such bonds are not sold within five (5) years after authorization, such
authorization shall, as to such bonds, be null and void, and such bonds shall
be canceled.
SECTION 10.7 EMERGENCY LOANS.
   In case of fire, flood or other calamity, the Council may borrow for the
relief of the inhabitants of the City and for the preservation of municipal
property, a sum not to exceed the limit set by State law of all real and
personal property in the City, due in not more than three years if such loan
would cause the indebtedness of the City to exceed the limit fixed in this
charter.
SECTION 10.8 DEFERRED PAYMENT CONTRACTS.
   The Council may enter into installment contracts for the purchase of capital
equipment. Each of such contracts shall not extend over a period of greater
than ten (10) years nor shall the total amounts payable under such contracts
exceed the sum of three (3%) of the gross revenues in any one fiscal year of
the City. All such contracts now existing are hereby declared legal and binding
obligations of the City. All such deferred payments shall be included in the
budget for the year in which the installment is payable.
CHAPTER XI
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
SECTION 11.1 GENERAL POWER RELATIVE TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Council shall have the power to determine the necessity of any local or
public improvement and to determine that the whole or any part of the expense
thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted and shall so declare by resolution, provided that all special
assessments levied shall be based upon or be in proportion to the benefits
derived or to be derived. Such resolution shall state the estimated cost of the
improvement, what proportion of the cost thereof shall be paid by special
assessments, and what part, if any, shall be a general obligation of the City,
the number of installments in which assessments may be paid, and shall
designate the districts or land and premises upon which special assessments
shall be levied.
SECTION 11.2 DETAILED PROCEDURE TO BE FIXED BY ORDINANCE.
   The Council shall prescribe by general ordinance the complete special
assessment procedure concerning the initiation of projects, plans and
specification, estimates of costs, notice of hearings, making and confirming
assessment rolls and the correction of errors therein, collection of special
assessments, and any other matters concerning the making of improvements by the
special assessment method, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
SECTION 11.3 OBJECTION TO IMPROVEMENTS.
   If, at or prior to final confirmation of any special assessment, owners of
more than fifty percent (50%) of the frontage of privately owned real property
to be assessed for any improvement, or in the case of paving or similar
improvements owners of more than fifty percent (50%) of the frontage to be
assessed for any such improvement, shall object in writing to the proposed
improvement, the improvement shall not be made by the proceedings authorized by
this chapter without a four-fifth (4/5) vote of the members of the Council,
provided that this section shall not apply to sidewalk construction.
SECTION 11.4 HAZARDS AND NUISANCES.
   When any lot, building, or structure within the City, because of
accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontrolled growing of weeds, or age or
dilapidation, or because of any other condition or happening, becomes in the
opinion of the Council, a public hazard or nuisance which is dangerous to the
health or safety of the inhabitants of the City or of those of them residing or
habitually going near such lot, building, or structure, the Council may, after
investigation, give notice to the owner of the land upon which such hazard or
nuisance exists, or to the owner of the building or structure itself,
specifying the nature of the nuisance and requiring such owner to alter,
repair, tear down, or remove the nuisance promptly and within a time to be
specified by the Council, which shall be commensurate with the nature of the
nuisance. If at the expiration of the time limit in said notice, said owner has
not complied with the requirements thereof, or in any case where the owner of
the land or of the building or structure itself is not known, the Council may
order such hazard or nuisance abated by the proper department or agency of the
city which is qualified to do the work required, and the cost of such
abatement, to be assessed against the lot, premises, or description of real
property upon which such hazard or nuisance was located. Procedures to be
followed to make this section fully effective shall be established by
ordinance.
SECTION 11.5 LIEN NOT DESTROYED BY JUDGMENT.
   No judgment or decree, or any act of the Council vacating any special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the City upon the premises
assessed, for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged the
same, or as by a regular vote or proceedings might have been lawfully assessed
thereon.
CHAPTER XII
MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
SECTION 12.1 GENERAL POWERS RESPECTING UTILITIES.
   The City shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by the Constitution and general laws of the State of Michigan to
acquire, construct, own, operate, improve, enlarge, extend, repair and
maintain, either within or without its corporate limits, including, but not by
the way of limitation, public utilities for supplying water, light, heat,
power, gas, sewage treatment, and garbage disposal facilities, or any of them,
to the municipality and the inhabitants thereof; and also to sell and deliver
water, light, heat, power, gas and other public utility services without its
corporate limits to an amount not to exceed the limitations set by State law
and constitution.
SECTION 12.2 MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   All municipally owned or operated utilities shall be administered as a
regular department of the city government under the management and supervision
of the City Administrator.
SECTION 12.3 RATES.
   The Council shall have the power to fix, from time to time, such just and
equitable rates as may be deemed advisable for supplying the inhabitants of the
City and others with water; with electricity for light, heat and power; and
with such other utility services as the City may provide.
SECTION 12.4 UTILITY CHARGES - COLLECTION.
   The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for the collection of all public
utility charges made by the City. With respect to water, the City shall have
all the power granted to cities by Act 178 of the Public Acts of 1939, as
amended. When any person or persons, or any firm or corporation, shall fail or
refuse to pay to the City any sums due on utility bills, the service or
services upon which such delinquency exists shall be shut off or discontinued
and suit may be instituted by the City for the collection of the same in any
court of competent jurisdiction.
   Purchasers of services other than property owners shall be responsible for
payment of services received and the Council shall provide adequate ordinances
to safeguard timely collection of all charges and discontinuance of service in
cases of potential jeopardy.
   Any sums due the City on utility bills shall be charged against the real
property on which the service was rendered, and, if delinquent for a period of
six (6) months or more, shall be spread on the next regular City tax roll, and
shall become a lien of the same character and effect and collectible in the
same manner as the lien created by state, county, and school district taxes,
until paid.
SECTION 12.5 ACCOUNTS.
   Separate accounts, distinct from other city accounts, shall be kept for each
public utility owned or operated by the City in such manner as to show the true
and complete financial results of such City ownership or operation, or both,
including all assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. They shall show as
nearly as possible, the value of any service furnished to, or rendered by, any
such public utility by or to any other city department. The Council shall
annually cause a report to be made showing the financial results of such City
ownership or operation, or both, which report shall give for each utility the
information specified in this section, and such further information as the
Council shall deem expedient. Such report shall be on file in the office of the
Clerk for public inspection.
SECTION 12.6 DISPOSAL OF UTILITY PLANTS AND PROPERTY.
   The City shall not sell, exchange, lease, or in any way lien or dispose of
the property, easements, or other equipment, privilege, or asset belonging to
and appertaining to any utility which it may acquire, unless and except the
proposition for such purposes shall first have been submitted, at an election
held for that purpose in the manner provided in this charter, to the electors
of the City and approved by them by a three-fifths (3/5) majority vote of the
electors voting thereon. All contracts, negotiations, licenses, grants, leases
or other forms of transfer in violation of this provision shall be void and of
no effect as against the City. The provisions of this section shall not,
however, apply to the sale or exchange of any articles of equipment of any
city-owned utility as are worn out or useless, or which could, with advantage
to the service, be replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment.
CHAPTER XIII
MISCELLANEOUS
SECTION 13.1 CITY LIABILITY.
   The City shall not be liable for damages sustained by any person, either to
his/her person or property, by reason of the negligence of the City, its
officers or employees, nor by reason of any defective highway, street, bridge,
sidewalk, crosswalk or culvert, or by reason of any obstruction, ice, snow or
other encumbrance upon such street, sidewalk, crosswalk or public highway
situated in the City, unless such person shall serve or cause to be served,
within one hundred and twenty days (120) days after such injury shall have
occurred, a notice in writing, upon the City Clerk, which notice shall set
forth substantially the time and place of such injury, the extent of such
injury as far as the same has become known, the names and addresses of the
witnesses known at the time by claimant, and a statement that the person
receiving such injury intends to hold the City liable for such damages as may
have been sustained by him/ her. No person shall bring any action against the
City for any damages to person or property arising out of any of the reasons or
circumstances, aforesaid, unless he/she shall have first presented to the Clerk
his/her claim in writing and under oath setting forth particularly the nature
and extent of such injury and the amount of damages claimed by reason thereof,
which claim shall be presented to the Council by the Clerk and the Council be
given opportunity to act thereon, either by allowing or refusing to allow the
claim.
   It shall be a sufficient bar and answer in any court in action or proceeding
for the collection of any demand or claim against the City, under this section,
that the notice of injury and the verified proof of claim, as in this section
required, were not presented and filed within the time and in the manner as
herein provided.
SECTION 13.2 NO ESTOPPEL BY REPRESENTATION.
   No official of the City shall have power to make any representation or
recital of fact in any franchise, contract, document or agreement contrary to
any public record of the City. Any such representation shall be void and of no
effect as against the City.
SECTION 13.3 HEADINGS.
   The chapter and section headings used in this charter are for convenience
only and shall not be considered as part of this charter.
SECTION 13.4 TENSE.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context, all
words used in this charter indicating the present tense shall not be limited to
the time of the adoption of this charter, but shall extend to and include the
time of the happening of any event or requirement which provision is made
herein, either as a power, immunity, requirement or prohibition.
SECTION 13.5 RECORDS TO BE PUBLIC.
   All records of the City shall be public and shall be available for
inspection at all reasonable times.
SECTION 13.6 EFFECT OF ILLEGALITY OF ANY PART OF CHARTER.
   Should any provision or section, or portion thereof of this charter be held
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or
unconstitutional, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity
of this charter as a whole or of any remaining portion of such provision or
section, it being hereby declared to be the intent of the charter commission
and of the electors who voted thereon that such unconstitutionality or
illegality shall not affect the validity of any other part of this charter
except that specifically affected by such holding.
SECTION 13.7 AMENDMENTS.
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided in Act No.
279 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended. Should two (2) or more amendments,
adopted at the same election, have conflicting provisions, the one receiving
the largest affirmation vote shall prevail as to those provisions.
SECTION 13.8 VESTED RIGHTS CONTINUED.
   After the adoption of this charter, the City shall continue to be vested
with all property, monies, contracts, rights, credits, effects and the records,
files, books and papers belonging to it under and by virtue of the previous
charter, and with any additional property and rights as herein prescribed. No
right or liability, either in favor of or against the City existing at the time
this charter becomes effective, and no suit or prosecution of any character,
shall in any manner be affected by any change, but the same shall stand or
proceed as if no change had been made. All debts and liabilities of the City
shall continue to be its debts and liabilities, and all fines and penalties
imposed at the time of such change shall be collected and all licenses issued
by-the City shall be and remain in the same manner as if such change had not
been made.
SECTION 13.9 DEFINITION OF DEFAULT.
   The term DEFAULT shall include unpaid property taxes that remain unpaid
after February, and any debts to the City, including unpaid utility bills,
special assessments, or contractual obligations that remain unpaid for thirty
(30) days, unless the debt is the subject of an appeal or a court case.
(Amendment Approved at the General Election of November 2, 2010)
CHAPTER XIV
SCHEDULE
SECTION 14.1 ELECTION TO ADOPT THIS CHARTER.
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the
City of Croswell at the regular city election to be held on Tuesday, November
5, 1985. This election shall be conducted by the officers under the existing
city charter charged with the conduct and supervision of elections, following
usual election procedures; that the election commission shall prepare the
necessary ballots therefor, or in lieu thereof make use of voting machines.
SECTION 14.2 FORM OF BALLOT.
   The form of the ballot for the submission of this charter shall be as
follows:
   INSTRUCTION: A cross (X) in the square to the right of the word "Yes" is in
favor of the proposed charter, and a cross (X) in the square to the right of
the word "No" is against the proposed charter.
   "Shall the proposed revised charter for the City of Croswell, drafted by the
Charter Commission elected on December 15, 1984, be adopted?" YES( ) NO ( )
SECTION 14.3 EFFECTIVE DATE OF THIS CHARTER.
   This charter shall take effect on December 31, 1985.
   All officers, councilpersons and employees of the City shall continue in
their respective offices and employment as though they had been appointed,
elected or employed in the manner provided in this charter, and shall, in all
respects, be a subject to the provisions of this charter.
SECTION 14.4 STATUS OF SCHEDULE CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this schedule chapter is to inaugurate the government of the
City of Croswell under this charter and shall constitute a part of this charter
only to extent and for the time required to accomplish this end.
PROPOSED RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION.
   At a meeting of the Charter Commission of the City of Croswell held on the
16th day of July, 1985, the following resolution was offered by Commissioner
Bales and supported by Commissioner Thompson.
   RESOLVED, that the Charter Commission of the City of Croswell does hereby
adopt the foregoing proposed revised charter for the City of Croswell, and the
Secretary of this Commission is directed to transmit two copies of this charter
to the Governor of the State of Michigan for his approval in accordance with
statute, to file with the City Clerk a copy of this charter, to cause the
proposed charter to be published in the publication designated as for legal
advertisements by the Croswell City Council and to arrange for the presentation
of this charter to the electors of the City of Croswell in November of 1985 in
accordance with the provisions of the charter and the statutes.
   YEAS: Commissioners Brown, Nehmer, Wark, Bales, Thompson and Soule
   NAYS: None
   The Chairperson declared the foregoing resolution carried and requested the
members of the Charter Commission to authenticate said resolution and also the
two copies of the charter to be presented to the Governor and one copy to be
filed with the City Clerk. The members thereupon authenticated said resolution
and the copies of the charter to be presented to the Governor and filed with
the City Clerk by subscribing their names as follows:
   _____________________________________________________
   _____________________________________________________
   _____________________________________________________
   _____________________________________________________
   STATE OF MICHIGAN   )
   )   SS
   COUNTY OF SANILAC   )
   Diane A. Black, Clerk of the Charter Commission of the City of Croswell,
being only duly sworn affirms that at an election duly called and held in the
City of Croswell on the 15th day of December, 1985, the following named persons
were duly elected as Commissioners to revise the charter of the City of
Croswell, namely: Richard Bales, Robert Barnes, Patricia Brown, Kathryn
Meneghin, Harold Nehmer, Rebecca Rivera, Gregory Soule, LaWayne Thompson, Purl
Wark; and that she personally knows each of the above signatures, and that the
signatures authenticating the foregoing resolution are the genuine signatures
of the members of the Charter Commission, and that they did in fact serve on
such Charter Commission and those present voted for the foregoing resolution on
July l6th, 1985, and that said Charter Commission directed that said charter be
presented to the electors of the City of Croswell in accordance with the
requirements of this charter and the laws of the State of Michigan.
   _______________________________________________
   Clerk for the Charter Commission of the City of Croswell
   Dated:_________________________________
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this____day of____________,1985.
   Notary Public Sanilac County, Michigan My Commission Expires:
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices or officers
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.98   Municipal civil infractions
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Croswell shall be
designated as the "Croswell Code."
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, or MUNICIPALITY. The City of Croswell,
Michigan.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City of Croswell City Council.
   CODE,   THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as
modified by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or
sections.
   COUNTY. Sanilac County, Michigan.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED .
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation, co-
partnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless the construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND  or  OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, the
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of the act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, the
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES OR OFFICERS.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when use of another word or words was
clearly intended to express the intent, the spelling shall be corrected and the
word or words shall be supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with
the manifest intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though
the correct words were contained in the text, as originally published. No
alteration shall be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the
nature or extent of the error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state or federal laws, shall
be the official time within this municipality for the transaction of all
municipal business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of the act or the giving of the notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
is a Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the legislative body requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the legislative body shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of the chapter or section. In addition to the
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10,
passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am.
Ord. 25, passed 1-1-85)
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (M.C.L.A. § 15.231) (Ord. 10, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-
85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a "Statutory Reference"
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information.
   Example:
   § 39.01 PUBLIC RECORDS AVAILABLE.
      This municipality shall make available to any person for inspection or
copying all public records, unless otherwise exempted by state law.
   Statutory reference:
      For provisions concerning the inspection of public records, see Public
Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
§ 10.98 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to adopt procedures for
municipal civil infractions for enforcement of the City of Croswell ordinances
as allowed under the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, Act 236 of 1961; Chapter
87, Municipal Civil Infractions.
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms are defined as used in this section
unless context dictates otherwise:
      ACT. The Michigan Revised Judicature Act, 1961 PA 236 as amended.
      AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. The City Manager or designee, the Police Chief,
or other personnel of the city authorized by this code or any ordinance to
issue municipal civil infraction citations or municipal civil infraction
violation notices.
      BUREAU. The City of Croswell Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau as
established by this section.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant
is alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
      UNIFORM LAW CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared by an
authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court regarding the
occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the person
cited.
      UNIFORM MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written notice prepared by
an authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the City of
Croswell Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs,
if any, prescribed for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by
the city, as authorized under §§ 8396 and 8707(6) of the Act.
   (C)   Municipal civil infraction action and notice of violation
commencement. A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the
issuance by an authorized city official of:
      (1)   A uniform municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court; or
      (2)   A notice of violation directing the alleged violator to appear at
the City of Croswell Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau located at the
city's principal office.
   (D)   Municipal civil infraction citations and notice of violation issuance
and service. Municipal civil infraction citations and notice of violations
shall be issued and served by authorized city officials as provided by the
Revised Judicature Act of 1961, Act 236 of 1961, Chapter 87, Municipal Civil
Infractions ("the Act") which is adopted by reference. Any provision of this
section in conflict or interpretation, the Act shall prevail.
   (E)   Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau.
      (1)   Bureau established. The City of Croswell establishes a Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau ("Bureau") as authorized under the Act to accept
admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infractions/Notices of
Violation in response to municipal civil infraction violation notices issued
and served by authorized city officials, and to collect and retain civil fines
and costs as prescribed by this code or any ordinance.
      (2)   Location, supervision, employees, rules and regulations. The Bureau
shall be located at the City of Croswell City Hall and shall be under the
supervision and control of the Treasurer of the City of Croswell. The
Treasurer, subject to the approval of the Council, shall adopt rules and
regulations for the operation of the Bureau and appoint any necessary qualified
employees to administer the Bureau.
      (3)   Disposition of violations. The City Manager or Chief of Police may
dispose of municipal civil infraction citations or notice of violations for
which a fine has been scheduled and for which a municipal civil infraction has
been issued. Nothing in this division shall prevent or restrict an official of
the City of Croswell from issuing a municipal civil infraction citation for any
violation or from prosecuting any violation in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
      (4)   The Bureau shall only have the authority to accept admissions of
responsibility for civil infractions/notice violations of a city code violation
and to collect and retain the scheduled civil fines/costs for such violations
specified pursuant to this section or other applicable sections.
   (F)   Sanctions, costs and fees. Any authorized city official may issue a
notice of violation or municipal civil infraction citation as authorized under
Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended and other
applicable laws. Unless otherwise provided by a specific section, the fines,
costs and fees are as follows:
      (1)   Notice violation. The sanction for a notice violation designated as
a municipal civil infraction shall be payable at the Violation Bureau.
         (a)   The fine for any notice offense which is a first offense shall
be $50.00.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second offense shall be
$100.00.
         (c)   The fine for a third or subsequent offense shall be $500.00.
      (2)   Municipal civil infraction. The sanction for a municipal civil
infraction shall be payable at the Court. Notice shall be provided pursuant to
the Municipal Civil Infraction Statute Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public
Acts of 1961, as amended, and other applicable laws.
      (3)   Municipal civil infraction penalty. The sanction for a municipal
civil infraction fine shall be up to $500.00 pursuant to the Court's schedule
of fines, plus costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions and injunctive
relief, as authorized under the Municipal Civil Infraction Statute Chapter 87
of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, as amended, and other applicable
laws.
      (4)   Misdemeanor failure to appear. A defendant who fails to answer a
citation or notice to appear in court for a municipal civil infraction is a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine up to $500.00 or imprisonment for up to 90
days, or both.
      (5)   Misdemeanor for a third offense. A defendant who is found
responsible for two prior civil infraction citations for the same city
ordinance designated as a municipal civil infraction within a three-year period
from the date of a third violation of the ordinance is a misdemeanor punishable
by a fine up to $500.00 or imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both.
      (6)   Nothing in this division shall require any authorized city official
to first issue a Notice of Violation or municipal civil citation. Nothing in
this section shall prevent the enforcing officer or the City Attorney from
filing an action in a court of proper jurisdiction for damages or equitable
relief as allowed by law.
(Ord. 331, passed 8-17-15; Am. Ord. 346, passed 12–6-21)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any provision of this code for
which another penalty is not specifically provided shall, upon conviction, be
subject to a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for not more than 90 days,
or both fine and imprisonment. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   GENERAL ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
         
31.   COMMISSIONS
         
32.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
         
33.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
         
34.   TAX-EXEMPT HOUSING
         
35.   UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY
         
36.   FINANCES AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL ADMINISTRATION PROVISIONS
Section
Establishment of City Administrator
   
30.01   Appointment and qualifications
   
30.02   Functions and duties
   
30.03   Removal
   
30.04   Residency
   
30.05   Compensation
   
30.06   Acting City Administrator
Minimum Employment Standards for Law Enforcement Officers
   
30.20   State regulations adopted by reference
Registration of Electors
   
30.30   Purpose
ESTABLISHMENT OF CITY ADMINISTRATOR
§ 30.01 APPOINTMENT AND QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Council shall appoint a City Administrator within 90 days after any
vacancy exists in this position. The City Administrator shall hold office at
the pleasure of a majority of the Council but shall not be removed from office
during a period of 60 days following a regular city election except for cause
shown. He shall be selected on the basis of his executive and administrative
qualifications, with special reference to his training and experience.
(Ord. 212, passed - - )
 § 30.02 FUNCTIONS AND DUTIES.
   The City Administrator shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
government. His functions and duties shall be as follows.
   (A)   To be responsible to the Council for the efficient administration of
all administrative departments of the city government.
   (B)   To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced.
   (C)   To appoint, with the consent of the Council, the heads of the several
city departments whose appointment is not otherwise specified in the charter,
and to direct and supervise those department heads.
   (D)   To give the proper department or officials ample notice of the
expiration or termination of any franchises, contracts or agreements.
   (E)   To see that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the city or
its inhabitants in any public utility franchise, or in any contract, are
faithfully kept and performed.
   (F)   To recommend an annual budget to the Council and to administer the
budget as finally adopted under policies formulated by the Council, and to keep
the Council fully advised at all times as to the financial conditions and needs
of the city.
   (G)   To recommend to the Council for adoption any measures as he may deem
necessary or expedient, and to attend Council meetings with the right to take
part in discussions but not to vote.
   (H)   To exercise and perform all administrative functions of the city that
are not imposed by the Charter or ordinance upon some other official.
   (I)   To be responsible for the maintenance of a system of accounts of the
city which shall conform to any uniform system required by law and governmental
accounting. He shall submit financial statements to the Council quarterly, or
more often as the Council directs.
   (J)   To act as purchasing agent for the city and in that capacity shall
purchase all supplies and equipment and dispose of the same in accordance with
procedures established by the Council.
   (K)   To perform other duties as may be prescribed by the Charter or
required of him by ordinance or by direction of the Council.
(Ord. 212, passed - - )
Cross-Reference: 
   Functions and duties of City Administrator, see Charter, Section
3.9.
§ 30.03 REMOVAL.
   The Council may remove the Administrator from office in accordance with the
following procedures.
   (A)   The Council shall adopt by affirmative vote of a majority of all its
members a preliminary resolution which shall state the reasons for removal and
may suspend the Administrator from duty for a period not to exceed 45 days. A
copy of the resolution shall be delivered promptly to the Administrator.
   (B)   Within five days after a copy of the resolution is delivered to the
Administrator, he may file with the Council a written request for a public
hearing. This hearing shall be held at a Council meeting not earlier than 15
days nor later than 30 days after the request is filed. The Administrator may
file with the Council a written reply not later than five days before the
hearing.
   (C)   The Council may adopt a final resolution of removal, which may be made
effective immediately, by affirmative vote of a majority of all its members, at
any time after five days from the date when a copy of the preliminary
resolution was delivered to the Administrator, if he has not requested a public
hearing, or at any time after the public hearing if he has requested one.
   (D)   The Administrator shall continue to receive his salary until the
effective date of a final resolution of removal. The action of the Council in
suspending or removing the Administrator shall not be subject to review by any
court or agency.
(Ord. 212, passed - - )
§ 30.04 RESIDENCY.
   The City Administrator need not be a resident of the city or state at the
time of his appointment, but may reside outside the city while in office only
with the approval of the Council.
(Ord. 212, passed - - )
§ 30.05 TERM OF OFFICE; COMPENSATION.
   The City Council shall appoint an Administrator for an indefinite period and
fix his compensation. The Council may enter into a written contractual
agreement with the Administrator setting forth compensation, benefits, specific
duties, tenure and such other matters as are mutually agreed upon by the
parties to the agreement.
(Ord. 212, passed - - )
§ 30.06 ACTING CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Council shall, on or before the date of the next regular Council
meeting, appoint or designate an Acting City Administrator during the period of
a vacancy in the office, or during the absence of the City Administrator from
the city. The Acting City Administrator shall, while he is in office, have all
the responsibilities, duties, functions and authority of the City Administrator
with commensurate remuneration for services rendered.
(Ord. 212, passed - - )
MINIMUM EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS
§ 30.20 STATE REGULATIONS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
    The minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers, as
established and adopted by the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training
Council is adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein.
REGISTRATION OF ELECTORS
§ 30.30 PURPOSE.
   A central place of registration of the electors of the city is located in
the City Hall.
('77 Code, 17.131) (Ord. 49, passed 10-2-16; Am. Ord. passed 2-2-98)
CHAPTER 31: COMMISSIONS
Section
Local Officer Compensation Commission
   
31.01   Commission established; purpose
   
31.02   Membership
   
31.03   Compensation
   
31.04   Officers and procedures
   
31.05   Powers
City Plan Commission
   
31.15   Creation
   
31.16   Membership
   
31.17   Meetings and records
   
31.18   Contract for services
   
31.19   Powers and duties
   
31.20   Gifts
   
31.21   Reports and recommendations
LOCAL OFFICER COMPENSATION COMMISSION
§ 31.01 COMMISSION ESTABLISHED; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Council hereby establishes a Local Officer's Compensation
Commission for the city pursuant to Public Act 8 of 1972, being M.C.L.A.
117.5c, as amended.
('77 Code, § 17.101)
   (B)   The purpose of the Commission is to determine the salaries of all
local elected officials.
('77 Code, § 17.102)
(Ord. 191, eff. 2-15-73)
§ 31.02 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission shall consist of five members, who are registered
electors of the city, who shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by majority of the City Council. However, no member of the City
Council or person otherwise employed by the city or member of the immediate
family of any member or employee shall be eligible to be a member of the
Commission.
('77 Code, § 17.103)
   (B)   The members shall be initially appointed as follows.
      (1)   One member for a term of five years.
      (2)   One member for a term of four years.
      (3)   One member for a term of three years.
      (4)   One member for a term of two years.
      (5)   One member for a term of one year.
   (C)   Annually, thereafter, the Mayor, with the approval of the Council,
shall appoint one member of the Commission for a term of five years. All
original members shall be appointed within 30 days after the effective date of
this chapter. Thereafter, members shall be appointed before October 1 of the
year of appointment.
('77 Code, § 17.104)
   (D)   Vacancies shall be reported to the City Council and shall be filled
for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as original
appointments.
('77 Code, § 17.105)
(Ord. 191, eff. 2-15-73)
§ 31.03 COMPENSATION.
   The members of the Commission shall receive no compensation, but shall be
entitled to their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties.
('77 Code, § 17.106) (Ord. 191, eff. 2-15-73)
§ 31.04 OFFICERS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Immediately after their appointment, the members shall meet and
organize by electing one of their members Chairman and electing any other
officers as they may deem necessary. They shall also have the power to adopt
any by-laws and regulations as they deem necessary for the carrying on of the
business of the Commission.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for conducting its business. However, the Commission shall take no action or
make determinations without a concurrence of a majority of the members
appointed and serving on the Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall meet for not more than 15 session days in 1973
and every odd-numbered year thereafter. A SESSION DAY means any calendar day on
which the Commission meets and a quorum is present.
('77 Code, § 17.107) (Ord. 191, eff. 2-15-73)
§ 31.05 POWERS.
   (A)   The Commission shall have the power to and shall determine the
salaries of all elected officials of the city. The determination of salaries
shall become effective 30 days after being filed with the City Clerk, unless
rejected by a vote of two-thirds of the City Council. In case of such
rejection, the existing salary shall prevail. The Commission shall make its
determination within 45 calendar days of its first meeting.
   (B)   The Commission shall not be responsible for review, approval or
accounting for routine expense allowances or other expenses paid to elected
officials in addition to salary.
('77 Code, § 17.108) (Ord. 191, eff. 2-15-73)
CITY PLAN COMMISSION
§ 31.15 CREATION.
   A City Planning Commission is hereby created pursuant to the Public Act 285
of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 through 125.45, as amended. It shall be known
as the Croswell City Plan Commission.
('77 Code, § 14.751) (Ord. 135, eff 7-1-55)
§ 31.16 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Plan Commission shall consist of nine members who shall represent
insofar as possible different professions or occupations. The members shall be
appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City Council. The term
of each member of the Commission shall be three years, except that in the case
of the first Commission appointed hereunder, three of the members shall be
appointed for a term of one year, three for a term of two years, and three for
a term of three years. All appointments shall date from July 1, 1955. The
member shall hold office until his successor has been appointed. Vacancies
occurring other than through the expiration of term shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Mayor subject to approval by the City Council. The Mayor
may designate not more than two additional city employees to serve ex officio
on the Commission and to assist the Commission in its work.
('77 Code, § 14.752)
   (B)   All members of the City Plan Commission, including city employees
serving ex officio, shall serve without compensation.
('77 Code, § 14.753)
   (C)   Members of the City Plan Commission may, after public hearing, be
removed by the Mayor for inefficiency, neglect of duty, of malfeasance in
office, provided that the removal be approved by the Commission.
('77 Code, § 14.754)
(Ord. 135, eff 7-1-55)
§ 31.17 MEETINGS AND RECORDS.
   The Commission shall annually elect its Chairman from amongst the appointed
members and create and fill other offices as it may determine. The Commission
shall hold at least one regular meeting each month. It shall adopt rules for
transaction of business and shall keep a record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings and determinations, which record shall be a public
record and open to inspection in the Office of the City Clerk.
('77 Code, § 14.755) (Ord. 135, eff 7-1-55)
§ 31.18 CONTRACT FOR SERVICES.
   The Commission may contract with city planners, engineers, architects, and
other consultants for any specialized services as it may require. In addition,
the services of regular city employees may be obtained as found necessary for
its work. Provided, however, the City Plan Commission shall not expend any
funds or enter into any contracts or agreements for expenditures in excess of
amounts appropriated for the purpose by the City Council. The City Council may
appropriate such funds for city planning as it may deem advisable.
('77 Code, § 14.756) (Ord. 135, eff 7-1-55)
§ 31.19 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Commission shall have powers concerning the preparation and adoption of
a master plan or any part thereof, the making of surveys as a basis for the
plan, the approval of public improvements, the carrying out of educational and
publicity programs, the approval of plats and such other rights, powers, duties
and responsibilities as are provided in Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.31 through 125.45, as amended.
('77 Code, § 14.757) (Ord. 135, eff 7-1-55)
§ 31.20 GIFTS.
   The Commission may receive gifts for purposes of carrying out its objectives
and may expend any funds received in the form of a gift in such manner as it
may deem proper.
('77 Code, § 14.758) (Ord. 135, eff 7-1-55)
§ 31.21 REPORTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The Commission shall make reports and recommendations to the City Council,
provided, however, that no such recommendation shall be binding upon the City
Council.
('77 Code, § 14.759) (Ord. 135, eff 7-1-55)
CHAPTER 32: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
32.01   Purpose
   
32.02   Limitations
   
32.03   Authority of City Council
   
32.04   Determination of costs; payment
   
32.05   Assignment of costs
   
32.06   Publication of assessment notice; due date
Cross-reference:
   Charter provisions concerning special assessments, see Charter, Sections
11.1-
11.5. 
§ 32.01 PURPOSE.
   The people of the City of Croswell shall have the right to petition the
Council for the construction of sidewalks, sewers, water lines and for the
paving of roads, and streets. The petition shall provide that the work shall be
financed by special assessment. Upon the filing of such a petition, the
department in charge of the improvement shall be directed by the Council to
prepare a plan of the improvement, showing the property to be benefitted and
the estimated costs thereof. If the Council shall deem the improvement
necessary, it may, in its discretion, order the Treasurer to have drawn up a
tentative assessment roll based upon the estimate furnished by the department
in charge of the improvement.
('77 Code, § 17.116) (Ord. 187, eff. 8-1-72)
§ 32.02 LIMITATIONS.
   The Treasurer shall be directed that the property to be benefitted shall
bear the cost of the improvement within the following maximum limitations.
   (A)   Sidewalks, 100% of the cost of new construction.
   (B)   Sewers, 100% of the cost of new construction.
   (C)   Water lines, 100% of the cost of new construction except where
crossing public right-of-way.
   (D)   Paving of roads and streets, 50% of the cost of new paving.
   (E)   All other special assessments for related construction shall be
limited as the Treasurer may direct.
('77 Code, § 17.117) (Ord. 187, eff. 8-1-72)
§ 32.03 AUTHORITY OF CITY COUNCIL.
   The Council may, in its discretion, order the improvement to be constructed
and the costs to be assessed, or it may order the Treasurer to proceed to
collect in advance not less than 25% of the city's estimated cost of the
proposed improvement, based upon the tentative assessment roll. If 25% or more
is not paid within 60 days after the receipt of the tentative roll, then the
Treasurer shall report the deficiency to the Council. The Council may order the
improvement canceled and the deposits refunded. If 25% or more is collected,
the Treasurer shall inform the Council, which may order the department
concerned to proceed with the improvement.
('77 Code, § 17.118) (Ord. 187, eff. 8-1-72)
§ 32.04 DETERMINATION OF COSTS; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Upon completion of the project, and its acceptance by the Council, the
assessable costs shall be paid by the Treasurer out of funds collected in
advance through the tentative assessment. The balance, if any, shall be paid
out of funds to be provided by the Council. The funds may be paid from a
revolving account.
('77 Code, § 17.119)
   (B)   Upon completion of the improvement and acceptance by the Council, the
department in charge shall certify to the Council the total cost of the
improvement. The City Treasurer shall then have prepared an assessment roll for
the improvement as provided for by the Charter, §§
32.05 & 32.06 and any other ordinance of the city. The Treasurer shall apply
all monies collected to the fund provided by the Council.
('77 Code, § 17.120)
(Ord. 187, eff. 8-1-72)
§ 32.05 ASSIGNMENT OF COSTS.
   (A)   Assessment rolls to provide for the foregoing improvements shall be
made in four or more equal parts, not to exceed ten, and such parts of the
assessment roll shall be numbered consecutively.
('77 Code, § 17.121)
   (B)   The Treasurer shall assess against each lot or parcel of land a part
of the cost of the improvement which is assessable, as the Treasurer finds that
that lot or parcel of land benefitted from the improvement.
('77 Code, § 17.122)
   (C)   Upon completing the assessment roll, and prior to collecting, the
Treasurer shall give notice in a daily paper of general distribution in the
city that the roll is completed and that it will be in his office for seven
days from the date of publication of the notice. At the expiration of the seven
days the Treasurer shall sign the assessment roll and report it to the Council.
The Council may either confirm the roll or refer it back to the Treasurer for
correction or revision. When the roll is corrected to the Council's
satisfaction it shall, by resolution, confirm it. After confirmation, the
assessment shall constitute a lien, until paid, upon the lot or parcel of land
listed in the assessment roll.
('77 Code, § 17.123)
(Ord. 187, eff. 8-1-72)
§ 32.06 PUBLICATION OF ASSESSMENT NOTICE; DUE DATE.
   (A)   After the assessment has been confirmed, the Council shall order
notice of the roll to be printed in a weekly paper of general distribution in
the city once a week for three consecutive weeks. The Treasurer shall within
this time mail a copy of the notice to each person whose name appears on the
roll at the address of the person appearing on the general tax roll for the
assessment district in which the improvement was constructed.
('77 Code, § 17.124)
   (B)   Part one of the assessment shall be due and payable within 30 days of
the notice. All other parts, not to exceed nine, as determined in §
32.05(A), supra, shall become due and payable on each succeeding year and on
the anniversary date that part one became due and payable. Any part unpaid for
30 days or more after being due and payable shall bear interest at the rate of
6% per annum.
('77 Code, § 17.125)
(Ord. 187, eff. 8-1-72)
CHAPTER 33: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT
Section
Downtown Development Authority
   
33.01   Establishment; responsibilities
   
33.02   Boundaries of district
   
33.03   Board membership; terms of office
   
33.04   Board procedures
   
33.05   Sources of revenue
   
33.06   Authority subject to state law
Development Plan and Tax Increment Plan
   
33.20   Plans adopted by reference
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT; RESPONSIBILITIES.
   Pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1561 through
125.1680, as amended, the city hereby establishes a Downtown Development
Authority which shall be established and regulated pursuant to Act 197. The
Authority shall analyze the impact of economic changes and growth in the
Downtown Development District and develop plans in coordination with the
various city commissions dealing with the growth and development of the
community. The Authority shall implement a development plan in the Downtown
District as necessary to achieve the purposes of the Downtown Development Act
and in accordance with the powers granted by the aforementioned Public Act.
(Ord. 252, passed 11-13-90)
§ 33.02 BOUNDARIES OF DISTRICT.
   The boundaries of the Downtown District within which the Downtown
Development Authority shall exercise its powers shall be as follows.
   (A)   Land in sections 29, and 32, town 10 north, range east, City of
Croswell and Lexington Township, Sanilac County, Michigan, described as:
   (B)   Beginning at a point 1021.10 feet east and 33 feet north of the north
quarter corner of section 32; thence south 00 degrees 47' 00" west 272.00 feet
along the west line of the "First Addition of the S.M. Fry Subdivision"; thence
west 210.00 feet to the northwest corner of Lot 9 of the "S.M. Fry
Subdivision"; thence south 00 degrees 47' 00" west 172.00 feet along the east
right-of-way line of center street to a point where it intersects the south
right-of-way line of Fry Street; thence west 811.12 feet to the north - south ¼
line of section 32; thence south 0 degrees 47' west 360 feet; thence south 89
degrees 48' 50" westerly 661.75 feet to the westerly shoreline of the Black
River and the southeast corner of outlot "B" of "Assessor's Plat Number 1, City
of Croswell"; thence north 36 degrees 11' 58" west 313.96 feet along the
easterly line of said outlot"B" to the southeast corner of Lot 61 of said
"Assessor's Plat Number 1"; thence north 35 degrees 58' 38" west 205.90 feet
along the easterly line of said Lot 61 to the southeast corner of Lot 59 of
said "Assessor's Plat Number 1"; thence north 31 degrees 27' 56" west 352.99
feet along the easterly line of said Lot 59 to the northeast corner of said Lot
59 and the southerly right-of-way line of Highway M-90; thence south 89 degrees
47' 34" west 63.1 feet thence north westerly 33 feet to the southeast corner of
Lot 47 of "Assessor's Plat Number 1"; thence north 18 degrees 04' 30" west
165.14 feet to the easterly right-of-way of Davis Street; thence north 1
degrees 50' 30" east 267.2 feet to the southwest corner of Lot 27; thence north
18 degrees 24'30" east 322.60 feet to the southeast corner of Lot 28; thence
north 40 degrees 29' 30" east 276.65 feet to the southern most point of Lot 31;
thence north easterly 83' to the southern most point of Lot 32; thence north 56
degrees 04' 30" east 368.3 feet; thence north 67 degrees 20' 30" east 322.40
feet; thence north 2 degrees 56' 30"west 265.99 feet to the centerline of Old
State Street; thence east to the centerline of Black River; thence along the
centerline of Black River to the southwesterly point of Lot 12 of the "Mills,
Pratt and Houghtalin's Addition" to the City of Croswell; thence east along the
south line of Lots 12 & 11 of Block 3 of said plat to the southwest corner of
Lot 10, Block 3 of said Plat; thence southerly along the west line of Lot 9,
Block 3 of said Plat 200 feet to the southwest corner of Lot 9, Block 3; thence
east along the south line of Lot 9 and Lot 8, Block 3 of said Plat to the
southeast corner of Lot 8; thence south 132 feet to the midpoint of the east
line of Lot 3, Block 4 of the "Mills, Pratt and Houghtalin's Addition"; thence
east along the north right-of-way line of Maple Street to the west right-of-way
line at Howard Street; thence north 7 degrees 25' west 198 feet along the west
line of Howard to the southeast corner of Lot 28, Block 6 of the "Moss, Mills,
and Gaiges Plat of Croswell"; thence south 88 degrees 45' east 66 feet to the
east side of Howard right-of-way and the northwest corner of Lot 6, lock 7 of
the "Moss, Mills and Gaiges Plat of Croswell"; thence east along the north line
of Lot 6, Block 7 of said Plat to the northeast corner of said Lot 6; thence
due east to east right-of-way line of the Huron and Eastern Railroad; thence
southeasterly along said right-of-way line to the south right-of-way line of
Ward Street; thence north 88 degrees 45' west along the south right-of-way line
of Ward Street to the northwest corner of Lot 10, Block 2, "Moss, Mills, and
Gaiges Plat of Croswell"; thence southeasterly along the east right-of-way of
Brown Street to the southwest corner of Lot 4, Block 2 of said Plat; thence
south 3 degrees 15' west 66 feet to the south right-of-way line of Sanborn
Street; thence south 86 degrees 45' east 396 feet; to the west right-of-way
line of McMoran Street; thence south 11 degrees east 1283 feet along said west
right-of-way line to the north right-of-way line of State Street; thence south
89 degrees 59' 32" west 625 feet along said north right-of-way line; thence
south 1374 feet to a point 258 feet east and 33 feet north of the south quarter
corner of Section 29, said point being on the north right-of-way line of Peck
Road (M-90); thence north 89 degrees 43' east to the point of beginning,
containing 150 acres, more or less.
(Ord. 252, passed 11-13-90)
§ 33.03 BOARD MEMBERSHIP; TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   Board membership.
      (1)   The affairs of the Downtown Development Authority shall be governed
by a Board consisting of the City Administrator and eight additional members,
all of which shall be appointed by the City Council. The Chairman of the
Downtown Development Authority shall be a voting member of the Board.
      (2)   At the first regular meeting of the City Council after publication
of Ordinance No. 252, there shall be appointed by the City Council eight
members to serve as the Board of the Downtown Development Authority together
with the City Administrator. Qualifications for membership on the Board shall
be set forth in the Downtown Development Act.
   (B)   Terms. 
      (1)   The other members appointed as the Board of Downtown Development
Authority shall be appointed in accordance with the following schedule.
         (a)   Two members whose terms expire in one year.
         (b)   Two members whose terms expire in two years.
         (c)   Two members whose terms expire in three years.
         (d)   Two members whose terms expire in four years.
      (2)   Prior to the expiration date and each year thereafter, the City
Council shall appoint members to the Board for a term of four years each to
fill the places of those whose terms have expired. Further, the City Council
shall fill vacancies as they exist on the Board from time to time.
      (3)   A Board member shall take office by swearing and subscribing to the
constitutional oath of office.
(Ord. 252, passed 11-13-90)
§ 33.04 BOARD PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Within 30 days after the appointment of the Board of Downtown
Development Authority, the Authority shall call a meeting. The meeting shall
open with a call for an election of Board officers which shall consist of the
following officers.
      (1)   Chairman.
      (2)   Vice Chairman.
      (3)   Treasurer.
      (4)   Secretary.
   (B)   The Board shall prepare by-laws to govern the procedure of meetings
and powers of its officers which shall be submitted to the City Council for
approval prior to their adoption by the Board.
(Ord. 252, passed 11-13-90)
§ 33.05 SOURCES OF REVENUE.
   (A)   The activities of the Authority shall be financed from one or more of
the funding sources set out in Section 11 of Public Act 197 of 1975, being
M.C.L.A. § 125.1661, as amended.
   (B)   The administration and financial accounting shall be conducted by the
city administration staff in accordance with state regulations and city
auditing requirements.
   (C)   There shall be established a Downtown Development Fund. The fund shall
have an annual budget in keeping with the Croswell City Charter.
(Ord. 252, passed 11-13-90)
Cross-reference:
   General financial and budget provisions, see Charter, sections
8.1-
8.9
§ 33.06 AUTHORITY SUBJECT TO STATE LAW.
   The Downtown Development Authority is to be controlled and regulated by the
Downtown Development Authority Act, being Public Act 197 of 1975, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1561 through 125.1680, as amended.
(Ord. 252, passed 11-13-90)
DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND TAX INCREMENT PLAN
§ 33.20 PLANS ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1561 through
125.1680, as amended, the city hereby adopts a Development Plan and Tax
Increment Plan for the City of Croswell Downtown Authority. The plans are
adopted herein by reference, and are available for inspection during regular
business hours at the City Clerk's office.
   (B)   The Development Plan and Tax Increment Plan are adopted pursuant to
proper public notice and posting consistent with Section 18 of Public Act 197
of 1975 (M.C.L.A. 125.1668) and after a public hearing on the Development Plan
and Tax Increment Plan was held on December 27, 1990, and on January 30, 2017
as to the amended plan, pursuant to Section 19 of Public Act 197 of 1975
(M.C.L.A. 125.1669) and at the hearings the City Council determined pursuant to
Section 19 of Public Act 197 the following:
      (1)   The amended and restated plan meets the requirements set forth in
the Act.
      (2)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and
the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
      (3)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of the Act.
      (4)   The land included within the development area to be acquired, if
any, is reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the amended and
restated plan and the purposes of the Act in an efficient and economically
satisfactory manner.
      (5)   The development plan and tax increment plan, as amended and
restated, are in reasonable accord with the Master Plan of the municipality.
      (6)   Public services such as fire and police protection and utilities
are or will be adequate to service the project area.
      (7)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections, and
utilities, to the extent required by the amended and restated plan, are
reasonably necessary for the project and for the city.
   (C)   Any amendment to the approved development plan and tax increment plan
must be submitted by the Downtown Development Authority to the City Council for
approval or rejection.
(Ord. 256, passed 12-27-90; Am. Ord. 335, passed 3-6-17)
CHAPTER 34: TAX-EXEMPT HOUSING
Section
   
34.01   Title
   
34.02   Purpose
   
34.03   Definitions
   
34.04   Class of housing developments
   
34.05   Resolution; contractual effect
   
34.06   Establishment of annual service charge; payment
   
34.07   Duration
§ 34.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the "City Tax Exemption Ordinance."
(Ord. 291, passed 6-15-98)
§ 34.02 PURPOSE.
   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its elderly
citizens of low income/citizens of low income and to encourage the development
of such housing by providing for a service charge in lieu of property taxes in
accordance with the State Housing Development Authority Act of 1966 (Public Act
346 of 1966, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 et seq; MSA 116.114(l) et seq).
The city is authorized by this act to establish or change the service charge to
be paid in lieu of taxes by any or all classes of housing exempt from taxation
under this act at any amount it chooses not to exceed the taxes that would be
paid but for this act. It is further acknowledged that housing for elderly
persons of low income/housing for persons of low income is a public necessity,
and as the city will be benefitted and improved by this housing, the
encouragement of the same by providing certain real estate tax exemption for
housing is a valid public purpose; further, that the continuance of the
provisions of this chapter for tax exemption and the service charge in lieu of
taxes during the periods contemplated in this chapter are essential to the
determination of economic feasibility of housing developments which are
constructed and financed in reliance on this chapter and service charge.
(Ord. 291, passed 6-15-98)
§ 34.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, Public Act 346 of 1966, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. 125.1401 et seq.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENTS. The total collections during an agreed annual period
from all occupants of a housing development representing rents or occupancy
charges exclusive of charges for gas, electricity, heat or other utilities
furnished to the occupants.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   CONTRACT-RENTS. As defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 8 of the U.S.
Housing Act of 19317, as amended.
   ELDERLY. A single person who is 55 years of age or older or a household in
which a least one member is 55 years of age or older and all other members are
50 years of age or older.
   ELDERLY PERSONS OF LOW INCOME. Elderly persons who meet the eligibility
criteria set by the AUTHORITY and/or federal government.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for ELDERLY PERSONS OF LOW INCOME /persons of low income and any
elements of other housing, commercial, recreational, industrial, communal, and
educational facilities as the AUTHORITY determines improve the quality of the
development as it relates to housing for persons of low income.
   HUD. The Department of Housing and Urban Development of the United States
Government.
   MORTGAGE LOAN. A loan to be made by the Authority or Farmers Home
Administration or the Department of Housing and Urban Development to the
SPONSOR for the construction and permanent financing of the Housing
Development, or a MORTGAGE LOAN insured by HUD .
   PERSONS OF LOW INCOME. Persons and families eligible to move into a Housing
Development.
   SPONSOR. Persons or entities which have applied to either the Authority for
a MORTGAGE LOAN to finance a Housing Development or to another governmental
entity for a federally-aided loan, as defined by the ACT .
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service
which are paid by the Housing Development.
(Ord. 291, passed 6-15-98)
§ 34.04 CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS.
   It is determined that the class of housing developments to which the tax
exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu of
taxes shall be multiple dwellings for elderly persons of low income/persons of
low income which are financed or assisted by the Authority or which are
federally aided, as defined in the Act.
(Ord. 291, passed 6-15-98)
§ 34.05 RESOLUTION; CONTRACTUAL EFFECT.
   A Resolution of the City Council granting tax-exempt status, as provided in
this chapter, shall be adopted for each housing development qualified under the
terms and provisions of this chapter. Notwithstanding the provisions of section
15 (a) (5) of the Act, to the contrary, a contract between the city and the
sponsor with the Authority as third-party beneficiary under the contract, to
provide tax exemption and accept payments in lieu of taxes as previously
described will be effectuated by enactment of such a resolution by the City
Council.
(Ord. 291, passed 6-15-98)
§ 34.06 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE; PAYMENT.
   (A)   Annual service charge. Housing developments for elderly persons of low
income/persons of low income and the property on which they shall be
constructed shall be exempt from all property taxes from and after the
commencement of construction. The city, acknowledging that the sponsor and the
Authority, in the case of a sponsor receiving a mortgage loan from the
Authority, have established the economic feasibility of the housing development
in reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of this chapter and the
qualification of the housing developments for exemption from all property
taxes, and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this chapter, will
accept payment of an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all
property taxes. However, this does not apply to any city-provided utilities and
rubbish removal. The annual service charge shall be equal to between 4% and 10%
of the difference between contract rents actually collected and utilities for
federally-aided housing developments, or the difference between the annual
shelter rent actually collected and utilities for Authority-aided housing
developments.
   (B)   Payment. The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under this
section shall be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are
payable to the city, except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before
September 15 of each year.
(Ord. 291, passed 6-15-98)
§ 34.07 DURATION.
   The tax-exempt status of a housing development approved for such status by
resolution of the City Council shall remain in effect and shall not terminate
so long as the mortgage loan for such housing development remains outstanding
and unpaid, or for such period as the Authority or other governmental entity
has any interest in the property; provided, the construction of the housing
development commences within one year from the effective date of the resolution
of the City Council approving the housing development for tax-exempt status as
provided in this chapter, or any other time period as may be determined by
Council.
(Ord. 291, passed 6-15-98)
CHAPTER 35: UNCLAIMED PERSONAL PROPERTY
Section
   
35.01   Disposition of recovered property
   
35.02   Annual itemized list
   
35.03   Claims of ownership
   
35.04   Public auction
   
35.05   Dispositions of proceeds
§ 35.01 DISPOSITION OF RECOVERED PROPERTY.
   The City Administrator shall have the authority to sell and dispose of
personal property recovered by the police or other city departments for which
no claim has been made for more than one year in accordance with the provisions
of this chapter and the City Charter.
('77 Code, § 22.100) (Ord. 215, passed - - )
§ 35.02 ANNUAL ITEMIZED LIST.
   The Chief of Police and other department supervisors possessing unclaimed
personal property shall furnish to the City Administrator annually, no later
than September 30, an itemized list of all personal property which has been
recovered by the departments, for which no claim has been made to the Police
Department by any person for more than one year.
('77 Code, § 22.101) (Ord. 215, passed - - )
§ 35.03 CLAIMS OF OWNERSHIP.
   If, prior to the sale, as set forth in §
34.04, a claim is made by any person, of ownership of a particular item which
was to be sold at the public auction, the item shall be removed from the items
to be sold until the claim can be diligently checked.
('77 Code, § 22.104) (Ord. 215, passed - - )
§ 35.04 PUBLIC AUCTION.
   (A)   The City Administrator may, in his/her discretion, order the Chief of
Police to sell any unclaimed personal property at public auction.
('77 Code, § 22.102)
   (B)   After authorization by the City Administrator, the Chief of Police
shall set the date, time and place for a public auction of all property
recovered by the departments for which no claim has been made for more than one
year.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall cause a notice of sale containing a general
description of items to be sold to be published in a newspaper of general
circulation in the city at least two weeks prior to the sale.
('77 Code, § 22.103)
   (D)   The services of a professional auctioneer may be used if this is
deemed necessary and desirable.
('77 Code, § 22.105)
(Ord. 215, passed - - )
§ 35.05 DISPOSITION OF PROCEEDS.
   The proceeds of the sale shall become part of the general fund of the city.
('77 Code, § 22.106) (Ord. 215, passed - - )
CHAPTER 36: FINANCES AND REVENUE
Section
Emergency Service Cost Recovery
   
36.01   Definitions
   
36.02   Liability for expense of emergency response
   
36.03   Collection and billing of emergency response costs
EMERGENCY SERVICE COST RECOVERY
§ 36.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COSTS OF THE EMERGENCY RESPONSE.  The costs incurred in responding to an
emergency event, except as may be limited by a policy adopted by the governing
body. Costs include labor, equipment usage, and materials associated with
investigation, removal, repair, abatement, mitigation, monitoring, cleanup,
analysis, collection costs and attorney fees.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. Any response by the fire department, entity operating at
the request of the fire department, emergency medical service or any other
responder as set forth in the National Incident Management System (Homeland
Security Presidential Directive 5), to any call, including medical emergencies,
for assistance from any person, property owner, government agency, emergency
service provider, or other entity.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS RESPONSE. Any response to an event involving any
chemical, substance, compound, mixture, or other material defined as,
designated as, listed as, or having the same characteristics as any substance,
compound, mixture or material listed as hazardous under federal or state law or
regulation.
   PERSON.  Any individual, partnership, corporation, limited liability
corporation, association, consortium, governmental entity, or any other legal
entity.
(Ord. 323, passed 6-3-13)
§ 36.02 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   Any owner, lessor, lessee, or operator of any property who is
responsible for, or contributes to an emergency response shall be liable for
the expense of the emergency response.
   (B)   Any registered owner, lessor, lessee, or operator of any motor
vehicle, the operation of which results in an emergency response, shall be
liable for the expense of the emergency response.
   (C)   Any public or private utility whose activities or facilities
necessitated an emergency response shall be liable for the expense of the
emergency response.
   (D)   Any person owning, maintaining or operating a railroad shall be liable
for the expense of the emergency response.
   (E)   When an emergency response directly benefits more than one person or
property, each person and/or property benefitted shall be jointly and severally
liable for the payment of the expense of the emergency response. For purposes
of an emergency response involving a motor vehicle, occupants other than the
operator and the registered owner shall not be liable for the expense of the
emergency response.
   (F)   Cost recovery for any hazardous materials response may be pursued in a
civil action, pursuant to the Natural Resource Environmental Protection Act.
   (G)   Any person, whose activities or condition necessitated transportation
from the city emergency medical services, shall be liable for the expense of
that transportation.
(Ord. 323, passed 6-3-13)
§ 36.03 COLLECTION AND BILLING OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE COSTS.
   (A)   Collection recovery costs incurred by the city, including billing and
collections costs, court costs, and attorney fees, shall be assessed to a
responsible party who fails to remit reimbursement for the costs of the
provided emergency services in accordance with the billing procedures of this
chapter.
   (B)   Upon a determination of responsibility for an emergency response, the
fire chief, or his/her designee, shall prepare and deliver an invoice of the
charges imposed to the responsible party or parties for payment. The
responsible party shall reimburse the city, as directed by the invoice, for the
charges set forth in the invoice within 30 days. The responsible party shall be
liable for any costs associated with the collection of the unpaid balance that
remains after the expiration of 30 days.
(Ord. 323, passed 6-3-13)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GARBAGE
         
51.   SEWERS
         
52.   WATER
         
53.   ELECTRIC SERVICES
         
54.   PUBLIC UTILITY RATES
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Purpose and intent
   
50.02   Definitions
   
50.03   Collection
   
50.04   Storage and receptacles
   
50.05   Industrial, commercial and multi-family garbage
   
50.06   Rates, charges, lien
   
50.07   Removal by city
   
50.08   Prohibitions
Hazardous Materials Cleanup
   
50.20   Definitions
   
50.21   Duty to remove
   
50.22   Failure to remove
   
50.23   Enforcement
   
50.24   Cost of Haz Mat team
 
   
50.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of the City Council that this chapter be liberally
construed for the purpose of providing a sanitary and satisfactory method of
collecting and disposing of municipal wastes. The Supervisor is authorized to
make rules and regulations as from time to time appear to him to be necessary
to carry out this intent; provided, however, that the rules do not conflict
with this or other city ordinances.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98)
§ 50.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAGS.  Plastic sacks designed for refuse with sufficient wall strength to
maintain physical integrity when lifted by the top; securely tied at the top
for collection with a capacity not to exceed 30 gallons.
   CONTAINERS.
      (1)   REUSABLE CONTAINER.  A receptacle made of plastic, metal, or
fiberglass with a capacity not to exceed 30 gallons, with a tight-fitting lid,
and handles of adequate strength for lifting.
      (2)   NON-REUSABLE CONTAINER.  Plastic trash bags as defined in this
section.
   GARBAGE.  The putrescible and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Waste designated as hazardous by the United States
Environmental Protection Agency or appropriate state agency.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT.  A single-family inhabitable unit with facilities which
are used or are intended to be used for living, sleeping, cooking and eating.
This includes buildings containing two or less separate or contiguous single
family dwelling units with each unit to be treated separately for purposes of
billing.
   RUBBISH. The miscellaneous waste material resulting from housekeeping
including ashes, cartons, tin cans, metal, small packing boxes and waste
papers, excluding discarded materials from building construction or repair
unless adequately bundled. Refuse from industrial plants or hazardous materials
are specifically excluded.
   SUPERVISOR. The Supervisor of the Division of Sanitation of the Department
of Public Works, or other duly appointed representative of the City Council.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98)
§ 50.03 COLLECTION.
   Garbage and rubbish shall be collected by city-approved contractors or city
personnel at such times and pursuant to rules and regulations established by
the Supervisor. The rules and regulations shall be published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city at least once before they become effective, and
as often as the Supervisor shall deem necessary.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98)
§ 50.04 STORAGE AND RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Receptacles for garbage and rubbish shall be kept on the premises in
the rear within an approved distance of the rear entrance to the dwelling or
premises. Containers shall be placed at the curb on pick-up days, readily
accessible to the collectors. Where approved liners are used, it will only be
necessary to place the liner and contents at the curb, securely bound at the
top.
   (B)   Garbage receptacles shall be of substantial approved construction,
free of holes, with proper handles and a tight fitting cover and shall have a
capacity and weight limit as specified in rules and regulations established by
the Supervisor. Garbage receptacles shall be adequate in size and number to
hold one week's accumulation. All garbage receptacles shall be maintained in a
sanitary condition.
   (C)   Rubbish receptacles shall be bags or containers made of metal or
plastic with handles, in good condition, and shall have a capacity and weight
limit as specified in rules and regulations established by the Supervisor.
Rubbish containers not complying with these requirements may be collected as
rubbish without notice, except that garbage receptacles may be used as rubbish
containers.
   (D)   Accumulations of rubbish larger than can be contained in a receptacle
shall be securely tied in compact bundles not to exceed the size and weight as
specified in rules and regulations established by the Supervisor and placed in
a location designated by the Supervisor.
   (E)   Containers shall be placed at the curb no earlier than 12:00 p.m. the
afternoon prior to the scheduled pick-up day. Empty containers shall not be
left at the curb more than 12 hours.
   (F)   Ashes will be removed only when placed in rubbish containers as herein
specified and shall not be hot or smoldering.
   (G)   No person shall move, disturb, damage or destroy any garbage or
rubbish receptacle, or the contents of any garbage or rubbish receptacle or
rubbish bundle, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (H)   No person or firm shall include any waste in their garbage or rubbish
which is subject to special disposal requirements by state or federal
regulations.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 INDUSTRIAL, COMMERCIAL AND MULTIPLE-FAMILY GARBAGE.
   The owners, managers, occupants or other responsible parties for all
industrial and commercial firms and all multiple-family dwellings shall make
satisfactory arrangements for the disposal of garbage and rubbish at their own
expense in full compliance with all other provisions of this chapter regarding
the storage and accumulation of garbage and rubbish and all other applicable
local, state and federal laws. For purposes of this section, MULTIPLE-FAMILY
DWELLING shall mean a structure with three or more residential dwellings.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 RATES, CHARGES, LIEN.
   (A)   The rates for garbage and rubbish collection shall be established by
Council resolution and amended at such times as deemed necessary by the City
Council to defray the cost of collection and administration.
   (B)   Statements shall be rendered at such times and in a manner as shall be
established by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   All charges for garbage and rubbish services shall be payable on or
before the due date shown on the statement. If any garbage or rubbish charges
shall not be paid on or before the due date shown on the statement, there shall
be added to the amount shown on the statement a collection fee of 1½% per
month. The collection fee shall be charged to the account of the customer and
added to the next succeeding statement, and payment shall be enforced in the
same manner as the original charges.
   (D)   The charges for garbage and rubbish service are hereby made a lien on
all premises served thereby. Whenever any charge against any premises shall be
delinquent for at least 60 days, the city official in charge of collection
thereof shall certify the delinquency to the City Assessor and the charges
shall be entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against the premises and
shall be collected, and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as special
assessments against the premises.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98)
§ 50.07 REMOVAL BY CITY.
   In the event any person, firm or corporation shall violate § 50.04, the
city, after giving three days written notice of its intention to do so, may
cause the removal of garbage or accumulated rubbish or other waste material,
and charge the cost thereof to the owner, occupant or lessee of the premises.
If the charges are not paid within 30 days after the owner, occupant or lessee
of the premises is served with a written notice of the amount of the charges,
the city shall levy a special assessment for the amount of the charges against
the parcel or real estate from which the paper, rubbish, or other waste
material was removed. The collection of the charges or the levying of a special
assessment shall in no manner affect the liability of the owner, occupant or
lessee for criminal prosecution for violation of the provision of the chapter
or to the criminal penalties herein provided.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98)
§ 50.08 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall bury or burn any garbage, or deposit garbage or
rubbish upon any public way or upon any property owned by another or in any
body of water within the city, nor shall any person deposit or place any
garbage upon any premise owned or occupied by him unless the garbage be
enclosed in a suitable container as herein required.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
accumulate paper, rubbish, cardboard, cartons, waste material, or garbage
within the city in a manner so as to endanger public health or safety, create a
nuisance or a fire hazard.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98) Penalty, see §
50.99
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS CLEANUP
§ 50.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAZ MAT TEAM. The Fire Department or other trained personnel pursuant to an
agreement with the city equipped to provide emergency service in situations
involving the suspected or actual spill, leak, accident or other similar
occurrence involving hazardous materials.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Material, waste, or a combination of waste and material
including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material which because
of its quantity, quality, concentration or other physical, chemical or general
characteristics pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human health
or the environment if improperly treated, stored, transported, disposed of or
otherwise managed.
(Ord. 301, passed 4-15-02)
§ 50.21 DUTY TO REMOVE.
   It shall be the duty of any person, who causes or has ownership or control
of any property on which a spill, leakage or other dissemination of hazardous
materials occurs to remove immediately such hazardous materials and undertake
and complete a total cleanup of the area in such a manner as to insure that all
leakage, spillage or other dissemination of hazardous material is fully removed
and the area is fully restored to its condition prior to the placement,
leakage, spillage or other dissemination of such hazardous materials.
(Ord. 301, passed 4-15-02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.22 FAILURE TO REMOVE.
   Any person, who fails to comply completely with §
50.21 shall be liable to the city, its agents, contractors, and employees for
any costs incurred in the removal and cleanup of any and all hazardous
materials and the restoration of the property to its former condition.
(Ord. 301, passed 4-15-02) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.23 ENFORCEMENT.
   In the event any person fails to remove any such hazardous material, after
having been notified by the city to remove the materials, within the time
specified in the notice, the city shall have the right to enter into the
property and remove and conduct a cleanup of all such hazardous materials
either by city employees or by contractors and agents of the city. All costs of
the removal shall be the responsibility of the person owning or in possession
of the property. In the event that the costs are not paid, the city may take
whatever collection steps may be deemed appropriate including the placement of
all such charges on the tax roll to be added to the taxes for the property for
the next tax year as for real property taxes.
(Ord. 301, passed 4-15-02)
§ 50.24 COST OF HAZ MAT TEAM.
   In the event the Haz Mat team is used for any aspects of the removal,
cleanup, control or monitoring of any leakage, spillage or other incident
involving hazardous materials, the owner or person in charge or possession of
the property shall be responsible to the city for the cost incurred in the use
of the Haz Mat team. In the event the owner or person in charge fails to pay
promptly the costs, the city may take such collection efforts as may be
appropriate, including the placement of the charges on the tax roll to be added
to the taxes for the property for the next tax year as for real property
values.
(Ord. 301, passed 4-15-02)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of
not more than $100 and the costs of prosecution or, in default of the payment
thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
to exceed 90 days for each offense, or by both fine and costs and imprisonment
in the discretion of the court. A separate offense shall be deemed committed
upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 289, eff. 3-2-98; Am. Ord. 289-1, passed 12-7-98)
CHAPTER 51: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Purpose
   
51.002   Definitions
   
51.003   Unsanitary discharge to natural outlets prohibited
   
51.004   Private sewage disposal
   
51.005   Building sewer and connections
   
51.006   Disposal at wastewater treatment plant; fees
   
51.007   Damaging, destroying, or tampering with sewage works equipment
   
51.008   Severability and conflict
Process Wastewater
   
51.020   Wastewater contribution information
   
51.021   Discharge conditions
   
51.022   Excessive discharges; dilution prohibition
   
51.023   City notifications
   
51.024   Monitoring facilities
   
51.025   Inspection and sampling
   
51.026   Pretreatment
   
51.027   Confidential information
Use of Public Sewers
   
51.040   General POTW discharge prohibitions
   
51.041   Specific pollutant limitations
   
51.042   National categorical pretreatment standards
   
51.043   State requirements
   
51.044   City right of revision
   
51.045   Unpolluted drainage
   
51.046   Grease oil and sand interceptors
   
51.047   Surcharge
   
51.048   Measurements, tests and analyses
   
51.049   Determination of sewage flow
   
51.050   Additional responsibilities of industrial users
   
51.051   Accidental discharges, slug discharges, upsets and bypasses
   
51.052   Special agreements
   
51.053   Wastewater contribution permits
   
51.054   User notification requirements
   
51.055   Record keeping
Rates
   
51.065   Establishment; basis for computations
   
51.066   Levy of rates; collection; no free service
   
51.067   Annual audit
   
51.068   Billing
   
51.069   Delinquency
   
51.070   Annual notification
Municipal Authority; Enforcement and Administration
   
51.080   Municipal liability
   
51.081   Power and authority of inspectors
   
51.082   Violation notice; orders
   
51.083   Wastewater Board of Appeals
   
51.084   Enforcement
   
51.085   Records retention; city records
   
51.086   Violations
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 PURPOSE.
   The objectives of this chapter are as follows.
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater system
which will interfere with the normal operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting municipal sludge.
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater system
which do not receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and which will pass
through the system into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be
incompatible with the system.
   (C)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
   (D)   To ensure the city’s compliance with requirements for its industrial
pretreatment program (IPP), as promulgated in R 323.2301 through R 323.2317 of
the Michigan Administrative Code and in 40 CFR Part 403 of the U.S. Code of
Regulations. The R 323.2301 through R 323.2317 of the Michigan Adminstrative
Code and regulations of 40 CFR Part 403 are hereby incorporated by reference
and made an integral part of this chapter.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
§ 51.002 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 USC 1251 et seq.
      APPLICABLE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Sanilac County Health
Department.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. One of the following, as
applicable:
         (a)   If the user is a corporation, a principal executive officer of
at least the level of vice president;
         (b)   If the user is a partnership or proprietorship, a general
partner or proprietor respectively;
         (c)   If the user is a government facility, then the Director or
highest official appointed to oversee the operation of the facility; or
         (d)   A designee, provided the designation specifies the individual
person or position as being responsible for the facility operation or for
environmental matters of the facility and is submitted in writing to the city
by one of the above individuals. If a designee changes because a different
individual has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility or for
environmental matters of the company, a new written designation must be
submitted to the city prior to or together with any documents signed by that
representative.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PROACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities, prohibitions
of activities, maintenance procedures, and other management actions. May
include but not limited to treatment requirements; operating procedures;
control of site runoff, spillage, or leaks; waste or sludge disposal
procedures; or control of drainage from material storage areas.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure,
five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration (milligrams
per liter).
      BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives discharge from drainage pipes inside the walls of the
building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five feet outside the
inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
      BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s pretreatment facility.
      CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National categorical pretreatment standards or
pretreatment standard.
      CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen consuming capacity
of inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater. It is expressed
as the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test.
It does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter and thus
does not necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. Also known as OC
and DOC, oxygen consumed and dichromate oxygen consumed, respectively.
      CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine applied
and the amount of free chlorine available at the end of the contact time,
expressed in milligrams per liter.
      CITY. The City of Croswell, Michigan, its agents and employees.
       CITY ATTORNEY. The person designated by the Council to provide legal
counsel to the city, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter.
      CITY MANAGER. The person designated by the Council to supervise the
operation of the city, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter.
      COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
      COMMERCIAL WASTE. A liquid or water-carried waste material from a
commercial business engaged in buying, selling, exchanging goods or engaging in
those goods or services.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A substance amenable to treatment in the wastewater
treatment plant such as biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the publicly-owned treatment works was designed to treat the
pollutants and in fact does remove such pollutant to a substantial degree.
Examples of additional pollutants may include: chemical oxygen demand, total
organic carbon, phosphorus and phosphorus compounds, nitrogen compounds, fats,
oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin.
      COMPOSITE SAMPLE. For continuous discharges, a sample collected via
automatic sampler over the period of discharge contained within a 24-hour
period and consisting of a series of 96 aliquots. Such aliquots shall be taken
at a rate proportional to the flow, unless an alternate sample collection
technique applies in accordance with §
51.048(E) of this chapter. For batch discharges, a series of aliquots collected
from each batch at a volume approximately equal to the relative batch size and
combined prior to laboratory analysis.
      COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is
heat.
      COUNCIL. The Mayor and other elected officials of the city or their
regular employees and duly authorized representatives.
      DAILY MAXIMUM. The concentration or value of a pollutant parameter
measured in a 24-hour composite sample or, if applicable for that pollutant, a
grab sample. A daily maximum for a grab sample may apply to the average of up
to four grab samples collected over the period of normal operation within a 24-
hour period.
      DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. Charges levied to customers of the wastewater system
which are used to pay principal, interest and administrative costs of retiring
the debt incurred for construction of the wastewater system. The DEBT SERVICE
CHARGE shall be in addition to the USER CHARGE specified below.
      DILUTION. Any thinning or weakening of a wastewater or waste by purposely
mixing in water or other liquid as a partial or complete substitute for
treatment necessary to achieve compliance with pretreatment standards and
requirements
      DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the state.
      DISSOLVED OXYGEN. The oxygen dissolved in water or wastewater expressed
in mg/l or percentage of saturation.
      DISSOLVED SOLIDS. The filterable residue, using standard methods,
consisting of the anhydrous residues of the dissolved constituents in water.
      DOMESTIC USER. Any user not covered under the definition of INDUSTRIAL
USER.
      DOWNSPOUT or LEADER. The water conductor from the roof to the storm drain
or other means of disposal.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY, or EPA. The U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency, Administrator or other duly authorized official.
      EXISTING SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from
which there is a discharge to the POTW, and for which construction or operation
commenced prior to publication by EPA of proposed national categorical
pretreatment standards applicable to such a source.
      FLOW. The quantity of waste or liquid that flows in a certain period of
time.
      GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of
food and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
      GARBAGE, PROPERLY SHREDDED. The wastes from the preparation, cooking an
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than one half inch in any dimension.
      GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a one-time
basis with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration
of time.
      GROUNDWATER. Water beneath the surface of the earth.
      HEAVY METALS. Metals that can be precipitated by hydrogen sulfide in acid
solution, such as, but not limited to Cadmium, Mercury, Zinc, and Lead.
      HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels,
chemical toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
      INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutant which is not a compatible
pollutant.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants into the POTW (including holding tanks waste discharged into the
system).
      INDIRECT WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial,
manufacturing, trade or business processes, or wastewater discharge from any
structure with these characteristics, as distinct from their employee’s
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES, or PROCESS WASTE. Any water, wastewater, sludge,
waste, or residual which potentially may come into direct contact with any raw
material, intermediate product, finished product, byproduct, or waste product
during a manufacturing or processing operation. This definition does not
include domestic wastewater, noncontact cooling water, or boiler water.
      INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the system from the ground, through
such means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include and is distinguished from INFLOW.
      INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration
and inflow.
      INFLOW. Any waters entering the system through such sources as, but not
limited to, building downspouts, footing or yard drains, cooling water
discharges, seepage lines from springs and swampy areas and storm drain cross-
connections.
      INSTANTANEOUS MAXIMUM. The concentration or value of a pollutant
parameter measured in any sample at any instant in time, independent of the
flow rate or duration of the sampling event.
      INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment
processes or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of
the NPDES permit or reduces the efficiency of the POTW. The term also includes
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW.
      LABORATORY DETERMINATION. The measurements, tests and analysis of the
characteristics of waters and wastes in accordance with the methods approved by
EPA and contained in 40 CFR Part 136, as amended, or in accordance with any
other method prescribed by the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to
this division.
      LATERAL LINE. That portion of the sewer system located under the street
or within the street right-of-way from the property line to the trunk line and
which collects sewage from a particular property for transfer to the trunk
line.
      MONTHLY AVERAGE. The average concentration or value of a pollutant
parameter measured in a calendar month, and calculated by the sum of daily
concentration or values determined during said month divided by the number of
daily concentration or values determined during said month.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD.
Federal regulations containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the
EPA which apply to specific categories of industrial users. The associated
regulations 40 CFR Parts 405 through 471, which are hereby incorporated by
reference and made an integral part of this chapter, include but are not
limited to the following:
         (a)   Airport deicing (40 CFR Part 449);
         (b)   Aluminum forming (40 CFR Part 467);
         (c)   Asbestos manufacturing (40 CFR Part 427);
         (d)   Battery manufacturing (40 CFR Part 461);
         (e)   Canned and preserved fruits and vegetable processing (40 CFR
Part 407);
         (f)   Canned and preserved seafood; seafood processing (40 CFR Part
408);
         (g)   Carbon black manufacturing (40 CFR Part 458);
         (h)   Cement manufacturing (40 CFR Part 411);
         (i)   Centralized waste treatment (40 CFR Part 437);
         (j)   Coal mining (40 CFR Part 434);
         (k)   Coil coating (40 CFR Part 465);
         (l)   Concentrated animal feeding operations; CAFOs (40 CFR Part 412);
         (m)   Concentrated aquatic animal production; aquaculture (40 CFR Part
451);
         (n)   Construction and development (40 CFR Part 450);
         (o)   Copper forming (40 CFR Part 468);
         (p)   Dairy products processing (40 CFR Part 405);
         (q)   Electrical and electronic components (40 CFR Part 469);
         (r)   Electroplating (40 CFR Part 413);
         (s)   Explosives manufacturing (40 CFR Part 457);
         (t)   Ferroalloy manufacturing (40 CFR Part 424);
         (u)   Fertilizer manufacturing (40 CFR Part 418);
         (v)   Glass manufacturing (40 CFR Part 426);
         (w)   Grain mills (40 CFR Part 406);
         (x)   Gum and wood chemicals (40 CFR Part 454);
         (y)   Hospitals (40 CFR Part 460);
         (z)   Ink formulating (40 CFR Part 447);
         (aa)   Inorganic chemicals (40 CFR Part 415);
         (bb)   Iron and steel manufacturing (40 CFR Part 420);
         (cc)   Landfills (40 CFR Part 445);
         (dd)   Leather tanning and finishing (40 CFR Part 425);
         (ee)   Meat and poultry products (40 CFR Part 432);
         (ff)   Metal finishing (40 CFR Part 433);
         (gg)   Metal molding and casting; foundries (40 CFR Part 464);
         (hh)   Metal products and machinery (40 CFR Part 438);
         (ii)   Mineral mining and processing (40 CFR Part 436);
         (jj)   Nonferrous metals forming and metal powders (40 CFR Part 471);
         (kk)   Nonferrous metals manufacturing (40 CFR Part 421);
         (ll)   Oil and gas extraction (40 CFR Part 435);
         (mm)   Ore mining and dressing; hard rock mining (40 CFR Part 440);
         (nn)   Organic chemicals, plastics, and synthetic fibers (40 CFR Part
414);
         (oo)   Paint formulating (40 CFR Part 446);
         (pp)   Paving and roofing materials; tars and asphalt (40 CFR Part
443);
         (qq)   Pesticide chemicals formulating and packaging (40 CFR Part
455);
         (rr)   Petroleum refining (40 CFR Part 419);
         (ss)   Pharmaceutical manufacturing (40 CFR Part 439);
         (tt)   Phosphate manufacturing (40 CFR Part 422);
         (uu)   Photographic (40 CFR Part 459);
         (vv)   Plastic molding and forming (40 CFR Part 463);
         (ww)   Porcelain enameling (40 CFR Part 466);
         (xx)   Pulp, paper, and paperboard (40 CFR Part 430);
         (yy)   Rubber manufacturing (40 CFR Part 428);
         (zz)   Soap and detergent manufacturing (40 CFR Part 417);
         (aaa)   Steam electric power generating (40 CFR Part 423);
         (bbb)   Sugar processing (40 CFR Part 409);
         (ccc)   Textile mills (40 CFR Part 410);
         (ddd)   Timber products processing (40 CFR Part 429);
         (eee)   Transportation equipment cleaning (40 CFR Part 442); and
         (fff)   Waste combustors (40 CFR Part 444).
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT or NPDES PERMIT. A
permit issued pursuant to Section 401 of the Act (33 USC 1342).
      NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of 307(b) for the Act and 403.5.
      NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
      NEW SOURCE. 
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge, and for which construction commenced after
publication by EPA of proposed national categorical pretreatment standards
applicable to such a source, provided any of the following provisions apply:
            1.   The building structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no existing source is located;
            2.   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the production equipment or processes that causes the discharge of
pollutants to the POTW from an existing source; or
            3.   The wastewater-generating production equipment or processes of
the building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially
independent of an existing source at the same site, where factors used to
determine substantial independence include the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same general type of activity as the existing source.
         (b)   Construction of a NEW SOURCE is considered to have commenced
when the owner/operator has begun significant site preparation, begun assembly
of equipment or facilities, or has entered into a binding contractual
obligation for the purchase of equipment or facilities intended for use in the
operation within a reasonable time. Construction on a site at which an existing
source is located is considered a modification rather than a new source if the
construction does not create a new building, structure, facility, or
installation meeting the criteria of division (a)2. herein but otherwise
alters, replaces, or adds to the wastewater-generating production equipment or
processes.
      NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE or NDS. Wastewater which, when analyzed, shows a
daily average concentration of not more than 200 mg/l of BOD; nor more than 240
mg/l of suspended solids; nor more than 5 mg/l of phosphorus; nor more than 100
mg/l of fats, oils and grease.
      OBJECTIONABLE WASTE. Any wastes that can harm the sewers, sewer treatment
process, or equipment, have an adverse effect on the receiving stream, or
endanger life, health, or property, or constitutes a nuisance.
      OBSTRUCTION. Any object of whatever nature which substantially impedes
the flow of sewage from the point of origination to the trunk line. This shall
include, but not be limited to objects, sewage, tree roots, rocks and debris of
any type.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All work, materials, equipment, utilities and
other effort required to operate and maintain the wastewater transportation and
treatment system consistent with insuring adequate treatment of wastewater to
produce an effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other applicable
state and Federal regulations, and includes the cost of replacement.
      OWNER. Owner or owners of record of the freehold of the premises or
lesser estate therein; a mortgagor or vendee in possession, assignee of rents,
receiver, executor, trustee, lessee, or other person, firm or corporation in
control of a building.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or its legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
      pH. The negative logarithm (base 10) of the concentration of hydronium
ions expressed in equivalents per liter of solution, which is used as a measure
of the acidity or basicity of a solution.
      POLLUTANT. Any of various chemicals, substances, and refuse materials
such as solid waste, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, chemical waste, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, and industrial, municipal and
agricultural wastes which impair the purity of the water and soil.
      POLLUTED WATER OR WASTE. Any water, liquid, or gaseous waste containing
any of the following.
         (a)   Soluble or insoluble substances of organic or inorganic nature
which may deplete the dissolved oxygen content of the receiving streams;
         (b)   Settleable solids that may form sludge deposits;
         (c)   Grease and oils;
         (d)   Floating solids which may cause unsightly appearance;
         (e)   Color;
         (f)   Phenols and other substances to an extent which would impart any
taste or odor to the receiving stream; and
         (g)   Toxic or poisonous substances in suspension, colloidal state,
solution, or gasses.
      POLLUTION. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical,
physical, biological, and radiological integrity of water.
      POTW or PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS. A treatment works as defined by
section 212 of the Act (33 USC 1292), which is owned in this instance by the
city. This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any
sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city who
are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the POTW.
      POTW DISCHARGE. The introduction, including infiltration, of pollutants
into the POTW which is either intentional or unintentional.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater.
      PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutants, or
the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less
harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing the
pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes by other means,
except as prohibited by 40 CFR Section 403.6(d).
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural
requirement imposed on an industrial user for treating of a waste prior to
inclusion in the POTW, including but not limited to local prohibitions, state
requirements, and national categorical pretreatment standards.
      PRIVATE SEWER LINES. All service lines and equipment for the disposal of
sewage installed or located on any property, from the property line to and
including any structure or facility which exists on the property.
      PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of the property which abuts the street.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
      REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment,
appurtenances and accessories in the wastewater transportation or treatment
systems to insure continuous treatment of wastewater in accordance with the
NPDES permit and other applicable state and Federal regulations.
      SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface
and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
      SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
such groundwater as may be present.
      SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of
devices and structures used for treating sewage.
      SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The sum of the applicable user charge, surcharges
and debt service charges.
      SHALL is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user of the city’s POTW which:
         (a)   Is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards;
         (b)   Discharges an average of 25,000 gallons or more of process waste
per normal work day to the POTW;
         (c)   Contributes a discharge of process waste to the POTW that makes
up 5% or more of the POTW’s average dry weather hydraulic, or 5% or more of the
POTW’s organic treatment capacity of the POTW; or
         (d)   Is designated as such by the WWTP Superintendent bases on
potential to discharge to the POTW pollutants that may be deleterious to the
POTW, worker health, or public health and safety.
      SLUG LOAD. Any discharge to the POTW which, in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow, exceeds for any 15-minute period more than
five times the average concentration or flow over 24 hours during normal
operation; or any POTW discharge which, in concentration of any given
constituent or in quantity of flow, causes a temporary violation of
pretreatment standards and requirements.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION or SIC. A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972 or later.
      STATE. State of Michigan.
      STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface
waters and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
      STORM WATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SURCHARGE. As part of the service charge, any customer discharging
wastewater having strength in excess of normal domestic strength shall be
required to pay an additional charge to cover the cost of treatment of the
excess strength wastewater.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface
of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is
removable by laboratory filtering.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant which is or can potentially be harmful to
public health or environment, including those listed as toxic in regulations
promulgated by the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency under
the provisions of the Clean Water Act 307(a) or other Acts.
      TRUNK LINE. The main sewer line located under any street or within any
street right-of-way which collects and transmits the sewage of the various
properties served by the sewer system.
      UNCONTAMINATED INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Wastewater which has not come into
contact with any substance used in or incidental to industrial processing
operations and to which no chemical or other substance has been added.
      UPSET. An abnormal incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
violation of pretreatment standards and requirements because of factors beyond
the reasonable control of the user.
      USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
      USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the cost
of operation and maintenance of treatment works pursuant to section 204(b) of
the act.
      USER CLASS. The kind of user connected to sanitary sewers including but
not limited to residential, industrial, commercial, institutional and
governmental.
         (a)   COMMERCIAL USER. An establishment listed in the Office of the
Management and Budget’s Standard Industrial Classification Manual or SICM,
involved in a commercial enterprise, business or service which, based on a
determination by the city, discharges to the POTW primarily segregated domestic
wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences and which is not a RESIDENTIAL USER
or an INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (b)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any Federal, state or local government
facility that discharges to the POTW.
         (c)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges industrial wastes, as
defined in this chapter, to the POTW.
         (d)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment listed in the SICM
involved in a social, charitable, religious, or educational function which,
based on a determination by the city, discharges to the POTW primarily
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
         (e)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A discharger to the POTW whose premises or
buildings are used primarily as a domicile for one or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached, semi-detached and row houses, mobile homes,
apartments, or permanent multi-family dwellings (transit lodging is not
included, it is considered commercial).
      WASTEWATER. The liquid and water carried industrial or domestic wastes
from dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water, and storm water that may be
present, whether treated or untreated.
      WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMIT. A permit, developed and issued by the
WWTP Superintendent on behalf of the city, that specifies terms and conditions
under which a user may discharge wastewater or other wastes to the POTW.
      WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
      WWTP SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the
operation of the POTW, and who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this chapter. At his/her discretion, the WWTP
SUPERINTENDENT may delegate certain duties and responsibilities to one or more
subordinates as appropriate.
   (B)   Abbreviations. The following abbreviations shall have the designated
meanings:
      (1)   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
      (2)   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
      (3)   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
      (4)   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
      (5)   l. Liter.
      (6)   mg. Milligrams.
      (7)   mg/l. Milligrams per liter; equivalent to ppm.
      (8)   NDS. Normal domestic sewage.
      (9)   NPDES. National pollutant discharge elimination system.
      (10)   P. Phosphorus.
      (11)   ppm. Parts per million; equivalent to mg/l.
      (12)   SIC. Standard industrial classification.
      (13)   SICM. Standard Industrial Classification Manual.
      (14)   SS. Suspended soils.
      (15)   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 USC 6901, et. seq.
      (16)   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
      (17)   CWA. Clean Water Act.
      (18)   MDEQ. Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or its
successor.
(Ord. 216, passed 6-16-80; Am. Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-
16-16)
§ 51.003 UNSANITARY DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, when sewage and/or treatment facilities are
available, to discharge to an natural outlet within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes, or
other polluted waters, unless specifically permitted by the applicable County
Health Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage, unless specifically permitted by the applicable County Health
Department or as hereinafter provided.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting to any street, alley, right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public, sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his expense to install suitable sewage facilities
therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper public sewer in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter within 90 days after the date of
official notice to do so.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.004 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
51.003(D), the building sewer shall be connected to an approved private sewage
disposal system.
   (B)   Before commencement of a private sewage disposal system, the owner
shall first apply to the County Health Department for a soil evaluation test.
The fee shall be determined by the Health Department, and shall be paid to the
Health Department. At completion of the soil evaluation test showing positive
results, the property owner shall apply for a permit for installation for the
proposed sewage system. The owner shall include plans, specifications and other
information as are deemed necessary by the Health Department. At the time the
application is filed, the fee determined by the Health Department for the
permit and inspection shall be paid.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the Health
Department. The Health Department shall be allowed to inspect the work at any
stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the permit shall
notify the Health Department when the work is ready for final inspection, and
before any underground portions are covered. The inspection shall be made
within seven days of the receipt of notice by the Health Department. All
persons receiving a permit for a private sewer disposal system shall provide
the city with copies of all final approved inspection reports issued by the
Health Department.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the Health Department. No
septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer or
natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
51.003(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this section, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned for sanitary use and filled with a
suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by any other agency having
legal jurisdiction.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof, without first
obtaining a written permit from the city. No building sewer shall be covered
until after it has been inspected and approved by the city.
   (B)   The owner or his agent shall make an application for a sewer permit on
a form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented by
any plans, specifications, or other information required by this chapter or
considered pertinent in the judgement of the city. A hook-up fee of $50 shall
be paid to the City Treasurer at the time the application is filed. A plumbing
permit is also required. If a street opening is required to make the lead
connection, an additional attachment to the permit must be completed.
   (C)   All cost and expense incident to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the building sewer to the public sewer connection shall be borne
by the property owner.
   (D)   All liabilities incident to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the property owner. The property owner shall
indemnify and save harmless the city from any loss or damage that may directly
be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each property owner to maintain, clean and
repair the private sewer lines on his property at his own expense as necessary
to keep such lines free and clear of obstructions and in good working order,
and to maintain and keep clear of obstructions the lateral lines servicing his
property.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the city to maintain, clean and repair as
necessary and at its expense the sewer trunk lines, and to repair or replace
any broken or crushed lateral lines in the previously established right-of-way.
The city shall not be responsible for cleaning or maintenance of lateral lines.
      (3)   In the case of a bona fide dispute as to whether needed
maintenance, cleaning or repair of a portion of sewer line is the
responsibility of the property owner or the city under the provisions of this
section, it shall be the duty of the property owner to establish that the
obstruction, disrepair, or defect has occurred in that portion of the line for
which the city is responsible. If the property owner fails to establish the
city’s responsibility, it shall be the property owner's responsibility to
perform the necessary maintenance as provided in this section. If the city’s
responsibility is established, the city shall perform the necessary maintenance
and shall reimburse the property owner for reasonable expenses incurred in
locating the defect in the line or in otherwise establishing the city’s
responsibility. The property owner would by responsible under this section for
the total maintenance and repair of the private sewer lines on his property and
for the maintenance and cleaning, although not including major repair, of the
entire sewer line out to the trunk line. The city, on the other hand, is
responsible for major repair of the trunk line and lateral lines in the street
right-of-way only, and has no responsibility of any sort for the private lines.
The city also has no responsibility to clean the lateral lines.
      (4)   Any property owner who shall violate the provisions of this section
shall be liable to the city for civil damage incurred in correcting the defect,
and in addition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. If any property owner fails
to maintain a private sewer line as required by this section, in addition to
the other penalties prescribed, the sewer may be declared a public nuisance by
the County Health Officer and the defect may be corrected by the city. Any
costs so incurred shall be assessed against the property and become a lien on
the property if not paid in a timely manner.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, yard or driveway. In such a case the
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the director, to meet all
requirements of this section.
   (G)   The building sewer shall be constructed of vitrified clay sewer pipe
or cast iron soil pipe, as approved by the city. The city reserves the right to
specify and require the encasement of any sewer pipe with concrete, or the
installation of the sewer pipe in a concrete cradle if the foundation and
construction are such as to warrant such protection in the opinion of the city.
   (H)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to approval
by the city, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four inches. The
slope of such 4-inch pipe shall be not less than ¼-inch per foot, unless
otherwise permitted. The slope of pipe, the diameter of which is six inches or
more, shall be not less than -inch per foot unless otherwise permitted.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade. The line shall be straight or
laid with properly curved pipe and fittings. Changes in direction greater than
45° shall be provided with cleanouts accessible for cleaning.
   (J)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drain shall be
lifted by artificial means approved by the city, and shall discharge to the
building sewer.
   (K)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and water tight. All
joints and discharges to the building sewer shall be approved by the city.
   (L)   No sewer connection shall be permitted unless there is capacity
available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage
treatment plant, including capacity for treatment of BOD and suspended solids.
   (M) All newly constructed building sewers shall have a properly sized
cleanout at the head of the sewer that is accessible at all times. This
cleanout shall allow access of sewer cleaning equipment of a size equivalent to
the size of the building sewer.
   (N)   All sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the latest edition
of the Ten State Standards.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 DISPOSAL AT WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT; FEES.
   (A)   Disposal. Waste from individual sewage systems may be accepted with
permission of the city at the wastewater treatment plant. No waters or wastes
described in §
51.040(O) shall be disposed of at the wastewater treatment plant. Pretreatment
rates for disposal at the wastewater treatment plant shall be determined by the
city at the time of acceptance.
   (B)   Fees for pretreatment.
      (1)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this subdivision to provide for the
recovery of costs from the users of the wastewater treatment works for the
implementation of the pretreatment program established herein. The applicable
charges or fees shall be as set forth by resolution passed by the City Council.
      (2)   Charges and fees. The charges and fees for the services provided by
the system shall be levied upon any user which may have any sewer connections
and which discharges industrial waste to the wastewater treatment plant or any
part thereof. The charges shall be based upon the quantity and quality of
industrial wastewater used thereon or therein.
         (a)   For reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
Pretreatment Program.
         (b)   For monitoring inspections and surveillance procedures.
         (c)   For reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction.
         (d)   For filing appeals.
         (e)   For consistent removal by the city of pollutants otherwise
subject to federal pretreatment standards.
         (f)   Other fees as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
         (g)   Additional surcharges may be made by the city to compensate the
city for the cost of treatment of pollutant loadings not normally treated or in
excess of the limits expressed in the definition of normal domestic strength.
         (h)   There shall be additional charges for laboratory testing of
wastewater. The laboratory charge shall be for the cost thereof and will be
determined for each industrial user.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.007 DAMAGING, DESTROYING OR TAMPERING WITH SEWAGE WORKS EQUIPMENT.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the wastewater sewage works.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.008 SEVERABILITY AND CONFLICT.
    If any word, phrase, provision, paragraph, division, or section of this
chapter is invalidated by any other chapter of the city’s Code of Ordinances or
a court of competent jurisdiction, the remaining words, phrases, provisions,
paragraphs, divisions, and sections shall not be affected and shall continue in
full force and effect. All laws, ordinances, codes, and regulations that are
inconsistent or conflicting with any provisions of this chapter may be deemed
to not apply. Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent the
adoption and enforcement of laws, ordinances, codes, or regulations which
contain more restrictive provisions than those of this chapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
PROCESS WASTEWATER
§ 51.020 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION INFORMATION.
   (A)   Nondomestic user survey. Any commercial or industrial user discharging
to the POTW shall, upon request of the WWTP Superintendent, submit the
following information on the city’s nondomestic user survey form:
      (1)   Company information.
         (a)   Name;
         (b)   Telephone;
         (c)   Local facility address;
         (d)   Local mailing address;
         (e)   Person in charge of local operations; and
         (f)   Owner of company and owner’s address.
      (2)   Nature of business.
         (a)   Description of local operation; and
         (b)   Primary SIC code.
      (3)   Water supply.
         (a)   Sources; and
         (b)   Average usage.
      (4)   Wastewater discharge.
         (a)   Description of types and categories of wastewater;
         (b)   Whether floor drains are present in process operation or
chemical storage areas;
         (c)   Whether residuals such as high strength wastes, residues,
sludge-type wastes, and spent raw materials or products are generated and, if
so, description of how these wastes are disposed;
         (d)   Description of system to pretreat discharge to POTW, if any; and
         (e)   Description of sampling points and sampling procedures for
discharge to POTW, if any.
      (5)   Bulk chemical usage and storage.
         (a)   Whether bulk chemicals and petroleum-based products are used or
stored on-site;
         (b)   Whether bulk chemicals and petroleum-based products are stored
on-site in aboveground or underground tanks;
         (c)   Whether secondary containment used when storing bulk chemicals
and petroleum-based products;
         (d)   Identification of all bulk chemicals and petroleum-based
products used or stored on-site in quantities exceeding ten gallons (liquid) or
100 pounds (solid);
         (e)   Description of how how spills of bulk chemicals and petroleum-
based products are disposed; and
         (f)   Description of how spent products and raw materials are
disposed.
      (6)   Grease interceptors.
         (a)   Description of installed interceptors, if any; and
         (b)   Description of how often any interceptors are cleaned and how
waste is disposed.
   (B)   Industrial waste questionnaire. Any industrial user discharging to the
POTW shall, upon request of the WWTP Superintendent, also submit the following
information on the city’s industrial waste questionnaire form:
      (1)   Company information.
         (a)   Facility name, address, mailing address, and email address;
         (b)   Operator name, address, mailing address, and email address;
         (c)   Owner name, address, mailing address, and email address;
         (d)   Authorized representative name, address, mailing address, and
email address; and
         (e)   Local wastewater contact name, address, mailing address, and
email address.
      (2)   Business activity.
         (a)   Identification of any processes subject to national categorical
pretreatment standards;
         (b)   Description of major products and services at facility; and
         (c)   List of all applicable SIC codes in descending order of
importance.
      (3)   Facility operation.
         (a)   Schedule of normal business activity; and
         (b)   Engineer-certified site layout drawing that clearly shows the
location of all buildings, process areas, chemical storage areas, pretreatment
facilities if applicable, floor drains near process and chemical storage areas,
sanitary and storm sewers, discharge sampling points, discharge outfalls to
waters of the state, and discharge outfalls to the POTW.
      (4)   Water balance.
         (a)   Average inflow flow for all raw water sources;
         (b)   Average outflow for all wastewater discharges; and
         (c)   Engineer-certified process operation flow diagram summarizing
the flow of raw materials, products, byproducts, water, wastewater, and other
waste streams to/from each process operation consuming water or generating
wastewater.   
      (5)   Connections to POTW.
         (a)   Current city account number;
         (b)   Periods of normal discharge from facility to the POTW;
         (c)   Peak discharge flow to the POTW;
         (d)   Whether batches routinely discharge to the POTW;
         (e)   Description, average and maximum discharge flows, discharge type
and category, and corresponding outfall of each process operation connected to
the POTW;
         (f)   Description of flow metering and automatic sampling equipment
for discharge to the POTW; and
         (g)   Description of in-progress, or planned within the next five
years, facility modifications that could alter the volume or pollutant
characteristics of wastewater discharged to the POTW.
      (6)   Wastewater characteristics.
         (a)   Identification of pollutants known to be absent, suspected to be
absent, suspected to be present, or known to be present in discharge to the
POTW; and
         (b)   Maximum expected or observed concentrations of pollutants
suspected or known to be present in discharge to the POTW.
      (7)   Pretreatment system, if any.
         (a)   Description of wastewater streams and method of pretreatment;
         (b)   Basis of design for pretreatment facility;
         (c)   Operator name, address, mailing address, and email address;
         (d)   Operator certifications and schedule; and
         (e)   Whether written O&M procedures exist.
      (8)   Disposal of residuals, if any.
         (a)   Quantity of high strength wastes, residues, sludge-type wastes,
and spent raw materials or products generated at facility;
         (b)   Disposal method for high strength wastes, residues, sludge-type
wastes, and spent raw materials or products;
         (c)   Name, address, and permit number of any hauler used to dispose
of high strength wastes, residues, sludge-type wastes, and spent raw materials
or products; and
         (d)   Identification of any hazardous waste permits issued to
facility.
      (9)   Slug load potential.
         (a)   Quantity, storage method, and storage location of all bulk
chemicals and petroleum-based products used or stored on-site in quantities
exceeding ten gallons (liquid) or 100 pounds (solid);
         (b)   Material safety and data (MSDS) sheets for all materials
identified in division (B)(1) of this section;
         (c)   Ultimate destination of an accidental spill for all materials
identified in division (B)(1) of this section;
         (d)   Copy of spill prevention, control, and countermeasure (SPCC)
plan, pollution incident prevention (PIP) plan, and/or slug discharge control
plan;
   (C)   Signature and certification.
      (1)   All forms submitted pursuant to this section shall include the
following certification statement:
         "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations."
      (2)   All forms submitted pursuant to this section shall be signed by one
of the following:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president if the user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the user is a partnership or
proprietorship, respectively; or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the user if that
representative is responsible for overall operation of the facility from which
the discharge to the POTW originates.
   (D)   The WWTP Superintendent will review the submitted disclosure form(s)
and associated data, and may return incomplete submittals for rework or may
require additional information. Incomplete to the user for rework. After
evaluating potential impacts of a discharge on the POTW, the WWTP
Superintendent will notify the affected user in writing if further action is
required.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.021 DISCHARGE CONDITIONS.
   Wastewater discharges to the POTW shall be expressly subject to all
provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user charges
and fees established by the city. The city may do any of the following.
   (A)   Set unit charges or a schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the POTW.
   (B)   Limit the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics.
   (C)   Limit the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or make
requirements for flow regulations and equalization.
   (D)   Require the installation and maintenance of inspection and sampling
facilities.
   (E)   Establish specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests and reporting schedule.
   (F)   Establish compliance schedules.
   (G)   Require submission of technical reports or discharge reports.
   (H)   Require the maintaining, retaining and furnishing of pretreatment
records relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the city, and
affording the city access thereto, and copying thereof.
   (I)   Require notification to the city for any new introduction of
wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume or character of
the wastewater constituents being introduced into the wastewater treatment
system.
   (J)   Require notification of slug discharges.
   (K)   Require other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to ensure
compliance with this subchapter.
   (L)   Require waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste streams,
or other potential waste problems to be placed under the specific supervision
and control of persons who have been certified by an appropriate state agency
as properly qualified to supervise the facilities.
   (M)   Require records and file reports to be maintained on the final
disposal of specific liquids, solids, sludges, oils, radioactive materials,
solvents, or other wastes.
   (N)   Develop BMPs to support objectives of this chapter, and which shall be
considered enforceable pretreatment standards and requirements.
   (O)   Impose mass limitations or limits based on production rates, on users
which are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements or in other cases in which the imposition of mass limitations or
limits based on production rates is appropriate.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
§ 51.022 EXCESSIVE DISCHARGES; DILUTION PROHIBITION.
    No user shall ever increase the use of process water or in any way attempt
to dilute a discharge to the POTW as a partial or complete substitute for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in §§
51.040 and
51.041 of this chapter, in the national categorical pretreatment standards, or
in any other pollutant specific limitation developed by the city or state.
(Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.023 CITY NOTIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The WWTP Superintendent will notify a user in writing, with postal
receipt confirming notification, for the following as applicable:
      (1)   When the user becomes classified as a significant industrial user
or is otherwise designated as needing a wastewater contribution permit,
including why the user is so classified and further actions that shall be taken
by the user to obtain a wastewater contribution permit.
      (2)   When the user is subject to new regulations or requirements,
including a copy of the relevant documents, and further actions that shall be
taken by the user to comply.
      (3)   When the user violates or is noncompliant with any provision of
this chapter, including specific identification of the violation or
noncompliance and further actions that shall be taken by the user to cease the
violation or noncompliance.
      (4)   When the user is subject to enforcement action by the city,
including a statement of the violation(s) requiring enforcement, the action
being pursued, and further actions that shall be taken to cease the violation
or noncompliance.
   (B)   The WWTP Superintendent may provide other notifications to one or more
users as deemed as necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
2016 S-10
§ 51.024 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   The city may require monitoring facilities to allow inspection, sampling,
and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage systems, to
be provided and operated at the user's own expense. The monitoring facility
should normally be situated on the user's premises, but the city may, when such
a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship to the user, allow the
facility to be constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so
that it will not obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. There shall be
ample room in or near any sampling manhole or facility to allow accurate
sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling, and
measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper
operating condition at the expense of the user. Whether constructed on public
or private property, the sampling and monitoring facilities shall be provided
in accordance with plans and specifications submitted to and approved by the
city and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the city.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.025 INSPECTION AND SAMPLING.
   The city shall inspect the facilities of any user to ascertain whether the
purpose of this subchapter is being met and all requirements are being complied
with. Persons or occupants of premises where wastewater is created or
discharged shall allow the city or its representative ready access at all
reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, records examination, records copying or in the performance of any of
their duties. The city, MDEQ and EPA shall have the right to set up on the
user's property any devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection,
compliance monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security
measures in force which would require proper identification and clearance
before entry into their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements
with their security guards so that upon presentation of suitable
identification, personnel from the city, MDEQ and EPA will be permitted to
enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.026 PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this subchapter and shall achieve compliance with all
national categorical pretreatment standards within the time limitations as
specified by the federal pretreatment regulations and as required by the city.
Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable to the
city shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's expense.
Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating procedures
shall be submitted to the city for review, and shall be approved by the city
before construction of the facility. The review of the plans and operating
procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of modifying
the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the city under
the provisions of this subchapter. Any subsequent changes in the pretreatment
facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be acceptable to the
city prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
   (B)   The city shall annually publish in the major local newspaper a list of
the users which were not in compliance with any pretreatment requirements or
standards at least once during the 12 previous months. The notification shall
also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the user(s) during the
same 12 months. All records relating to compliance with pretreatment standards
shall be made available to officials of the EPA or Michigan Department of
Natural Resources upon request.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.027 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   All information and data submitted to the city relating to matters
regulated in this chapter are presumed not to be confidential.
   (B)   Information submitted pursuant to this chapter which the user deems
confidential shall be clearly marked by the user on each page as to the portion
or portions considered by the user to be confidential, and accompanied by a
written explanation from the user why the user considers the information
confidential. Simply marking a page “confidential” shall impose no obligation
on the city to keep the information confidential.
   (C)   Information furnished to the city on the volume or characteristics of
wastewater or pollutants discharged, or proposed to be discharged, into the
POTW shall be available to the public or other governmental agency without
restriction. Information that discloses trade secrets or secret processes and
is clearly marked as such, shall not be made available for inspection by the
public except as required by the Michigan Freedom of Information Act, Act 442
of 1976, as amended (FOIA). Such information shall be made available to
governmental agencies, upon written request, for uses related to this chapter,
the city’s NPDES permit, and the city’s IPP. However, all such information
shall be available for use by the EPA, the MDEQ or any state agency, or the
city in judicial review or any other enforcement proceedings involving the user
furnishing the information. The city will notify the user who has requested and
is entitled to confidentiality when a user’s confidential information has been
sent to another governmental agency.
   (D)   Where a user has mass-based limits or limits based on production
rates, the flow or production data provided by the user to determine compliance
shall be available to the public. Where application of the combined waste
stream formula is necessary to apply national categorical pretreatment
standards to a user, the user’s flow and other data used in the calculation
shall also be available to the public.
   (E)   Observations made by city inspectors are subject to the
confidentiality provisions of this section, if the user specifies in writing to
the city inspector specific observations made by the inspector for which the
user seeks confidentiality.
   (F)   If a member of the public requests information for which the user has
marked confidential and submitted a written explanation concerning its
confidentiality, the city will notify the user in writing of the request and of
the city’s intention to release or not to release the information to the
requestor.
   (G)   This section shall be interpreted in a manner which complies with the
FOIA.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 51.040 GENERAL POTW DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or indirectly,
any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation or
performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all such users of
a POTW whether or not the user is subject to the national categorical
pretreatment standards or any other national, state local pretreatment
standards or requirements. The city may refuse to accept any wastes which will
cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit limits. A user may not contribute
the following substances to any POTW.
   (A)   Any liquids, solids or gases which by reason of their nature and
quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by interaction with other
substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in any other way to the
POTW, to the operation of the POTW or a hazard to POTW employee health or the
public health and safety. Prohibited materials include, but are not limited to,
gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene, xylene, ethers, alcohols,
ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, chlorates, perchlorates, bromates, carbides,
hydrides and sulfides.
   (B)    Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to grease, garbage with particles greater
than ½-inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand,
spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas,
tar asphalt residues, residues from refining, or processing of fuel or
lubrication oil, mud, or glass grinding or polishing wastes.
   (C)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.5 or greater than 9.5, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment, or personnel of the POTW.
   (D)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or exceed
the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. This
prohibition of toxic pollutants will conform to Section 307(a) of the Act.
   (E)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair.
   (F)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other product
of the POTW such as residues, sludges, or scums to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process.
   (G)   Any combination of flow and substance which either singly or in
combination with other discharges will cause interference with the POTW, pass-
through of the POTW to cause violation of the city’s NPDES permit or exceedance
of receiving water quality standards as established by the MDEW, or cause the
POTW residuals to become non-compliant with the city’s program for effective
residuals management (PERM),
   (H)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the treatment
process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable tanning
solutions.
   (I)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater with
a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds 40°C (104°F).
   (J)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which will cause
interference to the POTW.
   (K)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of a
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the City
Administrator in compliance with applicable state or federal regulations.
   (L)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a public
nuisance.
   (M) Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to storm water,
groundwater, roof water, or non-contract cooling water.
   (N)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids or any constituent to
such character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to
handle the materials at the sewage treatment plant.
   (O)   Any waste from individual sewage disposal systems except at the POTW
treatment plant as provided in this subchapter except that waste from any
individual sewage disposal system may be disposed of directly into a sanitary
sewer upon entering into an agreement with the city, which agreement shall
specify the site of disposal, sewage disposal charge and any other conditions
as may be required to satisfy the sanitation and health requirements of the
county. For the purpose of this section, INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM is
defined to include every means of disposing of industrial, commercial,
household, domestic or other water-carried sanitary waste or sewage other than
a public sanitary sewer.
   (P)   Any sludge, precipitate or congealed substances resulting from an
industrial or commercial process, or resulting from the pretreatment of
wastewater or air pollutants.
   (Q)   Any trucked or hauled wastewater, except where authorized by the WWTP
Superintendent with the specific location, whether a wastewater contribution
permit will be required, and other terms and conditions for discharge to the
POTW.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.041 SPECIFIC POLLUTANT LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge to the POTW wastewater containing in excess
of the following.
Pollutant Mg/l As measured by:
Pollutant              Mg/l                          As measured by:
Arsenic                0.28 mg/l daily maximum       24-hour composite sample
Cadmium                0.17 mg/l daily maximum       24-hour composite sample
Copper                 1.9 mg/l daily maximum        24-hour composite sample
                       0.18 mg/l daily maximum       Average of grab samples
Cyanide, Available     (using Method OIA-1677 or     collected within a 24-hour
                       city-approved equivalent)     period
Lead                   1.4 mg/l daily maximum        24-hour composite sample
                       <0.0002 mg/l daily maximuma
Mercury                (using EPA Method 245.1 or    24-hour composite sample
                       city-approved equivalent)
Molybdenum             0.73 mg/l daily maximum       24-hour composite sample
Nickel                 1.5 mg/l daily maximum        24-hour composite sample
Selenium               0.15 mg/l daily maximum       24-hour composite sample
Silver                 0.052 mg/l daily maximum      24-hour composite sample
Total Chromium         2.3 mg/l daily maximum        24-hour composite sample
                                                     Average of grab samples
Hexavalent Chromium    0.19 mg/l daily maximum       collected within a 24-hour
                                                     period
Zinc                   8.9. mg/l daily maximum       24-hour composite sample
Ammonia Nitrogen       23 mg/l daily maximumb        24-hour composite sample
                       0.92 mg/l daily maximumc      Average of grab samples
Total Phenolics        (using EPA Method 420.1 or    collected within a 24-hour
                       city-approved equivalent)     period
                       User-specific daily maximum
                       concentration based on BOD
COD                    limit and average COD: BOD    24-hour composite sample
                       ratio for the POTW discharge,
                       as measured a minimum of six
                       times over a four-week period
Fats, Oil and Grease   250 mg/l instantaneous        Any grab sample
                       maximum
BOD                    570 mg/l daily maximum        24-hour composite sample
Total Suspended Solids 280 mg/l daily maximum        24-hour composite sample
Phosphorus             12 mg/l daily maximum         24-hour composite sample
Total Dissolved Solids 3,500 mg/l monthly average    24-hour composite samples
                       6,900 mg/l daily maximum      24-hour composite sample
a   Below the level of quantification (LOQ) for EPA Method 245.1, which may be
adjusted by the WWTP Superintendent on a case-by-case basis where there is
laboratory-demonstrated sample matrix interference. Where deemed necessary by
the WWTP Superintendent to meet requirements of the city’s Mercury pollutant
minimization program, the administrator may specify a limit lower than 0.0002
mg/l and require low-level mercury testing with EPA Method 1631; in such cases,
mercury sampling procedures shall comply with EPA Method 1669. Discharge to the
POTW of quantifiable mercury using EPA Method 245.1 is prohibited, except as
specifically approved by the WWTP Superintendent subject to the conditions
listed below. Failure to comply with all conditions may result in revocation of
this approval and subject the user to enforcement:
   (i)   The user shall have a city-accessible point for monitoring the
discharge to the POTW. All costs for installation of this monitoring point
shall be the user’s responsibility.
   (ii)   The user shall routinely self-monitor its effluent for mercury using
a representative sample collected over the period of normal operation, tests
conducted in accordance with the required EPA method, and at a frequency
specified by the WWTP Superintendent. If the user contracts with a commercial
laboratory to perform this sampling and/or analytical testing, all associated
costs shall be the user’s responsibility.
   (iii)   The user shall develop and implement a pollutant minimization
program (PMP) to establish actions and schedule commitments for reducing
mercury entering the collection system. A PMP plan, which the user shall submit
to the WWTP Superintendent for review and concurrence, shall address the
following at a minimum: pretreatment system for removal of mercury; written
procedures for disposal of mercury-contaminated wastes; new employee training
and refresher training for current employees; review, and elimination, where
feasible, of purchased materials containing mercury; and other activities
deemed appropriate by the user or the WWTP Superintendent.
b   May be expressed as Total Kjeldahl Nitrogen (TKN) at the city’s discretion.
c   Applies to 2-Chlorophenol, 4-Chlorophenol, o-Cresol (i.e., 2-methylphenol),
m-Cresol (i.e., 3-methylphenol), p-Cresol (i.e., 4-methylphenol), 2-
Nitrophenol, 4-Nitrophenol, and Phenol. Discharge to the POTW of other phenolic
compounds is prohibited without specific approval and development of pollutant-
specific limits by the WWTP Superintendent.
 
      (1)   If any waters are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated above, and which in the judgement of the city may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the city may do the following:
         (a)   Reject the wastes;
         (b)   Require pretreatment to the level defined as background sewage
in division (B)(1) of this section;
         (c)   Issue a wastewater contribution permit, and require control over
the quantities and rates of discharge to the POTW or pretreatment as necessary
to comply with the maximum limits provided for in division (A) of this section;
or
         (d)   Require payment to cover the added cast of handling and treating
the wastes not covered by existing taxes and sewer charges.
      (2)   If control over quantities and rates of discharge to the POTW or if
pretreatment is necessary, the design and installation of the plant and
equipment shall be subject to the review and approval of the city and shall be
subject to the requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (B)   The city may prohibit the admission into the public sewers of any
waters or wastes containing any of the following.
      (1)   Concentrations exceeding any of the background sewage constituents
indicated below:
Pollutant Mg/l As measured by:
Pollutant                 Mg/l                        As measured by:
Arsenic                   0.0016 mg/l monthly average 24-hour composite sample
Cadmium                   0.00041 mg/l monthly        24-hour composite sample
                          average
Copper                    0.048 mg/l monthly average  24-hour composite sample
                          <0.002 mg/l instantaneous
Cyanide, Available        maximum (using Method OIA-  Grab sample
                          1677 or city-approved
                          equivalent)
Lead                      0.0023 mg/l monthly average 24-hour composite sample
                          <0.0002 mg/l instantaneous
Mercury                   maximum (using EPA Method   24-hour composite sample
                          245.1 or city-approved
                          equivalent)
Molybdenum                0.0026 mg/l monthly average 24-hour composite sample
Nickel                    0.0043 mg/l monthly average 24-hour composite sample
Selenium                  0.00254 mg/l monthly        24-hour composite sample
                          average
Silver                    0.001 mg/l monthly average  24-hour composite sample
Total Chromium            0.00782 mg/l monthly        24-hour composite sample
                          average
                          <0.100 mg/l instantaneous
Hexavalent Chromium       maximum (using EPA Method   Grab sample
                          218.6 or city-approved
                          equivalent)
Zinc                      0.098 mg/l monthly average  24-hour composite sample
Ammonia Nitrogen (or TKN  20 mg/l monthly average     24-hour composite sample
at the city's discretion)
                          0.92 mg/l monthly average
Total Phenolics           (using EPA Method 420.1 or  Grab sample
                          city-approved equivalent)
COD                       500 mg/l monthly average    24-hour composite sample
Fats, Oil and Grease      31 mg/l monthly average     Grab sample
BOD                       200 mg/l monthly average    24-hour composite sample
Total Suspended Solids    160 mg/l monthly average    24-hour composite sample
Phosphorus                4.3 mg/l monthly average    24-hour composite sample
Total Dissolved Solids    1,030 mg/l monthly average  24-hour composite sample
 
      (2)   Any quantity substances having the characteristics described in §
51.040.
      (3)   An average daily flow greater than 2% of the average daily sewage
flow of the city, or having a rate of flow (gallows per day) greater than 10%
of the average daily city flow for a period of one hour or more, which shall be
subject to review and approval of the city.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.042 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Where a national categorical pretreatment standard for a particular
industrial category is more stringent than the corresponding limit of this
chapter, such categorical standard shall supersede the limit of this chapter
for that industrial category and become a requirement under this chapter. The
city shall notify affected users of applicable limits, monitoring, and
reporting requirements.
   (B)   Compliance dates.
      (1)   Existing categorical users that are subject to revision of an
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard shall achieve compliance
on or before the final compliance date specified in the revised standard.
      (2)   Existing sources that become categorical subsequent to promulgation
of an applicable national categorical pretreatment standard shall achieve
compliance on or before the final compliance date specified in the promulgated
standard.
      (3)   New sources that will be subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard shall achieve compliance upon commencement of discharge
to the POTW.
   (C)   Baseline monitoring report.
      (1)   Submittal dates.
         (a)   Existing categorical users that are subject to revision of an
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard shall, within 180 days
following revision of the standard, submit a baseline monitoring report to the
WWTP Superintendent for each process regulated by the categorical standard and
containing the information specified in this division.
         (b)   Existing sources that become categorical subsequent to
promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment standard shall,
within 90 days following promulgation of the standard, submit a baseline
monitoring report to the WWTP Superintendent for each process regulated by the
categorical standard and containing the information specified in this division.
         (c)   New sources that will be subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard shall, at least 90 days prior to commencement of
discharge to the POTW, submit a baseline monitoring report to the WWTP
Superintendent for each process regulated by the categorical standard and
containing the information specified in this division. Such new sources may
provide an estimate of the flow, estimates of the quality and quantity of
pollutants to be discharged to the POTW, and the anticipated pretreatment
methods to be used to comply with the categorical standard.
      (2)   Submittal requirements. Baseline monitoring reports shall include
the following at a minimum:
         (a)   Identifying information including name and address of the
facility, and name of the owner or operator;
         (b)   A list of any environmental control permits for the facility;
         (c)   A brief description of the nature, average rate of production,
and SIC classifications of operations at the facility, including a schematic
process diagram that indicates points of discharge to the POTW from the
regulated processes;
         (d)   Information on measured average daily and maximum daily flows to
the POTW from regulated process streams, and other streams where necessary for
the city to apply the combined wastestream formula of 40 CFR Part 403.6(e);
         (e)   All pretreatment standards and requirements applicable to
regulated processes or to the discharge to the POTW;
         (f)   Results of sampling for the regulated pollutants in discharge
from regulated processes and discharge to the POTW. Samples shall be
representative of daily operations, and shall be collected and analyzed in
accordance with procedures of this chapter and 40 CFR Part 403.12(b)(5)(iii)
and (iv);
         (g)   A statement clearly indicating whether applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not,
what additional pretreatment or operation and maintenance (O&M) modifications
will be implemented to enable compliance to be achieved;
         (h)   If additional pretreatment or other O&M modifications will be
implemented, a schedule in accordance with 40 CFR Part 403.12(c) by which the
user will complete such actions in the shortest time possible and no later than
the final compliance date specified in the applicable categorical standard; and
         (i)   Certification and signature in accordance with §
51.054(F) of this chapter.
      (3)   Any changes to information submitted in a baseline monitoring
report shall be reported to the WWTP Superintendent within 60 days of becoming
aware of the change.
   (D)   Compliance status report.
      (1)   Submittal dates.
         (a)   Existing categorical users that are subject to revision of an
applicable national categorical pretreatment standard shall, within 90 days
following the final compliance date specified in the revised standard, submit a
compliance status report to the WWTP Superintendent for each process regulated
by the categorical standard and containing the information specified in this
division (D).
         (b)   Existing sources that become categorical subsequent to
promulgation of an applicable national categorical pretreatment standard shall,
within 90 days following the final compliance date specified in the promulgated
standard, submit a compliance status report to the WWTP Superintendent for each
process regulated by the categorical standard and containing the information
specified in this division (D).
         (c)   New sources that will be subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard shall, within 90 days following commencement of discharge
to the POTW, submit a compliance status report to the WWTP Superintendent for
each process regulated by the categorical standard and containing the
information specified in this division (D).
      (2)   Submittal requirements. Compliance status reports shall include the
following at a minimum:
         (a)   Average and maximum daily flow;
         (b)   Corresponding concentrations or values of all pollutants which
are limited by the applicable national categorical pretreatment standards;
         (c)   Statement clearly indicating whether all applicable pretreatment
standards and requirements are being met on a consistent basis; and
         (d)   Certification and signature in accordance with §
51.054(F) of this chapter.
      (3)   For users subject to national categorical pretreatment standards
expressed in units per rate of production, the compliance status report shall
include the actual production rate of the regulated process during the sampling
period and a reasonable estimate of the expected long-term average production
rate.
   (E)   Specific provisions applicable to categorical users. 
      (1)   National categorical pretreatment standards shall apply at the
point of discharge from the user’s categorical process, unless alternative
limits are imposed pursuant to division (E)(3).
      (2)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of pollutant characteristics
performed by a categorical user on discharges from a regulated process shall be
in accordance with analytical procedures approved by EPA and listed in 40 CFR
Part 136. Monitoring shall be carried out by composite sample or grab sample
techniques pursuant to §
51.048(D) and (E) of this chapter, and shall ensure samples are representative
of conditions during discharge to the POTW. Where historical sampling data do
not exist, a minimum of four grab samples shall be collected for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide and volatile organic compounds, as
applicable. Where historical sampling data do exist, the WWTP Superintendent
may establish an alternative minimum number of grab samples.
      (3)   When a user mixes wastewater subject to a national categorical
pretreatment standard with wastewater not regulated by that standard, the city
may impose alternative limits for that user using the combined wastestream
formula of 40 CFR Part 403.6(e).
      (4)   When a user is subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards expressed in terms of units per rate of production, the city may
impose equivalent concentration limits or mass limits for that user in
accordance with 40 CFR Part 403.6(c).
      (5)   When requested by a categorical user, the city may apply net/gross
adjustments to an applicable national categorical pretreatment standard in
accordance with 40 CFR Part 403.15.
      (6)   A categorical user may obtain a variance from an applicable
national categorical pretreatment standard upon demonstration that factors
relating to its discharge to the POTW are fundamentally different from the
factors considered by EPA when developing that standard. This demonstration
shall be in accordance with procedural and substantive provisions of 40 CFR
Part 403.13.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.043 STATE REQUIREMENTS.
   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any case
where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitations or
those in this chapter.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.044 CITY RIGHT OF REVISION.
   The city reserves the right to establish by ordinance more stringent
limitations or requirements on discharges to the POTW if deemed necessary to
comply with the objectives presented in §
51.001.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.045 UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE.
   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged any sewer water, surface
water, groundwater, water from footing drains, or roof water to any sanitary
sewer or sewer connection. Any premises connected to a storm sewer shall comply
with county, state and federal requirements as well as those of the city.
Downspout and roof leaders shall be disconnected from sanitary sewers. If this
is not done, the city shall perform this work and bill the user. Storm water,
groundwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to sewers
which are specifically designed as combined sewers or storm sewers. Discharge
of cooling water or unpolluted process water to a natural outlet shall be
approved only by the Michigan Water Resource Commission.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 GREASE, OIL AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   (A)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the city, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be
located so as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious material capable
of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers,
which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
   (B)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors or flow
equalizing facilities shall be maintained by the owner, at his expense, in
continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 SURCHARGE.
   (A)   Where the strength of sewage from an industrial, commercial or
institutional establishment exceeds any of the following, and where the wastes
are permitted to be discharged to the POTW by the city, an added charge, as
noted in this section, will be made against the establishment according to the
strength of the wastes.
      (1)   200 parts per million of biochemical oxygen demand.
      (2)   240 parts per million by weight of suspended solids.
      (3)   5 parts per million by weight of phosphorus.
      (4)   100 parts per million by weight of fats, oils or grease.
      (5)   20 parts per million by weight of ammonia nitrogen.
      (6)   750 mg/L chemical oxygen demand (COD).
      (7)   4,000 mg/L total dissolved solids (TDS).
   (B)   The cost of taking and making the first of these samples shall be
borne by the city. The cost of any subsequent sampling and testing shall be
borne by the industry or establishment, whether owner or lessee. Tests shall be
made by an independent laboratory or at the city wastewater treatment plant.
Added charges shall be determined by the city by resolution. These charges
shall be based on the cost of operation, maintenance, and equipment replacement
for the wastewater treatment plant.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 319, passed 6-20-11; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-
16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.048 MEASUREMENTS, TESTS AND ANALYSES.
   (A)   When required by the city, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with any necessary meters and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and measurement of the
wastes. The manhole, when required, shall be accessible and safely located and
shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the city. The manhole
shall be installed by the owner at his expense and shall be maintained by him
so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (B)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of wastewater characteristics to
which reference is made in this chapter shall be determined in accordance with
analytical procedures approved by EPA and listed in 40 CFR Part 136. In cases
where EPA-approved procedures are not available or do not apply to a particular
characteristic being measured, an alternate methods validated by a recognized
authority and approved by the WWTP Superintendent may be used.
   (C)   All measurements, tests and analyses of pollutant characteristics to
which reference is made in this section shall be determined at the control
manhole provided for in this section, or upon suitable samples taken at the
control manhole. In the event that no special manhole has been required, the
control manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the
public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
   (D)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. Grab samples shall be used for
pH, cyanide, total phenols, oil and grease, sulfide, and volatile organic
compounds. For all other pollutants, 24-hour composite samples shall be used.
Multiple grab samples collected during a 24-hour period may be composited prior
to the analysis as follows: in the field or in the laboratory for cyanide,
total phenols, and sulfides; in the laboratory for oil and grease and volatile
organics; as authorized by the Administrator for other parameters.
   (E)   All 24-hour composite samples shall be collected through flow-
proportional sampling techniques, unless the WWTP Superintendent authorizes an
alternative sampling technique including but not limited to 24-hour composite
samples obtained through time-based sampling techniques or compositing of
multiple grab samples collected within a 24-hour period. A user seeking an
alternative sampling technique to be authorized by the WWTP Superintendent
shall demonstrate that the corresponding samples are representative of
conditions during discharge to the POTW. The user shall submit this
demonstration in writing to the WWTP Superintendent, who will store the
documentation in the city’s IPP file for that user.
   (F)   Collected samples shall be split between the city and user for
analysis upon request by either party.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.049 DETERMINATION OF SEWAGE FLOW.
   To determine the sewage flow from any establishment, the city may use one of
the following methods.
   (A)   The amount of water supplied to the premises by the city or a private
water company as shown upon the water meter if the premises are metered.
   (B)   If the premises are supplied with river water or water from private
water company, the amount of water shown upon the water meter if the premises
are metered.
    (C)   If the premises are used for an industrial or commercial purpose of
such a nature that the water supplied to the premises cannot be entirely
discharged to the POTW, the estimate of the amount of sewage discharged into
the sewer system made by the city from the water, gas or electric supply.
   (D)   The number of gallons of sewage discharged to the POTW as determined
by measurements and samples taken at a manhole installed by the owner of the
property served by the sewer system at his own expense in accordance with the
terms and conditions of the wastewater contribution permit issued by the city.
   (E)   A figure determined by the city by any combination of the foregoing or
by any other equitable method.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.050 ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   (A)   One employee at each industrial user shall be delegated to serve as
the local wastewater contact for the WWTP Superintendent. Responsibilities of
this individual shall include but not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Provide day-to-day verbal communications with the WWTP
Superintendent as necessary.
      (2)   Ensure proper operation and maintenance of pretreatment facilities
if applicable to produce a continuous high level of performance.
      (3)   Maintain an up-to-date site layout drawing that clearly shows the
location of all buildings, process areas, chemical storage areas, pretreatment
facilities if applicable, floor drains near process and chemical storage areas,
sanitary and storm sewers, discharge sampling points, discharge outfalls to
waters of the state, and discharge outfalls to the POTW.
      (4)   Maintain an up-to-date accounting of average flows for all
discharges to the POTW or waters of the state, with identification of
appropriate waste categories such as process, water treatment, air pollution
control, air conditioning condensate, boiler water, cooling water, and
sanitary.
       (5)   Maintain up-to-date records of pollutant concentrations or values
measured in discharges to the POTW, discharges to waters of the state, and
process wastes.
      (6)   Be aware of all potential and routine toxic wastes generated at the
facility and catalog all bulk chemicals on the site including both specific and
common chemical names, amounts stored, amounts used, and amounts manufactured.
      (7)   Be involved in activities to prevent accidental releases, pollutant
slugs, and upsets or unanticipated bypasses of the pretreatment facilities if
applicable.
      (8)   Stay informed of all process changes which could in any manner
modify normal flow or pollutant strength in the discharge to the POTW.
      (9)   Be aware of planned process alterations over the next year, two
years, and five years, including consultation with appropriate management for
confirmation whether such alterations are scheduled and forthcoming.
      (10)   Oversee completion of nondomestic user survey and industrial waste
questionnaire forms when required by the city.
   (B)   Where required by the city, an approvable sampling station shall be
provided in an accessible place for the POTW personnel to obtain samples and
flow measurement data. The complexity of the station may vary with sampling
requirements that the city determines to be necessary. A more complex station,
complete with 110 volt AC power source, shall be provided when continuous flow
monitoring and 24-hour flow proportional composite sampling is required. The
sampling station shall provide a safe environment for POTW staff, and be fully
accessible seven days a week and 24 hours a day without entering the industrial
user’s property. Installation and maintenance of the sampling station shall be
at the industrial user’s expense.
   (C)   Appropriate secondary containment shall be provided by each industrial
user to protect against accidental leaks to floor drains that discharge to the
POTW. Secondary containment shall be provided for all bulk chemical storage and
tanks which may be serviced by commercial haulers. Tank containments shall be
sufficient to hold 150% of the total volume, and all floor drains within a
containment area shall be plugged and sealed. Sumps within any containment area
shall be blocked and sealed. Sumps within process areas where bulk chemicals
are used shall be routed to pretreatment facilities, if applicable, or to
quarantine tanks to prevent spills from being discharged to the POTW.
   (D)   Unless approved otherwise by the WWTP Superintendent, all residuals
such as high strength wastes, residues, sludge-type wastes, and spent raw
materials or products generated by an industrial user shall be segregated from
wastewater to be discharged to the POTW and disposed off-site by a licensed
waste hauler. The WWTP Superintendent, at his/her discretion, may establish
appropriate terms and conditions for pretreatment and discharge of such wastes
to the POTW. At a minimum, pretreatment shall achieve the acceptable levels as
detailed in this chapter. All sludges and residuals generated by this
pretreatment shall be disposed off-site by a licensed waste hauler.
   (E)   Unless approved otherwise by the WWTP Superintendent, non-contact
cooling water at an industrial user’s site shall be treated as necessary and
discharged to waters of the state under authority of a NPDES permit issued by
MDEQ.
   (F)   Agents of the city, County Health Department, MDEQ, and EPA shall be
allowed to enter each industrial user’s property for inspections, for measuring
flows and sampling pollutant concentrations or values in discharges to the POTW
or waters of the state, and for copying discharge-related records.
(Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.051 ACCIDENTAL DISCHARGES, SLUG DISCHARGES, UPSETS AND BYPASSES.
   (A)   Facilities to prevent accidental discharge. Where required, a user
shall provide protection from accidental discharge to the POTW of prohibited
materials or other substances regulated by this chapter. Facilities to prevent
accidental discharge or prohibited materials shall be provided and maintained
at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans showing
facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the city for review, and shall be approved by the city before
construction of the facility. All required users shall complete such a plan
within 180 days after the adoption of this chapter. If required by the city, a
user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date of this
chapter shall not be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until
accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the city. Review and
approval of the plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial
user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet
the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   Accidental discharge responsibilities.
      (1)   Verbal notice. In the case of an accidental discharge to the POTW,
it is the responsibility of all users to immediately telephone and notify the
WWTP Superintendent of the incident. The notification shall include location of
discharge, type of waste, concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
      (2)   Written notice. Within five days following an accidental discharge
to the POTW, the user shall submit to the city a detailed written report to the
WWTP Superintendent describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to
be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences. This notification
shall not relieve the user of any expense, loss, damage, or other liability
which may be incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any
other damage to person or property; nor shall the notification relieve the user
of any fines, civil penalties, or other liability which may be imposed by this
chapter or other applicable law.
       (3)   Notice to employees. For users discharging industrial wastes, a
notice shall be permanently posted on the user’s bulletin board or other
prominent place advising employees of whom to call in the event of an
accidental discharge to the POTW. Such employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or witness an accidental discharge are advised of the
notification procedure of this division.
      (4)   The WWTP Superintendent will review each incident of accidental
discharge to the POTW to determine severity, cause, and preventive measures
required to ensure against future occurrence. The review process may include
any appropriate actions against the user including, but not limited to, service
discontinuance (water and/or sewer), fines or penalties, and/or judicial
proceedings. Any costs incurred by the city for this review including personnel
time and benefits, laboratory costs, equipment rental, etc., may be charged to
the user.
   (C)   Slug control plan.
      (1)   The WWTP Superintendent may, by written notice to a user, require
that user to prepare and implement a slug control plan. The plan shall be
submitted to the WWTP Superintendent for approval as specified in the written
notice.
      (2)   The plan shall contain at least the following:
         (a)   A description of all discharge practices including non-routine
batch discharges;
         (b)   A description of stored materials;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the Wastewater
Superintendent of slug discharges to the POTW, including any discharge that
would violate any prohibition under §
51.040 or §
51.041 of this chapter or any applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard, and procedures for follow-up written notification within five days;
         (d)   Procedures to prevent adverse impacts from accidental spills
including but not limited to inspection and maintenance of storage areas,
handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control
of plant site run-off, worker training, building of containment structures or
equipment, measures for containing solvents and other toxic organic pollutants,
and measures or equipment for emergency response.
      (3)   The WWTP Superintendent will evaluate each new significant
industrial user, within one year of being designated as such, regarding the
need for a slug control plan. Each existing significant industrial user not
required to have a slug control plan will be re-evaluated by the WWTP
Superintendent at least once every two years.
   (D)   Upset provisions.
      (1)   Users discharging industrial wastes shall control production of all
discharges to the POTW to the extent necessary to maintain compliance with
pretreatment standards and requirements upon reduction, loss, or failure of a
pretreatment facility until such facility is restored or an alternative method
of treatment is provided. This requirement applies in the situation where,
among other things, the primary source of power of the treatment facility is
reduced, lost, or fails.
      (2)   An upset shall not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventive maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
      (3)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an enforcement
action brought for noncompliance with pretreatment standards and requirements
only if the user demonstrates through operating logs or other relevant evidence
that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the cause(s) of the upset can be
identified;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner, and in compliance with standard operating and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user provided the city with a report of potential problems
pursuant to §
51.054(D) of this chapter.
      (4)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   Bypasses.
      (1)   A user discharging industrial wastes may allow a bypass to occur if
it does not cause pretreatment standards or requirements to be violated, but
only if it is for essential maintenance to assure efficient operation. Such
bypasses shall not be subject to the requirements of divisions (E)(2) and (3),
below.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (E)(3), below, bypass is prohibited
and the city may take enforcement action against the user unless:
         (a)   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage. For the purposes of this division, severe
property damage means substantial physical damage to property, damage to the
user’s treatment facilities that causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in absence of a bypass. Severe property damage does not mean
economic loss caused by delays in production;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance; and
         (c)   The user provided the city with a notification of potential
problems pursuant to §
51.054(D) of this chapter.
      (3)   If a user discharging industrial wastes knows in advance of the
need for a bypass, it shall submit prior notice to the WWTP Superintendent at
least ten days before the date of the bypass if possible; if not possible,
prior notification shall be made to the WWTP Superintendent as soon as the need
for a bypass becomes known. The WWTP Superintendent may approve an anticipated
bypass, after considering its adverse effects, if it is determined that there
are no feasible alternatives to the bypass including but not limited to use of
auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or actions
during normal periods of equipment downtime.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.052 SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as preventing any
special agreement or arrangement between the city and any person, firm or
corporation whereby waste of unusual strength or character may be accepted by
the city, subject to payment by the person, firm or corporation, provided the
waste will not damage the sanitary sewer or storm sewer or wastewater treatment
plant or the receiving waters.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91)
§ 51.053 WASTEWATER CONTRIBUTION PERMITS.
   (A)   Identification and permitting of POTW users. The city will distinguish
between residential, commercial, and industrial users of the POTW. Any
industrial user classified as a significant industrial user will be notified in
writing and required to apply for a wastewater contribution permit. Any other
industrial or commercial user with a discharge to the POTW that exceeds any
pollutant parameter concentration or value described in §
51.041(B)(1) of this chapter as representative of background sewage may be
required by the city to apply for a wastewater contribution permit. Residential
users will not be required to apply for wastewater contribution permit.
   (B)   Permit provisions. A new wastewater contribution permit will be
issued, or an existing wastewater contribution permit will be re-issued, by the
WWTP Superintendent subject to the following:
      (1)   The user requesting to be permitted shall have submitted to the
city a complete and up-to-date user survey and industrial waste questionnaire
pursuant to §
51.020. A user subject to national categorical pretreatment standards shall
also have submitted to the city a complete and up-to-date baseline monitoring
report and 90-day compliance report, where applicable, pursuant to §
51.042.
      (2)   The user requesting to be permitted shall have submitted to the
city a complete and up-to-date permit application on a form furnished by the
city, and have paid any required fees. Users with an existing wastewater
contribution permit shall submit a complete and up-to-date permit application
at least 90 days prior to the existing permit’s expiration date.
      (3)   The user requesting to be permitted shall not have any outstanding
sewer charges, fees, surcharges, or fines.
      (4)   The user requesting to be permitted shall have furnished any
additional information requested by the WWTP Superintendent.
      (5)   The city may reject a discharge to the POTW and deny a wastewater
contribution permit for any reason it deems appropriate. The WWTP
Superintendent will evaluate the data furnished by the user and determine
whether or not to accept the discharge. If the discharge is to be accepted, the
WWTP Superintendent will determine whether or not a wastewater contribution
permit is required. The user will be notified of these decisions in writing.
      (6)   All wastewater contribution permits will contain the following
conditions at a minimum:
         (a)   User name, discharging facility location, and mailing address;
         (b)   Date on which the permit is effective, but not before the date
of issue;
         (c)   Date on which the permit will expire, but not more than five
years after the effective date;
         (d)   Conditions for applying for permit renewal;
         (e)   Signature of WWTP Superintendent and issue date;
         (f)   Applicable limits for discharge to the POTW;
         (g)   Required sample types;
         (h)   Required monitoring frequencies;
         (i)   Description of specific sampling locations;
         (j)   Average flow, and other conditions as appropriate, used to
develop the permit conditions;
         (k)   Reporting, notification, and record keeping requirements;
         (l)   Statement that permit is not transferable without prior
notification to the city;
         (m)   Statement that compliance with permit does not relieve the user
of its obligation to comply with all applicable Federal, state, and local
pretreatment standards and requirements, or with any other requirements of
Federal, state, and local law;
         (n)   Statement that noncompliance with conditions of the permit may
be deemed a violation of this chapter and subject to enforcement remedies
established herein; and
         (o)   Identification of applicable civil and criminal penalties for
violations.
      (7)   A wastewater contribution permit may also contain the following
conditions where deemed appropriate by the WWTP Superintendent:
         (a)   Requirements of an applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard;
         (b)   Limits on average or maximum discharge flow to the POTW;
         (c)   Limits on time or season of discharge to the POTW;
         (d)   Requirements for flow or pollutant equalization;
         (e)   Requirements for a pollutant minimization plan;
         (f)   Requirements for a slug discharge control plan;
         (g)   Requirements of an applicable BMP;
         (h)   Requirements for pretreatment and/or sampling equipment;
         (i)   Compliance schedules;
         (j)   Performance bond and/or liability insurance; and
         (k)   Other conditions considered necessary to ensure compliance with
this chapter.
      (8)   Upon issue of a renewed wastewater contribution permit, the
existing permit becomes void on the effective date of the new permit.
   (C)   Permit appeals. Within 30 days of any action by the WWTP
Superintendent on a wastewater contribution permit, the permitted user or any
other person may petition to the Wastewater Board of Appeals pursuant to §
51.083 of this chapter. Failure to submit a timely petition for reconsideration
will result in waiver of this right of appeal. In its petition, the appealing
party must indicate the specific permit provisions objected to, the reasons for
this objection, and any alternative condition it seeks to be placed in the
permit. The wastewater contribution permit, including the provisions objected
to, will not be stayed pending resolution of the petition for reconsideration.
If the Wastewater Board of Appeals fails to act within 90 days, the petition
for reconsideration will be considered denied. A decision by the Wastewater
Board of Appeals to not issue a wastewater contribution permit, to not
reconsider conditions of a wastewater contribution permit, or to not modify a
wastewater contribution permit will be considered the city’s final
administrative action. Further appeal of this decision will be governed by
applicable state law.
   (D)   Unless authorized otherwise by the WWTP Superintendent, a wastewater
contribution permit shall be void upon cessation of operations by the permitted
user or transfer of business ownership. The WWTP superintendent may, but is not
obligated to, approve a permit transfer to a new owner or operator if the
existing permitted user provides a notice at least 90 days prior to the
business ownership transfer. This notice of pending transfer shall include a
written certification by the new owner/operator that states it has no immediate
intent to change the facility’s operations and processes, identifies the
specific date on which the business ownership transfer is to occur, and
acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing wastewater
contribution permit. Failure to provide a timely notice of pending transfer
shall render the existing permit void as of the date of business ownership
transfer.
   (E)   Permit revision or revocation. The following conditions apply to
revision and reissuance of an issued wastewater contribution permit, and
revocation of an issued wastewater contribution permit:
      (1)   The WWTP Superintendent may revise an issued wastewater
contribution permit for good cause, including the following:
         (a)   Misrepresentation, or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts, in the permit application or associated reporting;
         (b)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the permit including
discharge limits, reporting requirements, and compliance schedules;
         (c)   Transfer of the permitted user’s facility to a new owner or
operator;
         (d)   Address changes or additions to the user’s operation, processes,
discharge flow to the POTW, or concentrations or values of pollutants
discharged to the POTW since issuance of the existing permit;
         (e)   New information indicating that the permitted discharge poses an
threat to POTW pass through or interference, sludge contamination, worker
health and safety, or the general public;
         (f)   Incorporate new or revised Federal, state, or local pretreatment
standards and requirements;
         (g)   A change in the POTW that necessitates either a temporary or
permanent modification of the permitted discharge;
         (h)   Correct typographical errors or other omissions in the
wastewater contribution permit; and
         (i)   Other conditions which the WWTP Superintendent determines to
warrant permit revision.
      (2)   The WWTP Superintendent may revoke an issued wastewater
contribution permit for good cause, including the following:
         (a)   Misrepresentation, or failure to fully disclose all relevant
facts, in the permit application and/or associated reporting;
         (b)   Violation of any terms or conditions of the permit including
discharge limits, reporting requirements, and compliance schedules;
         (c)   Failure to provide required advance notice of business ownership
transfer for the permitted facility;
         (d)   Failure to provide required notifications, including notice of
changed conditions or notice of potential problems;
         (e)   Refusal to allow timely access to the facility for city
surveillance activities;
         (f)   Failure to submit a completed renewal application by required
date prior to the existing permit’s expiration;
         (g)   Failure to pay applicable sewer charges, fees, surcharges, or
fines;
         (h)   Tampering with monitoring equipment or falsifying self-
monitoring reports; or
         (i)   Other conditions which warrant permit revocation.
(Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
§ 51.054 USER NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Periodic compliance report.
      (1)   Significant industrial users, and other users where required by the
city, shall submit to the city a report indicating the nature and concentration
of pollutants in their discharge to the POTW in accordance with a wastewater
contribution permit or order of the city.
      (2)   Reports shall be submitted to the WWTP Superintendent during the
months of June and December, unless required more frequently by the city or a
national categorical pretreatment standard. In consideration of such factors as
local high or low rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the months
during which compliance reports are to be submitted may be altered at the
discretion of the city.
      (3)   The report shall include a record of all daily flows which exceeded
the average daily flow reported in §
51.020, and §
51.042 if applicable, during the reporting period.
      (4)   In cases where the city has imposed mass limitations, the report
shall indicate the mass of pollutants so regulated.
      (5)   In cases where the city has required certain actions associated
with a BMP, the report shall include sufficient documentation for the city to
determine compliance.
      (6)   If a user monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by
the city, using methods contained in 40 CFR Part 136 or alternate methods
approved by the WWTP Superintendent, results of this additional monitoring
shall be included the report.
      (7)   All wastewater sample results reported to the city must be
representative of the non-domestic user’s discharge to the POTW. It shall be
the users responsibility to properly operate and maintain all wastewater
monitoring equipment at all times. Failure of a user to maintain its monitoring
equipment shall not be acceptable grounds for a claim of nonrepresentative
sample results.
      (8)   Each submittal of a periodic self-monitoring report shall include a
signed certification statement in accordance with division (F) of this section.
   (B)   Limit exceedance notifications; repeat sampling report.
      (1)   All non-domestic users shall verbally report to the WWTP
Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware of any discharges to the POTW,
whether intentional or accidental, which are known or reasonably suspected to
violate any of the following:
         (a)   Prohibitions under §
51.040 and §
51.041 of this chapter;
         (b)   Limits in a wastewater contribution permit;
         (c)   Applicable national categorical pretreatment standards;
         (d)   Limits in any special agreement with the city; or
         (e)   Any other applicable law or regulation. In such cases, repeat
sampling shall be immediately performed in accordance with division (B)(3) of
this section.
      (2)   After providing the verbal limit exceedance notification, the user
shall provide a written follow-up report to the WWTP Superintendent within five
days of initially becoming aware of the exceedance. This report shall repeat
the information required in divisions (B)(1)(a) through (e) of this division
and provide all additional known details regarding the discharge to the POTW
including but not limited to volume, duration, pollutant constituents,
concentrations, loadings, cause, actions taken or to be taken to prevent future
exceedances, and other relevant information.
      (3)   If the sampling was performed by the user, repeat sampling shall be
immediately performed and results submitted to the WWTP Superintendent within
30 days of becoming aware of the exceedance. If the sampling was performed by
the city, the WWTP Superintendent will notify the user of said exceedance. The
user shall immediately perform a repeat of the sampling and submit results to
the WWTP Superintendent within 30 days of this notification, except as follows:
         (a)   The city samples the user’s discharge to the POTW at a frequency
of at least once per month; or
         (b)   The city will sample the user’s discharge to the POTW between
the time of the user's sampling that indicated an exceedance and the time when
the user would perform the repeat sampling.
      (4)   Significant industrial users, and other user where required, shall
post a clearly legible set of instructions in the area where wastewater is
managed to ensure that these notice and reporting requirements are known by the
user’s employees. Any user with a wastewater contribution permit shall post a
copy of the current permit with these instructions. All employees who have
responsibilities relating to the user’s wastewater shall be provided with
initial training, and at least annual refresher training, on these notice and
reporting requirements.
      (5)   Whenever possible, advanced written notification shall be provided
to the WWTP Superintendent of any discharge to the POTW that may violate
conditions of (B)(1)(a) to (e) of this section. This notification shall provide
all known details regarding this discharge including but not limited to volume,
duration, pollutant constituents, concentrations, loadings, cause, actions
taken or to be taken to prevent future exceedances, and other relevant
information necessary for the WWTP Superintendent to determine what impact the
discharge may have on the POTW.
      (6)   Each written submittal of a limit exceedance notification shall
include a signed certification statement in accordance with division (F) of
this section.
   (C)   Notification of changed discharge.
      (1)   All nondomestic users shall provide written notification to the
WWTP Superintendent in advance of any substantial change in the nature,
quality, or volume of its discharge to the POTW, including any changes to their
operations that may affect the potential for a slug discharge.
      (2)   For purposes of this division, a substantial change includes but is
not limited to flow increases of 10% or greater than previously reported
pursuant to §
51.020, pollutant concentration increases of 10% or greater than previously
reported pursuant to §
51.020, and discharge to the POTW of any pollutants not previously reported
pursuant to §
51.020. Also included are any hazardous waste discharges to the POTW for which
the user is required to submit a notification under division (E) of this
section.
      (3)   The notification shall be made at least 90 days before a planned
change, if possible. If not possible, the notification shall be made as soon as
the planned change becomes known.
      (4)   The WWTP Superintendent may require the user to submit additional
information as may be deemed necessary to evaluate the changed conditions,
including submission of a new industrial waste questionnaire pursuant to §
51.020.
      (5)   The WWTP superintendent may revise and reissue an existing
wastewater contribution permit, or issue a new wastewater contribution permit,
in response to the changed conditions.
      (6)   Each written submittal of a notification of changed discharge shall
include a signed certification statement in accordance with division (F) of
this section.
   (D)   Notification of potential problems, including slug loads.
      (1)   In the case of any non-routine discharge to the POTW that violates
any prohibition under §
51.040 or §
51.041 of this chapter or any applicable national categorical pretreatment
standard including but not limited to slug loadings, accidental discharges,
discharges resulting from upsets or unanticipated bypasses, discharges of a
episodic nature, and non-customary batch discharges, all nondomestic users
shall verbally notify the WWTP Superintendent within 24 hours of becoming aware
of an upset or unintentional bypass and provide the following information:
         (a)   A description of the non-routine discharge to the POTW including
all known information on location, type of waste, concentration, and volume;
         (b)   Period of the non-routine discharge to the POTW including exact
dates and times or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the discharge is
expected to continue; and
         (c)   Corrective action being taken reduce, eliminate, and prevent
recurrence of non-routine discharges to the POTW.
      (2)   Within five days of this verbal notification, the user shall
provide to the WWTP Superintendent a written submission containing the
information contained in divisions (D)(1)(a), (b), and (c) of this section. The
WWTP Superintendent may waive the written report on a case-by-case basis if the
verbal report has been received within the required time period.
      (3)   Each written submittal of a notification of potential problems
shall include a signed certification statement in accordance with division (F)
of this section.
   (E)   Notification of hazardous waste discharge. All users shall notify the
WWTP Superintendent, the State Hazardous Waste Director, and the EPA Regional
Waste Management Division Director in writing of any discharge to the POTW of a
substance which would be classified as a hazardous waste if disposed via other
means. Reporting requirements shall be in accordance with 40 CFR 403.12(p).
   (F)   Signature and certification. All written reports submitted pursuant to
this section shall be signed by an authorized representative of industrial
user, and certified using the following statement:
      "I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments
were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system
designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the
information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage
the system, or those persons directly responsible for gathering the
information, the information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant
penalties for submitting false information, including the possibility of fine
and imprisonment for knowing violations."
(Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
§ 51.055 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   All significant industrial users, and other users where required by
the city, shall retain and preserve for not less than three years all documents
including records, books, memoranda, reports, correspondence, and any and all
summaries relating to sampling and analyses in connection with its discharge to
the POTW.
   (B)   Retained records shall include the following for all samples:
      (1)   Date, location, method, and time of sampling as well as names of
persons taking the samples;
      (2)   Dates analyses were performed;
      (3)   Identification of analyst or commercial laboratory who performed
the analyses;
      (4)   Analytical techniques and/or methods used; and
      (5)   Results of such analyses.
   (C)   Retained records for users subject to reporting requirements in this
chapter, including reports concerning compliance with BMPs, shall maintain
copies of the reports and documentation used to develop those reports.
   (D)   Requirements for retained records which pertain to subjects of an
administrative order or any other enforcement activities by the city, MDEQ, or
EPA are subject to provisions of §
51.085(A) of this chapter.
(Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
RATES
§ 51.065 ESTABLISHMENT; BASIS FOR COMPUTATIONS.
   Rates and charges for the use of the wastewater system of the city shall be
based upon the methodology in the user charge system approved by the Michigan
Department of Natural Resources. Revisions to the rates for total sewer service
charges are to be established by resolution of the City Council, which may be
enacted apart from the published ordinances as necessary to ensure sufficiency
of revenues in meeting operation, maintenance and replacement costs, as well as
debt service. User charges for operation, maintenance and replacement shall be
subject to the annual review of the user charge system. User charges shall be
the same for all customers of the system regardless of geographical boundaries.
These charges and rates shall be made against each lot, parcel of land or
premises which may have any sewer connections with the sewer system of the
city, or which may otherwise discharge sewage or industrial waste, either
directly or indirectly, into the system or any part thereof. The charges shall
be based upon the quantity of water used thereon or therein.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91)
§ 51.066 LEVY OF RATES; COLLECTION; NO FREE SERVICE.
   (A)   Amounts, billings, sewer service charges. The rates and charges for
service furnished by the system shall be levied upon each lot or parcel of
land, building or premises, having any sewer connection with the system, on the
basis of the quantity of water used thereon or therein as the same is measured
therein used, or in the absence thereof, by such equitable method as shall be
determined by the city, and shall be collected quarterly except in cases where
the character of the sewage from a manufacturing or industrial plant, building
or premises is such that unreasonable additional burden is placed upon the
system, greater than that imposed by the normal domestic sewage delivered to
the system plant. The additional cost of treatment created thereby shall be an
additional charge over the regular rates hereinafter set forth; or the city
may, if it deems it advisable, compel the manufacturing or industrial plant,
building or premises to treat the sewage in such a manner as shall be specified
by the city before discharging sewage into the sewage disposal system. Rates
for all users obtaining all or part of their water supply from sources other
than the city water system may be determined by gauging or metering the actual
sewage entering the system or by metering the water used by them, in a manner
acceptable to the city.
   (B)   No free service. No free service shall be allowed for any user of the
city wastewater system.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91)
§ 51.067 ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for the
expenses of operation, maintenance and replacement of the systems are necessary
to preserve the same in good repair and working order. The rates shall be fixed
and revised from time to time as may be necessary to produce these amounts. An
annual audit shall be prepared. Based on the rates for sewage, services shall
be reviewed annually and revised as necessary by the City Council by resolution
to meet system expenses and to insure that all user classes pay their
proportionate share of operation, maintenance and equipment replacement cost.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91)
§ 51.068 BILLING.
   Billing for wastewater service shall be the city’s responsibility. All water
meters shall be read monthly and bills rendered monthly.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91)
§ 51.069 DELINQUENCY.
   (A)   Termination of service for nonpayment. If payment is not received or
satisfactory arrangements have not been made by the due date an additional
charge of 15% monthly, 18% annual, of the total unpaid balance shall be added.
   (B)   Collection of delinquent accounts. Unpaid charges for sewage disposal
service furnished to any premise within the city shall be a lien against the
premises. Enforcement of this lien shall be made pursuant to City Code and/or
statute. This lien remedy does not preclude any other remedy provided by law.
Those premises outside the city that are served by the city wastewater
treatment works that have delinquent bills will be certified to their
governmental unit for collection as provided in the contract between the city
and the governmental unit.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91)
§ 51.070 ANNUAL NOTIFICATION.
   All customers of the city's wastewater treatment works will receive an
annual notification, either printed on the bill or enclosed in a separate
letter, which will show the breakdown of the sewage bill into its components
for operation, maintenance and replacement and for debt service.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91)
MUNICIPAL AUTHORITY; ENFORCEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION
§ 51.080 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be responsible for interruptions of services due to
natural calamities, equipment failures, or actions of the system users. It
shall be the responsibility of the user that all connected equipment remain in
good working order so as not to cause disruption of service of any sewer or
treatment plant equipment.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91)
§ 51.081 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The WWTP Superintendent and the County Health Inspector and other duly
authorized employees of the city and county acting as their duly authorized
agents and; bearing proper credentials and identification, shall be permitted
to enter upon any properties as may be necessary for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
§ 51.082 VIOLATION NOTICE; ORDERS.
   (A)   A violation notice or order issued by the city shall contain the facts
and grounds for its issuance and the remedial action ordered, together with the
time limitation within which the action shall be taken. No violation notice or
order shall be deemed insufficient, however, for inconsequential errors and
omissions in the facts and grounds for the order. If any user deems the content
of a violation notice or order to contain insufficient information, the user
may request additional information from the city; however, no request shall
extend any time limit or defer any payment, except as hereinafter set forth. In
the event that a noncompliance is due to factors beyond the reasonable control
of the user, as determined by the city, the noncompliance may not be considered
a violation and an order may be modified to take account of these factors. Any
violation notice or order shall be subject to amendment, change or revocation,
provided notice of the action is served upon the user in the same manner as the
original order and is subject to the same procedures for review and appeal.
   (B)   If the city determines that a user has violated any provisions of this
chapter, any enforcement action deemed appropriate under the circumstances may
be taken including but not limited to the following.
      (1)   General administrative remedies.
         (a)   The WWTP Superintendent may suspend wastewater treatment
services to any user when such suspension is deemed necessary to stop an actual
or threatened discharge to the POTW that presents or may present an imminent or
substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of persons or the
environment, causes or may cause pass through or interference to the POTW, or
causes or may cause the POTW to violate any condition of its NPDES permit. The
WWTP Superintendent may also suspend, revoke, or terminate the wastewater
contribution permit of any user that fails to accurately report the wastewater
constituents and characteristics of its discharge; fails to report significant
changes in wastewater constituents or characteristics; refuses reasonable
access to the user’s premises by representatives of the city for the purpose of
inspection or surveillance; or violates any conditions of its wastewater
contribution permit, order, or agreement issued pursuant to this chapter.
         (b)   In addition to affirmative defenses associated with upsets and
bypasses pursuant to §
51.051(D) and (E), a user shall have an affirmative defense in any action
alleging that it discharged a pollutant to the POTW causing interference, pass-
through, or a violation of this chapter if it can be demonstrated that both of
the following occurred:
            1.   It did not know or have reason to know that its discharge to
the POTW, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other
sources, would cause pass-through, interference, or a violation this chapter;
            2.   A local limit was in effect for the pollutant that caused
pass-through or interference, and the user was in compliance with this local
limit directly before and during the pass-through or interference; and/or
            3.   A local limit was not in effect for the pollutant that caused
the pass-through or interference, and the user’s discharge to the POTW directly
before and during the pass-through or interference did not change substantially
in nature or constituents from the prior discharge activity.
         (c)   Users shall not have an affirmative defense for trucked or
hauled pollutants; pollutants that create a fire or explosion hazard in the
POTW; pollutants that cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW; or
pollutants that result in toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a
quantity that cause acute worker health or safety problems.
      (2)   Administrative notices and orders. Notices and orders associated
with administrative enforcement actions for enforcement of pretreatment
standards and requirements available to the city include the following:
         (a)   Notice of violation. When it is determined that a user has
violated any provision of its wastewater contribution permit, order, or
agreement issued pursuant to this chapter, or other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the WWTP Superintendent may issue a notice of violation to
formally document the noncompliance. This document will specify the nature of
the violation, establish a date by which the violation shall be corrected, and
notify the affected user that failure to correct the violation would constitute
a further violation that may result in additional enforcement action. The
notice of violation will be sent via first-class mail or personally served on
an authorized representative of the industrial user. Receipt, or non-receipt,
of a notice of violation will in no way relieve the affected user of any and
all liability associated with the violation. Issuance of a notice of violation
will not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions
against the affected user.
         (b)   Order to show cause. When it is determined that a user has
violated any provision of its wastewater contribution permit, order, or
agreement issued pursuant to this chapter, or other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the City Manager may issue an administrative order to show cause
to require the affected user to appear at a hearing to demonstrate why
escalated enforcement action should not be pursued. This document will specify
the nature of the violation, establish the time and place for the hearing, and
notify the affected user that failure to comply would constitute a further
violation that may result in additional enforcement action. The order to show
cause will be issued at least ten days prior to the hearing, and will be sent
via certified mail/return receipt requested or personally served on an
authorized representative of the industrial user. Receipt, or non-receipt, of
an order to show cause will in no way relieve the affected user of any
liability associated with the violation. Issuance of an order to show cause or
conducting of the show cause hearing will not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions against the affected user.
         (c)   Order of consent. When affected user agrees to a violation and
to the remedial solution, the City Manager may issue an order of consent to
formally establish such agreement. The order of consent will specify the nature
of the violation and required actions such as compliance schedules, stipulated
fines, additional self-monitoring, and improvements to treatment facilities or
management practices designed to control the user’s discharge to the POTW. The
order of consent will have the same force and effect as other administrative
orders issued by the city pursuant to this chapter, will be judicially
enforceable, and will not modify the requirements or extend the deadline for
compliance established by a pretreatment standard or requirement. The order of
consent will be sent via certified mail/return receipt requested or personally
served on an authorized representative of the industrial user, and will require
signatures of representatives from both the city and the affected user.
Receipt, or non-receipt, of an order of consent will in no way relieve the
affected user of any liability associated with the violation. Issuance of an
order of consent will not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, any other
enforcement actions by the city against the affected user.
         (d)   Order to achieve compliance. When the affected user does not
agree to the violation or to the remedial solution, the City Manager may issue
an order to achieve compliance. The order to achieve compliance will specify
the nature of the violation and establish required actions such as compliance
schedules, stipulated fines, additional self-monitoring, and improvements to
treatment facilities or management practices designed to control the user’s
discharge to the POTW. The order to achieve compliance will have the same force
and effect as other administrative orders issued pursuant to this chapter, will
be judicially enforceable, and will not modify the requirements or extend the
deadline for compliance established by a pretreatment standard or requirement.
The order to achieve compliance will be issued unilaterally in that terms need
not be agreed to by the affected user, and will be sent via certified mail/
return receipt requested or personally served on an authorized representative
of the industrial user. Receipt, or non-receipt, of an order to achieve
compliance will in no way relieve the affected user of any liability associated
with the violation. Issuance of an order to achieve compliance will not be a
bar against, or a prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions against the
affected user.
         (e)   Cease and desist order. When it is determined that a user has
violated and continues to violate any provision of its wastewater contribution
permit, order, or agreement issued pursuant to this chapter, or other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the City Manager and City Attorney may
jointly issue a cease and desist order requiring the affected user to eliminate
the violation within 24 hours or face suspension of sewer service. This
document will specify the nature of the violation and require that the
violation cease. The cease and desist order will be personally served on an
authorized representative of the industrial user. Receipt, or non-receipt, of a
cease and desist order will in no way relieve the affected user of any
liability associated with the violation. Issuance of a cease and desist order
will not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions
against the affected user.
         (f)   Notice of termination. Except for emergency situations covered
under division (g) of this division, whenever it is determined that a user’s
continuing violation of any provision of its wastewater contribution permit,
order, or agreement issued pursuant to this chapter, or other pretreatment
standard or requirement warrants revocation of its privilege to discharge to
the POTW, the City Manager and City Attorney may jointly issue a notice of
termination to warn of the impending suspension of the sewer service up to and
including severance via temporary plug in the affected user’s sewer connection.
The notice of termination will specify the date and the time of scheduled
service suspension in order to allow the affected user to either voluntarily
cease the violating discharge or arrange appropriate actions such as production
shut-down or alternative means of wastewater disposal, and notify the affected
user of its liability for any costs incurred by the city to conduct this
enforcement action. This document will also establish the time and place for a
hearing where the affected user shall present a written statement regarding the
causes of the violation and measures taken to prevent future occurrences. The
notice of termination will be personally served on an authorized representative
of the industrial user at least ten days before the scheduled service
suspension. Receipt, or non-receipt, of a notice of termination will in no way
relieve the affected user of any liability associated with the violation.
Issuance of a notice of termination will not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions against the affected user.
         (g)   Emergency cease and desist order/suspension of service. Whenever
it is determined that a user has violated any provision of its wastewater
contribution permit, order, or agreement issued pursuant to this chapter, or
other pretreatment standard or requirement, and that the violation creates or
threatens to create an emergency situation including but not limited to
violation of any condition of the city’s NPDES permit, interference with the
POTW collection system or treatment processes, damage to the POTW, hazard to
the environment, and/or health and safety endangerment to POTW workers or the
public, the City Manager and City Attorney will jointly issue an emergency
cease and desist order. The emergency cease and desist order will:
            1.   Specify the nature of the violation;
            2.   Notify the affected user to eliminate the violating discharge
immediately or face service severance via a temporary plug in its sewer
connection at any time and without further warning;
            3.   Require that the discharge not recommence until such time as
the affected user is able to demonstrate that it can comply with the
pretreatment standards or requirements;
            4.   Notify the affected user of its liability for any costs
incurred by the city to conduct such enforcement action; and
            5.   Establish the time and place for a hearing where the affected
user shall present a written statement regarding the causes of the violation
and measures taken to prevent future occurrences.
   (C)   The emergency cease and desist order will be personally served to an
authorized representative of the industrial user, or may be delivered verbally
via telephone to an authorized representative of the industrial user and then
served personally. Receipt, or non-receipt, of an emergency cease and desist
order will in no way relieve the affected user of any liability associated with
the violation. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order will not be a
bar against, or a prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions against the
affected user.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.083 WASTEWATER BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   In order that the provisions of this chapter may be reasonable applied
and substantial justice done in instances where unnecessary hardship would
result from carrying out the strict letter of these sections, the City Council
shall serve as a Wastewater Board of Appeals. The duty of the Board shall be to
consider appeals and to determine, in particular cases, whether any deviation
from strict enforcement will violate the intent of the order or jeopardize the
public health or safety.
   (B)   Except for emergency situations, an informal hearing before the city
may be requested in writing by any user or contracted deeming itself aggrieved
by any citation, order, charge, fee, surcharge, penalty or action within ten
days after the date thereof, stating the reasons therefor with supporting
documents and data. The informal hearing shall be scheduled at the earliest
practicable date, but not later than five days after receipt of the request,
unless extended by mutual written agreement. The hearing shall be conducted on
an informal basis at such place as designated by the city.
   (C)   Appeals from orders of the city may be made to a Board of Appeals,
within 30 days from the date of any citation, order, charge, fee, surcharge,
penalty or other action. The appeal may be taken by any person aggrieved. The
appellant shall file a notice of appeal with the city and with the Board,
specifying the grounds therefor. Prior to a hearing, the city shall transmit to
the Board a summary report of all previous action taken. The Board may, at its
discretion, call upon the city to explain the action. The final disposition of
the appeal shall be in the form of a resolution, either reversing, modifying,
or affirming, in whole or in part, the appealed decision or determination. In
order to find for the appellant, a majority of the Board must concur. The Board
of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal, give due
notice thereof to interested parties, and decide the same within a reasonable
time. Within the limits of its jurisdiction, the Board of Appeals may reverse
or affirm, in whole or in part, or may make any order, requirements, decision
or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made in the case under
consideration, and to that end have all the powers of the official from whom
the appeal is taken. The decision of the Board shall be final. The Board of
Appeals shall meet at such times as the Board may determine. There shall be a
fixed place of meeting and all meetings shall be open to the public in
accordance with applicable laws. The Board shall adopt its own rules of
procedure and keep a record of its proceedings, showing findings of fact, the
action of the Board, and the vote of each member upon each question considered.
The presence of three members shall be necessary to constitute a quorum. The
Board of Appeals may prescribe the sending of notice to any persons it deems to
be interested in any hearing by the Board.
   (D)   All charges for service, penalties, fees or surcharges outstanding
during any appeal process shall be due and payable to the city. Upon resolution
of any appeal, the city shall adjust the amounts accordingly; however, the
adjustments shall be limited to the previous one year's billing, unless
otherwise directed by court order.
   (E)   If an informal or formal hearing is not demanded within the periods
specified herein, the administrative action shall be deemed final. In the event
either or both hearings are demanded, the action shall be suspended until a
final determination has been made, except for immediate cease and desist orders
issued pursuant to §
51.082.
   (F)   Appeals from the determinations of the Board of Appeals may be made to
the circuit court within 20 days as provided by law. The appeals shall be
governed procedurally by the Administrative Procedures Act of the State of
Michigan, Public Act 306 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. §§
24.201 et seq. All findings of fact, if supported by the evidence, made by the
Board, shall be conclusive upon the court.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.084 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city is charged with the duty of investigating, preventing and abating
violations and enforcing the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   The city shall be responsible for the supervision and control of the
maintenance of the existing sewer line and all new connections. The city shall
be responsible for the supervision and control of all other matters related to
the operation, maintenance, alteration, repair, and management of the
wastewater treatment works. The city may employ any person or persons in any
capacity or capacities as advisable to carry out the efficient management and
operations of the system and may make necessary or recommended rules, orders
and regulations to assure the efficient management and operation of the system,
including the setting of rates, surcharges, fees, penalties, or other charges,
for the use of the system.
   (B)   The city and its authorized representative is hereby empowered to do
the following.
      (1)   Supervise the implementation of this chapter.
      (2)   Institute actions against all users violating this chapter and
institute legal proceedings in the name of the city in a court of competent
jurisdiction for the abatement or prevention of any nuisance, injunction,
relief, damages, or other relief with respect to violations of this chapter.
      (3)   Review the plans for pretreatment equipment submitted by users.
      (4)   Make periodic inspections and tests of existing and newly
installed, constructed, reconstructed, or altered sampling, metering, or
pretreatment equipment to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
      (5)   Investigate complaints of violations and make inspections and
observations of discharges. Record those investigations, complaints and
observations.
      (6)   Issue orders requiring compliance with this chapter.
      (7)   Propose the imposition of civil penalties for violations of this
chapter.
      (8)   Make recommendations to the city for amendments to this chapter.
      (9)   Collect and disseminate information on water pollution control.
    (10)   Coordinate activities under this chapter with planning and zoning
agencies to promote conservation and management of the water resources of the
city.
    (11)   Cooperate with federal, interstate, state, country, district,
municipal, or other agencies concerned with water pollution with respect to
studies, abatement programs, public complaints, and other matters to conserve
and improve the natural resources of the city.
    (12) Institute legal proceedings in the name of the city in a court of
competent jurisdiction to compel compliance with provisions of this chapter or
any determination or order which may be promulgated or issued pursuant to this
chapter.
   (C)   Significant noncompliance.
      (1)   The city will annually publish in the local newspaper of greatest
circulation a list of categorical users, and any non-categorical user at its
discretion, which were in significant noncompliance with any pretreatment
requirements or standards at least once during the 12 previous months. This
publication shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against such
user(s) during the same 12 months.
      (2)   For purposes of this section, significant noncompliance shall mean
the following:
         (a)   Chronic violation of a discharge limit, defined here as when 66%
or more of all the measurements for a pollutant parameter taken during a six-
month period exceed by any magnitude the corresponding daily maximum limit or
the corresponding average limit;
         (b)   Technical review criteria violation of discharge limit, defined
here as when 33% or more of all of the measurements for a pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the
corresponding daily maximum limit multiplied by the applicable TRC factor, or
the product of the corresponding average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC
Factor (TRC Factor is 1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease, and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a discharge limit that the WWTP
Superintendent determines has alone or in combination with other discharges
caused interference or pass through, including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public;
         (d)   Any discharge to the POTW of a pollutant that has caused
imminent endangerment to human health, public welfare, or the environment, or
has resulted in the city exercising its emergency authority to halt or prevent
such a discharge;
         (e)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in its wastewater contribution permit,
order, or agreement issued pursuant to this chapter for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance;
         (f)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, compliance status reports, self-
monitoring reports, limit exceedance notification/repeat sampling reports, and/
or required notifications;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations that the WWTP
Superintendent and City Manager determine as adversely affecting the objectives
of this chapter or administration of the city’s IPP.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
§ 51.085 RECORDS RETENTION; CITY RECORDS.
   (A)   Records retention. All users subject to this chapter shall retain and
preserve for no less than three years, any records, books, documents,
memoranda, reports, correspondence and any and all summaries thereto, relating
to monitoring, sampling and chemical analyses made by or on behalf of a user in
connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to matters which are
the subject of administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation
activities brought by the city pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved
by the user until all enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of
limitations with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
   (B)   City records. The city will maintain and keep proper books of records
and accounts, separate from all other records and accounts, in which shall be
made full and correct entries of all transactions relating to the system. The
city will cause an annual audit of these books of records and accounts for the
preceding operating year, to be made by a recognized independent certified
public accountant, and will supply the audit report to authorized public
officials on request. In conjunction with the audit, there shall be an annual
review of the sewer charge system for adequacies meeting expected expenditures
for the following year and to insure proportionality among user classes as
required by federal regulations. Classification of old and new industrial users
shall also be reviewed annually. The city will maintain and carry insurance on
all physical properties of the system, of the kinds and in the amounts normally
carried by public utility companies and municipalities engaged in the operation
of sewage disposal systems. All monies received for losses under any these
insurance policies shall be solely to the replacement and restoration of the
property damaged or destroyed.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.086 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any user found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall be
responsible to cease all violations.
   (B)   Any user violating any of the provisions of this chapter, which
results in fines or penalties being levied against the city, shall become
liable for the fine or penalty, plus any expenses, loss or damage occasioned by
the violation. This cost would be levied in addition to any enforcement-related
fines pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil penalties.
      (1)   Administrative civil penalties. Any user violating this chapter, a
wastewater contribution permit, or a final order is subject to an
administrative civil penalty to be determined and assessed by the City Manager
not to exceed $1,000 per day per violation. The City Manager, in calculating
the amount of the penalty, shall consider the frequency of violations by the
user, the impact of the violation on the POTW and human health and the
environment, the magnitude of the violation, and other factors believed
appropriate.
      (2)   Municipal civil infraction; civil fine. The City Manager is
authorized to issue a civil infraction citation for any violation of this
chapter, a wastewater contribution permit, or a final order, except for
criminal violations. Each day of violation shall be a separate violation and
may be punishable by a civil fine of not less than $100 for the first
violation, not less than $250 for the second violation, and not less than $500
for each additional or subsequent violation within a two-year period, plus
costs and all other remedies available by statue. The maximum fine for any
violation shall not exceed $1,000.
   (B)   Judicial civil penalties. In any action brought by the city against a
user for violation of this chapter, a wastewater contribution permit, or a
final order, a court of competent jurisdiction may impose a civil penalty of up
to $1,000 per day per violation. The $1,000 shall be adjusted upwards as of the
effective date of State of Michigan legislation which authorizes a home rule
city to impose penalties higher than $1,000. The adjustment shall be to the
maximum amount then authorized by the laws of the State of Michigan.
   (C)   Criminal penalties. Any user who violates any provision of this
chapter or a wastewater contribution permit or a final order issued under this
chapter or who fails to pay a civil administrative penalty, shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine of not more
than $500 and the costs of prosecution or by imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or by both. Each act or violation and every day upon which any violation
shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
   (D)   Cumulative remedies. The imposition of a single penalty, fine, order,
damage, or surcharge upon a user for a violation of this chapter, a wastewater
contribution permit, or a final order shall not preclude the imposition by the
city or a court of competent jurisdiction of a combination of any or all of the
sanctions and remedies or additional sanctions and remedies with respect to the
same violation, consistent with applicable statutory limitations on penalty
amounts. A criminal citation and prosecution of a criminal action against a
user shall not be dependent upon or held in abeyance during any civil,
judicial, or city administrative proceeding, conference, or hearing regarding
the user.
   (E)   An individual who is an employee, officer, or director of a user which
is an entity other than an individual may be subject to the civil
administrative, civil judicial, and criminal penalties and sanctions under this
division if the individual personally participated in the acts or omissions
which constituted the violation or if the individual has responsibility for
wastewater matters of the user or responsibility for the overall operation of
the user or for the user’s facility at which the violation occurred.
   (F)   A violation of this chapter is also declared to be a public nuisance
and the city may enforce by injunction or other remedy, including the right to
correct the violation and bill the owner or person in charge of the premises
therefor, and if not collected, the bill will become a lien upon the property.
Charges for sewer furnished to any premises shall be a lien thereon and any
charges delinquent for six months or more shall be certified annually to the
assessor, who shall enter the same on the next tax roll against the premises to
which the services shall have been rendered. The charges shall be collected and
the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided for the collection of
taxes assessed upon the roll and the enforcement and return thereof.
(Ord. 257, passed 6-3-91; Am. Ord. 333, passed 5-16-16)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Rejection of fluoride
Cross-Connection Control
   
52.10   Purpose
   
52.11   Cross-connection rules adopted by reference
   
52.12   Inspection by city; frequency
   
52.13   Authority of Water Department
   
52.14   Protection from contamination; labeling
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 REJECTION OF FLUORIDE.
   The Mayor and City Council do hereby reject the addition of fluoride to the
public water supply of the city.
('77 Code, § 25.1100) (Ord. 190, eff. 1-8-73)
CROSS-CONNECTION CONTROL
§ 52.10 PURPOSE.
   An ordinance regulating cross connections with the public water supply
system, i.e. a connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances through
which water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants can enter the
public water supply system.
('77 Code, § 25.1201) (Ord. 197, eff. 8-4-75)
§ 52.11 CROSS-CONNECTION RULES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The City of Croswell adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross-Connections
Rules of the Michigan Department of Public Health, being R 325.431 to R 325.440
of the Michigan Administrative Code.
('77 Code, § 25.1202) (Ord. 197, eff. 8-4-75)
§ 52.12 INSPECTION BY CITY; FREQUENCY.
   It shall be the duty of the Water Department to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connection with
the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
re-inspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the Water Department and as approved by the Michigan Department
of Public Health.
('77 Code, § 25.1203) (Ord. 197, eff. 8-4-75)
§ 52.13 AUTHORITY OF WATER DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   A representative of the Water Department shall have the right to enter
at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water
supply system of the city for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof for cross-connections. On request, the owner, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on the property.
The refusal of this information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
('77 Code, § 25.1204)
   (B)   The Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this subchapter exists, and to take any other precautionary
measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply systems. Water service to the property shall not be
restored until the cross-connections(s) has been eliminated in compliance with
the provisions of this subchapter.
('77 Code, § 25.1205)
(Ord. 197, eff. 8-4-75) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.14 PROTECTIONS FROM CONTAMINATION; LABELING.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this subchapter and by the state and city plumbing codes. Any water outlet
which could be used for portable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as follows.
   WATER UNSAFE
   FOR DRINKING
('77 Code, § 25.1205) (Ord. 197, eff. 8-4-75) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, or any written order of the Water Department, in pursuance
thereof, shall be deemed as set forth in §
10.99.
('77 Code, § 25.1208) (Ord. 197, eff. 8-4-75)
CHAPTER 53: ELECTRIC SERVICE
Section
   
53.01   General provisions
   
53.02   Payment of costs
   
53.03   New residential subdivision
   
53.04   Existing residential subdivision
   
53.05   Extensions of commercial and industrial distribution and service lines
in and around the city
Cross-reference:
   National Electric Code applicable within city, see §
150.15
   County responsible for code administration and enforcement, see §
150.16
§ 53.01 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Residential, commercial and industrial distribution and service lines
shall be placed underground at the option of the city in areas in or around the
city.
   (B)   The city shall bear the cost of construction were electric facilities
are placed underground at the option of the city for its own convenience.
(Ord. 295, passed 11-15-99)
§ 53.02 PAYMENT OF COSTS.
   In the case of all underground extensions of electric distribution
facilities as covered by these rules, either a new residential subdivision or
an existing residential subdivision, the real estate developer or customer
shall make contribution in aid of construction to the utility in an amount
equal to the estimated cost of overhead and/or underground facilities as set
forth in this chapter. A distribution system in a new residential subdivision
and an existing residential subdivision in the city or the surrounding area
shall be placed underground, if possible. The owner or developer of such
subdivisions shall be required to make a contribution in aid of construction to
the utility in an amount equal to the sum of the amount determined by the
Electrical Supervisor for the construction.
(Ord. 295, passed 11-15-99)
§ 53.03 NEW RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   When a developer desires to develop a new subdivision within the city
limits, the developer shall provide the architectural plans and specifications
for electric, including street lighting, utility services for the subdivision
and is bound by the following provisions.
   (B)   When the developer desires that electric, including street lighting,
utility services be provided by the city to the subdivision, the service is
conditioned upon approval by City Council with the recommendation of the
Electric Department and City Administrator for the city, and if approved the
city agrees to provide the services upon the following conditions:
      (1)   The developer shall present the architectural plans and
specifications for electric, including street lighting, utility services to the
Electric Supervisor for review.
      (2)   The architectural plans shall include all necessary easements
granted to the city for the purposes of constructing, operating, inspecting,
maintaining, repairing, altering, replacing, and/or removing conduits and other
installations of a similar character for the purpose of providing electric
utilities, through and under the property subject to the easement, and
excavating and refilling ditches and trenches necessary for the location of the
structure and shall comply with all applicable city ordinances. Further, if the
subdivision is proposed to have private streets, they shall be developed to
minimum design, construction, inspection approval, and maintenance requirements
of city's subdivision regulations.
      (3)   The Electric Supervisor, or other appropriate representative for
the city will use their best efforts to calculate and estimate the cost to the
city of providing electric, including street lighting, utility services to the
subdivision and the developer agrees to pay, prior to construction beginning in
the subdivision, the full estimated cost of the same. The cost for street
lights shall be based upon appropriate lighting for the development as
determined by the Electric Supervisor and any cost in excess of that amount
shall be borne entirely by the developer and not refundable as set forth in
division (C) of this section.
      (4)   The developer shall pay the full actual cost as determined by the
Electric Supervisor to the city for providing the electric, including street
lighting, utility services upon completion by the city for providing the
services which may be greater than the estimated cost, which includes but is
not limited to increased costs due to underground obstructions, and the like.
   (C)   Upon receipt of the entire payment by the city from the developer, the
city agrees to refund to the developer as each unit is connected for electrical
service with the Croswell Light and Power Utility, a portion of the actual
amount paid to the city by the developer for electric utility services,
including street lighting. However, this refund shall not include any costs
paid by the developer in excess of the appropriate lighting costs as determined
by the Electric Supervisor outlined in division (B)(3) of this section. The
fund portion shall equal the actual amount paid to the city by the developer
(less excess street lighting costs) and divided by the projected number of
units as set forth in the architectural plans provided the city as outlined
above. However, in no event shall the city be obligated to refund any
additional portion of the costs paid by the developer for any units in the
subdivision connected ten years after the first unit in the subdivision was
connected.
   (D)   If underground electrical services are to be installed, the city shall
provide at its cost, services and maintenance to the meter and shall provide
the meter and metering devices. The developer or customer shall be solely
responsible for all services and costs after the meter or load side. If
overhead electrical services are to be installed, the city shall provide at its
cost, services and maintenance to the point of attachment. The developer or
customer shall be solely responsible for all services and costs after the point
of attachment.
(Ord. 295, passed 11-15-99)
§ 53.04 EXISTING RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION.
   (A)   A distribution system in an existing residential subdivision in the
city or the surrounding area shall be placed underground, if possible. The
owner or developer of such subdivisions shall be required to make a
contribution in aid of construction to the utility in an amount equal to the
sum of the amount determined by the Electrical Supervisor for the construction.
   (B)   If underground electrical services are to be installed, the city shall
provide at its cost, services and maintenance to the meter and shall provide
the meter and metering devices. The developer or customer shall be solely
responsible for all services and costs after the meter or load side. If
overhead electrical services are to be installed, the city shall provide at its
cost, services and maintenance to the point of attachment. The developer or
customer shall be solely responsible for all services and costs after the point
of attachment.
   (C)   Existing overhead residential, commercial and industrial electric
distribution and service lines provided by the city shall be replaced with
underground facilities at the option of the affected customer or customers.
Before construction is started, the customer shall be required to pay to the
city the actual costs of converting to underground service, plus the costs of
removal of the overhead service, and also pay an amount equal to the estimated
costs, including but not limited to, the costs of breaking and repairing
streets, walks, parking lots, driveways and landscaping.
(Ord. 295, passed 11-15-99)
§ 53.05 EXTENSIONS OF COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRIBUTION AND SERVICE LINES
IN AND AROUND THE CITY.
   Commercial distribution and service lines in the vicinity of the customer's
property and constructed solely to serve a customer or group of adjacent
customers shall be placed underground. This will specifically include, but not
be limited to, service to apartment house complexes and shopping centers.
(Ord. 295, passed 11-15-99)
CHAPTER 54: PUBLIC UTILITY RATES
Section
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Lien
   
54.03   Discontinuation of services
   
54.04   Delinquent rates; collection
   
54.05   Deposit required; refund of deposit
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the collection of public
utility rates, assessments, charges, deposits, penalties for late payments or
rentals for public utilities, for service within the city boundary, and to
provide a lien for public utilities furnished by the city.
('77 Code, § 17.015) (Ord. 128, eff, 2-28-52; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-84; Am. Ord.
passed 3-1-93; Am. Ord. passed 7-6-99)
§ 54.02 LIEN.
   (A)   The city shall have as security for the collection of any public
utility rates, assessments, charges or rentals (hereinafter collectively
referred to as rates) due or to become due for the use or consumption of public
utilities supplied to any house or other building or any premises, lot or lots,
or parcel or parcels of land; a lien upon the house or other buildings and upon
the premises or lot, or lots, or parcel or parcels upon which the house or
other buildings shall be situated, or to which the public utility was supplied.
The lien shall become effective immediately upon the supplying of the public
utility services to which the rates apply, but shall not be enforceable for
more than three years thereafter.
('77 Code, § 17.016)
   (B)   The lien created herein shall be enforced by the city by charging the
amount of delinquent rates as part of the tax roll of the city in the manner
prescribed by the Charter.
('77 Code, § 17.017)
   (C)   The official records and accounts of the city of the public utility
shall constitute evidence of the amount and of the pendency of the lien.
Payment of the amount of these rates shall discharge the lien and receipt for
payment shall constitute evidence of the payment thereof.
('77 Code, § 17.018)
(Ord. 128, eff, 2-28-52; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-84; Am. Ord. passed 3-1-93; Am.
Ord. passed 7-6-99)
§ 54.03 DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICES.
   (A)   The city shall discontinue any public utility service to any premises
whenever any person shall fail to pay in full the rates and charges for public
utility services within a period of 30 days from the due date of the rates. At
least one week before discontinuation, the customer at the premises and
property owner shall be notified by first-class mail of pending
discontinuation.
   (B)   Within one week from the date of the first-class mailing referred to
in division (A) of this section, the customer may file a complaint in writing
disputing the validity of the reason for discontinuation of service. The
customer shall pay within three days of the filing of the complaint all amounts
not in dispute.
   (C)   The city shall investigate the intent to informally resolve the
dispute. In the event the dispute is not resolved, an administrative hearing
shall be held before any three of the following officials: City Clerk, Deputy
City Clerk, City Treasurer, Deputy City Treasurer, Mayor, City Administrator or
Utilities Superintendent.
('77 Code, § 17.021) (Ord. 128, eff, 2-28-52; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-84; Am. Ord.
passed 3-1-93; Am. Ord. passed 7-6-99)
§ 54.04 DELINQUENT RATES; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The city may institute suit for the collection of rates which have
been unpaid for a period of 60 days after the due date thereof in any court of
competent jurisdiction, but no attempt to collect public utility rates by any
process shall in any way invalidate or waive the lien provided for in §
54.02.
('77 Code, § 17.022)
   (B)   Utilities will be re-established after being shut off for non-payment
of bills only after payment of the full amount owing, and after a $20 turn-on
fee is paid.
('77 Code, § 17.025)
   (C)   A public utility account serviced by the city is held to be delinquent
if the current and any past bills have not been paid by the due date listed on
the billing statement and in the city utility records.
('77 Code, § 17.027)
   (D)   A penalty fee equal to 1½% of the unpaid balance shall be added to any
utility account which is not paid in full by the due date listed on the utility
billing and in the city utility records.
('77 Code, § 17.028)
(Ord. 128, eff, 2-28-52; Am. Ord. passed 9-17-84; Am. Ord. passed 3-1-93; Am.
Ord. passed 7-6-99)
§ 54.05 DEPOSIT REQUIRED; REFUND OF DEPOSIT.
   (A)   All new public utility accounts served by the city shall be required
to post a deposit as set by policies established by the City Council. Nothing
in this section shall prohibit a property owner from requiring that a lessee of
his property post a deposit with the city which is greater than the amount
calculated.
   (B)   For commercial or industrial establishments, deposit requirements will
be estimated on an individual basis.
   (C)   Deposits for property owners shall be refunded after a period of nine
months if they have maintained a history of payment on or before the statement
due date. Deposits for lessees shall not be refunded unless the utility account
is terminated in good standing. The city may apply any or all of a posted
deposit to the balance due at the time a public utility account is terminated.
If a homeowner has established good credit, no deposit will be required again
when moving to another residence within the city.
('77 Code, § 17.025) (Ord. 128, eff, 2-28-52; Am. Ord. 9-17-84; Am. Ord. 3-1-
93; Am. Ord. 7-6-99)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE
         
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
         
72.   ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND TOY VEHICLES
         
73.   SNOWMOBILES
         
74.   OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE
Section
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Code amended by reference
   
70.02   Reference in code
§ 70.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE AMENDED BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships, and villages promulgated by
the Director of State Police and published in the Michigan Administrative Code,
and amendments as published in the annual supplement thereto, in accordance
with M.C.L.A. 257.951 through 257.954 and 257.953, is hereby adopted by
reference into this chapter as if set forth in full herein.
('77 Code, § 20.590) (Ord. 183, passed 12-6-71)
§ 70.02 REFERENCE IN CODE.
   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Michigan Cities, Townships and
Villages to "governmental units" shall mean the City of Croswell.
('77 Code, § 20.502) (Ord. 169, passed 4-15-68)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking Violations Bureau
   
71.01   Parking Violations Bureau established
   
71.02   Disposition of non-scheduled violations
   
71.03   Rights of violator
   
71.04   Issuance of violation; payment
   
71.05   Uniform Traffic Code violations schedule
Private Parking Facilities
   
71.15   Limited use; hours
   
71.16   Posting of time limits
 
   
71.99   Penalty
PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 71.01 PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, State of
Michigan, as added by Public Act 154 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8101 et
seq., a parking violations bureau, for the purpose of handling alleged parking
violations within the city, is hereby established. The Parking Violations
Bureau shall be under the supervision and control of the City Clerk.
('77 Code, § 20.821)
   (B)   The City Clerk shall, subject to the approval of the City Council,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint
qualified city employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation thereof.
('77 Code, § 20.822) (Ord. 171, passed 10-21-68)
§ 71.02 DISPOSITION OF NON-SCHEDULED VIOLATIONS.
   No violation not scheduled in §
71.05 of this chapter shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau.
The fact that a particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged
violator to dispose of the violation at the Bureau and in any case the person
in charge of the Bureau may refuse to dispose of such violation in which case
any person having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any
court having jurisdiction of the offense as provided by law.
('77 Code, § 20.823) (Ord. 171, passed 10-21-68)
§ 71.03 RIGHTS OF VIOLATOR.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have any such
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or in any way diminish the
rights, privileges and protection accorded to him by law.
('77 Code, § 20.824) (Ord. 171, passed 10-21-68)
§ 71.04 ISSUANCE OF VIOLATION; PAYMENT.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police officer
of the city shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation. Such traffic
ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in which the
person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking Violations
Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours during
which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the offense
for which the ticket was issued and advise that a warrant for the arrest of the
person to whom the ticket was issued will be sought if such a person fails to
respond within the time limited.
('77 Code, § 20.825) (Ord. 171, passed 10-21-68)
§ 71.05 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE VIOLATIONS SCHEDULE.
Offense Penalty
        10 days 11-25 days After 25 days
Offense                                                       Penalty
                                                              10     11-25  After
                                                              days   days   25
                                                                            days
Parking too far from curb                                     $20.00 30.00  $40.00
Angle parking violations                                      20.00  $30.00 40.00
Obstructing traffic                                           20.00  30.00  40.00
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary)
In prohibited zone (signs required)                           20.00  30.00  40.00
 A.   On sidewalk                                          20.00  30.00  40.00
 B.   In front of drive                                    20.00  30.00  40.00
 C.   Within intersection                                  30.00  40.00  50.00
 D.   Within 15 feet of hydrant                            20.00  30.00  40.00
 E.   On crosswalk                                         20.00  30.00  40.00
 F.   Within 20 feet of crosswalk or 15 feet of corner lot 20.00  30.00  40.00
 lines
 G.   Within 30 feet of street side traffic sign or signal 20.00  30.00  40.00
 H.   Within 50 feet of railroad crossing                  20.00  30.00  40.00
 I.   Within 20 feet of fire station entrance              20.00  30.00  40.00
 J.   Beside street excavation when traffic obstructed     20.00  30.00  40.00
 K.   Double parking                                       20.00  30.00  40.00
 L.   Within 200 feet of accident where police in attendanc20.00  30.00  40.00
 M.   Blocking emergency exit                              20.00  30.00  40.00
                                                              or tow
 N.   Blocking fire escape                                 20.00  30.00  40.00
                                                              or tow
In alley                                                      20.00  30.00  40.00
Wrong side boulevard roadway                                  $20.00 30.00  40.00
Failure to set brakes                                         20.00  30.00  40.00
Parked on grade, wheels not turned to curb                    20.00  30.00  40.00
Bicycle parking violations                                    20.00  30.00  40.00
Abandoned vehicle plus towing and storage                     $20.00 $30.00 $40.00
Disabled vehicle, failure to move                             20.00  30.00  40.00
Keys in vehicle or motor running                              20.00  30.00  40.00
No parking 3:00 a.m. to 6:00 a.m. on all streets in the city  20.00  30.00  40.00
from November 1 through April 1
In prohibited zone
 Prohibited zone                                              20.00  30.00  40.00
 Tow away zone                                                20.00  30.00  40.00
 Fire lane                                                    20.00  30.00  40.00
Between sidewalk and curb                                     20.00  30.00  40.00
Private property, without owners consent                      20.00  30.00  40.00
No person shall park any commercial vehicle weighing in
excess of 5,000 pounds on any street in any residential area
in the city for any purpose or length of time other than for
the expeditious unloading and delivery or pick up and
unloading of materials, goods or merchandise. In any          20.00  30.00  40.00
proceeding for violation of the weight limitations provisions
of this section, the weight indicated on the vehicle's
registration shall constitute in evidence a prima facie
presumption of the weight of the vehicle at the time of an
alleged violation.
No person shall store any unlicensed vehicle, merchandise,
vehicle for sale, truck, semi- truck/trailer, flatbed
trailer, boat, snowmobile, trailer, chasis, recreational
vehicle or undertake the repair of a vehicle in areas
designated for parking on any city street, including the
maneuvering lane. The above referenced items shall be deemed  20.00  30.00  40.00
stored if on the street at any time from 11:00 p.m. to 5:00
a.m. The parking of semi-trucks/trailers on any city street
in a residential zoned district is prohibited at all times.
Exceptions to this section may be made with the prior
approval of the Chief of Police or his designee.
Handicap parking violation                                    50.00  60.00  70.00
 
('77 Code, § 20.826) (Ord. 171, passed 10-21-68; Am. Ord. eff. 11-17-68; Am.
Ord. eff. 3-21-77; Am. Ord. eff. 2-26-80; Am. Ord. 171-2, passed 7-3-00; Am.
Ord. 299, passed 8-20-01; Am. Ord. 303, passed 11-4-02; Am. Ord. 171-3, passed
4-17-06 )
PRIVATE PARKING FACILITIES
§ 71.15 LIMITED USE; HOURS.
   During business hours, no person shall enter upon, drive through, traverse,
circle, loop or otherwise make use of the parking area of any private business
establishment with a motor vehicle for any purpose other than parking their
motor vehicle while shopping or conducting business within the establishment
which controls the parking area.
('77 Code, § 20.951) (Ord. 205, eff. 10-29-77) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.16 POSTING OF TIME LIMITS.
   Whenever it is the intent of any business establishment within the city to
limit the period of time in which its customers or business contracts may use
its parking facilities, it shall give notice of such time limits. Such notice
shall be given by posting in conspicuous places upon the private property
printed or painted signs, setting forth the name of the business establishment
which controls the parking area and stating the time within which parking is to
be restricted.
('77 Code, § 20.952) (Ord. 205, eff. 10-29-77)
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted under §§
71.15 or
71.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by imprisonment in the
county jail for not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $100 or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
('77 Code, § 20.953) (Ord. 205, eff. 10-29-77)
CHAPTER 72:
ROLLER SKATES, SKATEBOARDS AND TOY VEHICLES
Section
   
72.01   Toy vehicles prohibited on streets and in business district
   
72.02   Play streets
   
72.03   Pedestrian right-of-way
 
   
72.99   Penalty
§ 72.01 TOY VEHICLES PROHIBITED ON STREETS AND IN BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   No person, upon roller skates, or a skateboard, or riding in or by
means of any wagon, toy vehicle, or similar device, shall go upon any roadway,
except while crossing a street on a crosswalk, and when so crossing, such
person shall be granted all the rights of pedestrians. This section shall not
apply upon any street while set aside as a play street, as provided in §
72.02.
   (B)   No skateboard shall be operated with the central business district of
the city which is bounded by the north right-of-way line of Maple Street and a
line extending therefrom to the east for a north boundary; the eastern line of
Black River for the western boundary; the southern right-of-way line of Sanborn
Avenue for the southern boundary; and a line running 264 feet east of and
parallel to the east right-of-way of Howard Avenue for the eastern boundary.
(Ord. 239, passed 5-7-90) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.02 PLAY STREETS.
   The Chief of Police may designate or set aside a street or portion of a
street as a play street for such period of time as he shall deem proper, which
area shall be exempt from the provisions of §
72.01 of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 5-7-90)
§ 72.03 PEDESTRIAN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   Any person upon a public sidewalk or crosswalk using roller skates or
skateboard, or riding in or by means of a skateboard, or riding in or by means
of any wagon, toy vehicle or similar device, shall yield the right-of-way to
any pedestrian.
(Ord. 239, passed 5-7-90) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   Every person convicted of a violation of a provision of this chapter shall
be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and costs of prosecution, or by
imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
Each act of violation, and every day upon which such a violation shall occur
shall constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 239, passed 5-7-90)
CHAPTER 73: SNOWMOBILES
Section
   
73.01   Snowmobile defined
   
73.02   Time and speed limits within city
   
73.03   Muffler required
   
73.04   Snowmobiles prohibited on sidewalks
   
73.05   Presumption of owner as driver
 
   
73.99   Penalty
§ 73.01 SNOWMOBILE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SNOWMOBILE. Any motor-driven vehicle designed for travel primarily on
snow or ice of a type that utilizes sled-type runners or skis, an endless belt
tread, or any combination of these or other similar means of contact with the
surface upon which it is operated, but not a vehicle that must be registered
under the Michigan Vehicle Code, M.C.L.A. 257.1 through 257.923.
('77 Code, § 20.771) (Ord. 168, passed 1-8-68)
§ 73.02 TIME AND SPEED LIMITS WITHIN CITY.
   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city limits between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. at a speed greater than 10 miles per hour.
('77 Code, § 20.772) (Ord. 168, passed 1-8-68; Am. Ord. eff. 12-11-69) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.03 MUFFLER REQUIRED.
   No snowmobile shall be operated within the city limits without a factory
approved muffler in good working order so as not to cause excessive noise or
excessive smoke.
('77 Code, § 20.773) (Ord. 168, passed 1-8-68; Am. Ord. eff. 12-11-69) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.04 SNOWMOBILES PROHIBITED ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person or persons shall drive or operate a snowmobile on any private
property or sidewalk without the consent or permission of the property owner.
('77 Code, § 20.774) (Ord. 168, passed 1-8-68; Am. Ord. eff. 12-11-69) Penalty,
see §
73.99
§ 73.05 PRESUMPTION OF OWNER AS DRIVER.
   In any proceeding for a violation of any section of this chapter proof that
the particular vehicle described in the citation complaint, or warrant together
with proof that the defendant named in the citation, complaint, or warrant was
at the time of the violation the registered owner of the vehicle, shall
constitute in evidence of presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle
was the driver of the vehicle at the time of the violation.
('77 Code, § 20.776) (Ord. 168, passed 1-8-68; Am. Ord. eff. 12-11-69)
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of any section of this chapter shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and if convicted on a second offense, the
minimum fine shall be $25 or a fine not to exceed $100 or imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both at the discretion of the court.
('77 Code, § 20.775) (Ord. 168, passed 1-8-68; Am. Ord. eff. 12-11-69)
CHAPTER 74: OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
Section
   
74.01   Definitions
   
74.02   Location of operation
   
74.03   Operation prohibited
   
74.04   Conditional operation
   
74.05   Age restrictions
   
74.06   License required
   
74.07   Immunity
   
74.08   Negligence
   
74.09   ORV Fund
 
   
74.99   Penalty
§ 74.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CITY. The city of Croswell.
      DRIVER'S LICENSE. An operator's or chauffeur's license or permit issued
to an individual by the Secretary of State under Chapter III of the Michigan
Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.301 to 257.329, for
that individual to operate a vehicle, whether or not conditions are attached to
the license or permit.
      MAINTAINED PORTION. That portion of a road or street improved,
designated, or ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
      OPERATE. To ride in or on, and be in actual physical control of, the
operation of an ORV.
      OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of an ORV.
      ORV. a motor driven off-road recreation vehicle capable of cross-country
travel without benefit of a road or trail, on or immediately over land, snow,
ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain. ORV or VEHICLE includes but is
not limited to a multi-track or multi-wheel drive vehicle, an ATV, motorcycle
or related two-wheel, three-wheel, or four-wheel vehicle, an amphibious
machine, a ground effect air cushion vehicle, or other means of transportation
deriving motive power from a source other than muscle or wind. ORV or VEHICLE
does not include a registered snowmobile, a farm vehicle being used for
farming, a vehicle used for military, fire, emergency, or law enforcement
purposes, a vehicle owned and operated by a utility company or an oil or gas
company when performing maintenance on its facilities or on property over which
it has an easement, a construction or logging vehicle used in performance of
its common function, or a registered aircraft.
      ROAD. A county primary road or county local road as described in § 5 of
Public Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. § 247.655. ROAD does not include a
private road.
      ROAD COMMISSION. The Board of County Road Commissioners for Sanilac
County.
      SAFETY CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued pursuant to Public Act 451 of
1994, as amended, being M.C.L.A. § 324.81129, or a comparable ORV safety
certificate issued under the authority of another state or a province of
Canada.
      STREET. A city major street or local street as described in § 9 Public
Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. § 247.659.
      VISUAL SUPERVISION. The direct observation of the operator with the
unaided or normally corrected eye, where the observer is able to come to the
immediate aid of the operator.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10)
§ 74.02 LOCATION OF OPERATION.
   An ORV shall be operated on the far right of the maintained portion of a
street within the city with these exceptions:
   (A)   All state trunk line roads.
   (B)   All county primary (asphalt) roads, Howard Avenue from Seltzer Road to
M-90; however, allowing ingress and egress to a destination, not to exceed one
mile, or first secondary road.
   (C)   Provided, however, that in the event that either the Road Commission
has closed certain road(s) to ORV use, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 324.81131(4),
operation otherwise permitted under this chapter shall not be considered
authorized, with respect to such closed road(s).
   (D)   This chapter is not intended to authorize the operation of an ORV on a
street or highway which is a state trunk line highway.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.03 OPERATION PROHIBITED.
   An ORV shall not be operated on the road surface, roadway, shoulder, or
right-of-way of any state or federal highway in the city.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.04 CONDITIONAL OPERATION.
   Except as set forth herein or otherwise provided by law, an ORV meeting all
of the following conditions may be operated on a road or street in the city:
   (A)   At a speed of no more than 25 miles per hour or a lower posted ORV
speed limit if such lower speed limit be established.
   (B)   By a person not less than 12 years of age.
   (C)   With the flow of traffic.
   (D)   In a manner which does not interfere with traffic on the road or
street.
   (E)   Traveling single file except when overtaking and passing another ORV.
   (F)   When visibility is not substantially reduced due to weather
conditions.
   (G)   While displaying a lighted headlight and lighted taillight at all
hours.
   (H)   While the operator and each passenger is wearing a crash helmet and
protective eye-wear approved by the United States Department of Transportation
unless the vehicle is equipped with a roof, or roll bar(s), or windshield that
meets or exceeds standards for a crash helmet and the operator and each
passenger is wearing a properly adjusted and fastened seat belt.
   (I)   With a throttle so designed that when the pressure used to advance the
throttle is removed, the engine speed will immediately and automatically return
to idle.
   (J)   While the ORV is equipped with a spark arrester type United States
Forest Service approved muffler in good working order and in constant
operation.
   (K)   Pursuant to noise emission standards defined by law.
   (L)   For the purpose of obtaining access to recognized off-road trails, and
for the operator to purchase retail goods and services in conjunction with the
legal operations of an ORV, may, by the most direct route available, utilize
the public roads and street located in the city and in so doing, travel in the
most direct perpendicular manner available.
   (M)   No ORV will be permitted to drive on the city streets or roads before
5:00 am or after 10:00 pm.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.05 AGE RESTRICTIONS.
   A child that is at least 12 years of age but less than 16 years of age shall
not operate an ORV on a road or street in the city, unless the child is under
the direct visual supervision of an adult and the child has in his or her
immediate possession a Michigan-issued ORV safety certificate or a comparable
ORV safety certificate issued under the authority of another state or a
province of Canada.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.06 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Unless a person possesses a valid driver's license, a person shall not
operate an ORV on a road or street in the city if the ORV is registered as a
motor vehicle and is either more than 60 inches wide or has three wheels.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10) Penalty, see §
74.99
§ 74.07 IMMUNITY.
   The Board of County Road Commissioners, a County Board of Commissioners, and
the county and the city is immune from tort liability for injuries or damages
sustained by any person arising in any way out of the operation or use of an
ORV on maintained or unmaintained roads, streets, shoulders, and rights-of-way
over which the Board of County Road Commissioners, the County Board of
Commissioners, or the city has jurisdiction.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10)
§ 74.08 NEGLIGENCE.
   In a court action in this state, if competent evidence demonstrates that a
vehicle that is permitted to operate on a road or street pursuant to the code
was in a collision with an ORV required to be operated on the far right of the
maintained portion of a road or street pursuant to this chapter, the operator
of the ORV shall be considered prima facie negligent.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10)
§ 74.09 ORV FUND.
   (A)   The City Treasurer shall deposit all fines and damages collected under
this chapter into a fund to be designated as the ORV Fund.
   (B)   The City Council shall appropriate revenue in the ORV fund as follows:
      (1)   50% to the County Road Commission for repairing damage to roads and
the environment that may have been caused by ORVs, and for posting signs
indicating ORV speed limits or indicating whether roads are opened or closed to
the operation of ORVs.
      (2)   50% to the city for ORV enforcement and training.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10)
§ 74.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter is guilty of a municipal civil
infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more that $500.
   (B)   A court may order a person who causes damage to the environment, a
road, or other property as a result of the operation of an ORV to pay full
restitution for that damage above and beyond the penalties paid for civil
fines.
(Ord. 317, eff. 7-22-10)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   ANIMALS
         
91.   CEMETERIES
         
92.   FIRE PREVENTION
         
93.   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
         
94.   NUISANCES
         
95.   OUTDOOR ASSEMBLIES
         
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Licensure
   
90.03   Treatment and killing of dogs or other animals
   
90.04   Animals running at large
   
90.05   Prohibited activity
   
90.06   Leader dogs
   
90.07   Animal observation for rabies
   
90.08   Maximum number of dogs
   
90.09   Prohibition on the feeding of feral and stray cats
   
90.10   Discharge of firearms, crossbows, or bows for the purpose of hunting
animals
 
   
90.99   Penalty
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. Any person employed or elected by the city,
whose duty it is to preserve peace, to make arrest, or to enforce the law.
      LEADER DOG. Any dog defined under Public Act 207 of 1970, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. 287.291.
      OWNER. When applied to the proprietorship of an animal means every person
having a right of property in the animal, every person who keeps or harbors the
animal or has it in his or her care, or any person who shall permit any
domestic animal to remain about any premises owned or occupied by him for a
period of five days shall be deemed the owner of such domestic animal for the
purpose of this chapter.
      VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any animal which has caused a bite to a person or
domestic animal without provocation, or which by its actions gives indication
that it is likely to bite any person or domestic animal without provocation.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00)
§ 90.02 LICENSURE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own or keep any dog, four
months old or older, unless the dog is licensed pursuant to Michigan statute,
or to own any dog, four months old or older, that does not at all times wear a
collar with a tag attached thereto as required by the Michigan statute.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any animal owner to allow the animal to run
at large within the city.
   (C)   A person who owns or harbors a dog shall produce proof of valid dog
license upon the request of a law enforcement officer, as defined in this
chapter.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00)
§ 90.03 TREATMENT AND KILLING OF DOGS OR OTHER ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall abuse or cruelly treat any animal.
   (B)   Other than a law enforcement officer or a duly licensed veterinarian
performing a euthanasic killing, no person shall kill or attempt to kill any
animal, except as provided in §
90.03(C).
   (C)   Any person may kill any animal observed in the act of wounding or
attacking any person or domestic animal; and for such killing, such person
shall incur no damages in liability or otherwise.
   (D)   No person shall throw or deposit any poisonous substance on any
exposed public or private place where it endangers, or is likely to endanger,
any animal or bird.
   (E)   No person shall abandon any animal within the city.
   (F)   Except for a police officer acting in an official capacity, no person
shall injure, kill or capture any wild bird, or disturb any wild bird’s nest or
its contents.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see § 90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   (A)   A law enforcement officer may capture any animal running at large.
   (B)   Within a reasonable time after its capture, any animal taken shall be
delivered to the County Animal Control Officer, or in lieu thereof, returned to
its owner, if known.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00)
§ 90.05 PROHIBITED ACTIVITY.
   (A)   No person shall own, harbor, or keep any animal, licensed or
unlicensed, which is vicious.
   (B)   No person shall own, harbor, or keep any animal, which has destroyed
property or repeatedly causes damage by trespassing on the property of a person
who is not the owner.
   (C)   No person shall own, harbor or keep any animal, licensed or
unlicensed, which causes annoyance to the people in the neighborhood by causing
loud or frequent or habitual barking, yelping, or howling.
   (D)   No personal shall keep or house any animals or domestic fowl within
the city except dogs, cats, canaries or animals commonly classified as pets
which are customarily kept or housed inside dwellings as household pets;
excepting further, the temporary keeping of live poultry at any live poultry
market incidental to the normal course of business.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00)
§ 90.06 LEADER DOGS.
   Leader dogs, as defined in §
90.01, shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00)
§ 90.07 ANIMAL OBSERVATION FOR RABIES.
   Any animal impounded for observation for rabies shall be held until released
by the City Veterinarian or otherwise disposed of. Such period of observation
shall normally be ten days, but the City Veterinarian may, at his or her
discretion, permit the animal to be returned to its owner during the
observation period on condition that the owner return the animal to the City
Veterinarian on request. No person to whom an animal has been released during
such rabies observation period shall fail to return the animal released upon
request by the City Veterinarian. Any animal found rabid shall be immediately
destroyed in a humane manner. The expense of testing any animal for rabies
shall be borne by the owner of the animal, provided, that if any animal shall
be subjected to a test for having bitten any person and such animal was not at
large at the time of biting, and the person bitten was a trespasser on the
premises where such biting occurred, the trespasser shall be charged with the
expense of the rabies test. Any animal impounded for having bitten any person
shall be held for not less than five days and in case any complaint shall have
been made before any court having jurisdiction of such cases, whereby an order
that the animal be killed or confined, is sought, then for such further time
until the final disposition of such case.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00)
§ 90.08 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful to keep more than two dogs, licensed or unlicensed,
that are over six months old at any residence within the city, unless the owner
possesses a kennel license as approved by the Planning Commission. Any
residence that has more than two dogs upon the adoption of this chapter shall
be grandfathered. However, if these dogs should be permanently removed from the
residence for any reason, they shall not be replaced, no more than two dogs
shall be allowed per residence.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.09 PROHIBITION ON THE FEEDING OF FERAL AND STRAY CATS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be entitled "Prohibition on the Feeding of
Feral and Stray Cats".
   (B)   Purpose. The City of Croswell finds that the feeding of unconfined,
wild, stray or feral cats can be detrimental to wild and domestic animals,
causes a public health nuisance, jeopardizes public property, and constitutes a
safety hazard that is detrimental to the general health, safety, and general
welfare of the public and animals.
   (C)   Definitions. As used in this section, the following terms will be
defined as follows:
      FEED OR FEEDING. The act of furnishing, exposing, placing, depositing,
distributing or scattering, whether intentionally or negligently, any food or
water, or substance of any kind which is likely to attract, lure, or entice
wild animals or feral or stray cats.
      FERAL CATS. Those cats that live outdoors, are generally not socialized
to people, and are wild and do not belong to anyone. Feral cats are the result
of a domestic cat being abandoned or lost and left to fend for itself or have
liters of cats which are wild and do not have an owner.
      NUISANCE. Whatever annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health,
comfort or repose of the public; creates smells or offensive debris or orders,
leaves offensive or rotting food, a member of the public, or creates a hazard,
or interferes with public use of lands or obstructs or renders dangerous any
street, highway, navigable lake or stream; or renders the public insecure in
life or property.
      STRAY CAT. A cat that used to have a home. Strays are more likely to
approach people because they were previously socialized and relied on humans to
help feed and shelter them. Stray cats are generally abandoned cats without an
owner.
      WILD ANIMAL. Any species of animal wild by nature, as distinguished from
the common domesticated animals. A wild animal is one that can survive in its
natural environment without the help or assistance of humans, including but not
limited to raccoons, bears, coyotes, deer, foxes, groundhogs, opossums, skunks,
rats, mice, squirrels and waterfowl.
   (D)   Prohibited conduct.
      (1)   With the exception of nationally-recognized programs approved by
City Council, it shall be unlawful for any person, or agent thereof to feed
feral or stray cats upon public property. Programs will be overseen by the City
Administrator and the Chief of Police.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to authorize or aid or abet any other person
to feed feral or stray cats upon public property.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful to leave or store any refuse, garbage, food,
food waste, pet food, seed or bird seed, fruit, meat, dairy, vegetable, grain
or other food in a manner likely to feed feral or stray cats on public
property.
      (4)   It shall be unlawful to leave or store any refuse, garbage, food,
food waste, pet food, seed or bird seed, fruit, meat, dairy, vegetable, grain
or other food in a manner in a public area that has caused a nuisance.
   (E)   Penalty. A violation of the section shall be a municipal civil
infraction as authorized under Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of
1961, Section 600.8701, et. seq. as amended.
      (1)   Municipal violation notice. The penalty for a notice of violation
under the authority of M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8707, 600.8707(6), shall be a notice
violation in the amount set forth in §
10.98, Municipal civil infractions, payable at the Violation Bureau.
      (2)   Municipal civil infraction. The sanction and penalty for a
municipal civil infraction shall be payable at the court. The sanction for a
municipal civil infraction shall be up to $500.00, plus additional costs,
damages, expenses and other sanctions and injunctive relief, as authorized
under the Municipal Civil Infraction Statute Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the
Public Acts of 1961, as amended. This section shall be enforceable to the
fullest extent allowed under the municipal civil infraction enabling statute as
authorized under Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, Section
600.8701, et. seq. as amended.
      (3)   Additional remedies. A violator of this section shall also be
subject to such additional sanction's remedies, and/or judicial orders and/or
judgments as are authorized and provided under the statutes and laws of the
State of Michigan. Each day a violation of this section occurs and/or continues
to exist constitutes a separate violation. Any violation of this section is
declared to be a public nuisance per se.
(Ord. 347, passed 12-6-21; Am. Ord. 347-1, passed 2-22-22)
§ 90.10 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, CROSSBOWS, OR BOWS FOR THE PURPOSE OF HUNTING
ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge a firearm, crossbow, or bow and arrows on
property while hunting animals at any time within the city boundary limits,
except with the approval of the City Administrator or Chief of Police or
designee. This prohibition shall not apply to a law enforcement officer when
acting to enforce the law or to control or dispose of dangerous or seriously
injured wild or domestic animals.
   (B)   Penalty. A violation of this section shall be a municipal civil
infraction as authorized under Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of
1961, § 600.8701 et seq.
      (1)   Municipal violation notice. The penalty for a notice of violation
under the authority of M.C.L.A. 600.8707, § 8707(6), shall be in the amount set
forth in
Ch. 10 of this code payable at the City of Croswell Violation Bureau.
      (2)   Municipal civil infraction. The sanction and penalty for a
municipal civil infraction shall be payable at the court. The sanction for a
municipal civil infraction shall be up to $500, plus additional costs, damages,
expenses and other sanctions and injunctive relief, as authorized under the
Municipal Civil Infraction Statute Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts
of 1961, as amended.
      (3)   This section shall be enforceable to the fullest extent allowed
under the municipal civil infraction enabling statute as authorized under
Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, § 600.8701 et seq. as
amended.
      (4)   Additional remedies. A violation of this section shall also be
subject to such additional sanctions and/or judicial orders and/or judgements
as are authorized and provided under the statutes and laws of the State of
Michigan.
      (5)   Each day a violation of this section occurs and/or continues to
exist, constitutes a separate violation.
      (6)   Authorized local official. This section may be enforced by the City
Admnistrator, Police Chief, or their designees.
(Ord. 350, passed 5-1-23)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any persons violating the terms of this chapter shall be subject to a
fine not exceeding $100 or cost of prosecution, or both fine and costs.
   (B)   Costs of prosecution shall be the actual costs of the proceeding,
including but not limited to attorney fees, witness fees actually expended, and
wages of law enforcement officers related to such capture and prosecution.
(Ord. 278, passed 5-6-96; Am. Ord. 278, passed 8-7-00)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
   
91.01   Board of Trustees
   
91.02   Conveyances of cemetery lots
   
91.03   Price of lots
   
91.04   Conveyance, burial prohibited when charges unpaid
   
91.05   Free burial ground may be set aside
   
91.06   Trust fund
   
91.07   Care of lots not prohibited
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Council to enact ordinances governing cemeteries, see Charter
Section
7.5
§ 91.01 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   All cemeteries now owned or which may hereafter be acquired by the
city, whether within or without its corporate limits, are hereby declared to be
public burying grounds. They shall be managed by a Board of five Trustees, one
of whom shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the Council at the
first regular meeting in May of each year. The Trustees shall hold office for
the term of five years and shall serve without compensation. The trustees so
appointed shall be freeholders and electors in the city. The City Council may
remove any trustee so appointed, for inattention to his duties, want of proper
judgement, skill or taste for the proper discharge of duties required of him,
or for other good cause.
('77 Code, § 19.001)
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall appoint one of their number as Chairman
and the City Clerk shall be the Clerk of the Board. The Board is hereby
invested with such power and authority as may be necessary for the care,
management and preservation of such cemetery and grounds, the tombs and
monuments therein and the appurtenances thereof, and such other duties as the
Council may provide. The Board of Trustees shall appoint, with the approval of
the Council, a sexton and such other employees as may be necessary for the care
and maintenance of the cemetery. The sexton shall have authority in enforcing
all regulations of the Board of Trustees and in preserving order and proper
conduct within such cemetery and grounds. All purchases for cemetery use shall
be by the City Council upon the recommendation to the Board of Trustees.
('77 Code, § 19.002)
(Ord. 103, eff. 3-16-42; Am. Ord. 103-1, passed 2-2-98)
§ 91.02 CONVEYANCES OF CEMETERY LOTS.
   All conveyances of cemetery lots, half-lots or grave spaces shall be for
burial rights of human bodies only and shall be issued in behalf of the city by
the City Clerk, signed by the Clerk and counter-signed by the Mayor, and sealed
with the seal of the city, numbered in the order of issue, and shall be in such
form as the Council may prescribe.
('77 Code, § 19.003) (Ord. 103, eff. 3-16-42)
§ 91.03 PRICE OF LOTS.
   The City Council shall from time to time by resolution fix the price of all
lots, half lots, and grave spaces that are subject to sale, not less than 40%
of which shall be placed in the trust fund for perpetual care.
('77 Code, § 19.004) (Ord. 103, eff. 3-16-42; Am. Ord. 180, eff. 7-1-71)
§ 91.04 CONVEYANCE, BURIAL PROHIBITED WHEN CHARGES UNPAID.
   No conveyance shall be issued for any lot, half-lot or grave-space nor any
burial permitted therein until the full price thereof is paid, nor shall any
burial be allowed on any lot against which there are unpaid charges for care or
improvement until such charges are paid.
('77 Code, § 19.005) (Ord. 103, eff. 3-16-42)
§ 91.05 FREE BURIAL GROUND MAY BE SET ASIDE.
   The Board of Trustees may set off so much of a cemetery as in their
judgement may be necessary for a free burial ground.
('77 Code, § 19.006) (Ord. 103, eff. 3-16-42)
§ 91.06 TRUST FUND.
   There shall be and is hereby established a trust fund in the amount of
$16,600 as of March 16, 1942, together with all memorial funds thereafter paid
for the purpose of perpetual care. The funds shall be invested in safe and
productive securities or real property approved by the Council, the income
therefrom to be used for care and up-keep of lots in perpetual care and for
improving and beautifying any portion of the cemetery, and for no other
purpose.
('77 Code, § 19.007) (Ord. 103, eff. 3-16-42; Am. Ord. 148, eff. 11-2-59)
§ 91.07 CARE OF LOTS NOT PROHIBITED.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit individuals from
care of lots, but no such care shall be considered in lieu of assessments
thereon.
('77 Code, § 19.010) (Ord. 103, eff. 3-16-42)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
Fire Code
   
92.01   Adoption of fire code
Fireworks
   
92.10   Definitions
   
92.11   Ignition, discharge and use of consumer fireworks
   
92.12   Possession of fireworks by a minor
   
92.13   Determination of violation; seizure
 
   
92.99   Penalty
FIRE CODE
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE CODE.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the 1984 edition of the BOCA Fire Code.
The Fire Code is made a part of this code the same as if set forth in full
herein. Copies of the Fire Code are on file in the office of the City Clerk and
are available for public inspection during regular business hours.
(Ord. 233, eff. 9-1-88)
FIREWORKS
§ 92.10 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APA STANDARD 87-1. 2001 APA Standard 87-1, standard for construction and
approval for transportation of fireworks, novelties, and theatrical
pyrotechnics, published by the American Pyrotechnics Association of Bethesda,
Maryland.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. parts 1500 and 1507, and
that are listed in APA Standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS
do not include low-impact fireworks.
   FIREWORK or FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun, or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a
visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS
consist of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic,
display fireworks, and special effects.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined under APA Standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8, and 3.5.
   MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
   NATIONAL HOLIDAY. The following legal, public holidays:
      (1)   New Year's Day (January 1).
      (2)   Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday (third Monday in January).
      (3)   President's Day (third Monday in February).
      (4)   Memorial Day (last Monday in May).
      (5)   Independence Day (July 4).
      (6)   Labor Day (first Monday in September).
      (7)   Columbus Day (second Monday in October).
      (8)   Veteran's Day (November 11).
      (9)   Thanksgiving (fourth Thursday in November).
      (10)   Christmas Day (December 25).
(Ord. 327, passed 11-4-13)
§ 92.11 IGNITION, DISCHARGE AND USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   The ignition, discharge and use of consumer fireworks is prohibited, except
on the day preceding, the day of, or the day after a national holiday. Consumer
fireworks shall not be used, discharged and/or ignited in the city between the
hours of 1:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. on the day before, the day of and the day
after a national holiday.
(Ord. 327, passed 11-4-13)
§ 92.12 POSSESSION OF FIREWORKS BY A MINOR.
   A minor shall not possess consumer fireworks.
(Ord. 327, passed 11-4-13)
§ 92.13 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION; SEIZURE.
   If an enforcement officer determines that a violation of this subchapter has
occurred, the officer may seize the fireworks as evidence of the violation.
(Ord. 327, passed 11-4-13)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil infraction. All violations of §§
92.10 et seq. shall be civil infractions as an ordinance violation, and upon
conviction, thereof, shall be punishable by a fine up to $500.
   (B)   Disposition of evidence. Following the final disposition of a finding
of responsibility for violating §§
92.10 et seq., the city may dispose of, or destroy any consumer fireworks
retained as evidence in that prosecution.
   (C)   Costs of storage and disposal. In addition to any other penalty, a
person found responsible for a violation of §§
92.10 et seq. shall be required to reimburse the city for the costs of storing,
disposing of, or destroying consumer fireworks that were confiscated for a
violation of §§
92.10 et seq.
(Ord. 327, passed 11-4-13)
CHAPTER 93: INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
   
93.01   Disabled motor vehicles regulated
   
93.02   Locations where disabled motor vehicles prohibited
   
93.03   Locations where disabled motor vehicles permitted
   
93.04   Enforcement
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLES REGULATED.
   No person shall permit any disabled motor vehicle to be parked, stored,
placed or allowed to remain with the city in violation of the provisions of the
ordinances of the city. A disabled motor vehicle shall mean any vehicle which
is incapable of being self-propelled on the public streets, or which does not
meet the requirements for operation on the public streets, including a current
license.
('77 Code, § 20.901) (Ord. 208, passed 1-3-78) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.02 LOCATIONS WHERE DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Disabled motor vehicles shall not be permitted in the rights-of-way of
the streets, alleys, or highways with the city; provided, however, that this
shall not apply to towing or similar transporting of such vehicles; and
provided further, that a reasonable time (not to exceed 72 hours from the time
of disability) shall be permitted for the removal or servicing of a disabled
vehicle in an emergency caused by accident or sudden breakdown of the vehicle.
('77 Code, § 20.902)
   (B)   Disabled motor vehicles shall not be permitted in a front yard as
defined by the zoning ordinance of the city; provided, however, that a
reasonable time (not to exceed 72 hours from the time of disability) shall be
permitted for the removal or servicing of a disabled vehicle in any emergency
caused by accident or sudden breakdown of the vehicle.
('77 Code, § 20.903)
   (C)   One disabled motor vehicle may be permitted in a side yard or rear
yard of a residential, commercial or industrial lot as an accessory use to the
main use of the lot; provided that the vehicle is not located in any open space
required by the zoning laws. Service and repair work may be performed on the
vehicle and incidental thereto, parts, tools and equipment may be stored and
used. Nothing herein contained shall be construed as authorizing the
disassembly, tear-down or scrapping of a motor vehicle or to permit one motor
vehicle to be scavenged or stripped for parts for use on another motor vehicle.
Provided, however, that a disabled vehicle shall not be permitted to remain
outside of a building for a period in excess of 30 days on any lot used for
residential purposes or on that portion of any lot within 20 feet of an
abutting lot used for residential purposes.
('77 Code, § 20.904)
(Ord. 208, passed 1-3-78) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.03 LOCATIONS WHERE DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Storage, service and repair of a disabled motor vehicle which is
conducted entirely within the confines of an accessory garage shall be
permitted provided that the vehicle is the property of the owner or occupier of
the lot and that such use is not a commercial use of the property, unless such
use is authorized by other ordinances of the city.
('77 Code, § 20.905)
   (B)   Storage, repair and servicing of disabled motor vehicles not
authorized herein and the tearing down, stripping or junking of motor vehicles
shall be permitted only where and when such use is specifically authorized,
permitted or licensed under other ordinances of the city in accordance
therewith.
('77 Code, § 20.906) (Ord. 208, passed 1-3-78)
§ 93.04 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce this chapter;
provided, however, that the Chief Building Inspector and the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall assist and cooperate in such enforcement.
('77 Code, § 20.907) (Ord. 208, passed 1-3-78)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate, or assist in the
violation of any provision of this chapter shall be responsible for municipal
civil infraction punishable by a fine of $100 for a first offense, $200 for a
second offense, $500 for a third offense for notice of violation payable at the
City Violations Bureau. The sanction for a municipal civil infraction fine
shall be up to $500 pursuant to the Court's schedule of fines, plus costs,
damages, expenses and other sanctions and injunctive relief, as authorized
under the Municipal Civil Infraction Statute, Chapter 87 of Act No. 236 of the
Public Acts of 1961, as amended, together with the costs of prosecution,
including actual attorney fees allowed by law.
(‘77 Code, § 20.908) (Ord. 208, passed 1-3-78; Am. Ord. 208-1, passed 3-1-99;
Am. Ord. 332, passed 8-17-15)
CHAPTER 94: NUISANCES
Section
   
94.01   Prohibited conditions and actions
   
94.02   Enforcement by Police Department
   
94.99   Penalty
   
94.100   Special assessment for local public improvement
   
94.101   Special assessment procedure
   
94.102   Special assessment and interest as lien and debt delinquency
§ 94.01 PROHIBITED CONDITIONS AND ACTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or possessor of land in the city to do
any of the following.
   (A)   Permit the land to be covered with or contain brush, weeds, dead and
dying trees, stumps, roots, obnoxious growths, filth, garbage, manure, trash,
refuse or debris of any combination of the terms, which would either tend to
start a fire, increase the intensity of a fire already started when it shall
reach that land, cause poisoning or irritation to human beings from the
obnoxious growths, or cause or tend to cause an unhealthy or obnoxious
condition on the land or tend to devalue adjacent property.
   (B)   Permit the land to be covered with or contain refuse or debris
resulting from the construction, demolition, or neglect of a building, which
refuse or debris has remained on the land for more than 30 days after
completion of the construction work, after the demolition, or after the loose
boards, shingles, or other materials have fallen off a building, and where such
refuse or debris is inimical to the preservation of the public health, safety,
or general welfare of the people of the city, or which refuse or debris may
constitute a fire hazard.
   (C)   Permit on the land an abandoned, unused or unprotected well, cellar,
or other unnatural declivity in which stagnant water or debris is retained or
which is dangerous to a person, including a child, being or coming upon the
land.
   (D)   Permit to be stored or placed on such land old lumber, metal, machines
or parts of machines, junk, paper, clothes, glass or refuse or any combination
of them. Machines or parts of machines shall include automobiles or parts of
automobiles in need of repair or which cannot be readily operated under their
own power or which require substantial repair.
('77 Code, § 19.101) (Ord. 158, eff. 7-28-65; Am. Ord. 314, eff. 6-15-09)
Penalty, see §
94.99
§ 94.02 ENFORCEMENT BY POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The City Manager or designee of the City Manager shall be responsible for
the enforcement of this chapter.
('77 Code, § 19.102) (Ord. 158, eff. 7-28-65; Am. Ord. 158-1, passed 2-2-98;
Am. Ord. 314, eff. 6-15-09)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Violation of the above provisions shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction. Any person held responsible of a violation of any of the provisions
of this chapter shall either pay a fine of not exceeding $500 for each offense,
and the city may request injunctive relief as provided by state law.
('77 Code, § 19.103) (Ord. 158, eff. 7-28-65; Am. Ord. 314, eff. 6-15-09)
§ 94.100 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.
   The Council has determined that the whole or part of the expense for clean
up for a violation of this chapter is a local public improvement and may be
defrayed by special assessments upon the property specially benefitted by
confirmation of the costs through adoption of a resolution.
(Ord. 314, eff. 6-15-09)
§ 94.101 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The special assessment may be levied against the property for the
actual costs of clean up and for preparing of plans and specifications;
estimated costs; the preparation for any hearing; the collection of special
assessments; and any other costs concerning the clean up and improvements. The
special assessment shall be declared by resolution.
   (B)   The City Council shall provide a copy of the proposed special
assessment resolution, outlining all costs for the clean up, the description of
the property, and the roll of actual costs of clean up to the property owner,
by mailing a notice of hearing and the proposed resolution by first class mail
to the last known address of the property owner more than 15 days prior to the
hearing, confirming the assessment with notice that the property owner is
entitled to a public hearing, and the date of hearing, and a statement that the
property owner may attend and object to the assessment. The property owner may
also provide written objections to the special assessment.
(Ord. 314, eff. 6-15-09)
§ 94.102 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT AND INTEREST AS LIEN AND DEBT AND DELINQUENCY.
   After the date of confirmation of the resolution and roll levying the
special assessment, the full amount of the assessment and all interest thereon
shall constitute a lien on the premises subject thereto and that amount shall
also be a debt of the person to whom assessed until paid and, in case of
delinquency, may be collected as delinquent city property taxes as provided by
law, or by a suit against the person. The confirmation of the special
assessment shall not void a judgment against the person until fully paid.
(Ord. 314, eff. 6-15-09)
CHAPTER 95: OUTDOOR ASSEMBLIES
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   License required
   
95.04   Application for license; contents
   
95.05   Copies of application forwarded to appropriate review officials
   
95.06   Issuance or denial of license
   
95.07   Conditions for denial of license
   
95.08   Contents of license; posting
   
95.09   Minimum requirements for license issuance
   
95.10   Revocation of license
   
95.11   Violations
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   The City Council finds and declares that the interests of the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens require the regulations, licensing and
control of assemblages of large numbers of people in excess of those normally
drawing upon the health, sanitation, fire, police, transportation, utility and
other public services regularly provided in this city.
('77 Code, § 20.231) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ATTENDANT. Any person who obtains admission to an outdoor assembly by the
payment of money or by the rendering of services in lieu of the payment of
money for admission.
   LICENSEE. Any person to whom a license is issued pursuant to this chapter.
   OUTDOOR ASSEMBLY or ASSEMBLY. Any event, attended by more than 5,000
attendants, all or part of which includes a theatrical exhibition, public show,
display, entertainment, amusement or other exhibition, including, but not
limited to musical festivals, rock festivals, peace festivals or similar
gatherings, but does not mean the following.
      (1)   An event which is conducted or sponsored by a governmental unit or
agency on publicly owned land or property, or
      (2)   An event which is conducted or sponsored by any entity qualifying
for tax exempt status under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of
1954, being 26 USC 501(c)(3), as incorporated by reference in the Michigan
Income Tax Act, Public Act 281 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. § 206.201, or
      (3)   An event held entirely within the confines of a permanently
enclosed and covered structure.
   PERSON. Any natural person, partnership, corporation, association or
organization.
   SPONSOR. Any person who organizes, promotes, conducts, or causes to be
conducted an outdoor assembly.
('77 Code, § 20.232) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   A person shall not sponsor, operate, maintain, conduct or promote an outdoor
assembly in the city unless he shall have first made application for, and
obtained, as hereinafter prescribed, a license for each assembly.
('77 Code, § 20.233) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Application for a license to conduct an outdoor assembly must be made
in writing on such form and in such manner as prescribed by the City Clerk and
shall be made at least 60 days prior to date of the proposed assembly. Each
application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee of $100 and shall
include at least the following.
      (1)   The name, age, residence and mailing address of the person making
the application. Where the person making the application is a partnership,
corporation or other association, this information shall be provided for all
partners, officers and directors, or members. Where the person is a
corporation, a copy of the articles of incorporation shall be filed, and the
names and addresses shall be provided of all shareholders having financial
interest greater than $500.
      (2)   A statement of the kind, character, and type of proposed assembly.
      (3)   The address, legal description and proof of ownership of the site
at which the proposed assembly is to be conducted. Where ownership is not
vested in the prospective licensee, he shall submit an affidavit from the owner
indicating his consent to the use of the site for the proposed assembly.
      (4)   The date or dates and hours during which the proposed assembly is
to be conducted.
      (5)   An estimate of the maximum number of attendants expected at the
assembly for each day it is conducted and a detailed explanation of the
evidence of admission which will be used and of the sequential numbering or
other method which will be used for accounting purposes.
('77 Code, § 20.234)
   (B)   Each application shall be accompanied by a detailed explanation,
including drawings and diagrams where applicable, of the prospective licensee's
plans to provide for the following.
      (1)   Police and fire protection.
      (2)   Food and water supply and facilities.
      (3)   Health and sanitation facilities.
      (4)   Medical facilities and services including emergency vehicles and
equipment.
      (5)   Vehicle access and parking facilities.
      (6)   Camping and trailer facilities.
      (7)   Illumination facilities.
      (8)   Communications facilities.
      (9)   Noise control and abatement.
      (10)   Facilities for clean-up and waste disposal.
      (11)   Insurance and bonding arrangements.
   (C)   In addition, the application shall be accompanied by a map or maps of
the overall site of the proposed assembly.
('77 Code, § 20.235) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.05 COPIES OF APPLICATION FORWARDED TO APPROPRIATE REVIEW OFFICIALS.
   On receipt by the City Clerk, copies of the application shall be forwarded
to the chief law enforcement and health officers for the city, the State Fire
Marshall, and to such other appropriate public officials as the Clerk deems
necessary. Such officers and officials shall review and investigate matters
relevant to the application and within 20 days of receipt thereof shall report
their findings and recommendations to the Council.
('77 Code, § 20.236) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.06 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   Within 30 days of the filing of the application, the Council shall issue,
set conditions prerequisite to the issuance of, or deny, a license. The Council
may require that adequate security or insurance be provided before a license is
issued. Where conditions are imposed as prerequisite to the issuance of a
license, or where a license is denied, within five days of such action, notice
thereof must be mailed to the applicant by certified mail, and in the case of
denial, the reasons therefor shall be stated in the notice.
('77 Code, § 20.237) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.07 CONDITIONS FOR DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   A license may be denied if
   (A)   The applicant fails to comply with any or all requirements of this
chapter, or with any or all conditions imposed pursuant hereto, or with any
other applicable provision of state or local law, or,
   (B)   The applicant has knowingly made a false, misleading or fraudulent
statement in the application or in any supporting document.
('77 Code, § 20.238) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.08 CONTENTS OF LICENSE; POSTING.
   A license shall specify the name and address of the licensee, the kind and
location of the assembly, the maximum number of attendants permissible, the
duration of the license and any other conditions imposed pursuant to this
chapter. It shall be posted in a conspicuous place upon the premises of the
assembly, and shall not be transferred to any other person or location.
('77 Code, § 20.239) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.09 MINIMUM REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE ISSUANCE.
   In processing an application the City Council shall, at a minimum, require
the following.
   (A)   Security personnel. The licensee shall employ at his own expense such
security personnel as are necessary and sufficient to provide for the adequate
security and protection of the maximum number of attendants at the assembly and
for the preservation of order and protection of property in and around the site
of the assembly. No license shall be issued unless the chief law enforcement
officer for the city in cooperation with the Director of State Police is
satisfied that such necessary and sufficient security personnel will be
provided by the licensee for the duration of the assembly.
('77 Code, § 20.241)
   (B)   Water facilities. The licensee shall provide potable water, sufficient
in quantity and pressure to assure proper operation of all water-causing
facilities under conditions of peak demand. Such water shall be supplied from a
public water system, if available, and if not available, then from a source
constructed, located, and approved in accordance with Public Act 294 of 1965
(M.C.L.A. 333.12701 et seq.), and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, and in accordance with any other applicable state or local law, or
from a source and delivered and stored in a manner approved by the City Health
Officer.
('77 Code, § 20.242)
   (C)   Restroom facilities. The licensee shall provide separate enclosed
flush-type water closets as defined in Public Act 266 of 1929 (M.C.L.A. 338.901
et seq.), and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto and in
accordance with any other applicable state or local law. If flush-type
facilities are not available, the City Health Officer may permit the use of
other facilities which are in compliance with Public Act 273 of 1939 (M.C.L.A.
325.12771 et seq.), and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and
in accordance with any other applicable state or local law.
      (1)   The licensee shall provide lavatory and drinking water facilities
constructed, installed, and maintained in accordance with Public Act 266 of
1929 (M.C.L.A. 338.901 et seq.), and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant
thereto, and in accordance with any other applicable state or local law. All
lavatories shall be provided with hot and cold water and soap and paper towels.
      (2)   The number and type of facilities required shall be determined, on
the basis of the number of attendants, in the following manner.
   Facilities      Person   Male      Female
   Toilets         1:300         1:200
   Urinals         1:200
   Lavatories      1:200         1:200
   Drinking fountains   1:500
   Taps or faucets   1:500
      (3)   Where the assembly is to continue for more than 12 hours, the
licensee shall provide shower facilities, on the basis of the number of
attendants, in the following manner:
   Facilities      Male         Female
   Shower heads      1:100         1:100
      (4)   All facilities shall be installed, connected, and maintained free
from obstructions, leaks, and defects and shall at all times be in operable
condition as determined by the City Health Officer.
('77 Code, § 20.243)
   (D)   Food service.
      (1)   If food service is made available on the premises, it shall be
delivered only through concessions licensed and operated in accordance with the
provisions of Public Act 269 of 1968 (M.C.L.A. 333.12901 et seq.), and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any
other applicable state or local law.
      (2)   If the assembly is distant from food service establishments open to
the public, the licensee shall make such food services available on the
premises as will adequately feed the attendees.
('77 Code, § 20.244)
   (E)   Medical facilities. If the assembly is not readily and quickly
accessible to adequate existing medical facilities, the licensee shall be
required to provide such facilities on the premises of the assembly. The kind,
location, staff strength, medical and other supplies and equipment of such
facilities shall be as prescribed by the City Health Officer.
('77 Code, § 20.246)
   (F)   Liquid waste disposal. The licensee shall provide for liquid waste
disposal in accordance with all rules and regulations pertaining thereto
established by the City Health Officer. If such rules and regulations are not
available or if they are inadequate, then liquid waste disposal shall be in
accordance with the United States Public Health Service Publication No. 526,
entitled, Manual of Septic Tank Practice. If liquid waste retention and
disposal is dependent upon pumpers and haulers, they shall be licensed in
accordance with Public Act 243 of 1951 (M.C.L.A. 324.11701 et seq.), and the
rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any
other applicable state or local law, and, prior to issuance of any license, the
licensee shall provide the City Health Officer with a true copy of an executed
agreement in force and effect with a licensed pumper or hauler, which agreement
will assure proper, effective and frequent removal of liquid waste from the
premises so as to neither create nor cause a nuisance or menace to the public
health.
('77 Code, § 20.246)
   (G)   Solid waste disposal.
      (1)   The licensee shall provide for solid waste storage on, and removal
from, the premises. Storage shall be in approved, covered, fly-tight and
rodent-proof containers, provided in sufficient quantity to accommodate the
number of attendants. Prior to issuance of any license, the licensee shall
provide the City Health Officer with a true copy of an executed agreement in
force and effect with a licensed refuse collector, which agreement will assure
proper, effective and frequent removal of solid waste from the premises so as
to neither create nor cause a nuisance or menace to the public health.
      (2)   The licensee shall implement effective control measures to minimize
the presence of rodents, flies, roaches and other vermin on the premises.
Poisonous materials, such as insecticides or rodenticides shall not be used in
any way so as to contaminate food, equipment, or otherwise constitute a hazard
to the public health. Solid waste containing food waste shall be stored so as
to be inaccessible to vermin. The premises shall be kept in such condition as
to prevent the harborage or feeding of vermin.
('77 Code, § 20.247)
   (H)   Public bathing beaches. The licensee shall provide or make available
or accessible public bathing beaches only in accordance with Public Act 218 of
1967 (M.C.L.A. 333.12541 et seq.), and the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto, and in accordance with any other applicable provision of
state or local law.
('77 Code, § 20.248)
   (I)   Public swimming pools. The licensee shall provide or make available
public swimming pools only in accordance with Public Act 230 of 1966 (M.C.L.A.
333.12521 et seq.), and the rules and regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and
in accordance with any other applicable provision of state or local law.
('77 Code, § 20.249)
   (J)   Access and traffic control. The licensee shall provide for ingress to
and egress from the premises so as to insure the orderly flow of traffic onto
and off of the premises. Access to the premises shall be from a highway or road
which is a part of the county system of highways or which is a highway
maintained by the state. Traffic lanes and other space shall be provided,
designated and kept open for access by ambulance, fire equipment, helicopter
and other emergency vehicles. Prior to the issuance of a license, the Director
of the Department of State Police and the Director of the Department of State
Highways must approve the licensee's plan for access and traffic control.
('77 Code, § 20.250)
   (K)   Parking. The licensee shall provide a parking area sufficient to
accommodate all motor vehicles, but in no case shall he provide less than one
automobile space for every four attendants.
('77 Code, § 20.251)
   (L)   Camping and trailer parking. A licensee who permits attendants to
remain on the premises between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. shall
provide for camping and trailer parking and facilities in accordance with
Public Act 171 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. 333.12501 et seq., and the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto, and in accordance with applicable
provisions of state or local law.
('77 Code, § 20.252)
   (M) Illumination. The licensee shall provide electrical illumination of all
occupied areas sufficient to insure the safety and comfort of all attendants.
The licensee's lighting plan shall be approved by the Electric Superintendent
of the city.
('77 Code, § 20.253)
   (N)   Insurance. Before the issuance of a license the licensee, shall obtain
public liability and property damage insurance with limits of not less than
$1,000,000 from a company or companies approved by the Commissioner of
Insurance of the State of Michigan, which insurance shall insure liability for
death or injury to persons or damage to property which may result from the
conduct of the assembly or conduct incident thereto and which insurance shall
remain in full force and effect in the specified amounts for the duration of
the license. The evidence of insurance shall include an endorsement to the
effect that the insurance company shall notify the City Clerk in writing at
least ten days before the expiration or cancellation of the insurance.
('77 Code, § 20.254)
   (O)   Bonding. Before the issuance of a license the licensee shall obtain,
from a corporate bonding company authorized to do business in Michigan, a
corporate surety bond in the amount to be determined by Council and in a form
to be approved by the City Attorney, conditioned upon the licensee's faithful
compliance with all of the terms and provisions of this chapter and all
applicable provisions of state or local law, and which shall indemnify the
city, its agents, officers, and employees and the Council against any and all
loss, injury or damage whatever arising out of or in any way connected with the
assembly and which shall indemnify the owners of property adjoining the
assembly site for any costs attributable to cleaning up and/or removing debris,
trash, or other waste resultant from the assembly.
('77 Code, § 20.255)
   (P)   Fire protection. The licensee shall, at his own expense, take adequate
steps as determined by the State Fire Marshal, to insure fire protection.
('77 Code, § 20.256)
   (Q)   Sound producing equipment. Including but not limited to, public
address systems, radios, phonographs, musical instruments and other recording
devices shall not be operated on the premises of the assembly so as to be
unreasonably loud or raucous, or so as to be a nuisance or disturbance to the
peace and tranquility of the citizens.
('77 Code, § 20.257)
   (R)   Fencing. The licensee shall erect a fence completely enclosing the
site, of sufficient height and strength as will preclude persons in excess of
the maximum permissible attendants from gaining access and which will have
sufficient gates properly located so as to provide ready and safe ingress and
egress.
('77 Code, § 20.258)
   (S)   Communications. The licensee shall provide public telephone equipment
for general use on the basis of at least one unit for each 1,000 attendants.
('77 Code, § 20.259)
   (T)   Miscellaneous. Prior to the issuance of a license, the Council may
impose any other conditions reasonably calculated to protect the health,
safety, welfare and property of attendants or of citizens.
('77 Code, § 20.260) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70; Am. Ord. 177-1, passed 7-6-99)
§ 95.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may revoke a license whenever the licensee, his employee or
agent fails, neglects or refuses to fully comply with any and all provisions
and requirements set forth herein or with any and all provisions, regulations,
ordinances, statutes, or other laws incorporated herein by reference.
('77 Code, § 20.261) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.11 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a licensee, his employee, or agent, to
knowingly do any of the following.
      (1)   Advertise, promote or sell tickets to, conduct, or operate an
assembly without first obtaining a license as herein provided.
      (2)   Conduct or operate an assembly in such a manner as to create a
public or private nuisance.
      (3)   Conduct or permit, within the assembly, any obscene display,
exhibition, show, play, entertainment or amusement.
      (4)   Permit any person on the premises to cause or create a disturbance
in, around, or near the assembly by obscene or disorderly conduct.
      (5)   Permit any person to unlawfully consume, sell, or possess
intoxicating liquor while on the premises.
      (6)   Permit any person to unlawfully use, sell, or possess any
narcotics, narcotic drugs, drugs or other substances as defined in the Uniform
Controlled Substances Act, M.C.L.A. 333.7101 et seq.
   (B)   Any of the above enumerated violations is a separate offense, is a
nuisance per se immediately enjoinable in the circuit courts, and, is
punishable as set forth in §
95.99.
   (C)   It is further provided that any of the above violations is a
sufficient basis for revocation of the license and for the immediate enjoining
in the circuit court of the assembly.
('77 Code, § 20.262) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Whoever violates the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed as set forth
in §
10.99.
('77 Code, § 20.262) (Ord. 177, eff. 10-1-70)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
Park Rules and Regulations
   
96.01   Scope
   
96.02   Compliance with rules and regulations required
   
96.03   Closing hours for parks
   
96.04   Obstructing walks and drives
   
96.05   Littering park or playground
   
96.06   Damaging park property
   
96.07   Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
96.08   Limitation on certain games and activities
   
96.09   Driving or parking vehicles in parks
   
96.10   Overnight camping prohibited
   
96.11   Temporary closing authorized
Recreation Commission
   
96.25   Creation; purpose
   
96.26   Powers and authority
   
96.27   Rules of procedure; by-laws required
   
96.28   Requirements of by-laws
   
96.29   Membership
   
96.30   Budgets and reports
   
96.31   Public hearing; decisions
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Council to enact ordinances governing parks, see Charter
Section
7.5
PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 96.01 SCOPE.
   This subchapter regulates the hours of operation and use of park ad
recreation areas located within and owned by the City of Croswell.
('77 Code, § 34.000) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83)
§ 96.02 COMPLIANCE WITH RULES AND REGULATIONS REQUIRED.
   The City Administrator is hereby empowered to make such rules and
regulations, subject to the approval of the City Council, pertaining to the
conduct and use of parks and public grounds as are necessary to administer the
same and to protect public property and the safety, health, morals and welfare
of the public, and no person shall fail to comply with such rules and
regulations.
('77 Code, § 34.001) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.03 CLOSING HOURS FOR PARKS.
   All city parks shall be closed to the public from 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. It
shall be unlawful for any person, other than authorized personnel, to be
present in the park during the hours the park is closed.
('77 Code, § 34.002) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.04 OBSTRUCTING WALKS AND DRIVES.
   No person shall obstruct any walk or drive in any public park or playground.
('77 Code, § 34.003) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.05 LITTERING PARK OR PLAYGROUND.
   No person shall place or deposit any garbage, glass, tin cans, paper or
miscellaneous waste in any park or playground, except in containers provided
for that purpose.
('77 Code, § 34.004) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.06 DAMAGING PARK PROPERTY.
   No person shall injure, mar or damage in any manner any monument, ornament,
fence, bridge, seat, tree, fountain, shrub, flower, playground equipment,
fireplace or other public property within or pertaining to any public park.
('77 Code, § 34.005) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.07 POSSESSION OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall bring any alcoholic beverage into any city park or consume
any such beverage in any city park.
('77 Code, § 34.006) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.08 LIMITATION ON CERTAIN GAMES AND ACTIVITIES.
   No baseball, football or softball throwing, or any violent or rough
exercises or play shall be engaged in any public park or other public place,
except in areas designated therefor.
('77 Code, § 34.007) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.09 DRIVING OR PARKING VEHICLES IN PARK.
   (A)   No person, other than city employees in the performance of their
duties, shall drive any vehicle of any description upon any part of a park
which is laid out and appropriated for grass or shrubbery.
   (B)   No persons shall stand or park a vehicle in any park, except at places
which are properly signed permitting parking.
('77 Code, § 34.008) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.10 OVERNIGHT CAMPING PROHIBITED.
   There shall be no overnight camping of any nature whatsoever, in any of the
city public parks or city parking lots, with the exception of P.L. Graham Park.
('77 Code, § 34.009) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83; Am. Ord. 218B-1, passed 2-2-98)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.11 TEMPORARY CLOSING AUTHORIZED.
   Under circumstances affecting city parks or public grounds considered by the
city police to be hazardous to the health, and/or welfare, and/or safety, and/
or preservation of persons, and/or property, the police are authorized to
temporarily close any city parks or public grounds at any hour. No person shall
loiter or remain within or on any park or public grounds after such order to
vacate has been given by the Police Department.
('77 Code, § 34.010) (Ord. 218B, eff. 4-25-83) Penalty, see §
10.99
RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 96.25 CREATION; PURPOSE.
   (A)   The city hereby creates and establishes the Recreation Commission of
the city.
('77 Code, § 34.000)
   (B)   The purpose for which the Recreation Commission is created and
established is to advise the City Council and City Administrator in any matters
pertaining to the recreation programs in the city and to advise to the use of
any properties owned or controlled by the city, or on any other properties with
consent of the owner, or authorities who control it.
('77 Code, § 34.001)
(Ord. 221, passed - - )
§ 96.26 POWERS AND AUTHORITY.
   The Recreation Commission shall have the power and authority to perform the
acts herein enumerated, together with such other powers as are necessarily
incident thereto, including the following.
   (A)   Power to solicit or receive gifts and requests of money or any other
property or donations from the general public for furtherance of objectives.
   (B)   Authority to expend money, appropriated by the City Council, for
recreation programs and to purchase supplies and equipment necessary for
furtherance of programs.
('77 Code, § 34.002) (Ord. 221, passed - - )
§ 96.27 RULES OF PROCEDURE; BYLAWS REQUIRED.
   Robert's Rules of Order, Revised, shall govern the parliamentary procedures
of the Recreation Commission except in the event a state statute expressly
requires a different procedure. The Recreation Commission shall develop a
complete set of by-laws governing the internal affairs and operations of the
Recreation Commission, which by-laws shall not be effective until approved by
City Council, who may also, at any time, revoke, modify or amend any such by-
law.
('77 Code, § 34.003) (Ord. 221, passed - - )
§ 96.28 REQUIREMENTS OF BYLAWS.
   The by-laws of the Recreation Commission shall at a minimum provide for the
following.
   (A)   The procedure for calling special and regular meetings, which
procedure shall comply with applicable state statues.
   (B)   Designation of a person responsible for, and the procedure to be
followed, in giving notice of the meetings which complies with applicable state
statutes.
   (C)   Designation of a person responsible for, and the procedure to be
followed, in preparing and maintaining a record of official proceedings of the
Recreation Commission which shall comply with applicable state statutes.
   (D)   An enumeration and designation of the officers of the Recreation
Commission together with the term of office, powers, duties and procedure for
election thereof.
   (E)   A procedure for the appointment of advisory committees, to serve such
purposes as the Recreation Commission deems necessary.
   (F)   An enumeration of the members of the Recreation Commission together
with the terms of office which shall be staggered in accordance with the City
Charter or in accordance with state law where provided.
   (G)   The conditions for eligibility of non-voting members of the Recreation
Commission if there are any.
   (H)   A registered address at which the Recreation Commission will receive
mail and other official communications.
   (I)   A fiscal year if different from the city's.
   (J)   Such other matters as may be deemed to be advisable by the City
Council or the Recreation Commission to be set forth therein.
('77 Code, § 34.004) (Ord. 221, passed - - )
§ 96.29 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   All members of the Recreation Commission shall be resident electors
for the prescribed term of office. Such residency requirement may be waived.
Any member of the Council, employee of the city or officer thereof may serve on
the Recreation Commission. Members of the Recreation Commission may be removed
by the City Council, for cause.
('77 Code, § 34.005)
   (B)   The Mayor, with the advice and consent of the City Council, or the
Council acting on its own motion, may appoint members to staggered terms of
office of the Recreation Commission as provided by the by-laws thereof.
('77 Code, § 34.006)
   (C)   No member of the Recreation Commission shall receive compensation as
such, but the City Council may authorize payment of reasonable and necessary
expenses incurred by any Recreation Commission.
('77 Code, § 34.007)
(Ord. 221, passed - - )
§ 96.30 BUDGETS AND REPORTS.
   The Recreation Commission shall prepare and submit a proposed budget to the
City Council. The Recreation Commission shall also prepare and file any
reports, at such time and in the form required by City Council, the City
Charter, or state statute.
('77 Code, § 34.008) (Ord. 221, passed - - )
§ 96.31 PUBLIC HEARING; DECISIONS.
   In the event the Recreation Commission holds any public hearing the same
shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements of any applicable state
statute. The decision shall be made in accordance with principles of due
process of law, and the reasons and facts relied upon in making decision shall
be set forth in the record of the proceeding.
('77 Code, § 34.009) (Ord. 221, passed - - )
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.01   Owners and occupants to keep sidewalks in good repair
   
97.02   Use of opening, stairway or trap
   
97.03   Sidewalks to be kept free of snow, ice and other obstructions
   
97.04   Riding animals or bicycles on sidewalks
Use of Streets by Public Utilities
   
97.15   Permit required for construction or repairs
   
97.16   Permit application; fee
   
97.17   Emergency conditions
   
97.18   Extensions or additions
   
97.19   Exceptions and exemptions
   
97.20   Liability
Sidewalk Construction and Repair
   
97.30   Construction and repair responsibility of owner or occupant
   
97.31   Construction specifications
   
97.32   Required widths
   
97.33   Resolution ordering work on sidewalk
   
97.34   Inspection of sidewalks
   
97.35   Notice to owner or occupant
   
97.36   Service of notice
   
97.37   Line and grade for sidewalks; noncompliance
   
97.38   Report of Street Commissioner
   
97.39   Time within which work shall be done; special assessment upon failure
of completion
   
97.40   Lien upon premises
   
97.41   Board of Special Assessors to be notified of special assessment
   
97.42   Enforcement authority of Street Commissioner
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Authority of Council as to streets and public places, see Charter, Section
7.2 
   Public drinking, intoxication on streets and sidewalks, see §§
130.06,
130.07
   Roller skates, toy vehicles and the like on streets, see §
72.01
   Snowmobiles prohibited on sidewalks, see §
73.04
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.01 OWNERS AND OCCUPANTS TO KEEP SIDEWALKS IN GOOD REPAIR.
   It shall be the duty of the owners and occupants of lots and premises in the
city to keep the sidewalks in the public streets of the city abutting upon such
lots and premises in repair at all times and in condition reasonably safe and
fit for public travel.
('77 Code, § 17.214) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.02 USE OF OPENING, STAIRWAY OR TRAP.
   The owner or occupant of any lot, land or premises, who shall desire to
construct and use any opening, stairway or trap in any sidewalk in the city
shall first procure the consent and approval of the Council thereto, which
consent shall be in writing. In case any such privilege is granted for such
stairway, openings or traps, the same shall be protected by suitable railings,
grates or screens, to be approved by the Council. The same shall in all cases
be done at the expense of the applicant.
('77 Code, § 17.216) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.03 SIDEWALKS TO BE KEPT FREE OF SNOW, ICE AND OTHER OBSTRUCTIONS.
   The owner or occupant of any lot or lots, lands and premises adjacent to and
abutting upon any sidewalk shall keep the same free from snow, ice, filth and
all obstructions, encroachments, encumbrances or other nuisances allowed to
remain upon the sidewalk for a period of 12 hours. The Street Commissioner
shall cause the same to be removed and report the expense of the same to the
Common Council in writing and the expense shall be defrayed by special
assessment in like manner as specified in §
97.40 of this chapter.
('77 Code, § 17.217) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.04 RIDING ANIMALS OR BICYCLES ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride or drive any horse, mule, as or cow, or any beast of
burden whatever or any bicycle, tricycle or vehicle, or lead or drive any
animal upon any sidewalk in the city.
('77 Code, § 17.218) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05) Penalty, see §
97.99
USE OF STREETS BY PUBLIC UTILITIES
§ 97.15 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIRS.
   No public adults, contractors, or individuals operating in the streets and
rights-of-way of the city shall make or perform any construction or repairs on
its underground properties until a permit from the city is obtained in
accordance with §
97.16, at least 48 hours before the repairs or construction.
('77 Code, § 17.001) (Ord. 166, eff. 11-4-66) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.16 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEE.
   The public utility contractor or individuals, may obtain a permit from the
City Clerk by filing the form provided by the City Clerk and paying the fee of
$2. The permit shall include an affidavit that the permittee has notified the
other operating utilities of the planned construction.
('77 Code, § 17.007) (Ord. 166, eff. 11-4-66)
§ 97.17 EMERGENCY CONDITIONS.
   In case of an emergency involving underground utilities in which immediate
repairs must be made, the public utility will immediately contact the other
public utilities before proceeding with the repairs, notifying them where they
are making the repair.
('77 Code, § 17.002) (Ord. 166, eff. 11-4-66)
§ 97.18 EXTENSIONS OR ADDITIONS.
   Any new extension or new construction or additions to any operating public
utility, shall be placed underground where any streets or public rights-of-way
are to be used and where no overhead system is presently in operation.
('77 Code, § 17.003) (Ord. 166, eff. 11-4-66)
§ 97.19 EXCEPTIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Common Council, upon receiving a special written request at a
regular meeting of the Council may except any overhead or above ground
extensions to the utility operating system provided the extension will be
placed underground within two years and a performance bond determined by the
Council is filed.
('77 Code, § 17.004)
   (B)   If the overhead system to be constructed is to operate in a voltage
range or class above 20 KV, then such construction is exempted from this
subchapter, provided the construction is performed under the latest recommended
designs for such range and voltage.
('77 Code, § 17.005)
(Ord. 166, eff. 11-4-66)
§ 97.20 LIABILITY.
   The obtaining of a permit does not relieve the utility of any liabilities
for any damages or injuries caused by its operation in the city, the permit
being for the beautification of the city.
('77 Code, § 17.006) (Ord. 166, eff. 11-4-66)
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 97.30 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   All sidewalks shall be constructed, on the grade of the street as has been
or may be established by the Council, by the owner or occupant of the lot or
lands adjacent to the line of the proposed sidewalk, and the sidewalks of the
city shall be maintained and repaired by such owner or occupant; and in case of
default of such person so to do, then the same shall be constructed, repaired,
maintained or rebuilt by the city as hereinafter provided and the expense
thereof shall be paid and discharged by a special assessment against such
premises; or the Council may by a majority vote of the Council elect, pay such
part of the expense of building, repairing, maintaining or rebuilding such
sidewalks as they may deem proper, from the general highway fund.
('77 Code, § 17.201) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05; Am. Ord. 91, eff. 10-8-36)
Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.31 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks hereafter shall be built of stone flagging or cement or so-
called artificial stone. If the owner uses natural stone flagging it shall be
constructed as follows: no stone shall be less than three inches thick and
shall contain not less than six square feet. It shall be laid upon a foundation
of not less than six inches of sand thoroughly rammed and rolled down. The
stone shall be evenly dressed on the sides and edges, the joints laid close and
the surface even and uniform. If the owners use cement or so-called artificial
stone the following specifications shall be strictly followed: excavate to a
depth of not less than nine inches below the grade of the proposed walk, then
fill in to a depth of five inches below the grade line with bank sand, which
shall be thoroughly wetted down and, while wet, thoroughly rammed or tamped
down. In place of the latter, coal cinders or coal ashes or screen gravel may
be used for the upper course for a depth of two inches, which shall be wet down
and rammed or tamped in the same way. On this shall be laid four inches of
grout made from mixed fine and coarse gravel from which the same has been
screened, in the proportion of six parts gravel and one of cement, which shall
be thoroughly mixed, brought to the proper consistency, uniformly spread and
then thoroughly rammed and tamped down. But one kind of cement shall be used in
the walk and one of the following kinds only shall be used: Imported English
Portland Germania or Dycherhoff cement, American Alpha Sandusky, Wyandotte,
Bronson, Wolverine. Provided, however, that other kinds may from time to time
be used when so ordered by the City Council. Fill in on top of the grout to the
grade line with a mortar made of two parts of clean, sharp screen sand and one
part of one of the above named kinds of cement thoroughly mixed, brought to
proper consistency, and uniformly spread and brought to the grade line; this
mortar shall be floated and made uniformly level, after which dry cement shall
be dusted over the top, using as little as may be needed to break the gloss of
the same and prevent slipping by walking thereon. After being allowed to stand
not less than 20 minutes, or until it "putties", float down and cut the blocks.
The whole surface shall then be roughened by first pressing down and then
quickly removing a steel float. For a distance of one inch on each side of the
outline of the blocks the surface may be troweled down smooth and the earth
upon each side of the walk shall be raised even with the surface of the walk.
('77 Code, § 17.202) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.32 REQUIRED WIDTHS.
   All sidewalks hereafter to be built, rebuilt or repaired on any of the
streets or avenues of the city as aforesaid shall be of the following widths:
on Wells Street from Howard Ave. to the east limit of the Railway grounds, the
sidewalks shall extend from the lot line to the street curb, which shall be the
width
   of the sidewalks, and the same shall slope _ of an inch to the foot toward
the curb. On Howard Ave. from Sanborn Ave. to Maple Street, six feet in width.
On Ward Street from Howard Ave. to the east limit of the Railway grounds, on
Howard Ave. from Maple Street to Harrington Ave., and from Sanborn Ave. south
to the city limits; on north side of Sanborn Ave. from Howard Ave. to Pack
Street, on north side of Wells Street to Ward Street, five feet in width; and
all other walks shall be four feet in width.
('77 Code, § 17.203) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05; Am. Ord. 43, eff. 10-15-14)
§ 97.33 RESOLUTION ORDERING WORK ON SIDEWALK.
   The Council may at any time by resolution order a sidewalk constructed,
rebuilt, repaired or changed. Such resolution shall specify as near as may be
the changes or repairs to be made and describe the lot or lots or premises
adjacent to and abutting thereon, and it shall be directed to the owner or
occupant and served in the manner as hereinafter specified.
('77 Code, § 17.204) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.34 INSPECTION OF SIDEWALKS.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, Marshal or any person duly
authorized by the City Council, as soon after his appointment as possible and
not later than May 20 each year, to personally examine and inspect every
sidewalk within the city. He shall make a written report to the Council of such
inspection in which he is required to state all sidewalks within the city that
are found to be defective and not in repair and not reasonably safe and fit for
public travel. It shall state the condition of defective walks so as to enable
the Council to determine what action will be necessary in the premises. He
shall further report all places where new walks are necessary to the
convenience and safety of the public.
('77 Code, § 17.205) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.35 NOTICE TO OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   Whenever the Council shall have passed a resolution or made an order for the
construction, rebuilding, repairing or changing any sidewalk in the city, it
shall be the duty of the City Clerk to issue notices in writing to the owner or
owners or occupants of the lot or lots, lands or premises abutting upon the
proposed walk, which shall contain the information required by §
97.33. He shall make duplicate copies thereof, and two copies thereof he shall
hand to the Street Commissioner, Marshal or any person duly authorized by the
Common Council.
('77 Code, § 17.206) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.36 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   It shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner, Marshal or any person duly
appointed by the City Council at once thereafter to serve the notices upon the
owner of the premises by personal service within five days, if he can be found;
if not, then in like manner upon the occupant of the premises. If the premises
are vacant or non-resident and no personal service upon either of such persons
can be made, then the notice shall be served by posting of a duplicate copy of
the notice by the officer in a conspicuous place upon the premises and causing
the notice to be published in a weekly newspaper printed and circulating in the
city. If the premises are owned by minors the service shall be made upon the
guardian of the minors in like manner. If there is no guardian then upon the
occupant of the premises. The Street Commissioner, Marshal or any person duly
appointed by the City Council shall in all cases make a return on such
duplicate copy under oath showing the time, place and manner of service, which
return shall be filed in the office of the Clerk. Such return shall state the
manner of service and where the service is not upon the owner personally, the
reason why substituted service has been made. It shall be the duty of the City
Clerk to secure an affidavit of publication in all cases where service has been
made by publication as herein specified and file the same in his office within
one week from the date of publication.
('77 Code, § 17.207) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.37 LINE AND GRADE FOR SIDEWALKS; NONCOMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The Council shall, whenever any sidewalk shall have been ordered
constructed, direct the City Surveyor to locate the line along the outer edge
of the proposed walk and the grade thereof, and all sidewalks shall conform
thereto. It shall thereupon be the duty of the City Surveyor to locate and
establish the sidewalk line and grade on the streets or portions thereon so
directed as aforesaid by the Council, and to make a sketch or plat thereof
showing such line and grade with reference to the street lines and grades and
furnish a copy thereof to the City Clerk to be recorded in the book of street
records. Such plat or diagram and the sidewalk line and grade shown thereon
shall be by the Surveyor recorded in the street record book after the same
shall have been by the City Council approved.
('77 Code, § 17.208)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to be
constructed any sidewalk in this city on any line or grade except as given by
the City Engineer and approved by the Council unless otherwise ordered by the
Council by resolution. Any person who does shall be deemed guilty of a
misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished as provided in §
97.99.
('77 Code, § 17.219)
(Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.38 REPORT OF STREET COMMISSIONER.
   Whenever any sidewalks shall have been constructed, rebuilt or repaired, it
shall be the duty of the Street Commissioner to report to the Council in
writing at its next regular meeting thereafter whether such sidewalk has been
built in conformity to this subchapter and whether the repairs have been made
in accordance herewith or as ordered. In case of any sidewalk having not been
built, changed, rebuilt or repaired within the time allowed therefor as
specified in this subchapter and the notice and resolution, he shall as soon as
practicable thereafter build, rebuild, change or repair the sidewalk as
specified in the notice and the resolution and report the expense thereof to
the City Council in writing.
('77 Code, § 17.209) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.39 TIME WITHIN WHICH WORK SHALL BE DONE; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT UPON FAILURE
OF COMPLETION
   (A)   All sidewalks ordered constructed, rebuilt, repaired or changed by the
Council shall be completed when personal service is obtained upon either the
owner or occupant within 20 days from the date of the service of such notice.
In cases of posting and publication within 30 days from the date of
publication, which time shall be in all cases specified in the notice to such
person as aforesaid. Provided, however, where repairs only are required upon
the walk the time allowed therefor may be no less than 24 hours to be
determined by the Street Committee of the City Council, in all instances
according to the exigencies of the case.
('77 Code, § 17.210)
   (B)   Whenever any order made by the Council for the construction,
rebuilding or repairing of any sidewalk that has not been complied with within
the time allowed therefore as specified in the notice and as required by
division (A) of this section, and the walk has been built, rebuilt, changed or
repaired by the Street Commissioner and reported to the City Council as
required in §
97.38, the expense thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the lot
or lots, lands and premises adjacent to and abutting upon the walk.
('77 Code, § 17.211)
(Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.40 LIEN UPON PREMISES.
   The Council shall examine the report of expenses and if satisfied that the
same is correct add thereto 10% of the cost as a penalty for the non-
construction of the walk by the owner or occupant, which amount shall be, under
the direction of the Council, reported to the Board of Special Assessors by the
Clerk, to be by them levied as a special tax or assessment upon the lot or
premises adjacent to and abutting upon the sidewalk, which special assessment
shall be subject to review after proper notice has been given as in all other
cases of special assessment provided for by the laws of Michigan governing
cities of the fourth class. Such tax, when confirmed, shall be a lien upon such
lot or lots, land and premises, the same as other special assessments, and the
Council shall order the Assessor of the city to spread the amount, together
with the penalty, upon his roll as a special assessment upon such lot or
premises and the same shall be collected in the same manner as other city
taxes. After notice and confirmation of the special assessment roll the city
may collect such amount, together with the penalty aforesaid, from the owner or
occupant of the premises in an action of assumpsit, together with the costs of
suit. Upon the confirmation of any special assessment roll as provided in this
section, the amount thereof may be divided by the Council into not more than
three installments, one of which shall be collected each year at such times as
the Council shall determine with annual interest at a rate not exceeding 6% per
annum, but the whole assessment after confirmation may be paid to the City
Treasurer at any time in full with proportionate interest thereon.
('77 Code, § 17.212) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.41 BOARD OF SPECIAL ASSESSORS TO BE NOTIFIED OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   Whenever the Council shall determine to make a special assessment to defray
the expense of construction, repairing or rebuilding of any sidewalk as
provided for herein, the City Clerk shall serve copies thereof upon the Board
of Special Assessors, who upon receiving such report, shall at once proceed to
make such assessment and report the same to the City Council for action as
provided by laws of Michigan governing cities of the fourth class.
('77 Code, § 17.213) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.42 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY OF STREET COMMISSIONER.
   The Street Commissioner shall have the supervision and care of the sidewalks
of the city and of the building and rebuilding, repairing and changing of the
same, subject to the direction of the City Engineer of the city, and it shall
be his duty to see that the provisions of this subchapter and §§
97.01 through 97.04 are complied with and report all violations thereof to the
Council. He shall further make such additional inspection of walks as the
Council may direct.
('77 Code, § 17.215) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any provisions of §§
97.04 and 97.37 of this chapter shall be punished upon conviction thereof
before any court of competent jurisdiction by a fine not exceeding $50 and
costs of prosecution or by imprisonment in the county jail of Sanilac County
not to exceed 60 days or by both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court. In case a fine is imposed the offender may be imprisoned by order of the
court in the county jail until the fine is paid, not exceeding, however, 60
days.
('77 Code, § 17.220) (Ord. 19, eff. 7-15-05)
   (C)   Any person or persons found to be in violation of any of the
provisions of §§
97.15 through 97.20, shall be deemed guilty of committing a misdemeanor and
shall be punished therefore by a fine not in excess of $100.
('77 Code, § 17.008) (Ord. 166, eff. 11-4-66)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   AMUSEMENTS
         
111.   CABLE TV
         
112.   GARAGE SALES
         
113.   PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
         
114.   TOPLESS OR BOTTOMLESS ENTERTAINMENT
         
115.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
         
116.   PRECIOUS METAL AND GEM DEALERS
         
117.   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: AMUSEMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Requirements for license; term and fees
   
110.04   Operating regulations
   
110.05   Revocation of license
   
110.06   Fees
Game and Video Devices
   
110.20   Definitions
   
110.21   License, fee required for arcade
   
110.22   Distributor license and fee
   
110.23   Application for license; investigation
   
110.24   Police Chief approval required
   
110.25   Issuance of license; nontransferability
   
110.26   Location restrictions
   
110.27   Operating regulations
   
110.28   Licensee responsibility
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AMUSEMENT AND GAME DEVICES. Any machine or device, including pinball
machines, operated by means of insertion of a coin, token or similar object, or
otherwise for the purpose of a game or contest of skill of amusement.
   BILLIARD AND POOL ROOM. Any place open to the public for playing pool or
billiards with one or more pool or billiard tables.
   BOWLING ALLEY. Any place open to the public for playing ten pin, duck
bowling with one or more lanes.
('77 Code, § 20.352) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, either as owner, lessee, or manager, shall establish, operate,
conduct or maintain any billiard and pool rooms, bowling alleys, amusement and
game devices in the city without first having obtained a license therefor from
the City Clerk.
('77 Code, § 20.351) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.03 REQUIREMENTS FOR LICENSE; TERM AND FEES.
   (A)   An applicant for a license shall be not less than 21 years of age.
   (B)   Applications for license shall be made on forms provided by the City
Clerk, shall be accompanied by the appropriate fee, and shall contain the
following.
      (1)   If an individual, the name and address of the individual and his
place of residence for the past five years.
      (2)   If a partnership, the name and address of each partner and their
place of residence for the past five years.
      (3)   If a corporation, the name, date and state under whose laws such
corporation was organized and if a foreign corporation, the date when such
corporation was authorized to do business in the State of Michigan; the list of
officers and location of its Michigan office.
      (4)   The location where the business is to be carried on and the number
of billiard tables, bowling lanes, and amusement and game devices at such
location.
      (5)   A statement that all persons having an interest in such
establishment are possessed of a good moral character, have not been convicted
of any crime involving moral turpitude.
   (C)   In the case of a corporation, the application shall be made by the
agent of such corporation who will have principal charge of the place proposed
to be established and such application shall contain all the facts in respect
to such agent as are required in the case of a private individual.
   (D)   Licenses shall be authorized by the City Council after appropriate
investigation. All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year.
   (E)   No license shall be issued for a fractional part of a year. Licenses
issued under provisions of this chapter shall not be transferable. In case of a
corporation a change in managing agent shall require a new license for the
premises.
   (F)   In no event shall game devices be operated within 500 feet in any
direction from the boundaries of any church, or any public, private or
parochial school building and school grounds.
('77 Code, § 20.353) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
§ 110.04 OPERATING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Persons licensed under this chapter shall not do any of the following.
      (1)   Allow persons under 15 years of age to operate any game device,
play pool or loiter at any time, unless accompanied by parent or guardian.
      (2)   Operate between the hours of 12:00 p.m. Saturday and 2:00 p.m.
Sunday or 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. on any other day.
      (3)   Provide at least two on-premises and separate, public restrooms,
one for female patrons and one for male patrons equipped with safety and
convenience facilities to accommodate handicapped persons consistent with
applicable state and federal requirements.
      (4)   Locate and space all game devices and pool tables so that playing
area of each game device and pool table shall occupy a floor area which is four
times the floor area occupied by the game device or pool table.
      (5)   Provide police access to the premises during all hours of
operation.
('77 Code, § 20.354) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
   (B)   No licensee or persons in charge of an establishment licensed under
this chapter, their servants or their agents, shall maintain the premises so as
to do any of the following.
      (1)   Permit disorderly or offensive conduct thereon determined under
Chapter 130 of this code.
      (2)   Permit any intoxicated persons actually or apparently under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic to be on premises.
      (3)   Permit any known prostitute, male or female procurer, or narcotic
addict to be on premises.
      (4)   Permit any conduct or condition contributing to juvenile
delinquency.
      (5)   Permit intoxicating liquor to be brought in, sold, given away or
consumed on the premises.
      (6)   Permit gambling in any form on the premises.
      (7)   Permit loitering on sidewalk in front of licensed premises so as to
obstruct the free and interrupted passage of the public.
      (8)   Permit the sale of pornography.
      (9)   Permit the sale of drug paraphernalia.
('77 Code, § 20.355) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license issued pursuant to this chapter shall be revoked on the
happening of any of the following events.
   (A)   The determination by the City Council that the license application
contained false statements on any material matter.
   (B)   The conviction of any individual licensee, or in the case the licensee
is a partnership, of any partner, or in the case of the licensee is a
corporation, the managing agent, any officer, director or shareholder of a
crime involving moral turpitude.
   (C)   The violation of any provision of this chapter.
('77 Code, § 20.356) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
§ 110.06 FEES.
   Each licensee shall pay an annual fee for each billiard table, bowling lane,
or amusement or game device as follows.
   (A)   Poolroom license. $15 for the first pool or billiard table and $5 for
each additional table. Each license shall designate the number of pool or
billiard tables permitted thereunder, and no licensee shall keep or maintain
more tables than permitted by such license.
   (B)   Bowling alley license. $1 for the first bowling alley and $5 for each
additional bowling alley. Each license shall designate the number of bowling
alleys permitted, and no licensee shall have more alleys than permitted by the
license.
   (C)   Amusement and game device. $15 for the first game device and $5 for
each additional amusement and game device. Each license shall designate the
number of game devices permitted thereunder, and no licensee shall keep or
maintain more game devices than permitted by such license.
('77 Code, § 20.357) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
GAME AND VIDEO DEVICES
§ 110.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCADE. Any place, premises or establishment or room set aside in a
commercial establishment in which a substantial and significant portion of the
business carried on involves the operation of game and/or video devices, or in
or at which six or more game and/or video devices are located.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person, corporation, partnership or association engaged in
the business of placing or who or which places game and/or video devices in
arcades for operation by another.
   GAME AND VIDEO DEVICES. Any machine or device, including pinball machines,
operated by means of insertion of a coin, token, or similar object, or
otherwise, for the purpose of a game or contest of a skill or amusement.
('77 Code, § 20.400) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
§ 110.21 LICENSE, FEE REQUIRED FOR ARCADE.
   (A)   No person either as owner, lessee, or manager, shall establish,
operate, conduct or maintain any arcade in the city without first having
obtained a license therefor from the City Clerk.
('77 Code, § 20.401)
   (B)   The fee for each license for an arcade shall be $30 annually, and $5
per game and/or video device in excess of six.
('77 Code, § 20.402)
(Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.22 DISTRIBUTOR LICENSE AND FEE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, corporation, partnership, or
association to engage in the business of distribution of game and/or video
devices in the city, or to distribute game and/or video devices without first
having obtained a license therefor from the City Clerk.
('77 Code, § 20.403)
   (B)   The annual license fee for a distributor shall be set forth in the
following schedule:
   1 to 10 game and/or video devices      $30.00
   11 to 25 game and/or video devices      75.00
   Over 25 game and/or video devices,
    additional per game and/or video device   3.00
   (C)   An application for a license shall contain the name, address, and
telephone number of the distributor and other title holder of any game and/or
video device.
('77 Code, § 20.404) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.23 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Every person desiring to obtain a license required by this subchapter
shall file at the office of the City Clerk an application on forms approved by
the City Clerk together with the license fee. The application shall include the
following information.
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of the applicant. If the
applicant is a corporation, partnership, club society, or other organization or
association, the names, addresses and telephone numbers of the principal
officers shall be included.
      (2)   The location of the building or exact portion thereof to be used as
an arcade;
      (3)   The business or assumed name to be used by the applicant;
      (4)   Such other information as may be required by the City Clerk to aid
in determining the qualifications of the applicant. All applicants for a
license under this subchapter must be at least 18 years of age, and shall not
have been convicted for an offense involving gambling, narcotics, sex with a
minor, accosting or soliciting. Nor shall the applicant have been convicted of
violating any of the provisions of this section for a period of two years prior
to the application date.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall refer all applications for licenses under this
subchapter to the Chief of Police, who shall do the following.
      (1)   Investigate the qualifications and background of the applicant;
      (2)   Furnish a written report to the City Clerk accompanied by the
Police Chief's recommendation as to whether a license should be granted or
refused.
   (C)   The City Clerk may conduct any other investigation which he deems
advisable for the purpose of determining whether or not a license should be
granted to the applicant. Before any license shall be issued, there shall be an
inspection of the premises to be licensed. The premises shall be in full
compliance with all the pertinent rules and regulations of the Zoning and
General Ordinances of the city relating to the safety, health, convenience,
comfort and welfare of the public.
('77 Code, § 20.405) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
§ 110.24 POLICE CHIEF APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   No license under this subchapter shall be granted to any applicant until the
game and/or video device for which the license is sought is approved, by the
Chief of Police. For the purpose of this section, the Chief of Police shall,
within 20 days after submittal to him for approval, shall notify the City Clerk
of his approval of any game and/or video device, unless he finds the game and/
or video device is or may be modified to be a gambling device, in which case he
shall notify the City Clerk that the game and/or video device is or may be in
violation of the State Gambling Act, and shall disapprove the game and/or video
device in writing.
('77 Code, § 20.406) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
§ 110.25 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   (A)   Upon compliance or evidence of compliance with all of the requirements
of this subchapter, the City Clerk shall issue licenses authorized under this
section.
('77 Code, § 20.409)
   (B)   Licenses issued under the provisions of this section shall not be
transferable.
('77 Code, § 20.410)
(Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
§ 110.26 LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
   In no event shall an arcade be operated within 500 feet in any direction
from the boundaries of any public, private or parochial school building and/or
school grounds.
('77 Code, § 20.405) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.27 OPERATING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   An arcade licensed under this subchapter shall:
      (1)   Not permit operation of any game and/or video device by any person
under 16 years of age between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. excluding
Saturdays, Sundays, holidays, and days when school is not in session.
      (2)   Not allow persons under 14 years of age to operate any game and/or
video device at any time, unless accompanied by a parent or guardian.
      (3)   Not operate between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
      (4)   Provide at least two on-premises and separate public restrooms, one
for female patrons and one for male patrons equipped with safety and
convenience facilities to accommodate handicapped persons consistent with
applicable state and federal requirements.
      (5)   Locate and space all game and/or video devices so that the playing
area of each game and/or video device shall occupy a floor area which is four
times the floor area occupied by the game and/or video device.
      (6)   Provide police access to the arcade premises during all hours of
operation.
      (7)   Have at least one person on the premises at all times, who is in
charge and is 18 years of age or older.
('77 Code, § 20.411)
   (B)   No licensee or persons in charge of an arcade or connected with the
management thereof, their servants or their agents, shall maintain the arcade
so as to:
      (1)   Permit disorderly or offensive conduct thereon defined under
Chapter 130 of this code.
      (2)   Permit any intoxicated persons actually or apparently under the
influence of intoxicating liquor or narcotic to be on the premises.
      (3)   Permit any known prostitute, male or female procurer, or narcotic
addict to be on the premises.
      (4)   Permit any conduct or condition contributing to juvenile
delinquency.
      (5)   Permit intoxicating liquor to be brought in, sold, given away or
consumed on the premises.
      (6)   Permit gambling in any form on the premises.
      (7)   Permit loitering on the sidewalk in front of the arcade so as to
obstruct the free and uninterrupted passage of the public.
('77 Code, § 20.413) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.28 LICENSEE RESPONSIBILITY.
   A licensee shall be personally responsible for the enforcement of this
subchapter as it applies to the operation of the licensee's arcade.
('77 Code, § 20.414) (Ord. 41, eff. 2-4-80)
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TV
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Grant of franchise; limitation
   
111.03   Revocation of franchise
   
111.04   Transfer of ownership
   
111.05   Liability insurance and indemnification
   
111.06   Annual franchise fee
   
111.07   Modification of FCC rules
   
111.08   Acts of God
Installation of System
   
111.20   Construction and installation
   
111.21   Conditions on public way occupancy
   
111.22   Safety requirements
   
111.23   Erection, removal and common use of poles
   
111.24   Rights reserved to the city
   
111.25   Maps, plats and reports
   
111.26   Capacity and commencement
Operation and Rates
   
111.40   Carriage of signals
   
111.41   Signal quality requirements
   
111.42   Operation and maintenance of system
   
111.43   Rates
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASIC SERVICE. The provision by the company to television receivers of all
signals of over-the-air television stations required by the Federal
Communications Commission (hereafter "FCC"), public channels, and additional
channels at the option of the company.
   CITY. The City of Croswell, Michigan.
   CITY CHANNEL. A channel on the system which is reserved for the carriage of
program material originated by the company or by another person.
   CITY COUNCIL. The Council of the City of Croswell.
   COMMUNITY ANTENNA TELEVISION SYSTEM, CATV,  or SYSTEM. Any facility that
receives over the air or by other means, and amplifies or otherwise modifies
the signals broadcast by television or radio stations as well as signals
containing other information, and distributes such signals by cable and/or
other means to the public.
   COMPANY. TCI-Taft Cablevision Associates, or anyone who succeeds the company
in accordance with the provisions contained herein.
   COMPANY CHANNEL. A channel on the system which is reserved for the carriage
of program material originated by the company or by another person.
   FRANCHISE. The grant of authority to the company to operate CATV system in
the city.
   GROSS REVENUES. The total revenues received by the company from all services
in the city.
   PAY SERVICE. The provision of television channels such as "Home Box Office,"
not included in "basic service."
   PUBLIC WAYS. Streets, avenues, highways, boulevards, concourses, driveways,
bridges, tunnels, parks, parkways, waterways, alleys, all other public rights-
of-way, and public grounds or waters within or belonging to the city.
   SUBSCRIBER. A purchaser of any service delivered over the system to an
individual dwelling unit, where the service is not to be utilized in connection
with a business, trade, or profession.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.02 GRANT OF FRANCHISE; LIMITATION.
   (A)   There is hereby awarded to the company a non-exclusive franchise for
the occupation or use of the public ways within the city for the construction,
operation, and maintenance of a CATV system.
   (B)   This franchise shall remain effective for 15 years, unless sooner
revoked as provided in §
111.03.
   (C)   Nothing in this franchise shall affect the right of the city to grant
to any other person a franchise to occupy and use the public ways for the
construction, operation, and maintenance of CATV or similar facilities within
the city. The city shall give any application for any additional franchise to
another. Nothing contained in this franchise shall prohibit the company from
appearing before the City Council and being heard on any application for any
additional franchise to another.
   (D)   This franchise applies only to the operation of a CATV system as
provided herein, and does not take the place of any other franchise, license or
permit which might be required by federal, state or local law.
   (E)   In the operation of its system, the company shall not deprive an
inhabitant of any building, by contract or otherwise, of any existing right to
use an individual or master antenna for the purpose of receiving television
signals.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.03 REVOCATION OF FRANCHISE.
   (A)   The franchise granted herein shall be subject to the right of the city
to revoke an ordinance as regulated by state statute, upon the City Council's
determination that the company has violated the terms of intent of the CATV
franchise ordinance. The company will be notified in writing at least 30 days
prior to any public hearing date being set by the City Council.
   (B)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be subject to all applicable
provisions of city ordinances, and any amendments thereto, provided, however,
that the amendments do not alter or interfere with any of the rights and
responsibilities granted herein.
   (C)   Any franchise granted hereunder shall be subject to all applicable
state and federal laws, including rules and regulations established by the FCC
(Ord. 224, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.04 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   Should the company sell, assign, or transfer its system or any right under
this franchise to another, written notice of such sale, assignment, or
transfer, shall be given to the city not less than 30 days prior thereto, and
shall be conditioned upon the vendee, assignee, or transferee, filing with the
city an instrument duly executed, reciting the fact of such sale, assignment,
or transfer, and containing an acceptance of the terms of this franchise and
agreeing to perform all requirements hereof.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.05 LIABILITY INSURANCE AND INDEMNIFICATION.
   (A)   The company shall maintain throughout the term of its franchise,
liability insurance insuring the city and the company with regard to all
damages for which the city and/or the company may be liable, including, but not
limited to, damages arising from the installation, operation, maintenance or
removal of the company's CATV system, whether or not any act or omission
complained of is authorized, allowed or prohibited by this franchise.
   (B)   The liability insurance referred to in this section shall be in the
following amounts.
      (1)   $500,000 for bodily injury or death to any one person, with a limit
of $1,000,000 for bodily injury or death resulting from any one accident.
      (2)   $500,000 for property damage resulting from any one accident.
      (3)   $500,000 for all other types of liability.
   (C)   The company shall save the city harmless from any and all liability
arising out of or by granting of this franchise or the operation of the system
hereunder. The company shall pay for all expenses incurred by the city in
defending itself with regard to all damage and penalties which the city may be
required to pay as a result of this franchise, including, but not limited to,
all reasonable investigation, witness, and attorney fees.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.06 ANNUAL FRANCHISE FEE.
   The company shall pay to the City Treasurer a franchise fee equal to 3% of
the company's gross revenues derived from all cable services within the city,
or $250, whichever is greater, based on the previous calendar year and payable
on March 31 of each year.
(Ord. 224, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.07 MODIFICATION OF FCC RULES.
   Any modification of Rule 76 resulting from amendment thereto by the FCC
shall be incorporated in this chapter.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.08 ACTS OF GOD.
   The company's obligation to provide, maintain and operate cable television
service shall be excused for any period during which such cable service is
prevented by Acts of God or acts of third parties beyond the company's
reasonable ability to control or other emergency conditions, including weather
conditions, incompatible with good quality workmanship or operations.
(Ord. passed - - )
INSTALLATION OF SYSTEM
§ 111.20 CONSTRUCTION AND INSTALLATION.
   Subject to the provisions and restrictions of this franchise and the
ordinances of the city, the company shall have the following rights.
   (A)   To construct, erect, operate and maintain in, upon, along, across,
above, over and under the public ways, poles, cables, underground conduits and
fixtures necessary for the maintenance and operation of a CATV system in the
city.
   (B)   To lease, rent or in any other lawful manner, obtain the use of
towers, poles, lines, cables, and other equipment and facilities from any and
all holders of public licenses and franchises within the limits of the city,
including but not limited to, Detroit Edison Company, Michigan Bell Telephone
Company and the City Light and Power Department, and to use same on such terms
as agreed upon. Existing poles used for the transmission or distribution system
shall be those erected and maintained by Detroit Edison Company, Michigan Bell
Telephone Company and City Light and Power Department, when and where
applicable, providing mutually satisfactory rental arrangements can be entered
into with the utilities and city.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.21 CONDITIONS ON PUBLIC WAY OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   All transmission and distribution structures, lines, and equipment
erected by the company within the city shall be so located as to cause minimum
interference with proper use of city public ways, and to cause minimum
interference with the rights and reasonable convenience of property owners who
adjoin any of the public ways.
   (B)   In case of disturbances of any public way or paved area, the company
shall at its own cost and expense replace and restore such public way or paved
area in as good a condition as it was in before the work involving such
disturbance was done.
   (C)   If, at any time during the period of this franchise, the city shall
lawfully elect to alter or change the grade of any public way, the company,
upon reasonable notice by the city, shall remove and relocate its poles, wires,
cables, underground conduits, manholes and other fixtures at its own expense.
   (D)   Any poles or other fixtures placed in any public way by the company
shall be placed in such manner as not to interfere with the usual travel on
such public way.
   (E)   The company shall, on request of any person holding a building-moving
permit issued in the city, temporarily raise or lower its wires to permit the
moving of buildings. The expense of temporary raising or lowering of wires
shall be paid by the person requesting the same, and the company shall have the
authority to require payment in advance. The company shall be given not less
than 48 hours advance notice to arrange for the temporary wire changes. The
city, or any other non-profit organization, including Historical Societies,
shall be exempt from any charges.
   (F)   The company shall, after giving notice to the city, have the authority
to trim trees upon and hanging over public ways and places in the city, so as
to prevent the branches of the trees from coming in contact with the wires and
cables of the CATV system.
   (G)   In all sections of the city where all existing cable or other like
facilities of utility companies are presently or subsequently placed
underground, the company shall place its cables or other like facilities
underground.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.22 SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The company shall at all times employ ordinary care, and shall install
and maintain in use, commonly accepted methods and devices for preventing
failures and accidents which are likely to cause damage, injuries, or nuisances
to the public.
   (B)   The company shall install and maintain its cables, fixtures, and other
equipment in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local laws,
ordinances, codes, and rules and regulations, and in such manner that they will
not substantially interfere with any installations of the city or of a public
utility serving the city.
   (C)   All structures and all lines, equipment, and connections in, over,
under, and upon the public ways or places in the city, wherever situated or
located, shall at all times be kept and maintained in a safe, suitable
condition and in good order and repair.
(Ord. 224, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.23 ERECTION, REMOVAL AND COMMON USE OF POLES.
   (A)   Poles or other wire holding structures shall be erected by the company
only with prior approval of the City Council.
   (B)   Where a public utility serving the city desires to make use of the
poles or other wire holding structures of the company, but agreement therefor
with the company cannot be reached, the city may require the company to permit
such use for reasonable and just compensation, provided that such use would not
unduly interfere with the company's operation.
   (C)   The city agrees to allow the company to use its utility poles in
exchange for installation and maintenance of necessary head end equipment and
taps for a load management system. Additionally, the company agrees to provide
two free-access channels and to furnish up to $7,000 worth of equipment and
hardware, such as cameras, VCRs, and the like, needed to originate programs for
the schools and city.
(Ord. 224, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.24 RIGHTS RESERVED TO THE CITY.
   (A)   The city shall have the right to install and maintain free of charge
upon the poles and cables of the company any wire and pole fixtures necessary
for a police or fire alarm system, on the condition that such wire or pole
fixtures do not interfere with the CATV present or future operations of the
company, and that such installations shall be installed in a safe manner, in
conformance with state and city regulations. Additionally, the city shall
indemnify and hold the company harmless from any liability, loss, or claim
arising out of the city’s use of the poles.
   (B)   At the expiration of this franchise or upon its revocation, as
provided for herein, the city shall have the right to require the company to
remove at its own expense all portions of the CATV system from all public ways
and places within the city.
(Ord. 224, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.25 MAPS, PLATS AND REPORTS.
   The company shall provide true and accurate maps or plats showing the
location of all existing cables, whether leased or owned outright, upon
completion of construction of the system. The company will maintain the maps or
plats in their office and they will be available for the city’s inspection
during normal business hours. Attached to such maps or plats shall be a list of
address of current subscribers.
(Ord. 224, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.26 CAPACITY AND COMMENCEMENT.
   (A)   The company shall extend the installation of cables, amplifiers, and
related equipment throughout the city as rapidly as is practicable.
   (B)   Within one year from the date of certification from the FCC, the
company shall be capable of providing "Basic Service" on a regular basis to at
least 25% of the city residents.
   (C)   Initial channel capacity of the system shall be no less than 35
channels.
   (D)   The company shall provide "Basic Service" to one outlet on each floor
of all existing or future police and fire stations, the City Hall and all
public and private schools located within 300 feet of the company's cables, and
shall also provide two separate channels for load management control from the
city's main substation and electric administration building to the head
equipment and all CATV distribution locations, located within the city without
any charge therefor.
   (E)   In the event of an emergency situation, the city may interrupt signals
otherwise being distributed by the company for the delivery of signals
necessitated by such emergency.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
OPERATION AND RATES
§ 111.40 CARRIAGE OF SIGNALS.
   (A)   The company shall comply with all rules and regulations of the FCC
with respect to the reception, carriage, and distribution of signals.
   (B)   Minimum channel compliment shall include all V.H.F. and U.H.F.
channels significantly viewed in the city and public, community, and education
channels as required by the FCC
   (C)   The company shall transmit and deliver over city channels the signals
designated therefor by the City Council. The company shall not be expected to
produce or oversee the production of the programming.
(Ord. 224, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
§ 111.41 SIGNAL QUALITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The company shall operate facilities capable of distributing color
television signals, free from ghost images, interferences, or distortions, and
accompanied with proper sound, to produce good pictures on typical standard
production, state of the art television sets in good repair without interfering
with other electrical or electronic systems.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, the standards to be applied in
determining whether or not the company is producing a good picture or
transmitting signals of adequate strength to produce same are those acceptable
standards as set forth in the rules and regulations of the FCC relative to CATV
systems.
   (C)   The company shall demonstrate by instruments or otherwise to
subscribers, upon request, that a signal of adequate strength and quality is
being delivered. Such demonstration shall be made by taking a standard
production state of the art television set with a screen of sufficient area as
to clearly demonstrate the relative merit of the delivered signal.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.42 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE OF SYSTEM.
   (A)   The company shall maintain an office in the area which shall be open
during all normal business hours, have a listed local telephone, and be so
operated that complaints and requests for repairs or adjustments may be
received at anytime, 24 hours per day.
   (B)   The company shall render efficient service, make repairs promptly, and
interrupt service only for good cause and for the shortest time possible. Such
interruptions, insofar as is possible, shall be preceded by notice, and shall
occur during periods of minimum use of the system.
   (C)   The company shall limit failures to a minimum by locating and
correcting malfunctions promptly, but in no event longer than 24 hours after
receiving notice of same, except as provided herein.
   (D)   Should it be impossible or impractical to correct any malfunctions
within 24 hours or less, then each subscriber whose television reception is so
disrupted shall receive a rebate from the company in the amount of one-
thirtieth of such subscriber's monthly charge for every additional 24-hour
period that the subscriber's television reception is so disrupted, unless said
disruption in service was entirely beyond its control.
   (E)   Any rebate made to any subscriber under this section, in any month,
shall not exceed the subscriber's normal monthly fee paid to the company.
   (F)   Complaint procedures shall be given to each new subscriber by the
company at the time of initial subscription to the CATV system. In the instance
of existing subscribers, changes in complaint procedures shall be included with
the next monthly billing.
(Ord. 224, passed - - )
§ 111.43 RATES.
   (A)   The rates and charges for television and radio signals distributed
shall be fair and reasonable and no higher than necessary to meet all costs of
service (assuming efficient and economical management), including a fair return
on the replacement cost of the properties devoted to such service.
   (B)   The following is a schedule of rates and chargers per subscriber.
      (1)   Basic Service: Currently $47.95 per month.
      (2)   Current installation charge for "Basic Service": $20.00.
      (3)   Current installation charge for "Pay Service": $20.00.
      (4)   Each additional outlet: Currently $2.00 per month per outlet.
      (5)   At no time shall one-time installation charge for "Basic Service"
or "Pay Service" exceed $20.00.
      (6)   Re-connection within 30 days after disconnection due to subscriber
non-payment: Currently $10.
      (7)   City Council will be notified 30 days in advance of any proposed
rate increases for basic service or installation charges, and basic service or
basic installation increases are subject to their approval.
   (C)   If, in the future, the state regulates the rates of the company for
the services provided under this franchise, those portions of this section so
regulated by the state shall be of no effect during such state regulation to
the extent of any conflict therewith.
   (D)   Where an unusually difficult or abnormal installation is encountered
or requested, the company reserves the right to require additional charges to
reasonably recover the company's costs. Such charges may, at the subscribers
request, be added to the subscribers monthly charges over a negotiable period
of time.
(Ord. 224, passed - - ; Am. Ord. passed - - )
CHAPTER 112: GARAGE SALES
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Definitions
   
112.03   License required; exceptions
   
112.04   Required information
   
112.05   Signs
 
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate garage sales, yard sales, or
similar casual sales of tangible personal property in one-family residential
areas and multiple-family residential areas.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-1-99)
§ 112.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Includes all sales entitled "garage sale," "lawn sale," "attic
sale," "rummage sale," "yard sale," "flea market sale," or any similar casual
sale of tangible personal property or goods by a person which is advertised by
any means whereby the public at large is or can be made aware of the sale.
   GOODS. Any goods, warehouse merchandise, or other property capable of being
the object of a sale regulated hereunder.
   PERSON. Includes individuals, partnerships, voluntary associations, and
corporations.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-1-99)
§ 112.03 LICENSE REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a garage sale in the
city without first filing with the Clerk the information hereinafter specified,
and obtaining from the Clerk a license to do so, to be known as a "garage sale
license." Such a license shall be issued to any one address only twice in any
one calendar year. Each sale shall not last more than four consecutive days.
Each license issued under this chapter shall be prominently displayed on the
premises upon which the garage sale is conducted throughout the entire period
of the licensed sale.
   (B)   Exceptions to the above ordinance shall be "free" weekends when a
garage sale may be held without a license but shall be limited to four
consecutive days except for the July 4 weekend as specified below. "Free"
weekends shall be defined as follows: Memorial Day weekend in May, July 4 and
the three days either following or preceding it, whichever shall include a
Saturday and Sunday (should July 4 fall on a Wednesday, the "free" weekend
shall be those four days preceding July 4), and Labor Day weekend in September.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-1-99) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.04 REQUIRED INFORMATION.
   The following information shall be filed with the Clerk pursuant to this
chapter.
   (A)   Name of the person, firm, group, corporation, association, or
organization conducting the sale.
   (B)   Name of the owner of the property and the address on which the sale is
to be conducted and consent of the owner if the applicant is other than the
owner.
   (C)   Dates of the sale and dates of any past garage sales at the same
address during the same calendar year.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-1-99)
§ 112.05 SIGNS.
   Any and all signs advertising the "garage sale" will not be erected prior to
the day preceding the start of the sale and must be removed not later than the
day following the sale. These signs shall not exceed six square feet. All signs
shall have the calendar dates of the sale prominently displayed upon them.
These signs are not to be posted or affixed in any manner to phone/electrical
poles and/or street or public safety sign poles. If any city personnel are
required to remove the sign, a $10 service charge will be invoiced to the
permit holder.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-1-99) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, association, or corporation conducting any such sale without
being properly licensed therefor or who shall violate any of the other terms
and regulation of this chapter shall, upon conviction, be fined not less than
$50 and not more than $500 or be imprisoned for a period not to exceed 30 days
for each conviction.
(Ord. 292, passed 3-1-99)
CHAPTER 113: PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT VENDORS
Section
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Definitions
   
113.03   Exceptions
   
113.04   Licensing of hawkers or peddlers
   
113.05   Licensing of itinerant vendors
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the sale or peddling of goods,
wares, merchandise, refreshments or any kind of property or thing, whatsoever,
by persons going about from place to place in the city for that purpose or from
any stand, cart, vehicle, or other device, in or upon the streets, highways,
sidewalks or in any open place or places, or space, public ground or buildings,
or in any private building in the city, and to provide a punishment or
forfeiture for every person who, without license, or contrary to the terms of
any license granted him, shall within the city, sell, offer for sale, or
solicit orders for any goods, wares, merchandise, refreshments or any kind of
property or thing whatsoever. However, one who solicits orders and as a
separate transaction makes deliveries to purchasers as a part of a scheme or
design to evade the provisions of this chapter shall also be deemed a peddler.
('77 Code, § 17.300) (Ord. 39, passed 9-16-12; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-99)
§ 113.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HAWKER  or  PEDDLER. Any person who shall go about from place to place
within the city, in any manner whatsoever, or who shall from any stand, cart,
vehicle or device, in or upon any street, highway or sidewalk or upon any open
place or places, or space, or public building or grounds, or private building
or grounds within the city, or who shall by sample or otherwise from any hotel,
public building or other place within the city, sell, offer for sale or solicit
orders for any goods, wares, merchandise, refreshments, or any kind of property
or thing whatsoever, to any person not a dealer therein.
('77 Code, § 17.302)
   HE. Is being used as a generic term for convenience only and is intended to
include he or she as the case may be.
('77 Code, § 17.313)
   ITINERANT VENDOR. Any and all persons, both principals and agents, who
engage in the temporary or transient business in the city, in the sale of
goods, wares and merchandise, and who for the purpose of carrying on such
business hire, lease or occupy any building or structure for the exhibition and
sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, or any person who shall temporarily
associate himself with any local dealer, trader or merchant, or any person who
shall conduct such temporary transient business in connection with or as a part
of the business of or in the name of any local dealer, trader or merchant
within this city.
('77 Code, § 17.303)
(Ord. 39, passed 9-16-12; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-99)
§ 113.03 EXCEPTIONS.
   The city ordains nothing hereinafter in this chapter contained, shall be
construed to prevent any manufacturer, farmer, mechanic or nurseryman, from
selling his own productions, without license, except such license as the City
Council shall determine by ordinance, rule or by-law, to be necessary to
regulate the sale thereof under the police powers, and which regulation shall
be necessary for the protection of the public health of the residents of the
city, nor shall be construed to mean that any wholesale merchant who shall sell
to dealers only shall be required to procure a license therefor.
('77 Code, § 17.301) (Ord. 39, passed 9-16-12)
§ 113.04 LICENSING OF HAWKERS OR PEDDLERS.
   (A)   No hawker or peddler shall sell, offer for sale, or solicit orders
for, by sample or otherwise any goods, wares, merchandise refreshments or any
kind of property or thing whatsoever within the city, without first having paid
for and obtained from the City Clerk a license so to do.
   (B)   The licensing provisions of this chapter shall not apply to sales of
goods, wares and merchandise for religious or local charitable purposes;
vendors approved by the City Council or operating with the consent of
individuals or organizations sponsoring events approved by the City Council;
commercial travelers employed by wholesale houses and selling staple articles
of merchandise to city merchants to be retailed by such merchants; persons
selling milk; delivery of goods sold by city businesses; or permanently
employed and bonded route salespersons who solicit orders from and distribute
goods to, regular customers on established routes. Such vendors or sponsors of
city-approved events must provide general liability insurance with such
limitations as the City Attorney approves. Proof of insurance, showing that
such insurance is in force, shall be filed with the purchasing agent of the
city prior to the approved event. Termination or alteration of the policy
without approval of the City Attorney shall constitute grounds for the
cancellation of the event by the City Council.
('77 Code, § 17.304)
   (C)   At the time of filing the application, a fee, which shall be from time
to time set by the City Council and a schedule of which fee shall be available
at the City Clerk's office for examination, shall be paid to the City Clerk to
cover the cost of investigation and supervision. No fee shall be required from
any person who is a war veteran, has proof of discharge papers, and who has
first obtained a peddler's license pursuant to Public Act 359 of 1921, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 35.441 through 35.443, as amended, provided that the goods, wares
and merchandise proposed to be sold by such person are his or her own.
('77 Code, § 17.305)
   (D)   Applicants for a license under this chapter must file with the City
Clerk a sworn application in writing (in duplicate) on a form to be furnished
by the City Clerk, which form shall contain the following information.
      (1)   The name and a description of the applicant.
      (2)   The applicant's address (legal and local).
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold and, in the case of products of farm or orchard, whether produced or
grown by the applicant.
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship.
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired.
      (6)   If a vehicle is be to used, a description of the same, together
with the license number or other means of identification.
      (7)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of filing of the application, which picture shall be two
inches by two inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear
and distinguished manner.
      (8)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least two
reliable property owners of the county who will certify as to the applicant's
good character and business responsibility, or, in lieu of the names of
references, any other available evidence as to the good character and business
responsibility of the applicant as will enable an investigator to properly
evaluate such character and business responsibility.
      (9)   Statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any crime and, if so, the nature of the offense and the punishment or penalty
assessed therefor.
('77 Code, § 17.306)
   (E)   Every application for a hawker’s or peddler’s license shall be
accompanied by a bond in the penal sum of $500 executed by a surety company or
by two responsible freeholders residing in the city; or in lieu thereof a cash
bond of equal amount conditioned upon the making of final delivery of goods or
services to be performed, in accordance with such order, or failing therein
that the advance payment or such order be refunded.
   (F)   Any person aggrieved by the action of any such solicitation shall have
the right of action on the bond for recovery of money or damages, or both. Such
bond shall remain in full force and effect and in case of a cash deposit, such
deposit shall be retained by the city for a period of 90 days after the
expiration of any license, unless sooner revoked by the Council.
('77 Code, § 17.307)
   (G)   Upon the making and filing of the application and the payment of the
necessary fee by the applicant, the City Clerk shall present the application to
Council at its next regularly scheduled session for approval. If the
application is approved by Council the City Clerk shall issue to the applicant
the necessary license to conduct the business for which he has paid the license
fee and made such application and deliver the same to the applicant, who under
and by virtue thereof, shall have the right to pursue his business as set forth
in the license during its continuance.
('77 Code, § 17.308)
(Ord. 39, passed 9-16-12; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-99) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.05 LICENSING OF ITINERANT VENDORS.
   (A)   Any itinerant vender who shall desire to sell goods in the city shall
file a state license and application for a local license with the City Clerk
before offering or exposing for sale or selling, any goods, wares, or
merchandise in the city and shall pay to the City Clerk a license fee for the
privilege of such sale in such sum as shall be computed by the Supervisor of
the city as provided in division (B) of this section. The application for a
local license shall be made to the City Clerk in writing upon blanks furnished
by him for that purpose and thereby signed and sworn to by the applicant and
the applicant shall specify the kind and line of goods he intends to sell in
the city, and of what his stock then consists, and of the value thereof, the
name of the municipality from which the goods were last shipped and in which
were last exposed for sale, the name and residence of the owners or parties in
whose interest the business is conducted, and any other information as the City
Clerk shall deem necessary.
('77 Code, § 17.309)
   (B)   The City Clerk, when he shall have received the application in due
form as provided in division (A) of this section, accompanied by the
applicant's state license, shall give notice thereof to the supervisor of the
city, who shall, as soon as practicable, examine the stock of goods of the
applicant, and compute and certify to the Clerk the amount the applicant should
pay as a local license fee, which amount shall be a percentage on the full
value of the stock of goods equal to the rate per cent of the last preceding
tax levy in the city for all purposes except for state and county purposes. The
payment of license fee to the Clerk shall authorize the applicant, provided he
has complied with all the requirements of this chapter and the law, to sell,
within the limits of the city, such goods, wares or merchandise as are
described in his application, and for that purpose to carry any stock in the
city goods only of the kind and line specified in his application, and not to
exceed in amount at any one time, the valuation on which his license fee was
computed, and such license shall continue in force until the first day of May
next following the date of application, and the license shall not be assignable
or transferable in any manner whatsoever.
('77 Code, § 17.310)
   (C)   If the itinerant vender shall neglect or refuse to pay the local
license fee as provided in division (B) of this section, the city shall have a
lien on the stock of goods for the amount due on the local license fee, which
may be enforced by suit within ten days from the time when the goods were first
publicly offered or exposed for sale in the city, such suit to be brought and
maintained as provided by statute.
('77 Code, § 17.311)
(Ord. 39, passed 9-16-12) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating the provisions of this chapter shall be punished by a
fine of not to exceed $500 or by imprisonment in the county jail not to exceed
30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 39, passed 9-16-12; Am. Ord. passed 5-3-99)
CHAPTER 114: TOPLESS OR BOTTOMLESS ENTERTAINMENT
Section
   
114.01   Purpose
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Prohibited activities
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to prohibit topless and/or bottomless
entertainment in any establishment within the corporate limits of the city
licensed by the Michigan State Liquor Commission to sell or dispense
intoxicating beverages or in any other establishment within the corporate
limits of the city open to the public.
('77 Code, § 20.122) (Ord. 202, passed - - )
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOTTOMLESS. Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitalia; human
buttocks, or human pubic area, that being the lower part of the hypogastric
region that from puberty on is normally covered with fine, soft, short hairs,
whether or not such area is shaven or otherwise depilated.
   KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character of the matter or live conduct.
   OBSCENE LIVE CONDUCT.   
      (1)   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual
acts prohibited by law.
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus, or genitals.
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva,
or genitals.
      (4)   The permitting by a licensee of any person to remain in or upon the
licensed premises who exposes to public view any portion of his or her genitals
or anus.
      (5)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts the live
performance of which was prohibited by the above regulations.
   TOPLESS. Less than completely and opaquely covered female breasts below a
point immediately above the top of the areola.
('77 Code, § 20.123) (Ord. 202, passed - - )
§ 114.03 PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and in a lewd and
obscene manner be topless and or bottomless in any establishment licensed by
the Michigan State Liquor Commission, or to sell and/or serve intoxicating
beverages, or to do the same in any other establishment within the corporate
limits of the city.
('77 Code, § 20.124)
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, employer, agent or any
employee of any business or establishment within the corporate limits licensed
by the Michigan State Liquor Commission or in any other establishment within
the corporate limits of the city to permit any person or persons to appear in
the presence of the patrons of the establishment in a lewd, obscene, topless
and/or bottomless manner or to permit any person to serve food or beverages
while appearing in such manner.
('77 Code, § 20.125)
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any owner, operator, employer, agent, or any
employee of any business or establishment to permit or for any person or
persons to engage in any of the following conduct in any such establishment
within the corporate limits licensed by the Michigan State Liquor Commission or
in any other establishment within the corporate limits of the city.
      (1)   The performance of acts, or simulated acts, of sexual intercourse,
masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any other
sexual acts prohibited by law.
      (2)   The actual or simulated touching, caressing, or fondling of the
breasts, buttocks, anus or genitals.
      (3)   The actual or simulated displaying of the pubic hair, anus, vulva,
or genitals.
      (4)   The displaying of films or pictures depicting acts the live
performance of which is prohibited by this chapter.
('77 Code, § 20.126) (Ord. 202, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted under this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and
punished by imprisonment in the county jail for not more than 90 days or by a
fine of not more than $100, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
('77 Code, § 20.127) (Ord. 202, passed - - )
CHAPTER 115: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
115.01   Purpose
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Permit required
   
115.04   Issuance of permit
   
115.05   Construction/engineering permit
   
115.06   Conduit or utility poles
   
115.07   Route maps
   
115.08   Repair of damage
   
115.09   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
115.10   Modification of existing fees
   
115.11   Savings clause
   
115.12   Use of funds
   
115.13   Annual report
   
115.14   Cable television operators
   
115.15   Existing rights
   
115.16   Compliance
   
115.17   Reservation of police powers
   
115.18   Authorized city officials
 
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002) ("Act") and other applicable law, and to
ensure that the city qualifies for distributions under the Act by modifying the
fees charged to providers and complying with the Act.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight
Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), as amended from time to time. (A copy of the Act
can be obtained on the internet at http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/comm/
rightofway/rightofway.htm.)
   AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to Section 3 of the Act.
   CITY ADMINISTRATOR. The City Administrator or his or her designee.
   CITY. The City of Croswell.
   CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Croswell or its designee. This
section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Council.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumer
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term COMMISSION
in the Act.
   PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this chapter
to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the city
for its telecommunications facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway, highway,
street, alley, easement or waterway. Public right-of-way does not include a
federal, state, or private right-of-way.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of Title III
of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Those
terms as defined in Section 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public
Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER does
not include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I
of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this chapter only, a provider also includes all of the
following:
      (1)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way;
      (3)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with Section 6(1) of the
Act. A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with
the City Clerk, one copy with the City Administrator and one copy with the City
Attorney. Upon receipt, the City Clerk shall make copies of the application and
distribute a copy to City Council and utility supervisors. Applications shall
be complete and include all information required by the Act, including without
limitation a route map showing the location of the provider's existing and
proposed facilities in accordance with Section 6(5) of the Act. (A copy of the
application form as approved by the Council can be obtained on the internet at
http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/comm/rightofway/rightofway.htm.)
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 - 15.246, pursuant to Section 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications
provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Administrator may request an
applicant to submit such additional information which the City Administrator
deems reasonably necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all
such requests in compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional
information established by the City Administrator. If the city and the
applicant cannot agree on the requirement of additional information requested
by the city, the city or the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in
Section 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to Section 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under Section 251 of
the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251 and authorizations or permits issued by the city to telecommunications
providers prior to the 1995 enactment of Section 251 of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of
this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under
Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to Section 5(3)
of the Act, a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
division is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under
division (D) above. A provider under this division shall be given up to an
additional 180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the
Authority, as provided in Section 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Administrator. Pursuant to Section
15(3) of the Act, the City Administrator shall approve or deny an application
for a permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files
an application for a permit under §
115.03(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the city. Pursuant to
Section 6(6) of the Act, the City Administrator shall notify the MPSC when the
City Administrator has granted or denied a permit, including information
regarding the date on which the application was filed and the date on which
permit was granted or denied. The City Administrator shall not unreasonably
deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the City
Administrator shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with Sections 6(l),
6(2) and 15 of the Act. (Copies of the permit forms currently approved by the
MPSC can be obtained on the internet at http://www.cis.state.mi.us/mpsc/comm/
rightofway/rightofway.htm.)
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to Section 15(4) of the Act, the City
Administrator may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which
conditions shall be limited to the telecommunications provider's access and
usage of the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Administrator may require that a
bond be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit.
If a bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that
the public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after
the telecommunications provider's access and use.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.05 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under Chapter 150, as amended,
for construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be charged for
such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03) Penalty, see §
115.99
§ 115.06 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to Section 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.07 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to Section 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
The route maps should be in paper format unless and until the MPSC determines
otherwise, in accordance with Section 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.08 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to Section 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider
undertaking an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all
damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or
within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-
way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.09 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
115.03(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the city's public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.10 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(l) of the Act, the city
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(4)
of the Act, the city also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers
with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city's
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under Section
8 of the Act. The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected
by the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of
Section 13(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications
providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are
otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be
contrary to the city's policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.11 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to Section 13(5) of the Act, if Section 8 of the Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
115.10 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.12 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to Section 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the city from
the Authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city
from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the
Local Street Fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.13 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to Section 10(5) of the Act, the City Administrator shall file an
annual report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.14 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to Section 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.15 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein
with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.16 COMPLIANCE.
   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this chapter
is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions hereof
should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose. The city shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including but not
limited to the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 - 15.246, as provided in §
115.03(C);
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
115.03(F);
   (C)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
115.03(G);
   (D)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
115.04(A);
   (E)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
115.04(A);
   (F)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
115.04(A);
   (G)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
115.04(B);
   (H)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
115.04(C);
   (I)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with §
115.04(D);
   (J)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
115.05;
   (K)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city's
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
115.10;
   (L)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
115.13; and
   (M)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
115.14.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.17 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to Section 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the
city's right to review and approve a telecommunication provider's access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city's authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.18 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Administrator or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations for
violations under this chapter as provided by the city code.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to unless permitted by law, no such punishment, excluding the
costs charged, shall exceed a fine of $500 or imprisonment for not more than 90
days, or both, in the discretion of the court. Imprisonment for violation of
ordinances may be in the county jail. Nothing in this section shall be
construed to limit the remedies available to the city in the event of a
violation by a person of this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 304, passed 3-17-03)
CHAPTER 116: PRECIOUS METAL AND GEM DEALERS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Public act adoption by reference
   
116.03   Fingerprints and thumbprints required
   
116.04   Locations of business
   
116.05   Certificate of registration
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall regulate and license all precious metal and gem dealers
located within the city.
(Ord. 329, passed 9-2-14)
§ 116.02 PUBLIC ACT ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The city hereby adopts, by reference, Public Act No. 95 of 1981 (M.C.L.A.
445.481 et seq.).
(Ord. 329, passed 9-2-14)
§ 116.03 FINGERPRINTS AND THUMBPRINTS REQUIRED.
   All fingerprints and thumbprints required by this chapter shall be taken by
the Sanilac County Sheriff Department.
(Ord. 329, passed 9-2-14)
§ 116.04 LOCATIONS OF BUSINESS.
   A dealer shall disclose to the city police department all locations with the
city within which such dealer intends to conduct business regulated by this
chapter.
(Ord. 329, passed 9-2-14)
§ 116.05 CERTIFICATE OF REGISTRATION.
   A dealer shall not conduct business in the city unless the dealer has
obtained a valid certificate of registration from the city police department.
(Ord. 329, passed 9-2-14)
CHAPTER 117: MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
117.01   Prohibition of marihuana establishments
§ 117.01 PROHIBITION OF MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Pursuant to the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, Section
6.1, the city elects to prohibit marihuana establishments within its
boundaries.
(Ord. 339, passed 11-19-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Disorderly conduct
   
130.02   Defacing of property; graffiti
   
130.03   Assaulting, threatening, harassing, or intimidating behavior
   
130.04   Harassment by telephone
   
130.05   Curfew for minors
   
130.06   Public drinking
   
130.07   Public intoxication
   
130.08   Beepers and telephone paging devices
   
130.09   Open house parties
   
130.10   Abandoned refrigerators
   
130.11   Trespassing; moving or damaging another's property prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   Definition. The term PUBLIC PLACE as used in this section and §§
130.04 and
130.05, shall mean any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public, and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person within the city shall do the following.
      (1)   Commit an assault, or an assault and battery on any person.
      (2)   Be drunk in any public place or under the influence of a narcotic
drug in any public place.
      (3)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral, or obscene conduct in
any public place.
      (4)   Discharge any firearm.
      (5)   Fire, discharge, display, or possess any fireworks except of the
type and under the conditions permitted by Chapter 39 of the Penal Code of the
State of Michigan, as amended.
      (6)   Engage in peeping in the windows of any inhabited place.
      (7)   Swim or bathe in any public place without wearing proper apparel.
      (8)   Utter vile, profane or obscene language in any public place.
      (9)   Make any immoral exhibition or indecent exposure of his or her
person.
      (10)    Print, engrave, sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit or
publish or have in his possession for any such purpose any obscene, lewd,
lascivious, indecent or immodest book, pamphlet, paper, picture, cast statuary,
image or representation or other article of an indecent or immoral nature, or
any book, paper, print, circular or writing made up principally of pictures or
stories of immodest deeds - lust, or crime, or exhibit any such article within
the view of any passerby.
      (11)    Wilfully destroy, damage, or in any manner deface any property
not his own, or public school building, or any public building, bridge, fire
hydrant, street light, street sign or parking meter, or mark or post handbills
on, or in any manner mar the walls of any public building, or destroy, take, or
meddle with any property belonging to the city or remove the same from the
building or place where it may be kept, place, or stored, without proper
authority.
      (12)    Engage in any disturbance, fight, or quarrel in a public place.
      (13)    Jostle or roughly crowd persons in any street, alley, park, or
public building.
      (14)    Loiter on any street or sidewalk or in any park or public
building or conduct himself in any public place so as to obstruct the free and
uninterrupted passage of the public.
      (15)    Play any ball game in any public street or sidewalk or otherwise
obstruct traffic on any street or sidewalk by collecting in groups thereon, for
any purpose.
      (16)    Engage in any act of prostitution.
      (17)    Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant or inmate of any
place where prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating liquor, or
any other illegal or immoral business or occupation is permitted or conducted.
      (18)    Solicit or accost any person for the purpose of inducing the
commission of any illegal or immoral act.
      (19)    Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution or
gambling is practiced, encouraged, or allowed for purpose of enabling such
person to engage in gambling or in any illegal or immoral act.
      (20)    Keep or maintain a gaming room, gaming tables, or any policy or
pool tickets, used for gaming; or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming
tables, or any policy or pool tickets to be kept, maintained, played, or sold
on any premises occupied or controlled by him.
      (21)    Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous, or vulgar
conduct.
      (22)    Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him to be a
resort of noisy, boisterous, or disorderly person.
      (23)    Obstruct, resist, hinder, or oppose any member of the police
force, or any peace officer in the discharge of his duties as such.
      (24)    Wander about the streets, either by day or night, without any
lawful means of support or without being able to give a satisfactory account of
himself.
      (25)    Prowl about any alley or the private premises of any other person
in the nighttime, without authority or the permission of the owner of such
premises.
      (26)    Spit on any sidewalk or on the floor or seat of any public
carrier, or on any floor, wall, seat or equipment of any place of public
assemblage.
      (27)    Disturb any school, meeting, or congregation lawfully assembled,
whether religious, political, or otherwise.
      (28)    Flirt, wilfully annoy, or make or extend offensive advances or
invitations by word or act to any person to whom he is unknown, in any public
place.
      (29)    Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile or object from
any moving automobile.
      (30)    Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile or object toward
any person or automobile.
      (31)    Neglect or fail to support his wife, children or family if he
shall have sufficient ability to do so, or leave or desert his wife, children
or family without sufficient means of support.
      (32)    Summon, as a joke or prank or otherwise without any good reason
therefor, by telephone or otherwise, the Police or Fire Department or any
public or private ambulance to go to any address where the service called for
is not needed.
('77 Code, § 20.120) (Ord. 201, eff. 8-13-77) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.02 DEFACING OF PROPERTY; GRAFFITI.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   DEFACE. The placement, without consent, of any drawing,
inscription, initial, design, scribbling, motto, message, name or picture,
including those commonly known as graffiti, on an object or surface.
      (2)   SPRAY PAINT. Any container of paint, varnish, lacquer, stain or
similar substance commonly used in painting and propelled by compressed air,
aerosol or other propellant and applied by a spraying method or similar
technique.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.  
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use any paint, spray paint,
pigment, tools, objects, or any other similar means to injure, deface, or
destroy the property of another, including the making of any drawing,
inscription, initial, design, scribbling, motto, name, picture, pictograph, or
other markings commonly referred to as "graffiti."
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, a person under 18 years of age shall
not possess, buy, or give to another any spray paint. Except as otherwise
provided, a person shall not sell or give spray paint to another person under
18 years of age. However, a person may sell or give spray paint to a person
under 18 years of age for lawful uses if the juvenile exhibits the written
consent therefor of his or her parent or guardian. If a person under 18 years
of age exhibits the written consent of his or her parent or guardian, the
person selling or giving the spray paint to the juvenile shall record the name,
address, sex, and age of the juvenile, and the name and address of the
consenting parent or guardian. All data required by this section shall be kept
in a permanent register available for inspection by the Police Department for a
period of at least one year. Violation of this section shall be deemed a
misdemeanor.
   (C)   Removal. It shall be responsibility of the owner of any property
marked or defaced as defined in this section to remove or paint over such
markings within seven days after discovery of their existence so as to minimize
the addition of further markings and other blight upon the property. If removal
is delayed by extenuating circumstances such as infirmity, or financial
inability, the property owner may petition the police for a time extension. Any
owner removing markings pursuant to this section shall be entitled to
restitution in an amount determined by the court for the cost of removing the
markings. Restitution shall be paid by any person convicted under this section
of making the markings. If the individual defacing property is under 18 years
of age, to the extent practical, the individual shall be required to restore
the premises.
(Ord. 286, passed 8-18-97) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 ASSAULTING, THREATENING, HARASSING, OR INTIMIDATING BEHAVIOR.
   (A)   No person or group of people shall intentionally place another in
reasonable fear of immediate harm through assaulting, threatening, harassing,
or intimidating behavior.
   (B)   A person guilty of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 287, passed 8-18-97) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.04 HARASSMENT BY TELEPHONE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to telephone any other
person repeatedly or cause any person to be telephoned repeatedly for the sole
purpose of harassing or molesting such other person or his family, whether or
not conversation ensues, except for telephone calls made for legitimate
business purposes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons to use any threatening,
vulgar, indecent, obscene, immoral or insulting language over any telephone.
('77 Code, § 20.120) (Ord. 201, eff. 8-13-77) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.05 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   No minor children under the age of 16 years of age shall idle, loiter
or congregate in or on any public street or highway, alley or park between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless the minor or child shall be
accompanied by a parent, guardian or some other person over the age of 18 years
designated by the parent of such minor child.
   (B)   No minor child under the age of 18 shall loiter, idle or congregate on
any public street, alley or park between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
unless he or she is accompanied by a parent, guardian or some person over 18
years of age designated by the parent of such minor.
   (C)   It shall be a violation of this section for any person to aid, abet,
assist or encourage any minor child to violate the provisions of this section.
   (D)   This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by a parent, guardian, or custodian;
      (2)   Accompanied by an adult specified by a parent, guardian, or
custodian;
      (3)   Carrying out an errand or other lawful activity as directed by a
parent, guardian, or custodian; or
      (4)   Occupying the sidewalk of the place where the minor resides, or the
sidewalk of a place where the minor has permission from his or her parent or
guardian to be, or the sidewalk of a next-door neighbor not communicating an
objection to a police officer.
      (5)   Participating in, going to, or returning from:
         (a)   Lawful employment;
         (b)   A lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious, or
social event; or
         (c)   Interstate travel."
('77 Code, § 20.120) (Ord. 201, eff. 8-13-77; Am. Ord. 201-1, passed 11-18-96)
Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.06 PUBLIC DRINKING.
   Any person who shall drink beer, wine, or other intoxicating liquors while
on or within any street, sidewalk, public parking lot, alley, private parking
lot open to the general public or any place open to the patronage of the public
which is owned or occupied by any government agency or instrumentality shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor.
('77 Code, § 20.031) (Ord. 206, eff. 10-29-77) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.07 PUBLIC INTOXICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be on a public street while
intoxicated.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to be on a public sidewalk while
intoxicated.
(Ord. 254, passed 11-19-90) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.08 BEEPERS AND TELEPHONE PAGING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      (1)   BEEPER or TELEPHONE PAGING DEVICE. A unit, instrument or electronic
gadget that displays telephone calls or dialing, including items commonly known
as "pagers."
      (2)   EMPLOYER. An entity duly registered, licensed or otherwise
incorporated to do business in this city, the County of Sanilac or State of
Michigan.
   (B)   Prohibition; exception.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided, a person under 18 years of age shall
not buy or possess a beeper or telephone paging device. Except as otherwise
provided, a person shall not sell or give a beeper or telephone paging device
to another person under 18 years of age.
      (2)   This section does not apply to a person under 18 years of age who
exhibits to the police, or person providing the beeper or telephone paging
device, the written consent of his or her employer, if the writing indicates
that the beeper or telephone paging device is being carried and used by the
juvenile in the course of his or her employment; or parent, indicating that the
beeper or telephone paging device is being carried and used by the juvenile for
bona fide medical reasons or emergency notification.
      (3)   Employer's or parent's written consent must be filed with the city
Police Department.
(Ord. 285, passed 8-18-97) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.09 OPEN HOUSE PARTIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section the following definitions
shall apply, unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   ADULT. A person 17 years of age or older.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than one-half of 1% of
alcohol by weight. The percentage of alcohol by weight shall be determined in
accordance with the provisions of M.C.L.A. 436.1101 et seq., the Liquor Control
Code of 1998, as the same may be amended from time to time.
   CONTROL. Any form of regulation or dominion including a possessory right.
   DRUG. A controlled substance as defined now or hereafter by the Public Acts
of the State of Michigan.
   MINOR. A person not legally permitted by reason of age to possess alcoholic
beverages pursuant to M.C.L.A. 436.33b, MSA 18.1004(2), as the same may be
amended from time to time.
   OPEN HOUSE PARTY. A social gathering of persons at a residence other than
the owner or those with rights of possession or their immediate family members.
   RESIDENCE. A home, apartment, condominium or other dwelling unit and
includes the curtilage of such dwelling unit.
   (B)   Responsibility of adult having control. No adult having control of any
residence shall allow an open house party to take place at the residence if any
alcoholic beverage or drug is possessed or consumed at the residence by any
minor where the adult knew or reasonably should have known that an alcoholic
beverage or drug was in the possession of or being consumed by a minor at the
residence, and where the adult failed to take reasonable steps to prevent the
possession or consumption of the alcoholic beverage or drug at the residence.
   (C)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to legally
protected religious observances or legally protected educational activities.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-18-97) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.10 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   It is unlawful to store, keep or possess any abandoned or disused ice box,
refrigerator, or deep-freezer in any place where it is possible for anyone to
become locked therein, without first disabling the same by removal of screws
and hinges from door or removal of locking device from door of same.
('77 Code, § 20.201) (Ord. 132, passed 1-4-54) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.11 TRESPASSING; MOVING OR DAMAGING ANOTHER’S PROPERTY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or person shall trespass on any private property, city
property, or utility property without first obtaining permission from the
property owners in the city.
('77 Code, § 20.271)
   (B)   No person or persons shall mark, mar, destroy, any private property,
city property, or utility property in the city.
('77 Code, § 20.272)
   (C)   No person or persons shall be allowed to move any property from one
place to another in the city, without first obtaining permission from the
owners of the property.
('77 Code, § 20.273)
   (D)   No person or persons shall be allowed to put or place any material of
any kind whatsoever, or rubbish of any kind whatsoever on any private, city or
utility property, or on any street, alley, lane, public or private drives
without first obtaining permission from the property owners.
('77 Code, § 20.274)
(Ord. 136, passed 10-17-55) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is otherwise provided, shall be subject to the penalty set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person convicted under §
130.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by imprisonment in the
county jail for not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $100 or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
('77 Code, § 20.032) (Ord. 206, eff. 10-29-77)
   (C)   Every person convicted of a violation of a provision of §
130.07 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and costs of
prosecution, or by imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment. Each act of violation, and every day upon which such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. (Ord. 254, passed
11-19-90)
   (D)   The penalties for violation of §
130.09 shall be as follows.
      (1)   For the first violation, a fine not exceeding $500, plus costs, or
imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to exceed 30 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   For subsequent violations, a fine not exceeding $500 or
imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to exceed 90 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 288, passed 8-18-97)
   (E)   Anyone convicted of violating § 130.10 will be subject to a penalty
not to exceed $100 and costs, or confinement in the county jail for not more
than 30 days, or both, at the discretion of the court.
('77 Code, § 20.202) (Ord. 132, passed 1-4-54)
   (F)   Anyone found guilty of violation of any provision of §
130.11 shall be subjected to a fine not to exceed $100 or 90 days in the county
jail, or both at the discretion of the court.
('77 Code, § 20.275)
(Ord. 136, passed 10-17-55)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
         
151.   CONDOMINIUMS
         
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
         
153.   ZONING CODE
         
154.   BLIGHT PREVENTION
         
155.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Enforcement agency designated
   
150.02   Reserved
   
150.03   Plumbing Code, Mechanical Code adopted
Electric Code; Electrical Lines
   
150.15   National Electric Code adopted
   
150.16   County responsible for administration and enforcement
Dangerous Buildings
   
150.40   Definition
   
150.41   Unlawful conduct
   
150.42   Notice of hearing on violation
   
150.43   Hearing procedures
   
150.44   Judicial review
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 ENFORCEMENT AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to designate an enforcing agency to
discharge the responsibilities of the city under the provisions of the State
Construction Code Act.
(‘77 Code, § 33.000)
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code Act of 1972,
§ 8b(7), as amended, the city hereby transfer responsibility for the
administration and enforcement of its building code provisions to the County of
Sanilac.
(‘77 Code, § 33.001) (Ord. 326, passed 9-16-13)
§ 150.02 RESERVED.
§ 150.03 PLUMBING CODE, MECHANICAL CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The BOCA Basic Plumbing Code, most current edition, for adoption by
local government, is hereby adopted by reference.
   (B)   The BOCA Basic Mechanical Code, most current edition, for adoption by
local government, is hereby adopted by reference.
('77 Code, § 33.101) (Ord. 98, eff. 3-5-40; Am. Ord. 196, eff. 5-7-75)
   (C)   Copies of each of the codes hereby adopted are on file in the office
of the City Clerk and shall be available for public inspection during regular
business hours.
   (D)   A Plumbing Inspector appointed by the City Council shall enforce the
provisions of the Plumbing Code by the performance of such duties as are
prescribed therein.
('77 Code, § 33.102)
(Ord. 98, eff. 3-5-40) Penalty, see §
10.99
ELECTRIC CODE; ELECTRICAL LINES
§ 150.15 NATIONAL ELECTRIC CODE ADOPTED.
   The city hereby adopts the 2002 edition of the National Electric Code. The
code is adopted by reference and made a part of this code the same as if set
forth in full herein. Copies of the National Electric Code are on file in the
office of the Clerk and available for public inspection during regular business
hours.
(Ord. 308, passed 2-7-05)
§ 150.16 COUNTY RESPONSIBLE FOR ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Section 8b(7) of the State Construction Code
Act of 1972 (Public Act 230 of 1972), being M.C.L.A. § 125.1508b(7), as
amended, the city hereby transfers responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of its Electrical Code provisions to the County of Sanilac.
(Ord. 315, eff. 4-19-10)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any of the following
defects or is in any of the following conditions.
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
does not conform to the approved fire code of the city.
   (B)   Whenever any portion has been damaged by fire, wind, flood, or by any
other cause in such a manner that the structural strength or stability is
appreciably less than it was before such catastrophe and is less than the
minimum requirements of the building code of the city for a new building or
similar structure, purpose or location.
   (C)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance is likely to fall or to
become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property.
   (D)   Whenever any portion has settled to such an extent that walls or other
structural portions have materially less resistance to winds than is required
in the case of new construction by the building code of the city.
   (E)   Whenever the building or structure or any part, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction or because of the
removal of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of supporting
such building or portion thereof, or for other reason, is likely to partially
or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or underpinning is
likely to fall or give away.
   (F)   Whenever for any reason whatsoever the building or structure or any
portion is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
   (G)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind
or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become an
attractive nuisance to children who might play therein to their danger, or as
to afford a harbor for vagrants or criminals, or as to enable persons to resort
thereto for the purpose of committing a nuisance or unlawful acts.
   (H)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage or faulty
construction or arrangement or otherwise is unsanitary or unfit for human
habitation or is in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease
when so determined by the Health Officer, or is likely to work injury to the
health, safety or general welfare of those living within.
   (I)   Whenever any building becomes vacant, dilapidated and open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
(Ord. 226, passed 4-4-88)
§ 150.41 UNLAWFUL CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
building or part thereof to keep or maintain any building or part thereof which
is a dangerous building as defined in §
150.15 of this subchapter.
(Ord. 226, passed 4-4-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.42 NOTICE OF HEARING ON VIOLATION.
   (A)   When the whole or any part of any building or structure is believed to
be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the City Administrator or Building
Inspector shall request the City Clerk to schedule a hearing before the City
Council.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall schedule a hearing for the City Council to
determine whether or not a violation of this subchapter has occurred.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall issue a notice of the hearing to each occupant
and each owner of a recorded property interest in the building or structure.
   (D)   The notice shall specify the time and place of the hearing to
determine the condition of the building or structure, at which time and place
the person to whom the notice is directed shall have the opportunity to show
cause why the building or structure should not be found to be demolished or
otherwise made safe.
   (E)   All notices shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to
whom they are directed personally, or in lieu of personal service, may be
mailed, return receipt requested, addressed to the person at their last known
address, at least ten days before the date of the hearing described in the
notice. If any person to whom a notice is directed is not personally served, in
addition to mailing the notice, a copy thereof shall be posted upon a
conspicuous part of the building or structure, at least seven days prior to the
hearing.
(Ord. 226, passed 4-4-88)
§ 150.43 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The City Council shall hold a hearing at the time and place specified
in the notice or at such other time as the matter may be heard. The City
Council shall listen to the testimony of the City Administrator, Building
Inspector, and such other persons as shall have a recorded interest or obvious
possessory interest in the building or structure.
   (B)   The Council, after hearing the testimony, shall determine whether the
proceeding shall be terminated, the building or structure should be demolished,
or the building or structure should be made safe.
   (C)   If it is determined by the City Council that the building or structure
should be demolished or should be made safe, the City Council shall fix a
reasonable amount of time for the owner of the building or structure, his agent
or lessee, to comply with the determination.
   (D)   A copy of the order of determination shall be served upon those
parties receiving a notice of the hearing by regular mail at the last known
address of each party.
   (E)   If the owner shall fail to comply with the order of determination by
the date specified in the order of determination, then the city shall take such
steps as it shall deem appropriate to carry out the same.
   (F)   The cost of carrying out the order of determination, if done by the
city or its agents, shall be lien upon the real property where the building or
structure is located, and shall be reported to the City Treasurer, who shall
assess such costs against the property.
   (G)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last local tax assessment records shall be notified of the amount of the
cost by first-class mail at the address shown on the records. If the owner
fails to pay the same within 30 days after the mailing by the City Treasurer of
a notice of the amount of the costs assessed, the Treasurer shall add the
amount of the costs to the next tax roll of the city, and the same shall be
collected in the same manner in all respects as provided by law for the
collection of taxes by the city.
(Ord. 226, passed 4-4-88)
§ 150.44 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   An owner aggrieved by any order of determination of the City Council under §
150.43, shall appeal the same to the Circuit Court by filing a petition for an
order of superintending control within 20 days from the date of the order of
determination.
(Ord. 226, passed 4-4-88)
CHAPTER 151: CONDOMINIUMS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Title
   
151.02   Purpose
   
151.03   Definitions
   
151.04   Interpretation
   
151.05   Fees
   
151.06   Variance for hardship
Site Condominiums
   
151.20   Review and approval by Planning Commission
   
151.21   Condominium plan requirements
   
151.22   Easement for utilities
   
151.23   Private streets
   
151.24   Design and approval
   
151.25   Preliminary approval; effect of preliminary approval or denial
   
151.26   State and county approval
   
151.27   Final approval
   
151.28   Master deed, restrictive covenants, "as built" survey and copies
Design Standards
   
151.40   Development guides
   
151.41   Streets
   
151.42   Blocks
   
151.43   Lots
   
151.44   Floodplain
   
151.45   Natural features
Improvements
   
151.55   Minimum standards; approval required; deposit and maintenance bond
   
151.56   Streets and utilities
Condominium Regulations
   
151.70   Short title
   
151.71   Purpose
   
151.72   Definitions
   
151.73   Intent and regulations
   
151.74   Single-family detached condominiums
   
151.75   Attached condominium units
   
151.76   Public facility requirements
   
151.77   Interpretation
   
151.78   Fees
   
151.79   Condominium approval
   
151.80   Condominium plat requirements
   
151.81   Easement for utilities
   
151.82   Private streets
   
151.83   Condominium plan design and approval
   
151.84   Preliminary approval by Plan Commission; effect of preliminary
approval or denial
   
151.85   State and county approval
   
151.86   Final approval
   
151.87   Master deed, restrictive covenants, "as built" survey and copies
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the "City of Croswell
Site Condominium Regulations Ordinance."
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control site condominiums
within the corporate limits of the municipality in order to promote the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of
the municipality, consistent with the Master Plan and Zoning Ordinance; to
secure adequate traffic circulation through coordinated street systems so as to
lessen congestion on the streets and highways; to insure adequate provision for
water, drainage and sanitary sewer facilities, and other health requirements;
to achieve the maximum utility and livability on individual lots; and to
provide logical procedures for the achievement of these purposes.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. Singular words
shall include the plural, and masculine words shall include the feminine and
neuter.
   ALLEY. A dedicated public way affording a secondary means of access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   BLOCK. That property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets or between the nearest street and railroad right-
of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream, or between any of the
foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of the development.
   CLERK. The City Clerk of the City of Croswell.
   COMMISSION or PLANNING COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission of the City
of Croswell.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 through
559.272, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION (SITE CONDOMINIUM). Shall be equivalent to the term
"subdivision" as used in the zoning ordinance and this chapter.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN . The site, survey and utility plans; floor
plans; and sections, as appropriate, showing the existing and proposed
structures and improvements including the location thereof on the land.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. That portion of the condominium project designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
   CONSOLIDATING MASTER DEED. The final amended MASTER DEED for a CONTRACTIBLE
CONDOMINIUM  project, an EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM project, or a condominium
project containing convertible land or convertible space, which final amended
MASTER DEED fully describes the condominium project as completed.
   CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any portion of
the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn pursuant to express provisions
in the condominium documents and in accordance with this chapter and the
Condominium Act.
   CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project containing CONDOMINIUM UNITS
some or all of which were occupied before the establishment of the condominium
project.
   CONVERTIBLE AREA. A unit or a portion of the common elements of the
condominium project referred to in the condominium documents within which
additional CONDOMINIUM UNITS or general or limited common elements may be
created pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
   EASEMENT. A specific area of land over which a liberty, privilege, or
advantage is granted by the owner to the public, a corporation, or some
particular person or part of the public for specific uses and purposes, and
which shall be designated a "public" or "private" easement, depending on the
nature of the user.
   EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project to which additional land may
be added pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
   GOVERNING BODY . The City Council of the City of Croswell, Michigan.
   IMPROVEMENTS . Grading, street surfacing, curbs and gutters, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains, fire hydrants, sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
culverts, bridges and other additions to the natural state of land which
increases its value, utility or habitability.
   LOT . A parcel of land separated from other parcels on a preliminary or
recorded plat for the purpose of sale, lease or separate use.
   LOT IN CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. Has the same meaning as homesite and
CONDOMINIUM UNIT.
   MAJOR STREETS OR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the MASTER PLAN which sets
forth the location, alignment and dimensions of existing and proposed streets
and thoroughfares.
   MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium project as
approved by the city to which is attached as exhibits and incorporated by
reference the approved by-laws for the project and the approved condominium
subdivision plan for the project.
   MASTER PLAN . The comprehensive land use plan for the municipality,
including graphic and written proposals indicating the general locations
recommended for the streets, parks, schools, public buildings, zoning
districts, and all physical developments of the municipality, including any
unit or part of the plan separately adopted, and any amendment to the plan or
parts thereof adopted by the Planning Commission.
   MUNICIPAL ENGINEER or ENGINEERS . The staff engineer or consulting engineer
of the municipality.
   MUNICIPAL PLANNER or PLANNER. The staff planner or consulting planner of the
municipality.
   MUNICIPALITY . The City of Croswell.
   PARCEL or TRACT. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the SUBDIVISION ACT.
   PERSON . Individual, partnership, firm, corporation or association.
   PLAT . A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision providing
substantial conformance to the preliminary plat of the SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT
and this chapter and suitable for recording by the County Register of Deeds.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision submitted to and approving authority for purposes of preliminary
consideration, prepared in conformance with the SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT.
   PROPRIETOR . A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation
or combination of any them, which may hold any ownership interest in land,
whether recorded or not.
   PUBLIC UTILITY . Any person, firm or corporation, municipal department,
board or commission, duly authorized to furnish, and furnishing under
governmental regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity, sewage
disposal, communication, telegraph, transportation or water.
   PUBLIC WALKWAY. A right-of-way dedicated for the purpose of a pedestrian
access through residential areas, and located so as to connect to two or more
streets, or a street and a public land parcel.
   STREET . Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct, alley,
or other way which is an existing state, county or municipal roadway; or a
street or way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved
by official action; or a street or way on a plat duly filed and recorded in the
office of the County Register of Deeds. A street includes the land between the
street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavement,
shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas and lawns.
      (1)   BOULEVARD STREET. A street developed to two 2-lane, one-way
pavements, separated by a median.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street used primarily to carry traffic from
minor streets to major thoroughfares.
      (3)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A minor street of short length, having one end
open to traffic and being permanently terminated at the other end of a
vehicular turnaround.
      (4)   LOOP STREET. A minor street of short length with two openings to
traffic, beginning from the same street, and projecting parallel to each other
and connecting at their termination by a loop.
      (5)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street of great continuity which is
intended to serve as a large-volume traffic way for both the immediate
municipality area and region beyond.
      (6)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street paralleling and adjacent to
a major thoroughfare which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (7)   MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting residential properties.
      (8)   TURNAROUND. A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turnaround.
   SUBDIVISION ACT . The Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. 560.101 et seq., as amended.
   ZONING ORDINANCE . The City of Croswell Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.04 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion and preservation of public health,
safety and general welfare of the city. These regulations are not intended to
repeal, abrogate, annul or in any manner interfere with existing regulations or
laws of the city, nor to conflict with any statutes of the state or county,
except that these regulations shall prevail in cases where these regulations
impose a greater restriction than is provided by existing statutes, laws or
regulations.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.05 FEES.
   Engineering fees, inspection fees, water and sewer connection charges and
other applicable development charges may be provided for by resolution of the
governing body.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.06 VARIANCE FOR HARDSHIP.
   The City Council may authorize a variance from these regulations when, it
its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance. In granting any
variance, the City Council shall prescribe only conditions that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making findings, as
required herein below, the City Council shall take into account the nature of
proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the number
of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the probable
effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the vicinity. No
variance shall be granted unless the City Council finds the following to be
true.
   (A)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his land.
   (B)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the petitioner.
   (C)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which the
property is situated.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
SITE CONDOMINIUMS
§ 151.20 REVIEW AND APPROVAL BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. 559.101 et seq., as amended, all condominium subdivision
plans shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission. In determining
whether to approve a condominium subdivision plan, the Planning Commission
shall consult with the City Attorney and may consult with the City Engineer and
City Planner regarding the adequacy of the master deed, deed restrictions,
utility systems and streets, subdivision layout and design and compliance with
all requirement of the Condominium Act and this chapter.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.21 CONDOMINIUM PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information is required for condominium plans.
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of:
      (1)   All persons, firms or corporations with an ownership interest in
the land on which the condominium project will be located together with a
description of the nature of each entity's interest (for example, fee owner
optionee, or land contract vendee).
      (2)   All engineers, attorneys, architects or registered land surveyors
associated with the project.
      (3)   The developer or proprietor of the condominium project.
   (B)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium project
will be developed together with appropriate tax identification numbers.
   (C)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium project will
be developed.
   (D)   The purpose of the project (for example, residential, commercial,
industrial, etc.)
   (E)   Number of condominium units to be developed on the subject parcel.
   (F)   A survey plan of the condominium subdivision.
   (G)   A wetlands and tree survey plan when appropriate.
   (H)   The condominium subdivision plan shall show the size, location, area
vertical boundaries and volume for each unit comprised of enclosed air space. A
number shall be assigned to each condominium unit. The condominium subdivision
plan shall include the nature, location and size of common elements.
   (I)   A utility plan showing all sanitary sewer, water, and storm sewer
lines and easement granted to the city for installation, repair and maintenance
of all utilities.
   (J)   A street construction, paving and maintenance plan for all streets
within the proposed condominium subdivision.
   (K)   A storm drainage and storm water management plan, including all lines,
swales, drains, basins and other facilities.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.22 EASEMENTS FOR UTILITIES.
   The condominium subdivision plan shall include all necessary easements
granted to the city for the purposes of constructing, operating, inspecting,
maintaining, repairing, altering, replacing, and/ removing pipelines, mains,
conduits and other installations of a similar character for the purpose of
providing public utilities, including conveyance of sewage, water and storm
water runoff across through and under the property subject to the easement, and
excavating and refilling ditches and trenches necessary for the location of the
structure.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.23 PRIVATE STREETS.
   If a condominium subdivision is proposed to have private streets, they shall
be developed to minimum design, construction, inspection approval, and
maintenance requirements of the City of Croswell Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.24 DESIGN AND APPROVAL.
   All condominium subdivision plans shall conform to the plan preparation
requirement review and approval procedures; design, layout and improvements
standards of this chapter, as amended. A deposit in the form of cash, certified
check, or irrevocable letter of credit acceptable to the city shall be made
with the city to guarantee installation and completion of any required streets,
sanitary sewer, water supply, space improvements, and drainage facilities,
within a length of time agreed upon from date of final approval of the
condominium subdivision plan by the Planning Commission
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.25 PRELIMINARY APPROVAL; EFFECT OF PRELIMINARY APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider whether to grant preliminary
approval of the plan for the proposed condominium project based on the
standards and requirements set forth in this chapter. The Planning Commission
shall preliminarily approve, preliminarily approve subject to conditions or
deny the proposed condominium project and site plan.
   (B)   A denial shall mean that the proposed project and site plan does not
meet the requirements of this chapter. Any denial shall specify the reasons for
the denial and those requirements of this chapter that are not met.
   (C)   A preliminary approval shall mean that the condominium projects and
site plan meet requirements of this chapter. Subject to any conditions imposed
by the Planning Commission as part of its motion, preliminary approval assures
the applicant the applicant's project and site plan will receive final approval
if the following are true.
      (1)   All state and county approvals are obtained.
      (2)   No negative comments are received from any governmental agency or
public utility.
      (3)   All federal, state and local laws and ordinances are met.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.26 STATE AND COUNTY APPROVAL.
   (A)   All site condominium projects shall require the review and approval of
the following agencies prior to final site plan approval.
      (1)   The Sanilac County Road Commission if any part of the project
includes or abuts a county road, or, if any part of the project includes or
abuts a state highway or includes streets or roads that connect with or lie
within the right-of-way of a state highway, the Michigan Department of
Transportation.
      (2)   The Sanilac County Drain Commission.
      (3)   The appropriate agency for the State of Michigan shall approve the
extensions of the water supply system and the waste water disposal system, with
appropriate County Health Department reviews, if required.
   (B)   In addition to the specific required approvals, all site condominiums
project site plans shall be submitted to the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources, the Sanilac County Plat Board, each of the public utilities serving
the site, and any other state agency designated by the Planning Commission, for
informational purposes. The Planning Commission shall consider any comments
made by these agencies prior to final site plan approval.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.27 FINAL APPROVAL.
   Final approval shall be granted by the Planning Commission upon the receipt
of all the following.
   (A)   A revised, dated site plan incorporating all of the changes, if any,
required for preliminary approval.
   (B)   Approved site plans showing all required state and county approvals.
   (C)   All requirements pursuant to §
151.25(A).
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.28 MASTER DEED, RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS, "AS-BUILT" SURVEY AND COPIES.
   The condominium project developer or proprietor shall furnish the city with
the following.
   (A)   One copy of the recorded master deed.
   (B)   One copy of all restrictive covenants.
   (C)   Five copies of an "as built" survey, (which shall be reviewed by the
City Engineer for compliance with city ordinances).
   (D)    Five copies of Condominium Subdivision Plan.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 151.40 DEVELOPMENT GUIDES.
   The site condominium design standards set forth under this section are
development guides for the assistance of the proprietor. All final plans must
be reviewed and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.41 STREETS.
   If a condominium subdivision is proposed to have private streets, they shall
be developed to minimum design, construction, inspection approval, and
maintenance requirements of the Subdivision Regulations.
   (A)   Location and arrangement.
      (1)   The proposed site condominium shall conform to the various elements
of the Master Plan and shall be considered in relation to the existing and
planned major thoroughfares and secondary streets, and such part shall be
platted in the location and the width indicated on the plan.
      (2)   The street layout shall provide for continuation of secondary
streets in the adjoining subdivisions or of the proper projection of streets
when adjoining property is not subdivided; or conform to a plan for a
neighborhood unit drawn up and adopted by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The street layout shall include minor streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
      (4)   Should a proposed site condominium subdivision border on or contain
an existing or proposed major thoroughfare, the Planning Commission may require
marginal access streets, reverse frontage with an approved screen planting
contained in a non-access reservation along the rear property line having a
minimum width of 15 feet, or such other treatment as may be necessary for
adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards.
      (5)   Should a proposed site condominium subdivision border on or contain
an expressway or other limited access highway right-of-way, the Planning
Commission may require the location of a street approximately parallel to and
on each side of the right-of-way at a distance suitable for the development of
an appropriate use of the intervening land as for parks in residential
districts. The distances shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for approach grades to future grade separation.
      (6)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where absolutely essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Planning Commission finds it
will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is developed. Wherever there exists adjacent to the tract to
be subdivided, a dedicated or platted and recorded half street, the other half
shall be platted.
   (B)   Right-of-way widths. Street right-of-way widths shall conform to at
least the minimum requirements set forth in Subdivision Regulations.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.42 BLOCKS.
   Blocks within site condominium subdivisions shall conform to the following
standards.
   (A)   Sizes.
      (1)   Maximum length for blocks shall not exceed 1,400 feet in length,
except where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, conditions may justify
a greater distance.
      (2)   Widths of blocks shall be determined by the condition of the layout
and shall be suited to the intended layout.
   (B)   Public/private walkways.
      (1)   Location of public/private walkways or crosswalks may be required
by the Planning Commission to obtain satisfactory pedestrian circulation within
the subdivision where blocks exceed 1,000 feet in length.
      (2)   Widths of public/private walkways shall be at least six feet and
shall be in the nature of an easement for this purpose.
      (3)   The surface of the walkways shall be developed in concrete.
Planting pockets shall be provided in public/private walkways for tree and
shrub planting. The planting plan and surface treatment shall meet the approval
of the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided along the rear
or side lot lines as necessary for utility lines. Easements shall give access
to every lot, park or public grounds. The easements shall be a total of not
less than 12 feet wide, six feet from each parcel.
      (2)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone and electric
company easements should be sought from all of the utility companies serving
the area.
      (3)   Easements needed for storm drainage purposes shall be determined by
the City Engineer and shall meet the requirements of the City Engineer.
      (4)   Aerial easements three feet in width shall be provided where needed
along side lot lines so as to provide for street light drop-outs for the
provision of street lighting. A notation shall be made on the final plat
indicating: "The side lot lines between lots (indicate lot numbers), are
subject to street light drop-out rights granted to the power company."
   (D)   Trees. Plans shall be submitted showing location, type and size of
street trees.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.43 LOTS.
   Lots within a site condominium subdivision shall conform to the following
standards.
   (A)   Sizes and shapes.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth and shape in any subdivision proposed
for residential use shall be appropriate for the location and the type of
development contemplated.
      (2)   Lot areas and widths shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in which the subdivision
is proposed.
      (3)   Building setback lines shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Corner lots in residential districts having a side-to-side
relationship with lots across a common separating street shall have exterior
side yards which conform to at least the greater of the two minimum side yards
required by the zoning ordinance for the district in which the site condominium
subdivision is proposed, except that in cases where the exterior side yard of a
corner lot is essentially a continuation of the front yard of the lot
immediately to its rear, The side yard shall not be less than the required
front yard of the zoning district.
      (5)   Excessive lot depth in relation to width shall be avoided. A depth-
to-width ratio of 3-1 shall normally be considered a maximum.
      (6)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate provision for
off-street parking, off-street loading and other requirements in accordance
with the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Arrangement.
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut on a street.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the street
lines, or as nearly as possible thereto.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thoroughfares or secondary streets,
where marginal access streets are not desirable or possible to attain, shall be
platted with reverse frontage lots with an approved screen planting contained
in a non-access reservation along the rear property line having a minimum width
of 15 feet, or such other treatment as may be adequate for protection of
residential properties, or with side lot lines parallel to the major traffic
streets, or shall be platted with extra depth to permit generous distances
between building and such traffic way.
      (4)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible except as provided for under §
151.41. Any deviation shall require the review and approval of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.44 FLOODPLAIN.
   Any areas of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either wholly or
in part within the floodplain of a river, stream, creek, or lake, or any other
areas which are subject to flooding or inundation by storm water or have
inadequate drainage, shall not be platted for any use as may increase danger to
health, life or property. The proprietor may show by way of accurately
engineered plans that a change to the topography in the proposed subdivision
will eliminate flooding in the area in question and shall clearly demonstrate
that any planned topographical change will not unduly aggravate the flood
hazard beyond the limits of the proposed site condominium subdivision. If the
City Council determines that a flood problem does exist, then it shall reject
all or that part of the proposed site condominium subdivision lying within the
floodplain.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.45 NATURAL FEATURES.
   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved wherever
possible. Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large
trees, natural groves, watercourses, wetlands, and similar community assets
that will add attractiveness and value to the property, if preserved. The
preservation of drainage and natural stream channels must be considered by the
proprietor and the dedication and provision of adequate barriers, where
appropriate, shall be required.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 151.55 MINIMUM STANDARDS; APPROVAL REQUIRED; DEPOSIT AND MAINTENANCE BOND.
   (A)   The improvements set forth under this subchapter are to be considered
as the minimum acceptable standard. All those improvements for which standards
are not specifically set forth shall have the standards set by resolution of
the City Council. All improvements must meet the approval of the City Council.
   (B)   The proprietors shall be required to deposit with the City Clerk,
cash, letter of credit, certified, check or other arrangement satisfactory to
the City Council, to insure construction of all improvements. The amount of
deposit shall be set by the City Council based on an estimate by the City
Engineer. The deposit shall guarantee the completion of the required
improvements within a period of time specified by the City Council from the
date of the approval of the final plat. The City Council shall rebate to the
proprietors as the work progresses, amounts of any cash deposits equal to the
ratio of the work completed to the entire project.
   (C)   Prior to the acceptance by the city of improvements, a one-year
maintenance bond in an amount set by the City Council shall be posted by the
proprietor.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
§ 151.56 STREETS AND UTILITIES.
   Street and utility improvements shall be provided by the proprietor in
accordance with the standards and requirements established in this section and/
or any other such standards and requirements which may from time to time be
established by the City Engineer or by the City Council.
   (A)   Street pavement width standards. Street pavement widths shall conform
to at least the minimum requirements set forth in the Subdivision Regulations.
Turnaround (loop) streets shall be not less than 80 feet in diameter at
terminating loop with 27-foot wide pavement.
   (B)   Pavement design. Street pavement design shall conform to at least the
minimum requirements set forth in the Subdivision Regulations.
   (C)   Grading and centerline gradients. Street grading and centerline
gradients shall conform to at least the minimum requirements set forth in the
Subdivision Regulations.
   (D)   Storm drainage system. Storm sewer standards shall conform to at least
the minimum requirements set forth in the Subdivision Regulations.
   (E)   Sewage disposal. Sanitary sewer standards shall conform to at least
the minimum requirements set forth in the Subdivision Regulations.
   (F)   Water supply. Water main standards shall conform to at least the
minimum requirements set forth in Subdivision Regulations.
   (G)   Trees. Existing trees near street rights-of-way shall be preserved by
the proprietor. Further, street trees shall be provided: at least one per lot
or not more than one tree for each 50 feet, placed between the sidewalk and
curb or between the curb and the property line where no sidewalks are provided.
   (H)   Requirements for underground wiring. The proprietor shall make
arrangements for distribution lines for telephone and electric service and
cable TV service to be placed underground entirely throughout a site
condominium subdivided area, and such conduits or cables shall be placed within
private easements provided to such service companies by the developer or within
dedicated public ways except where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission,
conditions exist which justify other means of distribution of service, these
requirements may be altered to provide for such conditions. Those telephone and
electric facilities placed in dedicated pubic ways shall be planned so as not
to conflict with other underground utilities. All telephone and electrical
facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of construction
approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission. All drainage and
underground utility installations which traverse privately owned property shall
be protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
(Ord. 282, passed 4-7-97)
CONDOMINIUM REGULATIONS
§ 151.70 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be designated as the "City of
Croswell Condominium Regulations Ordinance."
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.71 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate and control condominiums
within the corporate limits of the municipality in order to promote the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of the inhabitants of
the municipality, consistent with the Master Plan and Zoning Ordinance; to
secure adequate traffic circulation through coordinated street systems so as to
lessen congestion on the streets and highways; to insure adequate provision for
water, drainage and sanitary sewer facilities, and other health requirements;
to achieve the maximum utility and livability on individual lots; and to
provide logical procedures for the achievement of these purposes.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.72 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. The
definitions set forth in §
151.03 of this chapter shall also apply in the interpretation and enforcement
of this subchapter.
   CONDOMINIUM LOT. That portion of a condominium project designed and intended
to function similar to a platted subdivision lot for purposes of determining
minimum yard setback requirements and other requirements.
   DETACHED CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project designed to be similar in
appearance to a conventional single-family subdivision, except that limited
common areas are not arranged in such a manner as to create clearly defined
condominium lots.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.73 INTENT AND REGULATIONS.
   All condominium projects shall conform to the requirements of this section
and all other applicable regulations of this subchapter. It shall be the intent
of this section to regulate single-family condominium projects in a similar
manner as a subdivision plat, except that the review procedures of this
subchapter shall apply. The substantive requirements for streets, sidewalks,
utilities, storm drainage and subdivision layout and design as set forth in
Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. § 560.101 et seq., as amended, and of
the City of Croswell Subdivision Regulations, and City of Croswell Zoning Code,
are intended to apply to single-family condominium projects. More specifically,
condominium projects shall be subject to the following regulations in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.74 SINGLE-FAMILY DETACHED CONDOMINIUMS.
   Single-family detached condominiums shall be subject to all requirements and
standards of the applicable zoned district including minimum floor area
requirements, regulations governing the distance between buildings and the
attachment of buildings, and other requirements as set forth in this
subchapter. Proposed single-family detached condominium projects shall not
exceed the maximum permitted density for the district in which the project is
located, as determined on the basis of minimum lot size standards set forth in
Ordinance Nos. 184 and 167. All proper information and dimensions shall be
depicted on the site plan so that the Planning Commission can determine that
all applicable minimum requirements are met.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.75 ATTACHED CONDOMINIUM UNITS.
   Attached condominium units shall be subject to all requirements applicable
to two-family and multi-family districts per Ordinance No. 167, zoning
ordinance, including minimum floor area requirements, regulations governing the
distance between buildings and attachment of buildings, and other requirements
as set forth in this subchapter.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.76 PUBLIC FACILITY REQUIREMENTS.
   All streets, roads, water, sewer, drainage systems, and similar facilities
shall conform to the design and construction standards adopted by the city, as
set forth in Ordinance No. 184, regarding subdivisions.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.77 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of these regulations shall be held to be the minimum
requirements adopted for the promotion and preservation of public health,
safety and general welfare of the city. These regulations are not intended to
repeal, abrogate, annul or in any manner interfere with existing regulations or
laws of the city, nor to conflict with any statutes of the state or county,
except that these regulations shall prevail in cases where these regulations
impose a greater restriction than is provided by existing statutes, laws or
regulations.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.78 FEES.
   Engineering fees, inspection fees, water and sewer connection charges and
other applicable development charges may be provided for by resolution of the
City Council.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.79 CONDOMINIUM APPROVAL.
   Pursuant to authority conferred by Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§
559.101 - 559.272, as amended, all condominium plans shall be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission. In determining whether to approve a
condominium plan, the Planning Commission shall consult with the City Attorney
and may consult with the City Engineer and City Planner regarding the adequacy
of the master deed, deed restrictions, utility systems and streets, layout and
design and compliance with all requirements of the Condominium Act and this
subchapter.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.80 CONDOMINIUM PLAT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following information is required for a condominium plat. All
information required to be furnished under this section shall be kept updated
until a certificate of occupancy has been issued by the city.
   (A)   The name, address and telephone number of the following.
      (1)   All persons, firms or corporations with an ownership interest in
the land on which the condominium project will be located together with a
description of the nature of each entity's interest (for example, fee owner
optionee, or land contract vendee).
      (2)   All engineers, attorneys, architects or registered land surveyors
associated with the project.
      (3)   The developer or proprietor of the condominium project.
   (B)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium project
will be developed together with appropriate tax identification numbers.
   (C)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium project will
be developed.
   (D)   The purpose of the project (for example, residential, commercial,
industrial, and the like.)
   (E)   Number of condominium units to be developed on the subject parcel.
   (F)   A survey plan of the condominium subdivision.
   (G)   A wetlands and tree survey plan when appropriate.
   (H)   The condominium plan shall show the size, location, area vertical
boundaries and volume for each unit comprised of enclosed air space. A number
shall be assigned to each condominium unit. The condominium plan shall include
the nature, location and size of common elements.
   (I)   A utility plan showing all sanitary sewer, water, and storm sewer
lines and easement granted to the city for installation, repair and maintenance
of all utilities.
   (J)   A street construction, paving and maintenance plan for all streets
within the proposed condominium subdivision.
   (K)   A storm drainage and storm water management plan, including all lines,
swales, drains, basins, and other facilities.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.81 EASEMENT FOR UTILITIES.
   The condominium plan shall include all necessary easements granted to the
city for the purposes of constructing, operating, inspecting, maintaining,
repairing, altering, replacing, and/or removing pipelines, mains, conduits and
other installations of a similar character for the purpose of providing public
utilities, including conveyance of sewage, water and storm water runoff across,
through and under the property subject to the easement, and excavating and
refilling ditches and trenches necessary for the location of the structure.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.82 PRIVATE STREETS.
   If a condominium subdivision is proposed to have private streets, they shall
be developed to minimum design, construction, inspection approval, and
maintenance requirements of Ordinance No. 184, regarding subdivisions.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.83 CONDOMINIUM PLAN DESIGN AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   All condominiums plans shall conform to the plan preparation
requirements; review and approval procedures; design, layout and improvements
standards of this subchapter, as amended. A deposit in the form of cash,
certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit acceptable to the city
may be required by the city to guarantee the installation and completion of any
required streets, sanitary sewer, water supply, open space improvements, and
drainage facilities, within a length of time agreed upon from the date of final
approval of the condominium plan by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The improvements set forth in this subchapter are to be considered as
the minimum acceptable standard. All those improvements for which standards are
not specifically set forth shall have the standards set by resolution of the
City Council. All improvements must meet the approval of the City Council.
   (C)   The proprietors may be required to deposit with the City Clerk, cash,
letter of credit, certified check, or other arrangement satisfactory to the
City Council, to insure construction of all improvements. The amount of deposit
shall be set by the City Council based on an estimate by the City Engineer. The
deposit shall guarantee the completion of the required improvements within a
period of time specified by the City Council from the date of the approval of
the final plat. The City Council shall rebate to the proprietors as the work
progresses, amounts of any cash deposits equal to the ratio of the work
completed to the entire project.
   (D)   Prior to the acceptance by the city of improvements, a one-year
maintenance bond in an amount set by the City Council may be required to be
posted by the proprietor.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.84 PRELIMINARY APPROVAL BY PLAN COMMISSION; EFFECT OF PRELIMINARY
APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider whether to grant preliminary
approval of the plan for the proposed condominium project based on the
standards and requirements set forth in this subchapter. The Planning
Commission shall preliminarily approve, preliminarily approve subject to
conditions or deny the proposed condominium project and plan.
   (B)   A denial shall mean that the proposed project and plan does not meet
the requirements of this subchapter. Any denial shall specify the reasons for
the denial and those requirements that are not met.
   (C)   A preliminary approval shall mean that the condominium project and
plan meet the requirements of this subchapter. Subject to any conditions
imposed by the Planning Commission as part of its motion, preliminary approval
assures the applicant that applicant's project and plan will receive final
approval if the following are true
      (1)   All state and county approvals are obtained.
      (2)   No negative comments are received from any governmental agency or
public utility.
      (3)   All federal, state and local laws and ordinances are met.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.85 STATE AND COUNTY APPROVAL.
   (A)   All condominium projects shall require the review and approval of the
following agencies prior to final plan approval.
      (1)   The Sanilac County Road Commission if any part of the project
includes or abuts a county road or, if any part of the project includes or
abuts a state highway or includes streets or roads that connect with or lie
within the right-of-way of a state highway, the Michigan Department of
Transportation.
      (2)   The Sanilac County Drain Commission.
      (3)   The appropriate agency for the state shall approve the extensions
of the water supply system and the wastewater disposal system, with appropriate
County Health Department reviews, if required.
   (B)   In addition to the specific required approvals, all condominium
project plans shall be submitted to the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources, the Sanilac County Plat Board, each of the public utilities serving
the plan, and any other state agency designated by the Planning Commission, for
informational purposes. The Planning Commission shall consider any comments
made by these agencies prior to final plan approval.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.86 FINAL APPROVAL.
   Final approval shall be granted by the Planning Commission upon the receipt
of all the following.
   (A)   A revised, dated plan incorporating all of the changes, if any,
required for preliminary approval.
   (B)   Approved plans showing all required state and county approvals.
   (C)   All requirements pursuant to §
151.84(A).
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
§ 151.87 MASTER DEED, RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS, "AS BUILT" SURVEY AND COPIES.
   (A)   The condominium project developer or proprietor shall furnish the city
with the following.
      (1)   One copy of the recorded Master Deed.
      (2)   One copy of all restrictive covenants.
      (3)   Five copies of an "as built" survey (which shall be reviewed by the
City Engineer for compliance with city ordinances.
      (4)   Five copies of Condominium Plan.
   (B)   The condominium design standards set forth under this section are
development guides for the assistance of the proprietor. All final plans must
be reviewed and approved by the City Council.
(Ord. 284, passed 8-4-97)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Adopted by reference
§ 152.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Subdivision Regulations (Ord. 184, passed - -) and all amendments and
additions thereto are adopted by reference as if fully set out herein. A copy
of the code is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 184, passed - -)
CHAPTER 153: ZONING CODE
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01 ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The Zoning Code (Ord. 167, passed - -) and all amendments and additions
thereto are adopted by reference as if fully set out herein. A copy of the code
is on file in the office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. 167, passed - -; Am. Ord. 210-C, passed 12-16-02; Am. Ord. 167-20, passed
9-21-15)
CHAPTER 154: BLIGHT PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Buildings
   
154.04   Parking lots
   
154.05   Trash removal
   
154.06   Storage of junk
   
154.07   Building materials
   
154.08   Vacant building
   
154.09   Uninhabitable structures
   
154.10   Partially completed structures
   
154.11   Enforcement
§ 154.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to prevent, reduce, or eliminate blight in
the commercial areas of the city by the prevention or elimination of
contributing factors and causes of blight which exist or which may in the
future exist in the city.
(Ord. 300, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply,
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUILDING. Any dwelling, garage, commercial BUILDING or other out BUILDING
or structure, regardless of its zoning classification.
   NUISANCE. Any condition or use of premises or of building exteriors which is
unsightly or detrimental to the property of others, which causes or tends to
cause diminution in the value of other property in the neighborhood, or which
repeatedly offends or annoys members of the neighborhood shall be considered as
a NUISANCE in fact.
   PARKING LOT. All areas set aside for or designed for the parking of motor
vehicles or the loading or unloading of motor vehicles on the premises or in
conjunction with a commercial building, and includes all driveways, aisle ways,
or other areas supplementary thereto.
   PROPERTY POSSESSOR. Every owner, firm, corporation, limited liability
company, lessee, tenant, or other person having the right to possession of all
or a portion of real property within the city. Where there is more than one
such person, all shall be jointly and severally obligated by the terms of this
chapter.
(Ord. 300, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.03 BUILDINGS.
   There exteriors of all commercial buildings shall be maintained so as to
present a neat and orderly appearance. Windows shall be glazed, painted
surfaces kept properly painted, and all other appropriate measures shall be
taken to properly maintain the buildings. Where buildings are adjoining but are
owned by separate entities, the obligations of this section shall fall only
upon those persons responsible for the maintenance of a particular building
which is not being maintained in accordance with this section.
(Ord. 300, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.04 PARKING LOTS
   All parking lots shall be kept in a condition for the safe usage by the
public and shall not be used as an area to store trash, rubbish, or debris
outside of approved containers as outlined in this chapter.
(Ord. 300, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.05 TRASH REMOVAL
   The proprietor shall be responsible for seeing that all property, including
parking lots, are kept free of all waste, trash, rubbish, or refuse of all
kinds. The proprietor shall provide for the removal of all waste, trash,
rubbish, or refuse of all kinds from the property. Such intervals between
removal shall not exceed one week. Between collections, the refuse shall be
stored in covered containers constructed in such a way as to prevent the escape
of the refuse.
(Ord. 300, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
Cross-reference:
   Garbage provisions, see
Ch. 50
§ 154.06 STORAGE OF JUNK
   The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish, or refuse of kind
stored in such a manner which creates a nuisance for ten days or more is
prohibited. The term JUNK shall include, but not be limited to, inoperative
machinery or motor vehicles (regardless of current license), water craft
(regardless of current license), recreational vehicles, unused stoves or other
appliances stored in the open, remnants of wood, metal, or other materials or
other castoff material of any kind whether or not the same could be put to any
reasonable use. This section does not cover repairable, registered vehicles at
an auto repair shop or motor vehicles or water craft stored completely inside
an enclosed building.
(Ord. 300, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.07 BUILDING MATERIALS.
   The storage upon any property of building materials is prohibited unless
there is in force a valid building permit for construction upon the property
and the materials are intended for use in connection with such construction.
Materials used in constructing any structure not requiring a permit shall be
stored in a neat and orderly pile out of public view from the roadway and shall
be used for construction within one year or otherwise removed or stored in a
completely enclosed building.
(Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.08 VACANT BUILDING.
   The existence of a vacant dwelling, garage, or other out building is
prohibited, unless such buildings are kept securely locked, windows kept
glazed, or neatly boarded up and otherwise protected to prevent casual entry
thereto by unauthorized persons.
(Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.09 UNINHABITABLE STRUCTURES.
   The existence of any structure or part of any structure which, because of
fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical deterioration is no longer
habitable or is a dangerous structure or building is prohibited, the purposes
thereby being to avoid injury to children and others attracted to such
structures or mobile living units, the devaluation of property, and the
psychological ill effect of the presence of such upon adjoining residents and
property owners.
(Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.10 PARTIALLY COMPLETED STRUCTURES.
   The existence of any partially completed structure is prohibited unless such
structure is in the course of construction in accordance with a valid and
existing building permit and unless such construction is completed within the
time constraints required by any other city ordinance.
(Ord. 300-1, passed 9-5-06)
§ 154.11 ENFORCEMENT
   (A)   The City of Croswell Zoning Administrator, city police officer or any
other authorized city official may enforce this chapter and shall periodically
inspect the city for causes of blight or blighting factors within the city.
   (B)   The property possessor, including the owner of record of any property
upon which any of the causes of blight or blighting factors as set forth in
this chapter is found to exist, shall be notified in writing either in person
or by mail to remove or eliminate such causes of blight or blighting factors
from such property within 14 days after the notice to remove such materials. If
notification as outlined above is not possible, it shall be deemed sufficient
to post such notice in a prominent area on the premises upon which the
blighting factors exist.
   (C)   Failure to comply with the removal notice by the owner and/or occupant
by the removal of the causes of blight or blighting factors within the time
allowed shall constitute a civil infraction and/or a nuisance.
   (D)   Civil infraction. The City of Croswell Zoning Administrator, police
officer, or any other authorized city official may present or issue a civil
infraction notice or civil infraction citation to an alleged offender. If there
is a non-acceptance of responsibility and payment of any civil infraction fines
and/or costs, then there shall be required an appearance before the District
Court Magistrate or judge to answer to the complainant's allegations of
offense. An admission or finding of responsibility shall subject a violator to
a daily civil penalty of up to $100 for each day. Each and every day during
which a violation continues, shall be deemed as a separate offense. In the
event that court action becomes necessary, the property owner shall be liable
for and reimburse the city for all costs of such action, including actual
attorney fees. The costs and attorney fees shall be billed to the property
owner and all invoices which remain unpaid for more than 30 days shall be a
lien on the property from which the cause of action concerns, and assessed as a
single lot assessment against such property.
   (E)   Circuit court action. Separately or in conjunction with a civil
infraction, the City of Croswell Zoning Administrator, police officer, City
Attorney or other designated authority may initiate a Circuit Court action
requesting an injunction, abatement or any other appropriate action or
proceeding to prevent, enjoin, remove or otherwise abate any blight, blight
factors or other nuisance. The city shall provide written notice and
description of the violation or potential violation to the record owner(s) and/
or occupants of the premises at least 14 days prior to filing the legal action.
Notwithstanding, if the Zoning Administrator, police officer or other
authorized official determines that a violation of this section constitutes an
emergency hazard to the health, safety or welfare of individuals or the
community, he or she may immediately initiate remedial action. The initiating
official(s) shall present the evidence to the City Attorney who shall file the
complaint and schedule a show cause hearing in the Circuit Court at the
earliest available date. At the hearing, the City Attorney shall present proofs
and request an injunction, abatement, abatement costs, enforcement and court
costs and attorney fees, fines and/or damages and the entry of a lien against
the premises as a single lot assessment.
   (F)   Costs and attorney fees. The culpable defendant or respondent in any
civil or criminal action shall be responsible for all actual court costs,
attorney fees, expert witness fees and other expenditures by the city in the
prosecution of a violation of this chapter. The action may also seek and the
court may impose a civil fine of up to $100 for any violation of this chapter
and each and every day that a violation continues shall be deemed as a separate
offense. The rights and remedies provided herein are cumulative and in addition
to all other remedies provided by law.
   (G)   Compliance after prosecution. The imposition of any civil fine or
penalty shall not be exempt the offender from future compliance with provisions
of this chapter.
(Ord. 300, passed 3-4-02; Am. Ord. 300-1, passed9-5-06)
CHAPTER 155: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
155.01   Agency designated
   
155.02   Code appendix enforced
   
155.03   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
§ 155.01 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in accordance
with Public Act 230, § 8b(6), as amended, the Building Official of the city is
hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of
the city under Public Act 230, as amended, State of Michigan. The city assumes
responsibility for the administration and enforcement of said Act throughout
the corporate limits of the community adopting this chapter.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-6-11)
§ 155.02 CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the state construction code, in accordance
with Public Act 230, § 8b(6), Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code, as
amended, shall be enforced by the enforcing agency with the city.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-6-11)
§ 155.03 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
entitled Sanilac County, Michigan (all jurisdictions) and dated January 6,
2012, and the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS) panel numbers of 26151C; 0467B,
0469B, 0486B, and 0488B and dated January 6, 2012, are adopted by reference for
the purposes of administration of the Michigan Construction Code, and declared
to be a part of § 1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code, and to provide the
content of the “flood hazards” section of Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan
Residential Code.
(Ord. 320, passed 9-6-11)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No.5 Date Passed Description
                      Granting a franchise to Southeastern Michigan Gas Company
                      to construct, operate, and maintain in the public
                      streets, highways, alleys and other public places in the
271       6-21-93     city, all needful and proper gas pipes, mains,
                      conductors, service pipes and other apparatus requisite
                      for the manufacture, transmission and distribution of gas
                      for a period of 30 years
                      Granting a franchise to SEMCO Energy Gas Company to
                      maintain and operate gas mains, pipes and services on,
349       2-21-23     along, across and under the highways, streets, alleys,
                      bridges, waterways, and other public places to conduct a
                      local gas business in the city for a period of 30 years
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to 1977 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section    Code Section
15.231 - 15.246     115.03,
                    115.16
24.201 et seq.      51.083
35.441 - 35.443     113.04
117.5c              31.01
125.31 - 125.45     31.15,
                    31.19
125.1401 et seq.    34.02,
                    34.03
125.1508b(7)        150.16
                    33.01,
125.1561 - 125.1680 33.06,
                    33.20
125.1661            33.05
125.1667(2)         33.20
125.1668            33.20
125.1669            33.20
168.646(a)(1)       Charter §
                    2.9
206.201             95.02
247.655             74.01
247.659             74.01
257.1 - 257.923     73.01
257.301 - 257.329   74.01
257.951 - 257.954   70.01
257.953             70.01
287.291             90.01
324.11701 et seq.   95.09
324.81129           74.01
324.81131(4)        74.02
325.12771 et seq.   95.09
333.7101 et seq.    95.11
333.12501 et seq.   95.09
333.12521 et seq.   95.09
333.12541 et seq.   95.09
333.12701 et seq.   95.09
333.12901 et seq.   95.09
338.901 et seq.     95.09
436.33b             130.09
436.1101 et seq.    130.09
445.481 et seq.     116.02
484.2102            115.02
484.2251            115.03
559.101 et seq.     151.20
559.101 - 559.272   151.03,
                    151.79
560.101 et seq.     151.03,
                    151.73
600.8101 et seq.    71.01
600.8707            90.09,
                    90.10
600.8707(6)         90.09,
                    90.10
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1977 CODE
1977 Code Section 2000 Code Section
1977 Code Section 2000 Code Section
14.751            31.15
14.752            31.16
14.753            31.16
14.754            31.16
14.755            31.17
14.756            31.18
14.757            31.19
14.758            31.20
14.759            31.21
17.001            97.15
17.002            97.17
17.003            97.18
17.004            97.19
17.005            97.19
17.006            97.20
17.007            97.16
17.008            97.99
17.015            54.01
17.016            54.02
17.017            54.02
17.018            54.02
17.021            54.03
17.022            54.03
17.025            54.03,
                  54.05
17.027            54.03
17.028            54.03
17.101            31.01
17.102            31.01
17.103            31.02
17.104            31.02
17.105            31.02
17.106            31.03
17.107            31.04
17.108            31.05
17.116            32.01
17.117            32.02
17.118            32.03
17.119            32.04
17.120            32.04
17.121            32.05
17.122            32.05
17.123            32.05
17.124            32.06
17.125            32.06
17.131            30.30
17.201            97.30
17.202            97.31
17.203            97.32
17.204            97.33
17.205            97.34
17.206            97.35
17.207            97.36
17.208            97.37
17.209            97.38
17.210            97.39
17.211            97.39
17.212            97.40
17.213            97.41
17.214            97.01
17.215            97.42
17.216            97.02
17.217            97.03
17.218            97.04
17.219            97.37
17.220            97.99
17.300            113.01
17.301            113.03
17.302            113.02
17.303            113.02
17.304            113.04
17.305            113.04
17.306            113.04
17.307            113.04
17.308            113.04
17.309            113.05
17.310            113.05
17.311            113.05
17.313            113.02
19.001            91.01
19.002            91.01
19.003            91.02
19.004            91.03
19.005            91.04
19.006            91.05
19.007            91.06
19.010            91.07
19.101            94.01
19.102            94.02
19.103            94.99
20.031            130.06
20.032            130.99
                  130.01,
20.120            130.04,
                  130.05
20.122            114.01
20.123            114.02
20.124            114.03
20.125            114.03
20.126            114.03
20.127            114.03
20.201            130.10
20.202            130.99
20.231            95.01
20.232            95.02
20.233            95.03
20.234            95.04
20.235            95.04
20.236            95.05
20.237            95.06
20.238            95.07
20.239            95.08
20.241            95.09
20.242            95.09
20.243            95.09
20.244            95.09
20.246            95.09
20.247            95.09
20.248            95.09
20.249            95.09
20.250            95.09
20.251            95.09
20.252            95.09
20.253            95.09
20.254            95.09
20.255            95.09
20.256            95.09
20.257            95.09
20.258            95.09
20.259            95.09
20.260            95.09
20.261            95.10
20.262            95.11,
                  95.99
20.271            130.11
20.272            130.11
20.273            130.11
20.274            130.11
20.275            130.99
20.351            110.02
20.352            110.01
20.353            110.03
20.354            110.04
20.355            110.04
20.356            110.05
20.357            110.06
20.400            110.20
20.401            110.21
20.402            110.21
20.403            110.22
20.404            110.22
20.405            110.23,
                  110.26
20.406            110.24
20.409            110.25
20.410            110.25
20.411            110.27
20.413            110.27
20.414            110.28
20.502            70.02
20.590            70.01
20.771            73.01
20.772            73.02
20.773            73.03
20.774            73.04
20.775            73.99
20.776            73.05
20.821            71.01
20.822            71.01
20.823            71.02
20.824            71.03
20.825            71.04
20.826            71.05
20.901            93.01
20.902            93.02
20.903            93.02
20.904            93.02
20.905            93.03
20.906            93.03
20.907            93.04
20.908            93.99
20.951            71.15
20.952            71.16
20.953            71.99
22.100            35.01
22.101            35.02
22.102            35.04
22.103            35.04
22.104            35.03
22.105            35.04
22.106            35.05
25.1100           52.01
25.1201           52.10
25.1202           52.11
25.1203           52.12
25.1204           52.13
25.1205           52.13,
                  52.14
25.1208           52.99
33.000            150.01
33.001            150.01
33.101            150.03
33.102            150.03
33.301            150.16
33.302            150.17
33.303            150.18
33.304            150.19
33.305            150.20
33.306            150.21
33.307            150.22
33.308            150.23
33.309            150.23
33.310            150.25
33.313            150.26
34.000            96.01,
                  96.25
34.001            96.02,
                  96.25
34.002            96.03,
                  96.26
34.003            96.04
34.004            96.27
34.005            96.07
34.006            96.29
34.007            96.08,
                  96.29
34.008            96.09,
                  96.30
34.009            96.10,
                  96.31
34.010            96.11
                  
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No.     Date Passed Code Section
05-20-2013   5-20-13     Charter § 2.2
11-06-2017-1 11-6-17     Charter § 2.9
02-05-2018-2 2-5-18      Charter § 2.9
                        
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     111.04 -
                     111.06,
                     111.08,
–      - -         111.22 -
                     111.25,
                     111.40,
                     111.43
                     97.01 -
                     97.04,
19       7-15-05     97.30 -
                     97.42,
                     97.99
                     113.01 -
39       9-16-12     113.05,
                     113.99
43       10-15-14    97.32
49       10-2-16     30.30
91       10-8-36     97.30
98       3-5-40      150.03
103      3-16-42     91.01 -
                     91.07
128      2-28-52     54.01 -
                     54.05
132      1-4-54      130.10,
                     130.99
135      7-1-55      31.15 -
                     31.21
136      10-17-55    130.11,
                     130.99
148      11-2-59     91.06
                     94.01,
158      7-28-65     94.02,
                     94.99
                     97.15 -
166      11-4-66     97.20,
                     97.99
167      - -         153.01
                     73.01 -
168      1-8-68      73.05,
                     73.99
169      4-15-68     70.02
171      10-21-68    71.01 -
                     71.05
–      11-17-68    71.05
                     73.02 -
–      12-11-69    73.05,
                     73.99
                     95.01 -
177      10-1-70     95.11,
                     95.99
180      7-1-71      91.03
183      12-6-71     70.01
184      - -         152.01
187      8-1-72      32.01 -
                     32.06
190      1-8-73      52.01
191      2-15-73     31.01 -
                     31.05
196      5-7-75      150.03
                     52.10 -
197      8-4-75      52.14,
                     52.99
–      3-21-77     71.05
                     130.01,
201      8-13-77     130.04,
                     130.05
202      - -         114.01 -
                     114.03
                     71.15,
205      10-29-77    71.16,
                     71.99
206      10-29-77    130.06,
                     130.99
                     93.01 -
208      1-3-78      93.04,
                     93.99
212      - -         30.01 -
                     30.06
215      - -         35.01 -
                     35.05
                     110.01 -
41       2-4-80      110.06,
                     110.20 -
                     110.28
–      2-26-80     71.05
216      6-16-80     51.002
218B     4-25-83     96.01 -
                     96.11
221      - -         96.25 -
                     96.31
                     111.01 -
                     111.07,
224      - -         111.20 -
                     111.26,
                     111.40 -
                     111.43
–      9-17-84     54.01 -
                     54.05
226      4-4-88      150.40 -
                     150.44
233      9-1-88      92.01
                     72.01 -
239      5-7-90      72.03,
                     72.99
252      11-13-90    33.01 -
                     33.06
254      11-19-90    130.07,
                     130.99
256      12-27-90    33.20
                     51.007,
                     51.020 -
                     51.021,
                     51.024 -
                     51.027,
                     51.040 -
257      6-3-91      51.052,
                     51.065 -
                     51.070,
                     51.080 -
                     51.086,
                     51.999,
                     54.46
–      3-1-93      54.01 -
                     54.05
271      6-21-93     T.S.O. I
                     90.01 -
278      5-6-96      90.08,
                     90.99
201-1    11-18-96    130.05
                     151.01 -
                     151.06,
                     151.20 -
282      4-7-97      151.28,
                     151.40 -
                     151.45,
                     151.55,
                     151.56
284      8-4-97      151.70 -
                     151.87
285      8-18-97     130.08
286      8-18-97     130.02
287      8-18-97     130.03
288      8-18-97     130.09,
                     130.99
–      2-2-98      30.30
103-1    2-2-98      91.01
158-1    2-2-98      94.02
218B-1   2-2-98      96.10
289      3-2-98      50.01 -
                     50.09
291      6-15-98     34.01 -
                     34.07
289-1    12-7-98     50.01 -
                     50.09
208-1    3-1-99      93.99
                     112.01 -
292      3-1-99      112.05,
                     112.99
                     113.01,
–      5-3-99      113.02,
                     113.04,
                     113.99
177-1    7-6-99      95.09
–      7-6-99      54.01 -
                     54.05
295      11-15-99    53.01 -
                     53.05
171-2    7-3-00      71.05
                     90.01 -
278      8-7-00      90.08,
                     90.99
299      8-20-01     71.05
                     154.01 -
300      3-4-02      154.06,
                     154.11
301      4-15-02     50.20 -
                     50.24
303      11-4-02     71.05
210-C    12-16-02    153.01
                     115.01 -
304      3-17-03     115.18,
                     115.99
308      2-7-05      150.15
171-3    4-17-06     71.05
300-1    9-5-06      154.01 -
                     154.11
                     94.01,
                     94.02,
314      6-1-09      94.99,
                     94.100,
                     94.101,
                     94.102
315      4-19-10     150.16
                     74.01 -
317      7-6-10      74.09,
                     74.99
319      6-20-11     51.047
320      9-6-11      155.01  -
                     155.03
323      6-3-13      36.01  -
                     36.03
326      9-16-13     150.01
                     92.10  -
327      11-4-13     92.13 ,
                     92.99
329      9-2-14      116.01 -
                     116.05
331      8-17-15     10.98
332      8-17-15     93.99
167-20   9-21-15     153.01
                     51.001,
                     51.002,
                     51.008,
                     51.020 -
                     51.023,
                     51.025,
                     51.027,
                     51.040 -
333      5-16-16     51.042,
                     51.044,
                     51.047 -
                     51.051,
                     51.053 -
                     51.055,
                     51.081 -
                     51.084,
                     51.086,
                     51.999
335      3-6-17      33.20
339      11-19-18    117.01
346      12-6-21     10.98
347      12-6-21     90.09
347-1    2-22-22     90.09
349      2-21-23     T.S.O. I
350      5-1-23      90.10
                    
 
