DOUGLAS, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2021 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 06-2020, passed 6-1-2020
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 05-2008
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF
DOUGLAS; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERATIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN;
PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE
AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS,
MICHIGAN:
Section 1.   The Code entitled “Code of Ordinances, City of the Village of
Douglas, Michigan” published by American Legal Publishing Corporation
consisting of Chapters I through XV, each inclusive, is adopted.
Section 2.   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before January 1, 2008, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
Section 3.   The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed
to revive and ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4.   Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both such
fine and imprisonment. Each act of violation shall apply to the amendment of
any Code section whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory
ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city council may
pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief, and
revocation of licenses or permits.
Section 5.   Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as to
indicate the intention of the City Council to make the same a part of the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
Section 6.   Ordinances adopted on or after May 5, 2008 that amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 7.   This ordinance shall become effective June 5, 2008, passed and
adopted by the City Council this 5th day of May, 2008.
Ordinance offered by:    Councilperson Waddell
Ordinance supported by:   Councilperson Moore
Ayes:            Bailey, Balmer, Harvath, Hoexter, Moore, Waddell
Nays:            None
Absent:         Mayer
Abstain:         None
Matt Balmer /s/                               5/6/08 
Mayor                        Date
Jean E. Neve /s/                             5/6/08 
City Clerk                     Date
ORDINANCE NO. 01-2012
AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT AND ADOPT A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2012 S-l Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of the
Village of Douglas which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the adoption of the recodified Code of Ordinances on June
5, 2008.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS,
MICHIGAN:
Section 1.   That the 2012 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of the Village of Douglas as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of the
Village of Douglas is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Ordinance offered by:    Harvath
Ordinance supported by:   Greenwood
Ayes:            Bailey, Greenwood, Harvath, Hoexter, Mayer, Smith, Wiley
Nays:            None
Abstain:         None
Absent:         None
ORDINANCE DECLARED ADOPTED
James I. Wiley /s/                5-7-2012
Mayor               Date
Jean E. Neve /s/                  5-7-2012
City Clerk            Date
 
   ORDINANCE NO. 05-2008
   AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF
DOUGLAS; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL OF CERATIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN;
PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE
AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS,
MICHIGAN:
Section 1.   The Code entitled “Code of Ordinances, City of the Village of
Douglas, Michigan” published by American Legal Publishing Corporation
consisting of Chapters I through XV, each inclusive, is adopted.
Section 2.   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before January 1, 2008, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
Section 3.   The repeal provided for in section 2 hereof shall not be construed
to revive and ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a subsequent
ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
Section 4.   Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both such
fine and imprisonment. Each act of violation shall apply to the amendment of
any Code section whether or not such penalty is reenacted in the amendatory
ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city council may
pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief, and
revocation of licenses or permits.
Section 5.   Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as to
indicate the intention of the City Council to make the same a part of the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
Section 6.   Ordinances adopted on or after May 5, 2008 that amend or refer to
ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if they
amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
Section 7.   This ordinance shall become effective June 5, 2008, passed and
adopted by the City Council this 5th day of May, 2008.
 
   1
2012 S-1
2   Douglas - Adopting Ordinance
Ordinance offered by:    Councilperson Waddell
Ordinance supported by:   Councilperson Moore
Ayes:            Bailey, Balmer, Harvath, Hoexter, Moore, Waddell
Nays:            None
Absent:         Mayer
Abstain:         None
Matt Balmer /s/                               5/6/08 
Mayor                        Date
Jean E. Neve /s/                             5/6/08 
City Clerk                     Date
 
 
 
 
 
 
2012 S-1
   ORDINANCE NO. 01-2012
   AN ORDINANCE TO ENACT AND ADOPT A SUPPLEMENT TO THE
CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR
THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2012 S-l Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of the
Village of Douglas which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since the adoption of the recodified Code of Ordinances on June
5, 2008.
BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS,
MICHIGAN:
Section 1.      That the 2012 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of the Village of Douglas as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is
hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.      Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of the
Village of Douglas is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Ordinance offered by:    Harvath
Ordinance supported by:   Greenwood
Ayes:            Bailey, Greenwood, Harvath, Hoexter, Mayer, Smith, Wiley
Nays:            None
Abstain:         None
Absent:         None
ORDINANCE DECLARED ADOPTED
James I. Wiley /s/                         5-7-2012
Mayor                        Date
Jean E. Neve /s/                           5-7-2012
City Clerk                     Date
ORDINANCE NO. 02-2017
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE  CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2017 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of the
Village of Douglas which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent
nature enacted since adoption of the prior supplements to the Code of
Ordinances of this Political Subdivision; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE
OF DOUGLAS, MICHIGAN:
Section 1.   That the 2017 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City
of the Village of Douglas as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation
of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted
by reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the City Council and the Clerk of the City of the
Village of Douglas is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such supplement
into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office of the
Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided for by law.
Ordinance offered by:    Greenwood
Ordinance supported by:   Harvath
Ayes:            Anderson, Greenwood, Harvath, Mooradian, Lion, Seabert, Wiley
Nays:            None
Abstain:         None
Absent:         None
ORDINANCE DECLARED ADOPTED
                                               5-15-2017
James I. Wiley, Mayor               Date
                                                 5-15-2017
Jean E. Neve, City Clerk               Date
Ordinance Adoption Date:   5-15-2017
Ordinance Effective Date:   6-15-2017
ORDINANCE 06-2020
   AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES
FOR THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS.
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2020 S-5 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision which contains all ordinances of a general and permanent nature
enacted since adoption of the prior supplements to the Code of Ordinances of
the Political Subdivision.
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED BY THE CITY COUNCIL OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE
OF DOUGLAS, MICHIGAN:
Section 1.   That the S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Political
Subdivision as submitted by American Legal Publishing Corporation of
Cincinnati, Ohio, and as attached hereto, be and the same is hereby adopted by
reference as if set out in its entirety.
Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the
Political Subdivision is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
Ayes: Donovan, Kenny, Lion, Mooradian, Miller, North, Seabert
Nays: None
Abstain: None
Absent: None
ORDINANCE DECLARED ADOPTED THIS 1st DAY OF June 2020
   Patricia Lion /s/                                          6/2/20     
     Patricia Lion, Mayor                                    Date:   
   Pamela Aalderink /s/                          June 2, 2020     
     Pamela Aalderink, City Clerk                        Date:   
Ordinance Effective Date: 25, June 2020
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing Ordinance was adopted by the City Council
of the City of the Village of Douglas at a City Council meeting held on June 1,
2020 and that said meeting was conducted and public notice of said meeting was
given pursuant to and in full compliance with the City Charter and the Open
Meeting Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, as amended, and that the minutes of said
meeting were kept and will be or have been made available as required by said
Act.
   Pamela Aalderink  /s/           
   Pamela Aalderink, City Clerk 
THE CHARTER OF THE CITY
OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS, MICHIGAN
Section
Preamble:
Ethical Principles for the Government of the City of the Village of Douglas
Chapter I
Names and Boundaries
   
1.1   Name
   
1.2   Boundaries
   
1.3   Wards
Chapter II
General Municipal Powers
   
2.1   General powers
   
2.2   Additional powers of the city
   
2.3   Intergovernmental relations
   
2.4   Construction
Chapter III
Organization of Government
   
3.1   Form
   
3.2   City Council composition and power
   
3.3   Qualifications of Council members
   
3.4   Terms of office of Councilpersons
   
3.5   Compensation of Mayor and Councilpersons
   
3.6   Organizational meeting of Council; selection of Mayor and Mayor Pro-Tem
   
3.7   Powers and duties of Mayor and Mayor Pro-Tem
   
3.8   Council’s dealings with administrative services; Council’s ordering of
subordinates of City Manager
Chapter IV
Elections
   
4.1   Qualifications of electors
   
4.2   Procedure
   
4.3   Precincts
   
4.4   Date of regular city elections
   
4.5   Date of special elections
   
4.6   Notice
   
4.7   Voting hours
   
4.8   Nominations – generally
   
4.9   Nomination – form of petition
   
4.10   Nomination – approval of petitions
   
4.11   Nominations – candidate to run for only one office
   
4.12   Nominations – withdrawal of candidate
   
4.13   Nominations – public inspection of petitions
   
4.14   Nominations – Election Commission created; composition; duties;
compensation
   
4.15   Nominations – Form of ballot
   
4.16   Custody and safekeeping of registration books and supplies
   
4.17   Absentee ballots
   
4.18   Determination of election ending in a tie vote
   
4.19   Recount
   
4.20   Purity of election; lawful and unlawful acts
Chapter V
General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel
   
5.1   Eligibility for office
   
5.2   Holding of appointive office or employment by relative or elective or
appointive officer
   
5.3   Oath of office and bond required
   
5.4   Surety bonds
   
5.5   Delivery of effects of office to successor or superior when officer or
employee ceases to hold office
   
5.6   Declaration of vacancy in elective office
   
5.7   Removal from office
   
5.8   Resignations of elective and appointive officers
   
5.9   Filling vacancy in Council
   
5.10   Filling vacancies in offices
   
5.11   Changes in term of office or compensation
   
5.12   Compensation of employees not provided for by Charter; bona fide
expenses incurred in service of city
   
5.13   Employees retirement system
   
5.14   Merit system for employees
Chapter VI
Council:  Procedures, Powers and Duties
   
6.1   Regular meetings
   
6.2   Special meetings of the Council
   
6.3   Business at special meetings
   
6.4   Meeting to be public
   
6.5   Quorum
   
6.6   Attendance, conduct, Sergeant-at-Arms
   
6.7   Organization, rules, and order of business
   
6.8   Investigation into conduct of office, employee, etc; power to summon and
complete attendance of witness and production of evidence
   
6.9   Vote required
   
6.10   Misconduct
   
6.11   Public peace, health and safety, composition and powers of Board of
Health
Chapter VII
Administrative Services
   
7.1   Administrative officers generally
   
7.2   Personnel system
   
7.3   City Manager – appointment; compensation
   
7.4   City Manager – function and duties
   
7.5   City Manager’s – removal
   
7.6   Clerk
   
7.7   Treasurer
   
7.8   Assessor
   
7.9   City Attorney
   
7.10   Police Department
   
7.11   Fire protection
   
7.12   City Planning Commission; zoning
   
7.13   Planning and Zoning Administrator
   
7.14   Other public authorities, boards or commissions
Chapter VIII
Legislation
   
8.1   Status of chapter
   
8.2   Prior village ordinances and regulations
   
8.3   Legislative powers
   
8.4   Forms of legislation
   
8.5   Action requiring an ordinance
   
8.6   Ordinance – enactment, amendment, repeal
   
8.7   Ordinance – emergency
   
8.8   Ordinance – record
   
8.9   Ordinance – publication
   
8.10   Penalties
   
8.11   Initiatory and referendary petitions – generally
   
8.12   Petitions
   
8.13   Petitions – Council procedure, submission to electors
   
8.14   General provisions; suspension
   
8.15   Codification
   
8.16   Recall
Chapter IX
Budgets and Finance
   
9.1   Fiscal year
   
9.2   Budget procedure
   
9.3   Budget document
   
9.4   Budget hearing
   
9.5   Adoption of the budget
   
9.6   Budget control
   
9.7   Independent audit
Chapter X
Taxation
   
10.1   Power to tax
   
10.2   Tax limits
   
10.3   Exemptions
   
10.4   Tax Day
   
10.5   Assessment roll
   
10.6   Board of Review
   
10.7   Duties and functions of the Board of Review
   
10.8   Meetings of the Board of Review
   
10.9   Notice of meetings
   
10.10   Certification of roll
   
10.11   Clerk to certify tax levy
   
10.12   City tax roll
   
10.13   Tax roll certified for collection
   
10.14   Tax lien
   
10.15   Taxes due notification thereof
   
10.16   Collection charges on late payment of taxes
   
10.17   Collection of delinquent taxes
   
10.18   Failure or refusal to pay personal property tax
   
10.19   State, county and school taxes
Chapter XI
Special Assessment
   
11.1   Special assessment:  general powers
   
11.2   Procedure fixed by ordinance
   
11.3   Implementation
Chapter XII
Borrowing
   
12.1   General power
   
12.2   Limits of borrowing authority
   
12.3   Use of borrowed funds
   
12.4   Separation of special assessment collections; payment of deficiency in
special assessments
   
12.5   Bond interest rates
   
12.6   Execution of bonds
   
12.7   Records of bonds and other evidence of indebtedness; cancellation
   
12.8   Preparation and records of bonds
   
12.9   Unissued bonds
Chapter XIII
Contracts & Purchases
   
13.1   Establishment of procedures by ordinance; City Manager responsible for
purchases; authority
   
13.2   Funds to finance public improvements
   
13.3   Installment contracts
   
13.4   Purchase and sale of real and personal property
   
13.5   Restriction on power to lease property
   
13.6   Restriction on powers to sell property
Chapter XIV
Utilities, Franchises and Permits
   
14.1   General powers
   
14.2   Administration of municipally owned and operated utilities
   
14.3   Rates
   
14.4   Collection of municipal utility rates and charges
   
14.5   Accounts and finances of public utilities
   
14.6   Disposal of municipal utility plants and property
   
14.7   Public utility franchises
   
14.8   Public utility franchises – granting
   
14.9   Public utility franchises – conditions
   
14.10   Filing of franchises
   
14.11   Plans of facilities in streets and public places
   
14.12   Temporary permits
   
14.13   Existing franchises and permits
   
14.14   Purchase – condemnation
Chapter XV
Miscellaneous
   
15.1   Liability of city; procedure for filing claim
   
15.2   Records
   
15.3   Estoppel against city
   
15.4   Processes against city
   
15.5   Trusts for municipal purposes
   
15.6   Quorum generally
   
15.7   Saturdays, Sundays and city holidays
   
15.8   Chapter, section and subsection headings of Charter
   
15.9   Amendment of Charter
   
15.10   Severability of Charter provisions
   
15.11   Saving clause
   
15.12   Definitions – generally
   
15.13   Definition of publication and mailing notices
   
15.14   Vested rights
Chapter XVI
Transition
   
16.1   Purpose
   
16.2   Election to adopt
   
16.3   Form of ballot
   
16.4   Effective date of Charter
   
16.5   First election
   
16.6   Subsequent elections
   
16.7   Administrative officers and employees
   
16.8   Transfer of property and records
   
16.9   Council meetings
   
16.10   Council action
   
16.11   Initial expenses
   
16.12   Pending matters
   
16.13   Vested rights and liabilities
   
16.14   State and municipal laws in general
   
16.15   Government
Preamble:
   We, the people of the City of the Village of Douglas, pursuant to authority
granted by the Constitution and the laws of the State of Michigan, in order to
secure the benefits of efficient self-government and to promote our common
welfare, do hereby ordain and establish this city charter for the City of the
Village of Douglas.
ETHICAL PRINCIPLES FOR THE GOVERNMENT OF THE CITY OF THE VILLAGE OF DOUGLAS
   1.   PRINCIPLE THAT THE PUBLIC OFFICE IS A PUBLIC TRUST.  Public servants
shall treat public office as a public trust, using the powers and resources of
public office only to advance public interests, and not to attain personal
benefits or pursue any private interest incompatible with the public good.
   2.   PRINCIPLE OF INDEPENDENT, OBJECTIVE JUDGMENT.  Public servants shall
employ independent, objective judgment in performing their duties, deciding all
matters on the merits, free from conflicts of interest and apparent improper
influences.
   3.   PRINCIPLE OF ACCOUNTABILITY.  Public servants shall assure that
government is conducted openly, efficiently, equitably and honorably in a
manner that permits the citizenry to make informed judgments and to hold
government officials accountable.
   4.   PRINCIPLE OF DEMOCRATIC LEADERSHIP.  Public servants shall honor and
respect the principles and spirit of representative democracy and set a
positive example of good citizenship by scrupulously observing the letter and
spirit of laws and rules.
   5.   PRINCIPLE OF RESPECTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR PUBLIC OFFICE.  Public
servants shall safeguard public confidence in the integrity of government by
being honest, fair, caring, and respectful, and by avoiding conduct which
creates the appearance of impropriety.
CHAPTER I
NAMES AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1  Name.
   The municipal corporation now existing and known as the Village of Douglas,
as its limits now are or may hereafter be established, shall be and continue a
municipal corporation under the laws of the State of Michigan, and shall be
known by the name of the City of the Village of Douglas.
Section 1.2  Boundaries.
   (a)   The City of the Village of Douglas embraces the territory as described
in the Final Order of the State Boundary Commission dated December 6, 2002,
(Docket #024-1), which is set forth below:
Area of Incorporation (Village of Douglas
Saugatuck Township, Allegan County, Michigan), June 2001,
as expressed in State Plane Grid Bearings.
Part of Sections 15, 16, 17, 20, 21, and 22 of Town 3 North, Range 16 West,
Saugatuck Township, Allegan County, Michigan described as beginning at the
Northwest corner of Section 16 and proceeding thence North 89 degrees 56
minutes 30 seconds East along the North line of Section 16 to the waters edge
of Kalamazoo River; thence North 89 degrees 56 minutes 30 seconds East on a
non-riparian line to the thread of the Kalamazoo River; thence Southeasterly
and Northeasterly along the thread of the Kalamazoo River to the Northwesterly
line of 1-196; thence South 18 degrees 32 minutes 30 seconds West along the
Northwesterly line of 1-196 to the East line of the West 1/4 of the Southwest
1/4 of Section 15; thence South 00 degrees 16 minutes 03 seconds West 2039.11
feet along the East line of the West 1/4 of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 15 to
the Southeast corner of the West 1/4 of the Southwest 1/4 of Section 15; thence
South 00 degrees 17 minutes 13 seconds West 654.81 feet along the East line of
the Northwest 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 22 to
the South line of the Northwest 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of the Northwest 1/
4 of Section 22; thence North 89 degrees 04 minutes 16 seconds West 656.49 feet
along the South line of the Northwest 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of the Northwest
1/4 of Section 22 to the Southwest corner of the Northwest 1/4 of the Northwest
1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 22; thence North 89 degrees 37 minutes 10
seconds West 2614.24 feet along the South line of the North 1/4 of the
Northeast 1/4 of Section 21 to the Southwest corner of the North 1/4 of the
Northeast 1/4 of Section 21; thence along an intermediate traverse line along
the Southeasterly shore of an existing controlled level lake South 42 degrees
10 minutes 00 seconds West (recorded as North 42 degrees 25 minutes 20 seconds
East) 74.94 feet (recorded as 68.17 feet); thence South 72 degrees 23 minutes
48 seconds West (recorded as North 71 degrees 08 minutes 12 seconds East) 77.82
feet; thence South 44 degrees 42 minutes 46 seconds West (recorded as North 43
degrees 27 minutes 10 seconds East) 218.92 feet; thence North 51 degrees 56
minutes 04 seconds West (recorded as South 53 degrees 11 minutes 40 seconds
East) 149.77 feet; thence South 66 degrees 53 minutes 36 seconds West (recorded
as North 65 degrees 38 minutes 00 seconds East) 122.50 feet; thence North 72
degrees 26 minutes 24 seconds West (recorded as South 73 degrees 42 minutes 00
seconds East) 143.33 feet; thence South 06 degrees 26 minutes 46 seconds East
(recorded as North 07 degrees 42 minutes 22 seconds West) 159.22 feet; thence
South 02 degrees 22 minutes 08 seconds West (recorded as North 01 degrees 05
minutes 08 seconds East) 153.61 feet (recorded as 154.14 feet); thence South 28
degrees 30 minutes 25 seconds West (recorded as North 27 degrees 15 minutes 12
seconds East) 56.58 feet; thence South 13 degrees 35 minutes 47 seconds East
(recorded as North 14 degrees 51 seconds 00 minutes West) 53.92 feet; thence
leaving the intermediate traverse line South 35 degrees 39 minutes 17 seconds
East (recorded as North 36 degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds West) 26.78 feet;
thence South 12 degrees 17 minutes 03 seconds West (recorded as North 11
degrees 01 minutes 50 seconds East) 129.30 feet to the East line of the West 1/
2 of the Southeast 1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 21; thence South 00
degrees 29 minutes 55 seconds West (recorded as North 00 degrees 45 minutes 18
seconds West) 1247.09 feet along the East line of the West ½ of the Southeast
1/4 of the Northwest 1/4 of Section 21 to the East-West 1/4 line of Section 21;
thence North 89 degrees 33 minutes 23 seconds West 1966.82 feet along the East
and West 1/4 line of Section 21 to the West 1/4 corner of Section 21; thence
South 00 degrees 36 minutes 01 second West 326.90 feet along the East line of
Section 20 to the South line of the North 1/4 of the North ½ of the Southeast
1/4 of Section 20; thence North 89 degrees 47 minutes 15 seconds West 1249.46
feet along the South line of the North 1/4 of the North ½ of the Southeast 1/
4 of Section 20 to the East line of the West 1360.00 feet of the Southeast 1/
4 of Section 20; thence North 00 degrees 26 minutes 33 seconds East 326.75 feet
along the East line of the West 1360.00 feet of the Southeast 1/4 of Section 20
to the East-West 1/4 line of Section 20; thence North 89 degrees 47 minutes 41
seconds West 54.82 feet along the East and West 1/4 line of Section 20 to the
West line of the East ½ of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 20; thence North 00
degrees 30 minutes 52 seconds East 1738.58 feet along the West line of the East
½ of the Northeast 1/4 of Section 20; thence North 89 degrees 42 minutes 41
seconds West (recorded as West) 500.00 feet; thence North 00 degrees 30 minutes
52 seconds East (recorded as North 00 degrees 13 minutes 53 seconds East)
875.00 feet to the North line of Section 20; thence South 89 degrees 42 minutes
41 seconds East (recorded as East) 1154.93 feet along the North line of Section
20 to the West line of the East ½ of the Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of
Section 17; thence North 00 degrees 18 minutes 09 seconds East 1232.57 feet
along the West line of the East ½ of the Southeast 1/4 of the Southeast 1/4 of
Section 17 to the Easterly extension of the South line of Wilderness Ridge
(Allegan County Subdivision Plan No 62); thence North 89 degrees 43 minutes 54
seconds West (recorded as South 89 degrees 40 minutes East) 1961.88 feet along
the South line of Wilderness Ridge (Allegan County Subdivision Plan No. 62) and
the Easterly extension thereof to the Southwest corner of Wilderness Ridge also
being the Southeast corner of Felker’s Lake Shore Subdivision; thence North 89
degrees 45 minutes 01 second West (recorded as South 89 degrees 40 minutes
East) 705.69 feet along the South line of Felker’s Lake Shore Subdivision to
the Southeast corner of Felker’s High Pines Lake Shore Development Subdivision;
thence North 89 degrees 53 minutes 59 seconds West (recorded as South 89
degrees 45 minutes East) along the South line of Felker’s High Pines Lake Shore
Development Subdivision and the Westerly extension thereof to the Ordinary High
Water Mark of Lake Michigan; thence Northerly along the Ordinary High Water
Mark of Lake Michigan to the North line of Section 17; thence North 89 degrees
55 minutes 54 seconds East along the North line of Section 17 to the North 1/
4 corner of Section 17; thence North 89 degrees 55 minutes 54 seconds East
2604.50 feet along the North line of Section 17 to the point of beginning,
EXCEPT all land lying West of and between said intermediate traverse line and
existing controlled level lake.
Recorded Plats
Bryan Development
Felker’s High Pines Lake Shore Development Subdivision
Felker’s Lake Shore Subdivision
Finalay’s Addition to the Village of Douglas
Helmer’s Addition to the Village of Douglas
Macke Subdivision
McVea Plat
Mixer’s Addition to the Village of Dudleyville
Oakley Acres
Town of Douglas
Spencer’s Addition to the Village of Douglas
Spencer’s Second Addition
St. Peter’s Subdivision
Terrace Park Heights
The Gerber Plat
Trumbull’s Addition to the Village of Douglas
Trumbull’s Second Addition to the Village of Douglas
Village of Dudleysville
   (b)   The city shall embrace the territory constituting the City of the
Village of Douglas on the effective date of this charter, together with such
annexations thereto and less such detachments therefrom as may be made
thereafter.  Upon annexation or detachment of the territory, the boundaries
shall be deemed changed without amendment of this section.
   (c)   The clerk shall maintain and keep available in the City of the Village
of Douglas office for public inspection the official description and map of the
current boundaries of the city.
Section 1.3  Wards.
   The city shall consist of one single ward.
CHAPTER II
GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
Section 2.1  General Powers.
   The City of the Village of Douglas and its officers shall be vested with any
and all powers and immunities, expressed and implied, which cities including
home rule cities, are or hereafter may be permitted to exercise or provide for
in their charters under the Constitution and statutes mandated by the State of
Michigan.  It shall include all the powers of cities as fully and completely as
though those powers and immunities were specifically enumerated in and provided
for in this charter.  In no case shall any enumeration of particular powers or
immunities in this charter be held to be exclusive.
Section 2.2  Additional Powers Of The City.
   (a)   The city and its officers shall have power to exercise all municipal
powers in managing and controlling municipal property and in administering the
municipal government, whether such powers are expressly enumerated or not; to
do any act to advance the interests of the city, the good government, and
prosperity of the municipality and its residents, and through its regularly
constituted authority, to pass and enforce all ordinances and resolutions
relating to its municipal concerns, subject to the constitution and laws of the
State of Michigan and the provisions of this charter.
   (b)   The city may condemn property if such exercise of power is needed in
order to preserve the public health, safety, and welfare of the community, or
other public purpose as defined by laws according to the authority granted to
the City of the Village of Douglas and governed by the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Michigan and this charter.
Section 2.3  Intergovernmental Relations.
   The City may join with any municipal corporation or with any other unit or
agency of government, whether local, state or federal, or with any number of
combinations thereof, by contract or otherwise, as may be permitted by law, in
the ownership, operation, or performance, jointly or by one or more on behalf
of all, of any property, facility or service which each would have the power to
own, operate or perform separately.
Section 2.4  Construction.
   The powers of the city under this charter shall be construed liberally in
favor of the city, and the specific mention of particular powers in the charter
shall not be construed as limiting in any way the general power granted in this
section.
CHAPTER III
ORGANIZATION OF GOVERNMENT
Section 3.1  Form.
   The city shall have the council-manager non-partisan form of government.
Section 3.2  City Council Composition And Power.
   There shall be a city council consisting of seven (7) councilpersons.  The
council shall elect the mayor & mayor pro-tem from the (7) seven council
members.  The council shall constitute the legislative and governing body of
the city and shall have the power and authority to adopt such ordinances and
resolutions, as it shall deem proper in the exercise of its power.
Section 3.3  Qualifications Of Council Members.
   The members of the council shall meet the eligibility requirements as set
forth herein.  The councilperson shall be a resident of the city for not less
than one (1) year and shall be a registered voter at the time of the election
for which each is a candidate.  They must remain a resident of the city during
their term of office.
Section 3.4  Terms Of Office Of Councilpersons.
   (a)   There shall be a regular city election held in November of each year.
   (b)   There shall be elected from the city at large, councilpersons for
terms of two (2) years each.
   (c)   At one regular election, four (4) councilpersons shall be elected.  At
the following regular election, three (3) councilpersons shall be elected and
such additional number of councilpersons as may be required to fill vacancies
at either election.
   (d)   All terms of office shall commence at 9:00 o’clock in the morning
local time on the Monday following the date of the election, as certified by
the canvas board.
Section 3.5  Compensation Of Mayor And Councilpersons.
   (a)   The council shall from time to time set compensation to be received by
the mayor and councilpersons for each duly-constituted regular and special
meeting of the city council attended by each of said officers as established by
ordinance.
   (b)   A duly-constituted meeting of the city council is hereby defined as
any meeting at which there shall be present a quorum.  Four (4) members of the
council shall constitute a quorum unless a greater number shall be required by
applicable statutes of the State of Michigan.
   (c)   In no case shall such mayor or councilperson receive compensation for
any meeting or meetings not actually attended.
   (d)   Payment of the sums ordained shall be made from the General Fund of
the city treasury.
Section 3.6  Organizational Meeting Of Council; Selection Of Mayor and Mayor
Pro-Tem.
   The council shall hold its organizational meeting at the first regular
meeting following the annual election of its members.  At this time the council
shall elect a mayor and mayor pro tem from its members.
Section 3.7  Powers And Duties Of Mayor And Mayor Pro-Tem.
   (a)   The mayor shall preside at all meetings of the council.  The mayor
shall be a full voting member of the council but shall have no veto power.  He
or she shall be the chief executive officer of the city insofar as required by
law and for all ceremonial purposes, but have no administrative duties.  The
mayor shall be the conservator of the peace and shall have the powers conferred
by law upon sheriffs in times of emergency to suppress disorder, preserve the
public peace and health and safety of persons and property and shall have other
emergency powers as permitted by law.  He or she shall authenticate by
signature, such instruments as may be required under provisions of law.  The
mayor shall do all acts required of him or her by law.
   (b)   The mayor pro tem shall act in place of the mayor in the absence or
disability of the mayor.  The mayor pro tem shall succeed to the office of
mayor in the case of a vacancy in that office, thereby creating a vacancy in
the office of mayor pro tem.  The council shall fill any vacancy in the office
of mayor pro tem.  Until such vacancy is filled, the senior member of the
council from the standpoint of continuous service shall act as mayor pro tem. 
Between persons of equal seniority, the person who received the highest number
of votes at the time of his or her last election shall act as mayor pro tem.
Section 3.8  Council’s Dealings With Administrative Services; Council’s
Ordering Of Subordinates Of City Manager.
   Except for the purpose of investigations as provided in
Section 6.8 of this charter, and except in those cases where the council must,
by law, deal directly with the administrative services, the council and its
members shall deal with the administrative services solely through the city
manager.  Neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
of the subordinates of the city manager.
CHAPTER IV
ELECTIONS
Section 4.1  Qualifications Of Electors.
   The residents of the city having the qualifications of electors in the State
of Michigan shall be electors in the city.
Section 4.2  Procedure.
   The election of all city officers shall be on a non-partisan basis.  The
general election statutes of the State of Michigan shall apply to and control
all procedures relating to city elections, including qualification of electors,
establishment of precincts, verification of petitions, registration of voters
and voting hours.  The clerk shall give public notice of each city election in
the same manner as is required by law for the giving of public notice of
general elections in the state.
Section 4.3  Precincts.
   The election precinct of the city shall remain, as it existed on the
effective date of this charter unless altered by the elections commission in
accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan.
Section 4.4  Date Of Regular City Elections.
   A non-partisan regular city election shall be held on the first Tuesday
following the first Monday of November of each year.
Section 4.5  Date Of Special Elections.
   Special city elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
council at least sixty (60) days in advance of such election, or when required
by law.  Any resolution calling a special election shall set forth the purpose
of such election.  In no case shall there be more than two (2) special
elections in one year.
Section 4.6  Notice.
   Notice of the time and place of holding any city election and of the
officers to be nominated or elected and the questions to be voted upon shall be
given by the clerk as provided in the state election law for the giving of
notice by city clerks.
Section 4.7  Voting Hours.
   The polls of all elections shall be opened at 7:00 a.m., and closed at 8:00
p.m., subject to the election laws of the State of Michigan for the opening and
closing of polls at state elections.
Section 4.8  Nominations – Generally.
   The method of nomination for all candidates for city elections shall be by
petition.  Not less than twenty-five (25) registered electors of the city shall
sign such petitions for each candidate.  No person shall sign his or her name
to a greater number of petitions for any one office than there are persons to
be elected to said office at the following regular or special city election. 
If a qualified and registered elector signs nominating petitions for a greater
number of candidates than there are persons to be elected to said office, the
signatures, if they bear the same date, shall not be counted upon any petition,
and if they bear different dates, shall be counted in the order of their
priority of date of filing for only so many candidates as there are persons to
be elected.  Nomination petitions shall be filed with the clerk up to 4:00
p.m., local time of the first Tuesday following the first Monday in August. 
The clerk shall publish notice of the last day permitted for filing nomination
petitions and of the number of persons to be elected to each office at least
one week and not more than three weeks before such last day.
Section 4.9  Nomination – Form Of Petition.
   The form of petition shall be substantially as that designated by the
Secretary of State for the nomination of non-partisan officers.  The clerk
shall provide and maintain a supply of official petition forms.
Section 4.10  Nomination – Approval Of Petitions.
   The clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform with the
forms provided and maintained by the clerk, and which, considered together,
contain the required number of valid signatures for candidates having those
qualifications required for the respective elective city offices by this
charter.  All candidates shall comply with the filing requirements of MCL
168.558, as amended.  The clerk shall, forthwith after filing of a petition,
notify in writing any candidate whose petition is then found not to meet the
requirements of this section, but the failure to so notify any candidate shall
in no way prevent a final determination that the petition does not meet such
requirements.  Within three (3) business days after the last date of filing
petitions, the clerk shall make the final determinations as to the validity and
sufficiency of each nomination petition and whether or not the candidate has
the qualifications required for his or her respective elective city offices by
the charter.  The clerk shall write his or her determinations thereof on the
face of the petition and shall notify in writing the candidate whose name
appears thereon of the determinations.  Such notice to any candidate whose
petitions are so found to be invalid or insufficient shall be allowed to file
supplementary or replacement petitions before four o’clock in the afternoon on
the sixth business day after the last date for filling original petitions.  The
names of the candidates for the respective elective city offices who file valid
and sufficient nomination petitions, shall be certified by the clerk to the
election commission, to be placed upon the ballot for the next subsequent
regular city election or the next special election for the filling of vacancies
in office, as the case may be.
Section 4.11  Nominations – Candidate To Run For Only One Office.
   If petitions or filing fees are filed by or on behalf of a candidate for
more than one (1) office, either national, state, county, city, village,
township, or school district, the terms of which run concurrently or overlap,
the candidate so filing, or in behalf of whom petitions or fees were so filed,
shall select the one (1) office to which his or her candidacy is restricted
within three (3) days after the last day for the filing of petitions or filing
fees unless the petitions or filing fees are filed for two (2) offices that are
combined or for offices that are not incompatible.  Failure to make the
selection disqualifies a candidate with respect to any office for which
petitions or fees were so filed and the name of the candidate shall not be
printed upon the ballot for those offices.  A vote cast for that candidate at
the primary or general election ensuing shall not be counted and is void.
Section 4.12  Nominations – Withdrawal Of Candidate.
   After the filing of a nomination petition by or on behalf of a proposed
candidate for a city office, such candidate shall not be permitted to withdraw
unless a written notice of withdrawal is served on the city clerk no later than
4:00 o’clock, local time, in the afternoon of the third business day after the
last day for filing petitions as in this charter provided, unless the third
business day falls on Saturday, Sunday or city holiday, in which case the
notice of withdrawal may be served on the clerk up to 4:00 o’clock, local time,
in the afternoon on the next regular business day.
Section 4.13  Nominations – Public Inspection Of Petitions.
   All nomination petitions filed shall be open to public inspection in the
office of the clerk.
Section 4.14  Nominations – Election Commission Created; Composition; Duties;
Compensation.
   An Election Commission is hereby created, consisting of the clerk of the
City of the Village of Douglas, one city official, and one qualified registered
elector, both to be appointed by city council not less than forty-five (45)
days before each election.  The council shall determine compensation, if any,
of the members of the Election Commission.  The clerk shall be the chairperson
and two (2) members of such board shall constitute a quorum.  The commission
shall appoint three (3) members to the Board of Election Inspectors for each
precinct and have charge of all activities and duties required of it by statute
and this charter relating to the conduct of elections in the city.  The
compensation of the election personnel shall be determined, in advance, by the
council.  In any case where election procedure is in doubt, the Election
Commission shall prescribe the procedure to be followed.
Section 4.15  Nominations – Form Of Ballot.
   The form, printing and numbering of ballots or the preparation of the voting
machines used in any city election shall conform as nearly as may be to that
prescribed by statute, except that no party designation or emblem shall
appear.  In all city elections, the names of qualified candidates for each
office shall be listed under a separate heading and shall be rotated
systematically in the manner prescribed by the laws of the State of Michigan
for rotation of names.  If two (2) or more candidates for the same office have
the same or similar surnames, the provisions of MCL 168.561(3) as amended shall
apply.  Except as provided in this section, there shall be no supplementary
identification of candidates on the ballot.
Section 4.16  Custody And Safekeeping Of Registration Books And Supplies.
   The clerk shall be responsible for the custody and safekeeping of all
registration books and supplies.  On Election Day, the clerk shall deliver them
to the respective Board of Inspectors of Election, taking his or her receipt
therefor.
Section 4.17  Absentee Ballots.
   The electors of the city shall be entitled to vote by absentee ballots at
any city election as provided by law.
Section 4.18  Determination Of Election Ending In A Tie Vote.
   If, at any city election, there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two or more persons having received an equal number of votes, then
the Allegan County Board of Canvassers shall name a date within five (5) days
after said election for the appearance of such persons for the purpose of
determining the election of such candidates by lot as provided by law.
Section 4.19  Recount.
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election of any office or upon any
proposition may be had in accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan.
Section 4.20  Purity Of Election; Lawful And Unlawful Acts.
   All laws of the State of Michigan now in force or hereinafter enacted
relating to the purity of elections, and as to what are lawful and what are
unlawful acts, shall apply to all elections held under this chapter.
CHAPTER V
GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL
Section 5.1  Eligibility For Office.
   (a)   No person shall hold any elective office or fill the vacancy in any
elective office of the city unless he or she has been a resident of the city
for at least one (1) year immediately prior to the date of the election at
which he or she is a candidate.  He or she must also have been a registered
elector on the last day for filing nominating petitions for such office or
prior to his or her appointment to fill a vacancy.
   (b)   No person shall be eligible for any elective or appointive city office
who is in default to the city.  The holding of office by any person who is in
default shall create a vacancy unless such default shall be eliminated within
thirty (30) days after written notice thereof has been served at his or her
last known place of residence by the city clerk upon the direction of the
council, or, unless the officer contests his or her liability for the default
in a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (c)   No person who holds or has held the office of councilperson shall be
eligible to hold any appointive office for which there is compensation paid by
the city until one year has elapsed following retirement or resignation.
   (d)   No appointive city officer or employee shall seek an elective office
of the city unless he or she resigns his or her position with the city upon
election to office.
   (e)   All administrative officers (See
Section 7.1 of this charter) shall be United States citizens.
Section 5.2  Holding Of Appointive Office Or Employment By Relative Or Elective
Or Appointive Officer.
   Unless the council shall by majority vote, and shall record as part of its
official proceedings, determine that the best interest of the city shall be
served, family members of any elective or appointive officer are disqualified
from holding any appointive office or employment during the term for which said
elective or appointive officer was elected or appointed.  This section shall in
no way disqualify such family members who are bona fide appointive officers or
employees of the city at the time of the election or appointment of said
official.
Section 5.3  Oath Of Office And Bond Required.
   Every officer, elective or appointive, before entering upon the duties of
that office, shall qualify by taking the oath of office prescribed for public
officers by the Constitution of the State of Michigan, and by filing the oath
with the clerk, together with any bond required by statute, this charter or by
the council.  In case of failure to comply with the provisions of this section
within fourteen (14) days from the date he or she is notified in writing of the
officer’s election or appointment, such officer shall be deemed to have
declined the office and such office shall thereupon become vacant unless the
council shall, by resolution, extend the time in which such officer may qualify
as above set forth.
Section 5.4  Surety Bonds.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all officers of the city
whose duties involve the custody of public property or the handling of public
funds, either by way of receipt or disbursement or both, and all other officers
and employees so required by the council shall, before they enter upon the
duties of their respective offices, file with the city an official bond in such
form and amount as the council shall direct and approve.
   (b)   The official bond of every officer or employee whose duty it may be to
receive or pay out money shall be conditioned that he or she will, upon demand,
pay over or account for to the city, or any proper officer or agent thereof,
all moneys received by him or her as such officer or employee.  The
requirements of this paragraph may be met by the purchase of one or more
appropriate blanket surety bonds covering all, or a group of city employees and
officers.
   (c)   All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums
thereon shall be paid by the city.  The clerk shall be custodian of all bonds
of all officers or employees except that the city manager shall be custodian of
any bonds pertaining solely to the clerk and/or clerk-treasurer.
Section 5.5  Delivery Of Effects Of Office To Successor Or Superior When
Officer Or Employee Ceases To Hold Office.
   Whenever any officer or employee shall cease to hold such office or
employment for any reason whatsoever, he or she shall within five (5) days, or
sooner on demand, deliver to his or her successor in office or to that
officer’s or employee’s superior all the books, papers, money, equipment and
effects in his or her custody that in any manner pertain to that office.  Any
officer violating this provision may be proceeded against in the same manner as
public officers generally for a like offense under the laws of the State of
Michigan.
Section 5.6  Declaration Of Vacancy In Elective Office.
   Any elective city office shall be declared vacant by the council before the
expiration of the term of such office:
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute or by this charter as creating a
vacancy in office;
   (b)   If no person is elected to, or qualified for the office at the
election at which such office is to be filled;
   (c)   If the officer shall be found guilty by a competent court or tribunal
of any act constituting misconduct in office under the provisions of this
charter;
   (d)   In the case of any member of the council, if such officer shall miss
four consecutive regular meetings of the council or twenty-five (25%) percent
of such meetings in any fiscal year of the city, unless such absence shall be
excused by the council and the reason therefore entered in its proceedings at
the time of each absence;
   (e)   If the officer is removed from office by the council in accordance
with the provisions of
Section 5.7.
Section 5.7  Removal From Office.
   Removal by the council of elective officers or of members of boards or
commissions shall be made for either of the following reasons:
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute for removal of city officers by
the governor.
   (b)   For any act declared by this charter to constitute misconduct in
office.  Such removals by the council shall be made only after a hearing of
which the officer has been given notice by the clerk at least ten (10) days in
advance, either personally or by certified mail, addressed to the officer in
question at the last known place of residence of that officer.  Such notice
shall include a copy of the charges against the officer.  The hearing shall
afford an opportunity to the officer, in person or by his or her attorney, to
be heard in his or her defense, to cross-examine witnesses and to present
testimony.  If the officer shall neglect to appear at the hearing and answer
the charges, his or her failure to do so may be deemed cause for removal.  A
majority vote of the members of the council in office at the time, plus one (1)
exclusive of any member whose removal is being considered, shall be required
for any such removal.
Section 5.8  Resignations Of Elective And Appointive Officers.
   (a)   Resignations of elective officers and of members of boards and
commissions shall be made in writing and filed with the clerk and shall be
acted upon by the council at its next regular or special meeting following
receipt thereof by the clerk and is irrevocable upon acceptance.  Resignations
of appointive officers shall be made in writing to the appointing officer or
body and shall be acted upon immediately.
   (b)   Any elective officer required to serve in the military forces of the
United States causing that officer to miss four (4) consecutive regular
meetings of the council or twenty-five (25%) percent of such meetings in any
fiscal year shall resign and be entitled to the designation of “Honorable
Resignation,” unless such absence shall be excused by the council and the
reason therefore entered in its proceedings at the time of each absence.
Section 5.9  Filling Vacancy In Council.
   Any vacancy in the council shall be filled within thirty (30) days by a
majority vote of the members of the council then in office.  Any qualified
elector may apply to the council for appointment.  Said appointment shall be
for the remainder of the unexpired term of the vacancy.
Section 5.10  Filling Vacancies In Offices.
   Vacancies in appointive offices shall be filled in the manner provided for
making the original appointment.  In the case of members of boards and
commissions appointed for a definite term, such appointments shall be for the
unexpired term.
Section 5.11  Changes In Term Of Office Or Compensation.
   (a)   Except by procedures provided in this charter, the terms of office of
the elective officers and of member of boards and commissions appointed for
definite terms shall not be shortened.  The terms of elective officers of the
city shall not be extended beyond the period for which any such officer was
elected except that an elective officer shall, after that officer’s term has
expired, continue to hold office until a successor to that office has qualified
and is elected or appointed
   (b)   The council shall not grant or authorize extra compensation to any
officer or employee after the services have been rendered.
Section 5.12  Compensation Of Employees Not Provided For By Charter; Bona Fide
Expenses Incurred In Service Of City.
   (a)   The compensation of all employees and officers of the city whose
compensation is not provided for herein, shall be fixed by the council within
the limits of budget appropriations, and in accordance with any pay plan
adopted by the council.
   (b)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the payment of
necessary bona fide expenses incurred in service in behalf of the city.
Section 5.13  Employees Retirement System.
   The council may provide a retirement system for the city employees.
Section 5.14  Merit System For Employees.
   The council may provide a merit system for city employees.  See
Section 7.2 (a) of this charter.
CHAPTER VI
COUNCIL:  PROCEDURES, POWERS AND DUTIES
Section 6.1.  Regular Meetings.
   The council shall provide for the time and place of its regular meetings and
shall hold at least two (2) such meetings each month.
Section 6.2.  Special Meetings Of The Council.
   Special meetings of the council may be called by the clerk on the written
request of the mayor or any two (2) members of the council or the city manager
on eighteen (18) hours written notice to each member of the council,
designating the purpose of such meeting and served personally or left at his
usual place of residence by the clerk or someone designated by the clerk. 
Nothing in this section shall bar a public body meeting in emergency session as
defined in Open Meeting Act; Act 267 of 1976, Section 15.265, paragraph (5).
Section 6.3.  Business At Special Meetings.
   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the council unless
the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting.
Section 6.4.  Meeting To Be Public.
   All regular and special meetings of the council shall be open to the public;
conducted in accordance with the Open Meetings Act; and the rules of order of
the council shall provide that the citizens shall have a reasonable opportunity
to be heard at any such meeting on matters within the jurisdiction of the
council.  Council shall establish reasonable regulations for comments and
conduct of the public.
Section 6.5.  Quorum.
   Four (4) members of the council shall be a quorum for the transaction of
business, unless a greater number shall be required by applicable statutes of
the State of Michigan.  In the absence of a quorum, two (2) or more members may
adjourn any regular or special meeting to a later date.
Section 6.6  Attendance, Conduct, Sergeant-At-Arms.
   (a)   Any three (3) or more members of the council may by vote either
request or compel the attendance of its members and other officers of the city
at any meeting.  Any members of the council or other officer, who when notified
of such request for his or her attendance, fails to attend such meeting for
reasons other than confining illness or extenuating circumstances shall be
deemed guilty of misconduct in office unless excused by the council.
   (b)   The Mayor, or in the absence of the Mayor, the Mayor Pro-Tem, shall
enforce orderly conduct at meetings and any councilperson or other officer who
shall fail to conduct himself or herself in an orderly manner at any meeting
shall be deemed guilty of misconduct in office.
   (c)   Any police officer designated by the Mayor, or in the absence of the
Mayor, the Mayor Pro-Tem of the meeting shall serve as the sergeant-at-arms of
the council in enforcement of the provision of this section.
Section 6.7.  Organization, Rules, And Order Of Business.
   Each council shall determine its own organization, rules and order of
business subject to the following provisions:
   (a)   Minutes in the English language, of the proceedings of each meeting
shall be kept by the clerk, and shall be signed by the presiding officer and
clerk of the meeting.
   (b)   A vote upon all ordinances and resolutions shall be taken by “yes” and
“no” vote, and entered upon the records, except that where the vote is
unanimous it shall only be necessary to so state.
   (c)   Except as otherwise provided by Public Act 317 of 1968, as amended,
being MCL 15.231 et seq., regarding public contracts involving members of the
council, no member of the council shall vote on any question in which he or she
has a financial interest, or on any question concerning his or her own conduct,
but on all other questions each member who is present shall vote when his or
her name is called unless excused by the majority consent of the remaining
members present.  Any member refusing to vote except when not so required by
this paragraph may be guilty of misconduct in office.
   (d)   In all roll call votes the names of the members of the council shall
be called in alphabetical order, and the name to be called first shall be
advanced one position alphabetically in each successive roll call.
   (e)   Any standing committee of the council shall be composed of at least
two members.  The council shall not assign the administration of any department
or agency of the city to any member or committee of the council.  The mayor,
with approval of the council may appoint a member or members of standing
committee(s).
Section 6.8.  Investigation Into Conduct Of Office, Employee, etc; Power To
Summon And Complete Attendance Of Witness And Production Of Evidence.
   (a)   The council or any person or committee authorized by it for the
purpose, shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department,
office, officer or employee of the city and to make investigations as to
matters in which the municipality has an interest.  The council, for the
purpose stated herein, may summon witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the
attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and other
evidence.
   (b)   Failure on the part of any officer to obey such summons or to produce
books, papers, and other evidence as ordered under the provisions of this
section shall constitute misconduct in office.  Failure on the part of any
employee to obey such summons or to produce books, papers, or other evidence as
ordered under the provisions of this section, shall constitute a violation of
this charter.
   (c)   It is provided further that, in case of failure on the part of any
person to obey such summons or to produce such books, papers, and other
evidence as so ordered, the council may invoke the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court of Allegan County in requiring obeyance of such summons or production of
such books, papers, and other evidence.
Section 6.9  Vote Required.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, no ordinance or resolution
shall be adopted or passed except by the affirmative vote of at least four (4)
members of the council.
Section 6.10  Misconduct.
   (a)   Grounds for misconduct, other than those described in this charter;
and the penalty(s) for misconduct, shall be determined by the council.
   (b)   Misconduct charges may be presented by any member of the council.
   (c)   Misconduct charges and penalty(s) shall be adopted or passed by
affirmative vote of at least four (4) members of the council.
Section 6.11  Public Peace, Health And Safety, Composition And Powers Of Board
Of Health.
   The council shall see that provision is made for the public peace and
health, and for the safety of persons and property.
CHAPTER VII
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
Section 7.1  Administrative Officers Generally.
   The administrative officers of the city shall be the city manager, clerk,
treasurer, assessor, city attorney, chief of police, planning and zoning
administrator and a board of review.  The council may, by ordinance or by
resolution, establish such additional administrative officers or departments,
or combine any administrative officers or departments, in any manner not
inconsistent with law or this charter, and prescribe the duties and
compensation thereof as it may deem necessary for the proper operation of the
city government.
Section 7.2  Personnel System.
   (a)   All appointments and promotions of city officers and employees shall
be made solely on the basis of merit and fitness demonstrated by a valid and
reliable examination or other evidence of competence.
   (b)   Consistent with all applicable federal and state laws, the city
council may provide by ordinance for the establishment, regulation and
maintenance of a merit system governing personnel policies necessary to
effective administration of the employees of the city’s departments, offices
and agencies, including but not limited to classification and pay plans,
examinations, force reduction, removals, working conditions, provisional and
exempt appointments, in-service training, grievances and relationships with
employee organizations.
Section 7.3  City Manager-Appointment; Compensation.
   (a)   The council shall appoint a city manager within ninety (90) days after
any vacancy exists in such position or they may appoint an acting manager
during the period of a vacancy in the office, or the city manager, with the
consent and approval of the council, may designate an administrative officer or
employee of the city to act as city manager if he or she is temporarily absent
from the city, or unable to perform the duties of his or her office.
   (b)   The city manager’s compensation shall be set by the council.
   (c)   The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
government.  The council on the basis of education, ability, training and
experience shall appoint him or her.  He or she shall serve at the pleasure of,
and be subject to removal by the council, but shall not be removed from office
during a period of sixty (60) days following any regular city election except
by the affirmative vote of five (5) members of the council.
   (d)   The council may enter into an employment contract with the City
Manager which may extend beyond the terms of the council.
Section 7.4  City Manager – Function and Duties.
   (a)   The city manager shall be responsible to the council for the proper
administration of the affairs of the city, and shall appoint and remove all
employees of the city and shall make recommendations to the council relative to
the appointment and removal of administrative officers of the city.  He or she
shall recommend employees’ compensation within the pay plan adopted by the
council.  He or she shall supervise and coordinate the work of all the
administrative offices and departments of the city except of the city
attorney.  He or she shall supervise the work of the city clerk in keeping the
council records as the clerical officer of the council.  The city manager will
be the main point of communication and dissemination of information of day-to-
day updates from the city attorney.
   (b)   The city manager shall see that all laws and ordinances are enforced,
shall prepare and administer the annual budget under policies formulated by the
council and shall keep the council advised as to the financial condition and
needs of the city.  The city manager shall furnish the council with information
concerning city affairs, prepare, and submit such reports as may be required or
which the council may request.  The city manager shall make recommendations to
the council relative to all agenda items, except as directly relating to his or
her employment.  Subject to any employment ordinance of the city, he or she
shall employ of be responsible for the employment of all city employees and
supervise and coordinate the personnel policies and practices of the city.  The
city manager or an authorized representative shall establish and maintain a
central purchasing service and the city manager or his or her designee shall
act as purchasing agent for the city.
   (c)   The city manager shall attend all meetings of the council with the
right to be heard in all council proceedings but without the right to vote. 
The city manager shall possess such other powers as may be granted to or
required of him or her by the council, so far as may be consistent with the
provisions of law.  The city manager shall establish any rules necessary to
carry out any of the foregoing duties.
   (d)   The city manager shall perform such other duties in connection with
the office as may be required by law, ordinances or resolutions of the city
council.
Section 7.5  City Manager’s – Removal.
   The council may remove the city manager from office by affirmative vote of
not less than five (5) of its members:
Section 7.6  Clerk.
   (a)   The clerk shall be the clerical officer of the council and shall keep
its minutes in English.  The clerk shall keep a record of all actions of the
council at its regular and special meetings and shall certify all ordinances
and resolutions adopted by the council.  The council on the basis of education,
ability, training and experience shall appoint him or her.
   (b)   The clerk shall have the power to administer all oaths required by law
and by the ordinances of the city and shall be the custodian of the city seal,
and shall affix the same to documents required to be sealed.  The clerk shall
be the custodian of all papers, documents and records pertaining to the city,
unless otherwise provided by this charter.  All records of the city shall be
made available to the general public in compliance with the Freedom of
Information Act, 1976 PA 442, MCL 15.231 to 15.246.  He or she shall give the
proper officials ample notice of the expiration or termination of any official
bonds, franchises, contracts or agreements to which the city is a part and
shall notify the council of the failure of any officer or employee required to
take an oath of office or furnish any bond required of him or her.  The clerk
shall be the chief election officer for the city.
   (c)   The clerk shall perform such other duties in connection with the
office as may be required by law, the ordinances or resolutions of the council,
or by the city manager.
Section 7.7  Treasurer.
   (a)   The treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys of the city, and
all evidences of value or indebtedness belonging to or held in trust by the
city.  The treasurer shall keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such manner
and only in such places as the council may determine, and shall report the same
to the city manager.  The council on the basis of education, ability, training
and experience shall appoint him or her.
   (b)   The treasurer shall have such powers, duties, and prerogatives in
regard to the collection and custody of state, county, school district, city
taxes and other taxing entities’ money as are provided by law.
   (c)   The treasurer shall disburse all city funds in accordance with
provisions of law and this charter.
   (d)   The treasurer shall establish and maintain a general accounting plan
which will conform to such uniform accounting system as may be required by law.
   (e)   The treasurer shall perform such other duties in connection with the
office including the issuance of licenses as may be required by law, the
ordinances and resolutions of the council, or as directed by the city manager.
Section 7.8  Assessor.
   (a)   The assessor shall possess all the power vested in and shall be
charged with the duties imposed upon the assessing officer by law.  The council
on the basis of education, ability, training and experience shall appoint him
or her.
   (b)   The assessor shall make and prepare all regular and special assessment
rolls in the manner prescribed by law or ordinances of the city.
   (c)   The assessor shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by
law or the ordinances of the city, or by the city manager.
   (d)   The assessor shall be secretary of the Board of Review.
Section 7.9  City Attorney.
   (a)   The city attorney shall be an attorney at law, in good standing, and
admitted to practice in the State of Michigan act as legal advisor and be
responsible to the council.  He or she shall be appointed by the council on the
basis of ability, training and experience.
   (b)   The city attorney shall be a legal advisor and counsel for the city
and for all the officers and departments thereof in all matters relating to
their official duties and shall file with the city a copy of all written
opinions given by him or her.
   (c)   The city attorney shall prepare or review all ordinances, regulations,
contracts, bonds, and other such instruments as may be required by this
charter, the council, or the city manager, and shall promptly give his or her
opinion as to the legality thereof.
   (d)   The city attorney shall prosecute ordinance violations and shall
represent the city in cases before the courts and other tribunals.  In such
instances as the council shall direct, he or she shall defend officers and
employees of the city in actions arising out of the performance of their
official duties.
   (e)   Upon the city attorney’s recommendation, or upon its own initiative,
the council may retain special legal counsel to handle any matters in which the
city has an interest, or to assist the city attorney.
   (f)   The city attorney shall perform such other duties in connection with
the office as may be prescribed by this charter, the council or by contractual
agreement.
   (g)   The city attorney shall comply with the Michigan Rules of professional
Conduct of the Michigan State Bar Association.
Section 7.10  Police Department.
   The council shall provide for, establish, and maintain, separately or
through agreements, a Police Department to enforce all laws and all ordinances
and codes which are in force in the city and to preserve peace and good order
in the city.  A police chief shall be approved by the city council after
consultation with the city manager.  He or she shall be approved and appointed
by the council on the basis of education, ability, training and experience. 
The police chief shall be under the direction of the city manager, be in
command, and be responsible for the operation of said police department and for
the procurement and training of personnel therefore.  The police force of the
city shall have and exercise all the immunities, privileges and powers of the
police officers under the common law and of the State of Michigan for the
preservation of quiet, good order, and for the safety of persons and property
in the city.
Section 7.11  Fire Protection.
   The council shall have power to enact such ordinances and to establish and
enforce such regulations and intergovernmental agreements as it shall deem
necessary to guard against the occurrence of fires in the city and to protect
the property and person or inhabitants of the city against the occurrence of
fires and against accident or damage resulting there from.  For this purpose,
the council may provide for, establish and maintain a Fire Department within
the administrative division of the city.
Section 7.12  City Planning Commission; Zoning.
   (a)   The council shall maintain a city planning commission in accordance
with and having all the powers and duties granted by the provisions of law
relating to such commissions, and this charter including, but not limited to,
P.A. 1921, No. 207; P.A. 1931, No. 285 and all other intergovernmental planning
and zoning statues which it deems beneficial to the health, safety, and general
welfare of the city.
   (b)   The council shall maintain a zoning ordinance in accordance with the
provisions of law relating to such ordinances and this charter.  The ordinance
shall provide that zoning be coordinated with the work of the city planning
commission.
   (c)   The members of the Planning Commission and the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall be appointed by the mayor subject to confirmation by the council and
shall be residents of the city.  Their functions and duties shall be in
accordance with statute and city ordinance.
Section 7.13  Planning and Zoning Administrator.
   The Planning and Zoning Administrator shall enforce the city zoning
ordinances.  He or she shall be appointed by the council on the basis of
education, ability, training and experience.  The administrator shall perform
such functions and duties, as city council shall direct.
   The Administrator shall:
   (a)   Issue all notices and orders to insure compliance with zoning
ordinances and prosecute as necessary;
   (b)   Process all applications related to zoning compliance, site plans,
special land use permits, zoning variances, and certificates of occupancy;
   (c)   Prepare documents, agendas, and supporting information for the
planning commission and zoning board of appeals meetings;
   (d)   Assess all fees authorized by state statute, city ordinance or city
resolution;
   (e)   Perform all duties assigned to the department by ordinance or
administration and may act as zoning enforcement officer.
Section 7.14  Other Public Authorities, Boards Or Commissions.
   (a)   The council may create such entities as may be needed for the public
health, safety, and well-being including, but not limited to, buildings,
grounds, parks, personnel, administrative, streets/sidewalks, police/fire, and
water/sewer or other entities to meet community needs.
   (b)   Such boards or committees shall serve for indefinite periods and
without compensation unless otherwise provided by the council.
   (c)   The council may create other public authorities, boards or commissions
or other entities to meet community needs.
CHAPTER VIII
LEGISLATION
Section 8.1  Status of Chapter.
   This charter shall constitute the governing law of the City of the Village
of Douglas, subject only to the Constitution and general laws of the State of
Michigan and of the United States of America.
Section 8.2  Prior Village Ordinances And Regulations.
   All bylaws, ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the Village of
Douglas, prior to incorporation, which are not inconsistent with this charter
and which are in full force and effect on the effective date of this charter
shall continue in full force and effect as bylaws, ordinances, resolutions,
rules or regulation.  Officers or members of any board or commission shall,
after the effective date of this charter, be appointed by the council, except
as otherwise provided by this charter or law.
Section 8.3  Legislative Powers.
   The legislative power of the City of the Village of Douglas is vested
exclusively with the council, except as otherwise provided by law.
Section 8.4  Forms Of Legislation.
   (a)   Resolution or Motion  A resolution or motion shall be limited to
matters required or permitted to be done by the charter, or by state or federal
laws or pertaining to the internal affairs or concerns of the city government. 
A resolution is an official council action in the form of a motion adopted by a
majority vote of the elected council members.
   (b)   Ordinance
      (1)   An ordinance is an official council action by a majority vote of
the elected council members.  An ordinance is a legislative act establishing a
more permanent influence on the city than a resolution and requiring greater
formalities in its adoption.
      (2)   Each ordinance shall be introduced in written form and identified
by a number and short title.
      (3)   The style of all ordinances passed by council shall be “The City of
the Village of Douglas ordains.”
Section 8.5  Action Requiring An Ordinance.
   (a)   In addition to other acts required by law or by specific charter
provisions to be done by ordinance, those council acts shall be by ordinance
which:
      (1)   Adopt or amend an administrative code or establish, alter or
abolish any city department, office or agency;
      (2)   Provide a fine or other penalty or establish a rule or regulation
for violation of which a fine or other penalty is imposed;
      (3)   Grant, renew or extend a franchise;
      (4)   Adopt, with or without amendment, ordinances proposed under the
initiative power and;
      (5)   Amend or repeal any ordinance previously adopted, except as
otherwise provided by this charter with respect to repealing ordinances
reconsidered under the referendum power.
   (b)   Acts other than those referred to in
Section 8.5(a) may be done either by ordinance or resolution.
Section 8.6  Ordinance – Enactment, Amendment, Repeal.
   (a)   Unless declared to be an emergency ordinance by a vote of not less
than two-thirds (2/3) of the council membership, no ordinance shall be adopted
at the same meeting at which it is introduced.
   (b)   An ordinance may be repealed by reference to its number and title.
   (c)   No ordinance shall be enacted, amended or repealed until after
publication of the proposed ordinance or amendment or repeal, or summary
thereof.
   (d)   The effective date of any ordinance shall be prescribed therein, and
shall not be less than twenty (20) days after its adoption and publication.
Section 8.7  Ordinance – Emergency.
   An emergency ordinance shall:
   (a)   Be enacted only to meet a public emergency affecting public peace,
health, safety or welfare of persons or property;
   (b)   Be introduced in the form and manner required for ordinances
generally, except that it shall contain, after the enacting clause, a
declaration stating that an emergency exists and describing it in clear and
specific terms;
   (c)   Be adopted at the meeting at which it is introduced by an affirmative
vote of two-thirds (2/3) of council membership present.  An emergency ordinance
may be given effect earlier than twenty (20) days after enactment if the
requirements for publication are met by posting copies thereof in three (3)
public places in the city.  The clerk shall immediately after such posting
enter in the ordinance book under the record of the ordinance a certificate
stating the time and place of such publication by posting.  Any emergency
ordinance shall also be published in accordance with
Section 8.9, but not as a requirement for the effectiveness thereof;
   (d)   Not levy taxes; grant, renew or extend a franchise; regulate the rate
charged by any public utility for its services; make or amend a grant; or other
special privilege.
Section 8.8  Ordinance – Record.
   (a)   An ordinance when enacted shall be recorded by the clerk in a book
called “The Ordinance Book.”
   (b)   It shall be the duty of the mayor and the clerk to authenticate such
record by their official signatures.
Section 8.9  Ordinance – Publication.
   (a)   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, an ordinance when
enacted shall be published forthwith by the clerk in the manner provided by
this charter for publication of notices, or as otherwise provided by law.  The
publication shall contain a notice stating that a complete copy of the
ordinance is available to the public at the Clerk’s office.
   (b)   The clerk’s certificate shall be entered as to the manner and date of
publication under each ordinance in the Ordinance Book.
   (c)   The council may adopt any detailed technical regulations as a city
ordinance by reference to any recognized standard code, official or unofficial.
   (d)   If such a code be written in detail for the city and adopted as an
ordinance, the publication of a sufficient number of copies in booklet form,
available for public distribution at cost, shall be sufficient publication of
such ordinance, and any amendment to or revision of such adopted code or
detailed technical ordinance may be published in the same manner.
Section 8.10  Penalties.
   The council may provide in any ordinance for the punishment of those who
violates its provisions.  The punishment for the violation of any city
ordinance shall not exceed a fine as prescribed by State law, or imprisonment
as prescribed by State law, or both, at the discretion of the court.
Section 8.11  Initiatory And Referendary Petitions – Generally.
   Any ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum on a legislative
act may be made by petition as hereinafter provided.
Section 8.12  Petitions.
   (a)   An initiatory or referendary petition shall be signed by not less than
fifteen (15%) percent of the registered electors of the city, as of the date of
the last regular city election, and all signatures on said petitions shall be
obtained within thirty (30) days before the date of filing the petition with
the clerk.  Any referendum petition shall be filed within thirty (30) days
after the effective date of the legislative act.
   (b)   Any such petition shall be addressed to the council and may be the
aggregate of two or more petition papers identical as to contents and
simultaneously filed by one person.
   (c)   An initiatory petition shall set forth in full the ordinance it
proposes to initiate, and no petition shall propose to initiate more than one
ordinance.
   (d)   A referendary petition shall identify the ordinance, or part thereof,
it proposes to have repealed.
   (e)   Each signer of a petition shall be a registered elector of the city
and shall sign his or her name thereon and after his or her name, the date and
his or her place of residence by street and number, or by other customary
designation.
   (f)   To each petition paper there shall be attached a sworn affidavit by
the circulator thereof, stating the number of signers thereof, and that each
signature thereon is the genuine signature of the person whose name it purports
to be, and that it was made in the presence of the affiant.
   (g)   Such petitions shall be filed with the clerk who shall, within fifteen
(15) days, verify the signatures thereon.
   (h)   If the petition does not contain a sufficient number of signatures of
registered electors of the city, the clerk shall notify forthwith the person
filing such petition and fifteen (15) days from such notification shall be
allowed for the filing of supplemental petition papers.
   (i)   When a petition with sufficient signatures is filed within the time
allowed by this section, the clerk shall present the petition to the council at
its next regular meeting.
Section 8.13  Petitions – Council Procedure, Submission To Electors.
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the clerk the
council shall, within thirty (30) days, unless otherwise provided by law,
either,
   (a)   Adopt the ordinance as submitted by initiatory petition;
   (b)   Repeal the ordinance, or part thereof, referred to by a referendary
petition or;
   (c)   Determine to submit the proposal provided for in the petition to the
electors.
   (d)   When the provisions of this charter require the council to submit the
proposal to the electors, it shall be submitted at the next election held in
the city for any other purpose, or in the discretion of the council, at a
special election.  In any event, it shall be submitted at an election where
there is sufficient time for the processing of the notice of registration and
of election and providing for absentee ballots.  The results shall be
determined by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon, except in cases
where otherwise required by law.
Section 8.14  General Provisions; Suspension.
   (a)   The presentation to the council by the clerk of a valid referendary
petition shall automatically suspend the operation of the ordinance in question
pending repeal by the council or final determination by the electors.
   (b)   An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory proceedings
may not be amended or repealed for a period of one (1) year after the date of
the election at which it was adopted, and an ordinance repealed by the
electorate may not be re-enacted for a period of one (1) year after the date of
the election at which it was repealed.  Re-enactment requires an affirmative
vote by not less than two-thirds (2/3) membership of the council.
   (c)   If two (2) or more ordinances adopted at the same election shall have
conflicting provisions, the provisions in the ordinance receiving the highest
number of affirmative votes shall govern.
Section 8.15  Codification.
   (a)   Within three (3) years of this charter’s effective date and at least
every ten (10) years thereafter, the council shall provide for preparing a
general codification of all the city ordinances and resolutions having the
effect of law.
   (b)   The general codification shall be enacted by ordinance and be known as
the City of The Village of Douglas Code.  Copies shall be furnished to city
officials, placed in a local library, and sufficient copies maintained in the
clerk’s office for free public reference, and made available for purchase by
the general public at cost.
   (c)   After publishing of the first City of the Village of Douglas Code, new
ordinances and resolutions shall be printed annually in a form for integration
with the code currently in effect.
Section 8.16  Recall.
   Any elected official may be recalled from office by the electors of the city
in the manner provided by statute.  A vacancy created by such recall shall be
filled in the manner prescribed by this charter and by statute.  A vacancy
created after any elected official is recalled and before an election required
by law to fill the vacant office, shall be filled by an appointment recommended
by the mayor and approved by the council.
CHAPTER IX
BUDGETS AND FINANCE
Section 9.1  Fiscal Year.
   This fiscal year of the city shall begin on the first day of July and end on
June 30.
Section 9.2  Budget Procedure.
   On or before the second Monday in April of each year, each officer,
department and board of the city shall submit to the city manager an itemized
estimate of its expected income, if any, and expenditures for the next fiscal
year, for the department or activities under its control.  The city manager
shall compile and review such budget request and shall then prepare his or her
budgetary recommendations and submit them to the city council at its meeting
nearest to the third Monday in May of each year.
Section 9.3  Budget Document.
   The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year and shall include those items required by the Uniform Budgeting and
Accounting Act 2 of the Public Acts of 1968, as amended.  Also to be included
shall be such other supporting schedules as the council may deem necessary or
the council may require.
Section 9.4  Budget Hearing.
   Before its final adoption, a public hearing on the budget proposal shall be
held as provided by law.  Notice of the time and place of holding such hearings
shall be published by the clerk in a newspaper having general circulation in
the city at least a week in advance thereof.  A copy of the proposed budget
shall be on file and available to the public during office hours at the office
of the clerk for a period of not less than one (1) week prior to such public
hearing.
Section 9.5  Adoption Of The Budget.
   The council shall, not later than the second regular meeting in June, adopt
by resolution a budget for the ensuing fiscal year and make appropriations
therefore.  After consideration of probable other revenues, the council shall
determine and declare the amount of money necessary to be raised by property
taxation, which amount shall not be greater than otherwise limited in this
charter or by general law.
Section 9.6  Budget Control.
   (a)   Except for trust or agency, internal service, enterprise, debt service
or capital project funds for which the council may pass a special
appropriation, no money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city except in
accordance with an appropriation thereof for such specific purposes, nor shall
any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred without an
appropriation covering all payments which will be due under such obligation in
the current fiscal year.  The council, by resolution, may transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from one account,
department, fund or agency to another except for funds or accounts required to
be segregated by contract or law.  Notwithstanding the provisions of Subsection
(b) and (d), the council shall not incur a deficit during any fiscal year which
is not eliminated by the end of the fiscal year.
   (b)   The council may make additional appropriations during the fiscal year
for unanticipated expenditures required by the city, but such additional
appropriations shall not exceed the amount by which actual and anticipated
revenues of the year are exceeding the revenues as estimated in the budget.
   (c)   Except in those cases where there is no other logical account to which
expenditures can be charged, expenditures shall not be charged directly to the
contingency fund (or similar fund).  Instead, the necessary part of the
appropriation from the contingency fund (or other similar fund) shall be
transferred to the logical account, and the expenditure charted to such
account.
   (d)   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and
more often if required by the council, the city manager shall submit to the
council data showing the relation between the estimated and actual revenues and
expenditures to date; and if it shall appear that the revenues are less than
anticipated, the council shall reduce appropriations except amounts required
for debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep
expenditures within the revenue.
   (e)   The balance in any budget appropriation which has not been encumbered
at the end of the fiscal year shall, subject to restrictions imposed or
permitted by law, revert to the general fund.
   (f)   The City shall establish a system of accounts that conforms to a
uniform system of accounts as required by law.
Section 9.7  Independent Audit.
   An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the city government
annually and more frequently if deemed necessary by the council.  Such audit
shall be made by qualified accountants experienced in municipal accounting. 
The results of such audit shall be made public in such manner as the council
may determine.  An annual report of the city business shall be made available
to the public in such form as will disclose pertinent facts concerning the
activities and finance of the city government.  The council shall provide the
funds to defray the cost of the annual audit and the report herein required in
each annual budget of the city.
CHAPTER X
TAXATION
Section 10.1  Power To Tax.
   The city shall have power to assess, levy and collect taxes, rents, tolls
and excises.  The subjects of ad valorem taxation shall be the same as for
state, county and school purposes under general law.  Except as otherwise
provided by this charter, city taxes shall be levied, collected and returned in
the manner provided by statute.
Section 10.2  Tax Limits.
   Exclusive of any levy for the payment of principal of and interest on
outstanding general obligation bonds approved in accordance with Constitution
1963, Article 9, Section 6, and exclusive of any other levies authorized by law
to be made beyond charter tax rate limitations, the levy of ad valorem taxes
for general municipal purposes shall not exceed two percent (2%) or twenty (20)
mills of the taxable value of all real and personal property in the city.  For
purposes of this section, taxable value is that value determined under Section
27a of the General Property Tax Act, 1893 Public Act 206, MCL 211.27a or as may
be from time to time amended.
Section 10.3  Exemptions.
   No exemptions from taxation shall be allowed except as expressly required or
permitted by law.
Section 10.4  Tax Day.
   Subject to the exceptions provided or permitted by statute, the taxable
status of persons and property shall be determined as of the 31st day of
December, or such other day as may subsequently be required by law, which shall
be deemed Tax Day.
Section 10.5  Assessment Roll.
   The assessor shall, in accordance with state law, make and certify an
assessment roll of all persons and property in the city liable to taxation.
Section 10.6  Board Of Review.
   (a)   The board of review shall consist of three (3) residents who are
electors of the city, but not city officers or employees.  The assessor is to
be the clerk of the board of review and nonvoting.  The board shall be entitled
to such remuneration as shall be determined by the council.
   (b)   The first such board of review appointed under the provisions of this
charter shall be made up of three (3) qualified members appointed for one (1),
two (2) and three (3) year terms.  The council shall appoint a member for a
three (3) year term at the first regular council meeting in January of each
succeeding year.
Section 10.7  Duties And Functions Of The Board Of Review.
   For the purpose of revising and correcting assessments, the board of review
shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as are
conferred by law and required of boards of review.  It shall hear the
complaints of all persons considering themselves aggrieved by assessment, and
if it shall appear that any person or property has been wrongfully assessed or
omitted from the rolls, the board shall correct the roll in such manner as it
deems just.  In all cases the roll shall be reviewed according to the facts
existing on the tax day and no change in the status of any property after that
day shall be considered by the board in making its decision.  Except as
otherwise provided by law, no person, other than the board of review, shall
make or authorize any change upon or addition or correction to the assessment
roll.  It shall be the duty of the assessor to keep a permanent record of all
the proceedings of the board and to enter therein all resolutions and decisions
of the board.  Such proceedings shall be filed in the office of the clerk.
Section 10.8  Meetings Of The Board Of Review.
   The board of review shall convene in accordance with statute each year to
review and correct the assessment roll and shall remain in session for not less
than two (2) days.  It shall choose its own chairman.  Two (2) of its members
shall constitute a quorum.  On or before the first Monday in April the board of
review shall endorse the assessment roll as provided hereafter.
Section 10.9  Notice Of Meetings.
   Notice of the time of the sessions of the board of review shall be published
by the assessor at least ten (10) days prior to the meeting.
Section 10.10  Certification Of Roll.
   The board of review shall endorse the assessment roll as provided by
statute.  Such roll shall be the assessment roll of the city for all tax
purposes.
Section 10.11  Clerk To Certify Tax Levy.
   Within three (3) days after the council has adopted the budget for the
ensuing year, the clerk shall certify to the assessor the total amount which
the council determines shall be raised by the general ad valorem tax.  He shall
also certify all amounts of current or delinquent special assessments and all
other amounts which the council requires or orders to be assessed, reassessed,
or charged upon said roll against any property or any person in accordance with
the provisions of this charter or any ordinances of the city
Section 10.12  City Tax Roll.
   The assessor shall prepare a copy of the assessment roll, to be known as the
city tax roll, and upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to
be raised, the assessor shall spread upon said tax roll the several amounts
determined by the council to be charged, assessed, or reassessed against
persons or property.  He shall also spread thereon the amounts of the general
ad valorem city tax according to and in proportion to the several valuations
set forth in said assessment roll.  To avoid fractions in computation of any
tax roll, the assessor may add to the amount of the several taxes to be raised
not more than the amount prescribed by law.  Any excess created thereby on any
tax roll shall belong to the city.
Section 10.13  Tax Roll Certified For Collection.
   After spreading the taxes the assessor shall certify the tax roll, and shall
annex his warrant thereto, directing and requiring the treasurer to collect the
several sums mentioned therein opposite their respective names as a tax,
charge, or assessment, and granting to him, for the purpose of collecting the
taxes, assessments and charges of such roll, all the statutory powers and
immunities possessed by city treasurers for the collection of taxes under the
general laws of the state.
Section 10.14  Tax Lien.
   On July 1st of each year the taxes thus assessed shall become a debt due to
the city from persons to whom assessed.  The amount of all personal property
taxes and all interest and charges thereon shall become a lien on all personal
property of such persons so assessed.  Such lien shall take precedence over all
other claims, encumbrances, and liens to the extent provided by law and shall
continue until such taxes, interest and charges are paid.
Section 10.15  Taxes Due Notification Thereof.
   City taxes shall be due on July 1st of each year.  The treasurer shall not
be required to call upon persons named in the city tax roll nor make personal
demand for payment of taxes, but shall:
   (1)   Publish between June 15th and July 1st notice of the time when said
taxes will be due for collection and of the penalties and fees for the late
payment thereof; and
   (2)   Mail a tax bill to each person named in said roll.  In cases of
multiple ownership of property, only one bill need be mailed.  Failure on the
part of the treasurer to publish said notice or mail such bills shall not
invalidate such taxes on said tax roll nor release the person or property
assessed from the penalties and fees provided in this chapter in case of late
or nonpayment of same.
Section 10.16  Collection Charges On Late Payment Of Taxes.
   No penalty shall be charged for city taxes paid on or before the 14th day of
September.  The council shall provide, by ordinance, the tax payment schedule
for taxes paid after September 14th, and the amount of penalty.  Collection
fees or interest charges, if any, to be paid thereafter shall not exceed the
limit allowed by statute.  Such charges shall belong to the city and constitute
a charge and shall be a lien against the property to which the taxes apply,
collectible in the same manner as the taxes to which they are added.
Section 10.17  Collection Of Delinquent Taxes.
   All city taxes on real property remaining uncollected by the treasurer on
the 1st day of March, or such date established by statute, following the date
when said roll was received by him or her shall be returned to the county
treasurer in the same manner and with like effect as returned by township
treasurers of township, school and county taxes.  Such return should be made
upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the treasurer and shall include
all the additional charges and assessments herein before provided, such charges
shall be added to the amount assessed in said tax roll against each
description.  Taxes thus returned shall be collected in the same manner as
other taxes returned to the county treasurer in accordance with the provisions
of the general laws of the state, and shall be and remain a lien upon the
property against which they are assessed until paid.
Section 10.18  Failure Or Refusal To Pay Personal Property Tax.
   If any person, firm, or corporation shall neglect or refuse to pay any
personal property tax assessed to him or them, the treasurer shall collect the
same by seizing the personal properties of such person, firm or corporation, to
an amount sufficient to pay such tax, fees and charges for subsequent sale,
wherever the same may be found in the state, and from which seizure no property
shall be exempt.  He may sell the property seized to an amount sufficient to
pay the taxes and all charges in accordance with statutory provisions.  The
treasurer may, if otherwise unable to collect a tax on personal property, sue
the person, firm or corporation to whom it is assessed in accordance with the
statute.
Section 10.19  State, County And School Taxes.
   The levy, collection and return of state, county and school taxes shall be
in conformity with the general laws of the state.
CHAPTER XI
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
Section 11.1.  Special Assessment: General Powers.
   The council shall have the power to determine that the whole or any part of
the cost of any public improvement shall be defrayed by special assessment upon
property in a special district and shall so declare by resolution which shall
state the estimated cost of the improvement, what proportion of the cost
thereof shall be paid by special assessment, and what part, if any, shall be a
general obligation of the city, the number of installments in which assessments
shall be levied and whether the assessments shall be based upon special
benefits, frontage, area, valuation or other factors permitted by law, or a
combination thereof.  The council shall also have the power of reassessment
with respect to any such public improvement.
Section 11.2.  Procedure Fixed By Ordinance.
   The council shall prescribe by ordinance the complete special assessment or
reassessment procedure governing the initiation of projects, preparation of
plans and cost estimates, notice of hearings on necessity and on confirmation
of the assessment rolls, and making and confirming of the assessment rolls,
correction of errors, the collection of special assessments, and any other
matters concerning the making and financing of improvements by special
assessment.
Section 11.3.  Implementation.
   The council shall have and is given the power to pass ordinances
implementing the provisions of this chapter and detailing the procedure
relative and hereto.  A complete and detailed record of all bonds and other
evidences of indebtedness issued by the city shall be kept by the treasurer or
other designated officer.
CHAPTER XII
BORROWING
Section 12.1  General Power.
   Subject to the applicable provisions of law, the city may borrow money for
any purpose within the scope of its powers, and as otherwise provided by law,
and may issue bonds or other evidence of indebtedness therefore.  Such bonds or
other evidence of indebtedness shall include, but not be limited to:
   (a)   General obligation bonds, which pledge the full faith and credit of
the city for payment thereof.
   (b)   Special assessment bonds which are issued in anticipation of the
payment of special assessments for public improvements in a special assessment
district or combination thereof, which bonds may be either an obligation solely
of the special assessment district or districts, or both an obligation of such
district and a general obligation of the city.
   (c)   Revenue bonds as authorized by law.
   (d)   Mortgage bonds for the acquiring, owning, purchasing, constructing,
improving or operating of any public utility which the city is authorized by
law to finance in this mariner, or for such other purposes as may be authorized
by law.
   (e)   Tax anticipation notes as authorized by law.
   (f)   Calamity bonds issued in case of fire, flood or other calamity as
authorized by law.
   (g)   Bonds for the city’s share of the cost of local improvements, which
bonds may be issued as part of, or independently of, any issue of special
assessment bonds which are issued for the same improvement or improvements.
   (h)   Bonds for refunding the indebtedness of the city.
   (i)   Budget bonds as authorized by law.
   (j)   Time-purchase contracts as authorized elsewhere herein, to the extent
that the same are considered to be debts.
   (k)   Bonds issued in anticipation of future payments from the motor vehicle
highway fund or any other fund of the State which the city may be permitted by
law to pledge for the payment of principal and interest thereof.
Section 12.2  Limits Of Borrowing Authority.
   (a)   The net bonded indebtedness incurred for all public purposes shall not
at any time exceed the maximum amount permitted by law, provided that in
computing such bonded indebtedness there shall be excluded money borrowed on
special assessment bonds, even though they are a general obligation of the
city, mortgage bonds, revenue bonds, bonds in anticipation of state-returned
revenues to the extent permitted by law, and any other bonds or indebtedness
excluded by law from such limitation.  The amount of funds accumulated for the
retirement of any outstanding bonds shall also be deducted from the amount of
bonded indebtedness.
   (b)   No bonds shall be sold to obtain funds for any purpose other than that
for which they were specifically authorized, and if such bonds are not sold
within the time limited by law, such authorization shall be null and void.
   (c)   The issuance of any bonds not requiring the approval of the electorate
shall be subject to applicable requirements of law with reference to public
notice in advance of authorization of such issues, filing of petitions for a
referendum on such issuance, holding such referendum, and other applicable
procedural requirements.
Section 12.3  Use Of Borrowed Funds.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement of the purpose for which the same is issued and no officer of the
city shall use the proceeds thereof for any other purpose, except that whenever
the proceeds of any bond issue, or a part thereof, remain unexpended and
unencumbered for the purpose for which said bond issue was made, the council
may authorize the use of such unexpended and unencumbered funds subject to the
approvals as may be required by law where required:
   (a)   For an additional extension or improvement of facility or project for
which the bond issue was issued.
   (b)   For the retirement of such bond issue.
   (c)   If such bond issue has been fully retired or funds are segregated
which are adequate for such purpose, then for the retirement of other bonds or
obligations of the city.
   (d)   If there is no other indebtedness, or funds are segregated which are
adequate for such purpose, then for such other purposes as may be permitted by
law.
Section 12.4  Separation Of Special Assessment Collections; Payment of
Deficiency in Special Assessments.
   All collections on each special assessment roll or combination of rolls, in
anticipation of which bonds have been issued, shall be set apart if a separate
fund (but not necessarily in a separate bank account) and shall be used for the
purpose for which levied and for the payment of the principal and interest on
such bonds.  If there is any deficiency in a special assessment fund to meet
the payment of the principal or interest to be paid, money shall be advanced
from the general funds of the city to meet such deficiency and shall be
replaced in the general fund when the special assessment fund shall be
sufficient therefore.
Section 12.5  Bond Interest Rates.
   No bond or other evidence of indebtedness of the city shall bear interest at
a rate exceeding the maximum rate permitted by law.
Section 12.6  Execution Of Bonds.
   All bonds issued by the city shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned
by the city clerk, and shall bear the corporate seal of the city.  Said
signatures may be by facsimile if permitted by law.  Any attached coupons may
be signed with the facsimile signature of the city clerk.
Section 12.7  Records Of Bonds And Other Evidence Of Indebtedness;
Cancellation.
   The treasurer shall keep a detailed record of all bonds and other evidence
of indebtedness.  Upon payment of bonds or other evidence of indebtedness the
same shall be cancelled.
Section 12.8  Preparation And Records Of Bonds.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement specifying the purpose for which it is issued and it shall be
unlawful for any officer of the city to use the proceeds thereof for any other
purpose.  Any officer who shall violate this provision shall be deemed guilty
of a violation of this charter, except that, whenever the proceeds of any bond
issue or parts thereof shall remain unexpended and unencumbered for the purpose
for which said bond issue was made, the council may authorize the use of said
funds for the retirement of bonds of said issue or for any other purpose
permitted by law.  All bonds or other evidences of indebtedness issued by the
city shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned by the clerk, under the
seal of the city.  The signatures of the mayor and clerk, and the seal of the
city may be facsimiles in the case of fully registered bonds.  Interest coupons
may be executed with the facsimile signature of the mayor and the clerk.  A
complete and detailed record of all bonds and other evidences of indebtedness
issued by the city shall be kept by the treasurer or other designated officer. 
Upon the payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the same shall
be cancelled.
Section 12.9  Unissued Bonds.
   Any authorization by the electors for the issuance of bonds by the city
shall be void if such bonds shall not be issued within three (3) years from the
date of authorization.
CHAPTER XIII
CONTRACTS & PURCHASES
Section 13.1  Establishment Of Procedures By Ordinance; City Manager
Responsible For Purchases; Authority.
   The power to authorize the making of purchases, sales, leases and contracts
shall be vested in the council, and shall be exercised in accordance with the
provisions of law.  Except as otherwise provided by ordinance in accordance
with the provisions of this charter, all contracts shall be authorized by the
council and shall be signed on behalf of the city the mayor and the clerk.  The
city manager shall be responsible for purchasing, and a system of centralized
purchasing shall be developed and maintained. The authority to contract on
behalf of the city is vested in the council, provided that the City Manager
shall have the power as authorized by ordinance to bind the city as to routine
or operational items.
Section 13.2  Funds To Finance Public Improvements.
   The city may establish and maintain funds, for special assessment projects
or other improvements, for the purpose of accumulating moneys to be used for
financing, making, acquiring, extending, altering or repairing public
improvements.  Moneys so accumulated may be transferred, encumbered or
otherwise disposed of only for the purpose for which accumulated unless
otherwise determined and declared by formal resolution of the council and then
only for the purpose of making some other public improvement.
Section 13.3  Installment Contracts.
   The city may enter into installment contracts as permitted by law.  Each
such contract shall not extend over a period greater than that permitted by law
nor shall the total amount of principal payments under all such contracts
exceed a sum permitted by law.  Each such deferred payment shall be included in
the budget for the year in which each respective installment is payable.
Section 13.4  Purchase And Sale Of Real And Personal Property.
   The council shall establish by ordinance the procedures for the purchase,
sale or lease of real and personal property and services for the city for the
direction of the city manager.  The ordinance shall provide a dollar limit
within which purchases, sales or leases of real and personal property and
services may be made without the necessity of securing competitive bids, and
the dollar limit within which purchases, sales or leases may be made without
the necessity of prior council approval.
Section 13.5  Restriction On Power To Lease Property.
   Any agreement or contract for the renting or leasing of public property for
a period longer than three (3) years shall be subject to the same referendum
procedure as provided in the case of ordinances passed by the council. 
However, a summary of the terms of any such agreement or contract shall be
published within ten (10) days after its approval by the council, and any
petition for such referendum must be filed within thirty (30) days after such
publication to be effective.
   The transfer or assignment of any agreement or contract for the renting or
leasing of public property may be made only upon approval of the council, but
approval of such transfer shall not be subject to referendum.
Section 13.6  Restriction On Powers To Sell Property.
   The city may not sell any cemetery, park or any part thereof unless approved
by a majority of the electors voting thereon at any general or special
election.
CHAPTER XIV
UTILITIES, FRANCHISES AND PERMITS
Section 14.1  General Powers.
   The city shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by law to acquire, construct, own, operate, improve, enlarge, extend,
repair, maintain, encumber, convey, dispose of or sell, either within or
without its corporate limits, public utilities, including, but not by the way
of limitation, aeronautical facilities, cemeteries, hospitals and public
utilities for treating and supplying water and for supplying light, heat,
power, gas, sewage treatment, garbage disposal, public transportation and
facilities for the storage and parking of vehicles; and also to sell and
deliver the products or services thereof, both within and without its corporate
limits, subject to the limitations herein contained.  The power to supply said
utilities services, as herein possessed, and reserved, shall include the power
to extract, process, manufacture, and transport or purchase the same from
others.
Section 14.2  Administration Of Municipally Owned And Operated Utilities.
   (a)   All municipally owned and operated utilities shall be administered as
a regular department of the city government under the management and
supervision of the city manager.  The city may exercise its powers under
14.1 intergovernmental contracts.
   (b)   The council may enact such ordinances and adopt such resolutions as
may be necessary for the care, protection preservation, control and operation
of any public utilities which the city may, in any manner acquire, own, or
operate and all fixtures, appurtenances, apparatus, building, and machinery
connected therewith or belonging thereto, and to carry into effect the powers
conferred upon the city by the provision of this charter and by law.
Section 14.3  Rates.
   (a)   The council shall fix just and reasonable rates and such other charges
as may be deemed advisable for supplying municipal utility services. 
Discrimination in rates by the council, within any classification of users,
shall not be permitted, nor shall free service be permitted other than to the
city, but higher rates may be charged for utility services delivered or
furnished beyond the corporate limits of the city.
   (b)   The rates and charges for any municipal utility shall be fixed on a
basis at least adequate to compensate the city for the cost of such service and
to make reasonable provision for the extension thereof according to the needs
of the city.  Transactions pertaining to the ownership and operation of each
municipal utility shall be recorded in a separate group of accounts, which
shall be classified in accordance with generally accepted accounting
practices.  Charges for all service furnished to, or rendered by, other city
departments or administrative units shall be recorded, whether collected or
not.  An annual report shall be prepared to show the financial position of each
utility and the results of its operation.  A copy of such reports shall be
available for inspection at the office of the clerk.
Section 14.4  Collection Of Municipal Utility Rates And Charges.
   (a)   The council shall provide by ordinance for the collection of rates and
charges for public utility services furnished by the city.  When any person
fails or refuses to pay to the city any sums due on utility bills, the service
upon which such delinquency exists may be discontinued and suit may be brought
for the collection thereof.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by law, the city shall have a lien upon
the premises to which utility services are supplied and, for such purposes,
shall have all the powers granted to cities by law.  The lien shall become
effective immediately on the distribution or supplying of utility services to
such premises.  In each case where a lien to secure the payment of utility
charges is not available to the city by operation of law or otherwise, the
council shall require that an adequate deposit be made by the person to whom
city utility services are furnished, for the purpose of guaranteeing the
collection of charges for such utility services.
   (c)   All unpaid charges for utility services to any such premises, which,
on the thirty-first (31st) day of March of each year, have remained unpaid for
a period of six (6) months or more, shall be reported to the council by the
city manager and the council at the first meeting thereof in the month of
April.  The council thereupon shall order the publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city of notice that all such unpaid utility charges
not paid by the thirtieth (30th) day of April will be spread upon the city’s
tax roll against the premises to which such utility services were supplied or
furnished, and such charges shall to the extent authorized by law then be
spread upon the city’s tax roll and shall be collected in the same manner as
the city taxes.
Section 14.5  Accounts And Finances Of Public Utilities.
   Separate accounts termed Enterprise Funds shall be kept for each public
utility owned and operated by the city.  Such accounts shall be classified and
made in accordance with generally accepted municipal utility accounting
practice.  Charges for all services furnished to, or rendered by, other city
departments or agencies shall be recorded.  An annual report shall be prepared
to show more accurately the financial position of the utility and the results
of its operations which report shall be on file in the office of the clerk for
inspection.
Section 14.6  Disposal Of Municipal Utility Plants And Property.
   The city shall not sell, exchange, lease, or in any way dispose of any
property, easement, equipment, privilege, or asset needed to continue the
operation of any municipal public utility, unless the proposition to do so is
approved by at least three-fifths of the electors of the city voting on the
question at a regular or special city election.  All contracts, grants, leases,
or other forms of transfer in violation of this section shall be void and of no
effect as against the city.  The restrictions of this section shall not apply
to the sale or exchange of articles of machinery or equipment of any
municipally owned public utility, which are no longer useful or which are
replaced by new machinery or equipment, or to the leasing of property not
necessary for the operation of the utility, or to the exchange of property or
easements for other needed property or interests in property.
Section 14.7  Public Utility Franchises.
   The city may grant a franchise to any person for the use of the streets,
alleys, bridges, and other public places of the city for the furnishing of any
public utility service to the city and its inhabitants.  Franchises and
renewals, amendments, and extensions thereof shall be granted only by
ordinance.  Public utility franchises shall include provisions for fixing rates
and charges and may provide for readjustments thereof at periodic intervals. 
The city may, with respect to any public utility franchise granted after the
effective date of this charter, whether or not so provided in the granting
ordinance:
   (a)   Terminate the same for the violation of any of its provisions, for the
misuse or nonuse thereof, for failure to comply with any provision thereof, or
any regulation imposed under authority of this section;
   (b)   Require proper and adequate extension of plant and the maintenance
thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   Establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products, and
prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   Impose other regulations determined by the council to be conducive to
the health, safety, welfare and convenience of the public;
   (e)   Require the public utility to permit joint use of its property and
appurtenances located in the streets, alleys, bridges, and public places, by
the city and other utilities, insofar as such joint use may be reasonably
practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefore, and, in the
absence of agreement, upon application by the public utility, provide for
arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint use and the compensation
to be paid therefore;
   (f)   Require the public utility to pay any part of the cost of improvement
or maintenance of streets, alleys, bridges and public places, that arises from
its use thereof, and to protect and save the city harmless from all damages
arising from such use;
   (g)   Require the public utility to file with the city manager such drawings
and maps of the location and nature of its facilities, as the council may
request.
Section 14.8  Public Utility Franchises – Granting.
   (a)   Public utility franchises and all renewals, and extensions thereof and
amendments thereto shall be granted only by ordinance.  No franchise shall be
granted for a longer period than thirty (30) years.
   (b)   No franchise ordinance, which is not subject to revocation at the will
of the council, shall be enacted nor become operative until the same shall have
first been referred to the people at a regular or special election and received
the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the electors voting thereon.  No such
franchise ordinance shall be approved by the council for referral to the
electorate before thirty (30) days after application therefore has been filed
with the council nor until a public hearing has been held thereon, nor until
the grantee named therein has filed with the clerk his or her unconditional
acceptance of all the terms of such franchise.  No special election for such
purpose shall be ordered unless the expense of holding such election, as
determined by the council, shall have been first paid to the treasurer by the
grantee.
   (c)   A franchise ordinance, or renewal or extension thereof, or amendment
thereto, which is subject to revocation at the will of the council may be
enacted by the council without referral to the voters, but shall not be enacted
unless it shall have been complete in the form in which it is finally enacted
and shall have so been on file in the office of the clerk for public inspection
for at least four weeks after publication of a notice that such ordinance is on
file.
Section 14.9  Public Utility Franchises – Conditions.
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to
the following rights of the city, but this enumeration shall not be exclusive
or impair the right of the council to insert in such franchise any provision
within the power of the city to impose or require:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, non-use, or failure to comply with the
provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require adequate extension of plant and service and maintenance
thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire length
thereof;
   (e)   To use, control, and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges
and other public places and the space above and beneath them;
   (f)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the council
to be conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation to the public.
Section 14.10  Filing Of Franchises.
   Every ordinance granting a franchise, license or right to occupy or use
streets, alleys, bridges or public places for more than sixty (60) days shall
remain on file with the clerk for public inspection in its final form for at
least fourteen (14) days before the final adoption thereof, or the approval
thereof for referral to the electorate.
Section 14.11  Plans Of Facilities In Streets And Public Places.
   (a)   The council may, by ordinance, require as a condition to the placing
or installment thereof, that each public utility conducting a business in the
city, file with the city manager a duplicate copy of layout plans of pipes,
conduits, and other facilities which are to be placed on, under, or above the
surface of the city’s streets, alleys, bridges and public places.
   (b)   Every public utility shall pay such part of the cost of improvement or
maintenance of streets, alleys, bridges and other public places as shall arise
from its use thereof and shall protect and save the city harmless from all
damages arising from said use.  Every such public utility may be required by
the city to permit joint use of its property and appurtenances located in the
streets, alleys, and other public places of the city, by the city and other
utilities insofar as such joint use may be reasonably practicable, and upon
payment of reasonable rental therefore.  In the absence of agreement and upon
application by any public utility, the council shall provide for arbitration of
the terms and conditions as such joint use and the compensation to be paid
therefore.
Section 14.12  Temporary Permits.
   Temporary permits for public utilities, revocable at any time at the will of
the council, may be granted by the council by resolution on such terms and
conditions as it shall determine, provided that such permits shall in no event
be construed to be franchises or amendments to franchises.  A temporary permit
shall be subject to the rights of the city to make independent audit and
examination of accounts at any time and to require reports annually or at more
frequent intervals as prescribed by resolution of the council.  When the
council deems it in the public interest, such permits may be exclusive.
Section 14.13  Existing Franchises And Permits.
   All franchises and permits to which the Village of Douglas is a party when
this charter becomes effective shall remain in full force and effect according
to each agreement.
Section 14.14  Purchase – Condemnation.
   The city shall have the right to acquire by condemnation, or otherwise, the
property of any public utility in accordance with general law, provided that
the price to be paid shall in no event include any value predicated upon the
franchise, goodwill or prospective profits.
CHAPTER XV
MISCELLANEOUS
Section 15.1  Liability Of City; Procedure For Filing Claim.
   The city shall have all the governmental immunities from claims for damages
for injury to persons or property as may be permitted by law.  The procedures
in regard to filing of claims and disposition of the same shall be as permitted
by law.
Section 15.2  Records.
   All records of the city shall be public, shall be kept in city offices
except when required for official reasons or for purpose of safe keeping to be
elsewhere, and shall be available to the general public at all reasonable times
in compliance with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act.
Section 15.3  Estoppel Against City.
   No estoppel may be created against the city.
Section 15.4  Processes Against City.
   All processes against the city shall run against the city in the corporate
name thereof, and may be served by leaving a true copy with the mayor or clerk.
Section 15.5  Trusts For Municipal Purposes.
   All trusts established for any municipal purpose shall be used and contained
in accordance with the terms of such trust subject to the cy pres doctrine. 
The council may in its discretion receive and hold any property in trust for
any municipal purpose and shall apply the same to the execution of such trust
and for no other purposes, except in cases where the cy pres doctrine shall
apply.
Section 15.6  Quorum Generally.
   Except as provided otherwise in this charter, a quorum of any board or
commission created by and pursuant to this charter shall be a majority of the
members of such board or commission in office at the time, but not less than
two (2) members.
Section 15.7  Saturdays, Sundays And City Holidays.
   Whenever the date fixed by this charter for the doing or completion of any
act falls on a Saturday, Sunday or City Holiday, such act shall be done or
completed on the next succeeding day that is not on a Saturday, Sunday, or City
Holiday.
Section 15.8  Chapter, Section and Subsection Headings of Charter.
   The chapter, section and subsection headings used in this charter are for
convenience only, and shall not be considered as part of the charter.
Section 15.9  Amendment Of Charter.
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided by statute. 
Should two or more amendments adopted at the same election have conflicting
provisions, the one receiving the largest affirmative vote shall prevail as to
those provisions.
Section 15.10  Severability Of Charter Provisions.
   Should any provision or section, or portion thereof, of this charter be held
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, or
unconstitutional, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity
of this charter as a whole or of any remaining portion of such provision or
section, it being hereby declared to be the intent of the charter commission,
and of the electors who voted thereon, that such unconstitutionality or
illegality shall not affect the validity of any other part of this charter.
Section 15.11  Saving Clause.
   The amendment or repeal of this charter, ordinance, resolution, order or
regulation or any charter, ordinance, resolution, order and regulation
provision shall have no effect upon prosecution commenced prior to the
effective date of this charter if prosecution is based on actions taken prior
to the effective date of this charter.  Those prosecutions shall be conducted
under the charter provision in effect prior to the effective date of this
charter.
Section 15.12  Definitions – Generally.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context or is
further extended and defined:
   (a)   All words used in this charter indicating the present tense shall not
be limited to the time of the adoption of this charter, but shall extend to and
include the time of the happening of any event or requirement for which
provision is made herein.
   (b)   The singular number shall include the plural, the plural number shall
include the singular and masculine gender shall extend to and include the
feminine gender and the neuter.
   (c)   The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate, and to partnerships as well as to individuals.
   (d)   The word “printed” and “printing” shall include reproductions by
printing, engraving, stencil, duplicating, lithographing or any similar
reproduction method.
   (e)   Except in reference to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” shall include printing and typewriting and any other currently-
acceptable similar method.
   (f)   The word “officer” shall include the mayor and other members of the
council, the administrative officers, members of the city boards and
commissions created by or pursuant to this charter.
   (g)   The word “employee” shall mean those persons not holding elective or
appointive office, one who is generally subordinate to the officer and performs
only those duties specifically assigned by a contract, department head or other
governmental body.
   (h)   The word “freeholder” shall include any person who is purchasing
property or land.
   (i)   The word “default” shall include being delinquent in taxes.
   (j)   The word “statute” shall denote the Public Acts of the State of
Michigan in effect at the time the provision of the charter containing the word
“statute” is to be applied.
   (k)   All references to specific Public Acts of the State of Michigan shall
be to such acts as are in effect at the time the reference to such act is to be
applied.
   (l)   The word “law” denotes applicable federal law, the constitution and
statutes of the State of Michigan, and the applicable common law.
   (m)   All reference to section numbers shall refer to section numbers of
this charter.
   (n)   The word “city” shall mean the City of the Village of Douglas.
   (o)   The word “council” shall mean the council of the City of the Village
of Douglas.
   (p)   The words “public utility” shall include all common carriers in the
public streets; water, sewage, disposal; electric light and power; gas;
telephone and telegraph lines and systems; cable television; garbage and refuse
collection and disposal and reduction plants; transportation; and such other
and different enterprises as the council may determine or designate.
   (q)   For the purpose of this charter, the offense of “misconduct” in office
includes doing a wrongful act, doing a lawful act in a wrongful manner, failure
to perform an act required by the duties of the office or by rule established
by the council.
   (r)   “Public record” means a writing prepared, owned, used, in the
possession of, or retained by a public body in the performance of an official
function, from the time it is created.  Public record is subject to the Freedom
of Information Act, 1976 PA 442, 15.231 to 15.246.
   (s)   The word “family” shall include: spouse, child, grandchild, father,
mother, grandmother, grandfather, sister, half-sister, brother, half-brother
and spouse of any of them, and all relationships including those arising from
adoption.
   (t)   The term “member of the council” shall mean all elected or appointed
members of the council.
Section 15.13  Definition Of Publication And Mailing Notices.
   The requirement contained in this charter for the publishing or publication
of notices, ordinances or proceedings shall be met by publishing at least once
an appropriate insertion in a newspaper published in the English language for
the dissemination of news of a general character, which newspaper shall have
had a general circulation at regular intervals in the city for at least one
year immediately preceding the time it is used for such publication purposes. 
The affidavit of the printer or publisher of such newspaper, or of his or her
foreman or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice, ordinance
or proceeding taken from the paper in which it was published and specifying the
time of publication, shall be prima facie evidence of such publication.
   In any case in which this charter requires the mailing of notices, the
affidavit of the officer or employee responsible for such mailing, that such
notice was mailed shall be prima facie evidence of such mailing.
Section 15.14  Vested Rights.
   After the effective date of this charter, the city shall be vested with all
the property, moneys, contracts, rights, credits, effects and the records,
files, books and papers belonging to the Village of Douglas.  No right or
liability, either in favor or against the Village of Douglas, existing at the
time of this charter becomes effective and no suit or prosecution of any
character shall in any manner be affected by any change, resulting from the
adoption of this charter, but the same shall stand or proceed as if no change
had been made.  All debts and liabilities of the Village of Douglas shall be
the debts and liabilities of The City of the Village of Douglas and all fines
and penalties imposed at the time of such change shall be collected.
CHAPTER XVI
TRANSITION
Section 16.1  Purpose.
   The purpose of this chapter is to inaugurate the government of the City of
the Village of Douglas under this charter and to provide for the transition
from the Village of Douglas.  It shall constitute a part of this charter only
to the extent and for the time required to accomplish this end.
Section 16.2  Election To Adopt.
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the registered electors of the
territory described in
Section 1.2 at an election to be scheduled by resolution of the Charter
Commission subsequent to the approval of this charter by the Governor, of the
State of Michigan between the hours of 7:00 a.m., and 8:00 p.m., local time. 
All provisions for the submission of the question of adopting this charter at
such election shall be made in a manner provided by law.  The election shall be
conducted by the Charter Commission, provided, however, that the Charter
Commission may delegate such responsibilities as it deems proper to the Village
Clerk.  If at said election a majority of the electors voting thereon shall
vote in favor of the adoption of this charter, then the city clerk shall
perform all other acts required by law to implement this charter into effect.
Section 16.3  Form Of Ballot.
   The form of the ballot for the submission of this charter shall be as
follows:
Instructions:  A mark in the square before the word “Yes” is in favor of the
proposed charter, and a mark in the square before the word “No” is against the
proposed charter.
Shall the proposed charter for the City of the Village of Douglas, drafted by
the Charter Commission elected on April 21, 2003 be adopted?
   Yes
   No
Section 16.4  Effective Date of Charter.
   If the votes upon the adoption of this charter show it to have been adopted,
it shall take effect and become law as the Charter of the City of the Village
of Douglas upon certification of the election and the filing of the charter
with the Allegan County Clerk and the Michigan Secretary of State.
Section 16.5  First Election.
   An election to elect the first city council shall be held on same day as the
Charter election.  Seven (7) council persons shall be elected.
   (a)   The four (4) council candidates receiving the highest number of votes
shall have a term beginning on the date this charter becomes effective and
ending at 8:59 o’clock in the morning local time on the Monday following the
date of the second regular election thereafter.
   (b)   The three (3) council candidates receiving the next highest number of
votes shall have a term beginning on the date this charter becomes effective
and ending at 8:59 o’clock in the morning local time on the Monday following
the date of the first regular election thereafter.
   (c)   At the first regular meeting after the election, the council shall
elect the mayor and mayor pro-tem from the seven (7) council members.
Section 16.6  Subsequent Elections.
   Henceforth, the elections for the city mayor and city council shall be held
as set forth in
Section 3.4 of this charter.
Section 16.7  Administrative Officers And Employees.
   (a)   Nothing in this charter, except as otherwise specifically provided,
shall affect or impair the rights or privileges of persons who are village
officers or employees at the time of its adoption.
   (b)   Except as specifically provided by this charter, if at the time this
charter takes full effect a village administrative officer or employee holds an
office or position which is or can be abolished by or under this charter, he or
she shall continue in such office or position until the taking effect of some
specific provision under this charter directing that he or she vacate the
office or position.
   (c)   An employee holding a village position at the time this charter takes
full effect shall continue in that same or comparable position at the time of
its adoption and shall not be subject to competitive tests as a condition of
continuance in the same position but in all other respects shall be subject to
the personnel system provided for in
Section 7.2 of this charter.
Section 16.8  Transfer Of Property And Records.
   All property, records and equipment of any department, office or agency
existing when this charter is adopted shall be transferred to the department,
office or agency assuming its powers and duties.
Section 16.9  Council Meetings.
   (a)   Until otherwise provided by council, the council shall hold two (2)
regular meetings each month at such times and places as prescribed by council.
   (b)   On the first Monday following the effective date of this charter, the
newly-elected members of the council shall hold the first regular meeting of
the city council at 7:00 p.m. at the Village Hall.
Section 16.10  Council Action.
   In all cases involving the transition of the city government from that under
the previous charter to that under this charter, which are not covered by this
Article, the council shall supply necessary details and procedures and may
adopt such rules, regulations, and ordinances as may be required therefore.
Section 16.11  Initial Expenses.
   Initial expenses of the city shall be paid by the city subject to an interim
financial budget.  There shall be an audit of this interim fiscal period in
accordance with the provisions of Section 9.10 of this charter.
Section 16.12  Pending Matters.
   All rights, claims, actions, orders, contracts and legal administrative
proceedings shall continue except as modified pursuant to the provisions of
this charter and in each case shall be maintained, carried on or dealt with by
the city department, office or agency appropriate under this charter.
Section 16.13  Vested Rights And Liabilities.
   After the effective date of this charter, the city and all its agencies
shall be vested with all property, moneys, contracts, rights, credits, effects,
and the records, files, books and papers, belonging to the Village of Douglas. 
No right or liability, contract, lease, or franchise, either in favor of or
against the city, existing at the time this charter became effective, and no
suit or prosecution of any character shall be affected in any manner by any
change resulting from the adoption of this charter, but the same shall stand or
proceed as if no change had been made.  All taxes, debts, and liabilities due
to the village from any person, and all fines and penalties, imposed and
existing at the time of such change, shall be collected by the city.  All
trusts established for any municipal purpose shall be continued in accordance
with the terms thereof, subject to the cy pres doctrine.
Section 16.14  State And Municipal Laws In General.
   All Village of Douglas ordinances, resolutions, orders and regulations which
are in force when this charter becomes fully effective are repealed to the
extent that they are inconsistent or interfere with the effective operation of
this charter or of ordinances or resolutions adopted pursuant thereto.
Section 16.15  Government.
   Subject to the right to resubmit the Charter pursuant to MCL 117.16 et seq.,
in the event the charter proposition is defeated, the Village of Douglas
remains status quo.
Editor’s note:
   The Charter was adopted by the Charter Commission of the City of the Village
of Douglas, Michigan, on Thursday, October 21, 2004.
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “Douglas City Code.”
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHARTER.  The Charter of the City of the Village of Douglas, adopted 10-
21-2004, and shall include any amendment thereto, or any revision thereof.
      CITY.  The City of the Village of Douglas, Michigan.
      CITY COUNCIL or COUNCIL.  The City Council of the City of the Village of
Douglas.
      CODE.  The Douglas City Code as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Allegan, Michigan.
      JUVENILE.  Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR.  A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  An act or omission that is prohibited by
this code or any ordinance of the city, but which is not a crime under this
code or any other ordinance of the city, and for which civil sanctions,
including without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§
600.81.1 to 600.193.20, as amended.  A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a
lesser included offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE.  Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the City of the
Village of Douglas, Michigan.”  Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any
officer of the city is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or
duty, reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES.  The ordinances of the City of the Village of Douglas and all
amendments thereto.
      PERSON.  Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association,
or corporation.  Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section.  The singular includes the plural.  The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE.  The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
§ 10.03  SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. 
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or
division.
§ 10.04  CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city’s
indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the city;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the City Council;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like any street or public way in the city;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the city;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
      (10)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the city;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any
city officers or employees;
      (12)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones;
specific speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield
intersections or other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
      (13)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
      (14)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
   (B)   All the ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force
and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.  The
ordinances are on file in the City Clerk’s office.
§ 10.05  CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06  PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired; or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred; prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07  ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.  The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not
impair or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language:  “That section _____ of the Douglas City Code,
is hereby amended to read as follows: . . .”  The new provisions shall then be
set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used:  “That the Douglas City Code is hereby
amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which the section reads as
follows: . . .”  The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Council.  A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code.  The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code.  For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____  through _____” (inserting section numbers to
indicate the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the
ordinance incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10  APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the city, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. § 764.9c, as amended, when the public
servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed an offense
in violation of a city ordinance:
   (A)   Health Officer;
   (B)   Building Inspector;
   (C)   Fire Marshal; and
   (D)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11  SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99  GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any particular
provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any provision of
this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or
by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and
imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth in the
ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the greater
penalty shall control.  Each act of violation and every day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.  The penalty
provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall
apply to the amendment of any section of this code whether or not the penalty
is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   CITY ORGANIZATIONS
      
33.   CITY PROPERTY
      
34.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
      
35.   COST RECOVERY
      
36.   WATER IMPROVEMENT TAX INCREMENT FINANCING AUTHORITY
      
37.   FINANCE
CHAPTER 30:  CITY COUNCIL
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Fees set by resolution
   
30.02   Special meetings
   
30.03   Imposition of interest and late penalty charges on property tax
collections
   
30.04   Preamble
   
30.05   Purpose of the property tax administration fee
   
30.06   Adoption of property tax administration fee; effective date
   
30.07   Late penalty charge and interest
   
30.08   Property tax administration fee and late penalty fee; lien and
collection
   
30.09   Collection of delinquent taxes
   
30.10   Validity
   
30.11   Compensation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01  FEES SET BY RESOLUTION.
   The City Council shall have the power to establish, by resolution of the
City Council, fees to adequately reimburse the city for conducting certain
business pursuant to the ordinances of the city, including, but not limited to:
  special meetings of the Council or City Planning Commission, hearings by the
Zoning Board of Appeals, planned unit development applications, rezoning
applications, site plan review, special use permits, building permits, and
garbage and refuse permits.
(1995 Code, § 2-31)  (Ord. 93, passed 5-7-1984; Res. passed 12-7-1987; Res.
passed 6-8-1991; Res. passed 9-9-1991; Ord. 93-A, passed 9-25-1995; Res. passed
2-26-1996)
§ 30.02  SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The City Council, by its judgment, may convene a special meeting upon the
request of a citizen or a taxpayer.  In the event of the meeting, the applicant
shall advance the actual cost of publication, City Council meeting per diem, or
any other costs which the city may incur.  The actual estimated meeting cost
shall be deposited with the City Clerk prior to the meeting call to order.
(1995 Code, § 2-32)  (Ord. 92, passed 4-16-1984)
§ 30.03  IMPOSITION OF INTEREST AND LATE PENALTY CHARGES ON PROPERTY TAX
COLLECTIONS.
   (A)   If taxes are not paid by the due date, a 3% late fee is added on all
taxes paid after February 14 and before March 1, and an additional 1% fee is
added on the first day of each month following the summer collection due date
of September 14 and the winter collection due date of February 14.
   (B)   This section shall become effective 8-9-2006, which will be not less
than 20 days after publication.  This section or a summary thereof shall be
published in The Commercial Record, a newspaper of general circulation.
(Ord. 05-2006, passed 7-17-2006)
§ 30.04  PREAMBLE.
   Pursuant to Act 399 of the Public Acts of 1984, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§
211.44 et seq., a property tax administration fee and late fees and interest on
delinquent taxes are hereby adopted.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 30.05  PURPOSE OF THE PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATION FEE.
   The property tax administration fee shall be used solely to offset costs
incurred by the city in assessing property values; in collecting property tax
levies; in the review and appeal of assessments, and such other purposes as
shall be authorized pursuant to Act 399 of the Public Acts of 1984, as amended.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 30.06  ADOPTION OF PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATION FEE; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   For real and personal property ad valorem taxes levied effective July 1 and
December 1 of each year or on such dates as shall be subsequently authorized by
statute and/or charter, the city treasurer shall add a property tax
administration fee of 1% computed on the aggregate amount of real and personal
property taxes collected and due. This authorization for the imposition of a
property tax administration fee shall be valid for all levies that become a
lien after the adoption of the ordinance codified herein.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 30.07  LATE PENALTY CHARGE AND INTEREST.
   On real and personal property taxes paid after February 14 and prior to
March 1 of each succeeding year, the city treasurer shall add an additional 3%
late penalty charge on all taxes paid after February 14 and before March 1. An
additional 1% interest shall be imposed on all taxes that are unpaid on the
first day of each month following the summer collection due date of September
14 and the winter collection due date of February 14. This authorization for
the imposition of a late penalty charge and interest shall be valid for all
levies that become a lien after the adoption of the ordinance codified herein.
The amendment of this section shall not affect the collection and
enforceability of the 1% property tax administration fee and a 3% late penalty
charge imposed pursuant to this chapter prior to its amendment.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 30.08  PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATION FEE AND LATE PENALTY FEE; LIEN AND
COLLECTION.
   The property tax administration fees, late penalty fees, and accrued
interest as established by this chapter, and as previously established by
ordinance, shall become a lien and enforced in the same manner as delinquent,
real and personal property taxes pursuant to statute and charter.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 30.09  COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   The collection procedure for delinquent taxes pursuant to
Chapter 10 of the charter is hereby reaffirmed and shall be collected in
accordance with the provisions set forth therein.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 30.10  VALIDITY.
   (A)   Severability. If any section, subsection, paragraph, sentence, clause
or phrase of this chapter shall be declared invalid for any reason whatsoever,
such decision shall not affect the remaining portions of this chapter which
shall continue in full force and effect, and to this end the provisions of this
chapter are hereby declared to be severable.
   (B)   Savings clause. This chapter shall not effect violations of any other
ordinance, code, resolution, or regulation of the city existing prior to the
effective date hereof, and any such violation shall be governed and shall
continue to be punishable to the full extent of the law under the provisions of
those ordinances, codes, resolutions, or regulations in effect at the time the
violation was committed.
(Ord. 01-2009, passed 1-5-2009)
§ 30.11  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   For each duly-constituted regular and special meeting of the City
Council for which there was a quorum present. The compensation for the Mayor
shall be at the rate of $75 and Councilpersons shall be at the rate of $50.
   (B)   In no case shall the Mayor or Councilperson receive compensation for
any meeting not actually attended or be compensated for more than two meetings
in any one month.
(Ord. 02-2012, passed 8-6-2012; Am. Ord. 02-2012, passed 7-1-2019)
CHAPTER 31:  CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Compensation
   
31.02   Reimbursement for automobile use
City Manager
   
31.15   Establishment
   
31.16   Appointment
   
31.17   Acting City Manager
   
31.18   Compensation
   
31.19   Duties
   
31.20   Purchasing responsibilities
   
31.21   Dealing with employees
Code of Ethics
   
31.35   Title
   
31.36   Purpose
   
31.37   Definitions
   
31.38   Prohibited conduct
   
31.39   Disclosure
   
31.40   Contents of disclosure
   
31.41   Methods of public disclosure
   
31.42   Enforcement and penalties
   
31.43   Advisory opinion
   
31.44   Effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01  COMPENSATION.
   Wages, salaries, and other compensation for city officials and employees
shall be set by City Council from time to time.
§ 31.02  REIMBURSEMENT FOR AUTOMOBILE USE.
   Reimbursement amounts for use of private automobiles on official city
business shall be set by the City Council from time to time.
CITY MANAGER
§ 31.15  ESTABLISHMENT.
   In accordance with the authority for the appointment of the city officers as
the Council shall deem necessary for the execution of the powers granted to the
city contained in the City Charter,
Ch. III, there is hereby established the Office of City Manager.
(Ord. 172, passed 2-16-2004)
§ 31.16  APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The Council shall, with the support of five or more members, appoint a
City Manager for an indefinite term and the Council may, by contract, enter
into any other terms and conditions as the Manager and Council deem
appropriate.  The Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and may be
removed by the affirmative vote of five or more members, but only after a
hearing before the Council, with the exception that the Manager shall not be
removed from office during a period of 60 days following any regular city
election, except by a unanimous vote of the members of the Council in office at
the time of the vote.  The President may, for cause, suspend the Manager with
full pay, until the hearing.  The action of the Council in removing the Manager
shall be final.
   (B)   The Manager shall be selected on the basis of the following education,
training, and experience, which will constitute the minimum requirements for
qualification:
      (1)   Bachelor’s degree in Public Administration or Business
Administration; or
      (2)   Minimum of five-years’ managerial experience in areas directly
related to the duties required of a municipal government manager (including,
but not limited to:  personnel supervision, project management, purchasing,
communications, office management, computer knowledge, public relations,
budgeting, and the like).
(Ord. 172, passed 2-16-2004)
§ 31.17  ACTING CITY MANAGER.
   The President, with the concurrence of four or more members, shall appoint
or designate an acting Manager during a vacancy in the Office of City Manager
and shall make a permanent appointment within 180 days from the effective date
of the vacancy.  The Council may require that the City Manager reside within a
specified distance from the city’s nearest boundary as permitted by Public Act
212 of 1999, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.601 to 15.603, or as otherwise permitted by
law.
(Ord. 172, passed 2-16-2004)
§ 31.18  COMPENSATION.
   The City Manager shall receive the compensation as the Council shall
determine annually by resolution or contract.
(Ord. 172, passed 2-16-2004)
§ 31.19  DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall be chief administrative officer of the city and
shall be responsible to the City Council for the efficient administration of
all affairs of the city and shall exercise management supervision over all
departments and over all public property belonging to the city.
   (B)   The Manager shall have the following functions and duties, including
those defined and delineated in his or her employment agreement:
      (1)   Attend all meetings of the City Council and committees thereof and
take part therein, but without a vote;
      (2)   Be responsible for personnel management and shall issue, subject to
Council approval, personnel rules applicable to all city employees.  The
Manager shall have the following responsibilities:
         (a)   To appoint, suspend, or remove all appointed administrative
offices and department heads, subject to Council approval.  The Manager shall
recommend to the Council the salary or wages to be paid each such official; and
         (b)   To appoint, suspend, or remove all other employees of the city. 
All the actions shall be based on merit and taken pursuant to personnel rules
approved by the Council.  The Manager shall recommend to the Council the
salaries or wages of all the employees.
      (3)   Exercise supervisory control over all departments, including the
Police Department and the Department of Public Works; the Chief of Police and
the Department of Public Works Supervisor shall be subject to the direction of
the Manager;
      (4)   Exercise supervisory responsibility over the accounting, budgeting,
personnel, purchasing, and related management functions of the City Clerk and
City Treasurer;
      (5)   Shall be authorized to attend all meetings of city boards and
commissions, including the City Planning Commission, with the right to take
part therein, but without a vote;
      (6)   Prepare and administer the budget as provided for in the Uniform
Budgeting and Accounting Act, Public Act 2 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.421
to 141.440a, as amended;
      (7)   Be the purchasing agent of the city;
      (8)   Prepare and maintain an administrative code defining the duties and
functions of the several officers and departments of the city, subject to
approval by the Council;
      (9)   Investigate all complaints concerning the administration of the
city, and shall have authority at all times to inspect the books, records, and
papers of any agent, employee, or officer of the city;
      (10)   Make recommendations to the Council for the adoption of the
measures as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the improvement or
betterment of the city;
      (11)   Serve as the City Zoning Administrator unless otherwise directed
by the City Council;
      (12)   Participate in continuing education and training through the
Michigan Municipal League (MML) or other recognized municipal educational
organization to effectively execute the duties and responsibilities of the
position; and
      (13)   Perform other duties required from time to time by the City
Council.
(Ord. 172, passed 2-16-2004)
§ 31.20  PURCHASING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall act as purchasing agent for all city offices
and departments.  The Manager may delegate some or all of the duties as
purchasing agent to another officer or employee, provided that the delegation
shall not relieve the Manager of the responsibility for the proper conduct of
those duties.
   (B)   The City Manager shall have the authority to purchase any product or
service, the cost of which does not exceed the amount listed on the city fee
schedule, provided that the funds have been appropriated.  The cost of the
product or services shall not exceed the unencumbered balance of the
appropriation for the account.  Except as hereinafter provided, the City
Manager shall not purchase any product or service, the cost of which exceeds
the above dollar amount, without prior approval of the City Council.  The City
Manager may promulgate rules governing the purchase of products or services.
   (C)   The City Manager shall have the authority to purchase any product or
service regardless of its cost when the purchase is necessitated by an
emergency condition.  EMERGENCY CONDITION is defined to mean any event which
presents an imminent threat to the public health or safety or any event which
would result in the disruption of a city service which is essential to the
public health or safety.
(Ord. 172, passed 2-16-2004)
§ 31.21  DEALING WITH EMPLOYEES.
   Neither the Council nor the City President shall attempt to influence the
employment of any person by the City Manager or in any way interfere in the
management of departments under the jurisdiction of the Manager.  The President
and Council and its members shall deal with departments under the jurisdiction
of the City Manager through the Manager, except in the case of a formal
inquiry.
(Ord. 172, passed 2-16-2004)
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 31.35  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be referred to as the Code of Ethics.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.36  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish a standard of ethical conduct
for public servants of the City of the Village of Douglas.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.37  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY.  A corporation, a limited liability company, partnership,
joint venture, unincorporated association, sole proprietorship, trust, and any
other business form.
   CITY.  The City of the Village of Douglas, a Michigan General Law City.
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.  Any information and documents which are exempt
from disclosure under the Michigan Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 267
of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 to 15.275, as amended, or information
communicated in a closed-door session under the Open Meetings Act, Public Act
267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 to 15.275.
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST.  An interest that competes with or is adverse to a
public servant’s duty to the public.
   ETHICS REVIEW COMMITTEE.  The group of persons identified in §
31.42.
   INTEREST.  Any right, title, or share, whether it is personal, financial,
legal, or equitable, which is owned, held, or controlled, in whole or in part,
directly or indirectly, by a public servant.  It does not include any ownership
in a corporation acquired through the purchase for fair market value or
inheritance of less than 1% of the shares of the corporation, or of a parent,
subsidiary, or affiliate of the corporation, if the shares had been registered
on the securities exchange pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended.
   PUBLIC BODY.  The City Council, and any board, authority, commission,
committee, subcommittee, department, office, or other agency of the city.
   PUBLIC SERVANT.  The City President, a Trustee of the City Council, officer,
and any other person elected or appointed to a public body of the city,
regardless of whether the person receives monetary compensation.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.38  PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   All public servants are prohibited from engaging in the following conduct
regardless of whether a public disclosure is made:
   (A)   Divulging confidential information to any person or business entity
not authorized to obtain the information;
   (B)   Benefitting financially from divulging confidential information;
   (C)   Representing his or her personal opinion as that of the city;
   (D)   Acting on behalf of the city when no authority has been given;
   (E)   Soliciting or accepting any gift, loan, goods, services, except
anything of nominal value, which tends to influence the manner in which the
public servant performs his or her duties;
   (F)   Using his or her official position to unreasonably secure, request, or
grant any interest, privilege, exemption, advantage, or preferential treatment
for his or her benefit or the benefit of others; and
   (G)   Substantially failing to follow the City Council’s rules of procedure
and exercising decorum at meetings, matters, and activities of the city.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.39  DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (A), no public servant
shall request, use, or permit the use of any publicly owned or publicly
supported property, vehicle, equipment, labor, service, or money, for their
personal convenience, their private advantage, or for a use that does not
directly benefit the city.  This shall not preclude a public servant from
requesting, using, or permitting the use of the publicly owned or publicly
supplied property, vehicle, equipment, material, labor, or service if the
public servant has made a public disclosure of the conflict of interest as
provided in this subchapter and the City Council has approved the request, use,
or permitting of the use.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), no public servant
shall participate in any way in a city contract, loan, grant, rate fixing,
issuance of a permit, zoning matter, or ordinance matter involving or in any
way affecting a business entity in which he or she has an interest.  This shall
not preclude a public servant from participating in any city contract, loan,
grant, rate fixing, issuance of a permit, or zoning matter, or ordinance matter
involving or in any way affecting a business entity in which he or she has an
interest if the following has been complied with:
      (1)   The public servant makes a public disclosure as provided in this
subchapter;
      (2)   The public servant is not involved, directly or indirectly, in the
decision regarding the city contract, loan, grant, rate fixing, issuance of a
permit, zoning matter, or ordinance matter; and
      (3)   After reviewing the circumstances and the public disclosure, the
City Council, or the applicable public body, determines that the city contract,
loan, grant, rate fixing, issuance of a permit, or a decision regarding a
zoning matter or ordinance matter is in the best interest of the city.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (C), no public servant
shall engage in employment with, or render services for, any person or business
entity, which transacts business with the city or any public body of the city. 
This shall not preclude a public servant from engaging in employment with, or
rendering services for, any person or business entity, which transacts business
with the city or any public body of the city if the following has been complied
with:
      (1)   The public servant makes a public disclosure as provided in this
subchapter; and
      (2)   After reviewing the circumstances and the public disclosure, the
City Council, or the applicable public body, determines that the public
servant’s engaging in employment with, or rending services for, any person or
business entity, which transacts business with the city or any public body of
the city does not impair or tend to impair the public servant’s independence of
judgment.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.40  CONTENTS OF DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   For any public disclosure required under this subchapter, a public
servant shall disclose the following:
      (1)   The identify and relationship of all of the persons and business
entities involved; and
      (2)   The nature of the conflict of interest.
   (B)   All written public disclosures shall be signed under penalty of
perjury and notarized.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.41  METHODS OF PUBLIC DISCLOSURE.
   (A)   Whenever an elected official is required to make a public disclosure
as provided in this subchapter, the elected official shall make it either
orally on the record at a meeting of the applicable public body, or in writing
and file it with the City Clerk.
   (B)   Whenever any other public servant other than the ones described in
division (A) above are required to make a public disclosure as provided in this
subchapter, it shall be made in writing to the City Manager.
   (C)   All public disclosures, whether oral or written, shall be provided to
the Ethics Review Committee within five days of the public disclosure.  Any
oral public disclosure shall be transcribed in writing and forwarded as
provided above.
   (D)   All public servants shall make public disclosure pursuant to this
subchapter ten days before the decision is to be made by the applicable public
body or as soon as reasonably possible.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.42  ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   All matters regarding this subchapter shall be directed to the Ethics
Review Committee.  The Ethics Review Committee shall consist of the City
President, Clerk, and the Chair of the Personnel Committee, unless one of these
persons is the subject of an investigation.  The Ethics Review Committee is
authorized to take whatever action is consistent with this subchapter.
   (B)   Once the Ethics Review Committee has received a complaint, request for
information, or public disclosure, it shall make a determination to proceed. 
If the Ethics Review Committee makes a determination to proceed, it shall
notify in writing the affected public servant of the charges underlying the
determination to proceed.  The public servant shall have an opportunity to a
hearing before the Ethics Review Committee.  The Ethics Review Committee shall
schedule the hearing within 30 days of the public servant’s request.  Following
the hearing or in the event there is no hearing held, the Ethics Review
Committee shall make a recommendation to the City Council regarding the matter,
which includes, but is not limited to, further review and investigation, or a
determination as to enforcement.  Enforcement may be any one or some
combination of the following:  civil prosecution, or criminal prosecution. 
Enforcement may also include removal from office if the public servant is
guilty of official misconduct, willful neglect of duty, extortion, habitual
drunkenness, or has been convicted of being drunk as provided in M.C.L.A. §
168.327.  The Ethics Review Committee’s recommendation shall be forwarded to
the City Council.  If the recommendation from the Ethics Review Committee
involves any Trustee of the City Council, the Trustee shall be disqualified
from voting on and participating in any discussion on the recommendation of the
Ethics Review Committee.  The City Council shall review the recommendation at
its next meeting and shall vote to do any of the following:  accept, reject, or
send the recommendation back to the Ethics Review Committee for further
research and consideration.  The City Council must approve a motion to either
accept or reject the Ethics Review Committee’s recommendation by a vote of five
Trustees of the City Council.  If a motion to either accept or reject the
Ethics Review Committee’s recommendation does not obtain a vote of five
Trustees of the City Council, the recommendation will be sent back to the
Ethics Review Committee for further research and consideration.  If the
recommendation is accepted by the City Council, it shall be binding and have
immediate effect on the public servant unless further action is required by
law.  The effect of the City Council rejecting the Ethics Review Committee’s
recommendation will be to dismiss the complaint, or resolve in finality the
request for information or public disclosure.  If the determination of
enforcement involves removal from office, the City Council shall prepare a
report which details the matter and shall send it to the Governor for a
determination as provided in M.C.L.A. § 168.327.  If the determination of
enforcement involves civil or criminal prosecution, it shall be referred to the
City Attorney for further action.  To the extent authorized or permitted by
law, the city shall collect its out-of-pocket costs (including attorney fees)
involving civil or criminal prosecution from a public servant who has violated
this subchapter.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.43  ADVISORY OPINION.
   The City Council, the Ethics Review Committee, and any public servant with
the consent of either the City Council or the Ethics Review Committee may
request that the City Attorney provide an advisory opinion interpreting the
effect of this subchapter generally, or on issues directly relating to conduct
in a particular situation.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 31.44  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter was adopted by the City Council at its 12-15-2003 meeting,
and will take effect on 1-5-2004.
(Ord. 171, passed 12-15-2003)
CHAPTER 32:  CITY ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Downtown Development Authority
   
32.01   Establishment
   
32.02   Powers; duties; boundaries
   
32.03   Board; membership; terms
   
32.04   Conduct of meeting; public documents
   
32.05   Removal of a Board member for cause
   
32.06   Downtown Development Plan and Tax Increment Financing Plan
   
32.07   Effective date
   
32.08   Publication
Planning Commission
   
32.20   Continuation of Planning Commission
   
32.21   Composition of Planning Commission
   
32.22   Powers and duties
 
   
Appendix A:  Downtown District
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.01  ESTABLISHMENT.
   In recognition of the fact that it is in the best interest of the City of
the Village of Douglas to halt property value deterioration; increase property
tax valuation where possible in the city business district; eliminate the
causes of the property tax deterioration; and promote economic growth in the
business district of the city, the Downtown Development Authority of the City
of the Village of Douglas is hereby established pursuant to Public Act 197 of
1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680, as amended, to be known as the
City of the Village of Douglas Downtown Development Authority.  The City of the
Village of Douglas Downtown Development Authority shall be known as the
Downtown Development Authority of the City of the Village of Douglas.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-3-1997; Am. Ord. 03-2006, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 32.02  POWERS; DUTIES; BOUNDARIES.
   The Downtown Development Authority of the City of the Village of Douglas
shall have all the powers and duties prescribed by Public Act 197 of 1975,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680, including, but not limited to,
implementing development plans; acquiring and disposing of interests in real
and personal property; levying ad valorem tax, not to exceed two mills, on real
and personal property in the Downtown Development District; issuing bonds and
other evidence of indebtedness and authorizing the use of tax increment
financing, all of the powers as are more fully delineated in Public Act 197 of
1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680, as amended, in order to fulfill
the purposes of Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680,
as amended, and the economic growth of the City of the Village of Douglas
Downtown Development District.  The enumeration of a power herein or in Public
Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680, as amended, shall not
be construed as a limitation on the general powers of the Downtown Development
Authority of the City of the Village of Douglas.  The Downtown District in
which the Downtown Development Authority of the City of the Village of Douglas
shall exercise its powers shall consist of the property in the city described
on Appendix A at the end of this chapter, subject to the changes as may
hereinafter be made pursuant to this subchapter and Public Act 197 of 1975,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680, as amended.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-3-1997; Am. Ord. 03-2006, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 32.03  BOARD; MEMBERSHIP; TERMS.
   The Downtown Development Authority of the City of the Village of Douglas
shall be under the supervision and control of a Board consisting of the chief
executive officer of the city, and not less than eight or more than 12 members
as determined by the City Council.  Members shall be appointed by the chief
executive officer of the city, subject to the approval by the City Council. 
Eligibility for membership on the Board and terms of office shall be as
provided in Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680, as
amended.  Each member shall hold office until the member’s successor is
appointed.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-3-1997; Am. Ord. 03-2006, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 32.04  CONDUCT OF MEETING; PUBLIC DOCUMENTS.
   The business of the Downtown Development Authority of the City of the
Village of Douglas shall be performed and conducted at public meetings of the
Authority held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of
1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 to 15.275.  The Michigan Freedom of Information
Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, shall apply to
the City of the Village of Douglas Downtown Development Authority.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-3-1997; Am. Ord. 03-2006, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 32.05  REMOVAL OF A BOARD MEMBER FOR CAUSE.
   Pursuant to notice and after having been given an opportunity to be heard, a
member of the Downtown Development Authority of the City of the Village of
Douglas may be removed for cause by the City Council.  Removal of a member is
subject to review by a circuit court with appropriate jurisdiction.
(Ord. 144, passed 11-3-1997; Am. Ord. 03-2006, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 32.06  DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   Preliminary findings.  It is hereby determined that the Downtown
Development Plan and Tax Increment Financing Plan (the Plan) constitutes a
public purpose, and that approval of the Plan on 5-1-2006 was preceded by a
public hearing pursuant to notice thereof by publication, posting, and mail as
required by Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680, as
amended.
   (B)   Approval of Plan.  The City Council of the City of the Village of
Douglas hereby adopts and approves the Downtown Development Plan and Tax
Increment Financing Plan of the Downtown Development Authority of the city.
   (C)   Effective date and publication.  This section shall become effective
5-25-2006, which will be not less than 20 days after publication.  This section
or a summary thereof shall be published in The Commercial Record, a newspaper
of general circulation in the City of the Village of Douglas.
(Ord. 04-2006, passed 5-1-2006)
§ 32.07  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall become effective 20 days after adoption and
publication.
(Ord. 03-2006, passed 3-6-2006)
§ 32.08  PUBLICATION.
   This subchapter or a summary thereof shall be published in The Commercial
Record, a newspaper of general circulation in the City of the Village of
Douglas.
(Ord. 03-2006, passed 3-6-2006)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.20  CONTINUATION OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission of the City of the Village of Douglas, having
previously been established pursuant to Act 285 of the Public Acts of 1931, is
hereby continued with full powers and privileges pursuant to the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
(Ord. 01-2008, passed 3-18-2008; Am. Ord. 04-2009, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 32.21  COMPOSITION OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission of the City of the Village of Douglas shall consist
of seven members. The members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the
approval of the City Council by majority vote. One appointed member shall be a
member of the Zoning Board of Appeals. The term of each of the appointed
members shall be three years. The terms and expiration of the terms of existing
members of the Planning Commission are hereby ratified and confirmed.
(Ord. 01-2008, passed 3-18-2008; Am. Ord. 04-2009, passed 11-2-2009)
§ 32.22  POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The powers and duties of the Planning Commission shall be as prescribed by
the zoning ordinance of the City of the Village of Douglas, the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and
the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101
et seq., and any amendments thereto. The rules and regulations as provided in
such zoning ordinance and acts and any amendments thereto are hereby adopted
and made a part of this code.
(Ord. 01-2008, passed 3-18-2008; Am. Ord. 04-2009, passed 11-2-2009)
APPENDIX A:  DOWNTOWN DISTRICT
   State of Michigan, Allegan County, City of the Village of Douglas, Section
16 starting at the northwest corner of the Blue Star Highway and Center Street
right-of-way, for the point of beginning of this description; thence northeast
approximately 520 feet along the Blue Star Highway west right-of-way line to
the north right-of-way line of St. Peter’s Drive; thence southeast
approximately 120 feet to the northeast corner of parcel 03-59-600-003-30
thence southeast approximately 90 feet along the property line of parcel 03-59-
600-003-30 to the northwest corner of parcel 03-59-600-006-00; thence east
approximately 140 feet, thence south approximately 140 feet; thence east
approximately 90 feet; thence south approximately 115 feet to the north right-
of-way of Center Street; thence east approximately 35 feet; thence north
approximately 350 feet along the west line of parcel 03-59-600-005-00 to a
point that is the north right-of-way line of Wall Street extended; thence east
approximately 265 feet along the north right-of-way of Wall Street; thence
south approximately 66 feet to the northeast corner of parcel 03-59551-004-50;
thence south approximately 130 feet to the northwest corner of parcel 03-59-
551-003-00; thence east approximately 225 feet to the centerline of the Union
Street right-of-way; thence east approximately 790 feet along the north right-
of-way line of the existing alleyway to the centerline of the Washington Street
right-of-way; thence southeasterly approximately 33 feet to the northwest
corner of parcel 03-59-100-009-50; thence east approximately 130 feet to the
east right-of-way line of Water Street; thence south approximately 140 feet to
the northeast corner of the Center Street and Water Street right-of-ways;
thence east approximately 330 feet to the Kalamazoo River; thence southeasterly
approximately 430 feet along the edge of the Kalamazoo River to the south
right-of-way of Freemont Street extended to the Kalamazoo River; thence west
approximately 370 feet to the southwest corner of the Water Street and Freemont
Street right-of-way; thence northwesterly approximately 220 feet to the
northeast corner of parcel 03-59-150-012-00; thence west approximately 20 feet;
thence south approximately 90 feet to the southeast corner of parcel 03-59-150-
010-00; thence west approximately 135 feet to the east right-of-way line of
Washington Street; thence south approximately 120 feet to the southeast corner
of the Washington Street and Freemont Street right-of-way; thence west
approximately 335 feet to the southwest corner of the Main Street and Freemont
Street right-of-way; thence north along the west right-of-way line of Main
Street approximately 130 feet to the southeast corner of parcel 03-59-150-005-
00; thence west approximately 265 feet to the west right-of-way line of Spring
Street; thence north approximately 90 feet to the southeast corner of parcel
03-59-150-002-00; thence west approximately 100 feet to the southwest corner of
parcel 03-59-150-002-00; thence south approximately 30 feet to the southeast
corner of parcel 03-59-150-001-00; thence west approximately 270 feet to the
northwest corner of parcel 03-59-501-00300; thence south approximately 195 feet
to the south right-of-way line of Freemont Street; thence west approximately
165 feet to the southwest corner of the Freemont Street and Mixer Street right-
of-way at the northeast corner of parcel 03-59-503-006-00; thence north
approximately 200 feet to the southeast corner of parcel 03-59-502-001-00;
thence west approximately 65 feet to the southwest corner of parcel 03-59502-
001-00; thence south approximately 15 feet to the southeast corner of parcel
03-59-125 (Douglas Town Home Condo); thence west 135 feet to the east right-of-
way line of Ellis Street; thence south approximately 55 feet to the southwest
corner of parcel 03-59-502-004-00; thence west approximately 33 feet to the
southeast corner of parcel 03-59-016-039-11; thence west approximately 270 feet
to the southwest corner of parcel 03-59-016-039-00; thence south approximately
180 feet to the southeast corner of parcel 03-59-016-042-00; thence west
approximately 30 feet to the northwest corner of parcel 03-59-016-046-00;
thence south approximately 55 feet to the southeast corner of parcel 03-59-016-
04100; thence west approximately 240 feet to the southeast corner of parcel 03-
59-016-043-00; thence north approximately 220 feet to the northeast corner of
parcel 03-59-016-043-00; thence west approximately 370 feet to the west right-
of-way of Blue Star Highway; thence northeasterly along the right-of-way
approximately 360 feet to the point of beginning.
(Ord. 03-2006, passed 3-6-2006)
CHAPTER 33:  CITY PROPERTY
Section
Smoking
   
33.01   Findings of fact; purpose
   
33.02   Prohibition
   
33.03   Notice and posting
   
33.04   Interpretation
 
   
33.99   Penalty
SMOKING
§ 33.01  FINDINGS OF FACT; PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to eliminate the health hazards of smoking
to all individuals while working in or using buildings owned or leased by the
city.  The adverse health effects of smoking to smokers and of so-called
secondary or passive smoke to nonsmokers are well documented by the medical
community.  The adverse health effects threaten the general health and well
being of individuals, increase health care and insurance costs to the city, and
decrease worker attendance and productivity.  The general irritation produced
by secondary smoke causes frustration among workers and users of city buildings
and generally interferes with the quality of life therein.  The smoking ban
established in this subchapter will eliminate the irritating and adverse
effects of smoking thereby promoting productivity, health, and the quality of
life within city buildings, as well as lowering health care and insurance
costs.
(1995 Code, § 2-166)  (Ord. 136, passed 5-23-1994)
§ 33.02  PROHIBITION.
   Smoking is prohibited in all buildings and vehicles owned by the city.  As
used in this subchapter, the word OWNERSHIP shall be defined as any building or
vehicle in which the city has an interest by title or deed.
(1995 Code, § 2-167)  (Ord. 136, passed 5-23-1994)  Penalty, see §
33.99
§ 33.03  NOTICE AND POSTING.
   The smoking prohibition in §
33.02 shall be posted by the City Clerk at all public entrances to all
buildings owned or leased by the city.  The absence of a posting, however,
shall not bar enforcement of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 2-168)  (Ord. 136, passed 5-23-1994)
§ 33.04  INTERPRETATION.
   This subchapter shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with all
applicable state and federal laws and regulations.  It is recognized and
intended, however, that this subchapter’s smoking prohibition will be more
strict than the minimum provisions contained in state and federal laws and
regulations.
(1995 Code, § 2-169)  (Ord. 136, passed 5-23-1994)
§ 33.99  PENALTY.
   Any person smoking in a city owned building or vehicle shall be subject to a
fine in an amount up to $250.
(1995 Code, § 2-167)  (Ord. 136, passed 5-23-1994)
CHAPTER 34:  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
34.01   Definitions
   
34.02   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement; enforcement
   
34.03   Civil Infractions Bureau
   
34.04   Municipal civil infraction citations; issuance and service
   
34.05   Municipal civil infraction citations; contents and form
   
34.06   Schedule of civil fines established
   
34.07   Failure to appear; misdemeanor; default of civil infraction action
§ 34.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 to 600.9948, as
amended.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL.  A police officer or other personnel of the city
authorized by this code or any ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction
notices or municipal civil infraction citations.
   BUREAU.  The City of the Village of Douglas Municipal Civil Infractions
Bureau as established by this chapter and as authorized under §§ 8396 and 8707
(6) of the Act.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the city and which is designated as a municipal civil
infraction and not a crime under this code or other ordinance, and for which
civil sanctions, including, but not limited to, fines, damages, expenses, and
costs may be ordered as authorized by Chapter 87 of the Act, as amended.  A
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense of a violation of
this code that is a criminal offense.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.  A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.  A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of one or more municipal civil infractions by the
person cited.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION NOTICE.  A written notice prepared by an
authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the City of the
Village of Douglas Municipal Civil Infractions Bureau and to pay the fine(s)
and costs, if any, prescribed for the municipal civil infraction(s) by the
schedule of civil fines adopted by the city, as authorized under §§ 8396 and
8707(6) of the Act.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 34.02  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION; COMMENCEMENT; ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance
by an authorized city official of:
      (1)   A municipal civil infraction notice directing the alleged violator
to appear at the Bureau; or
      (2)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court.
   (B)   Pursuant to this chapter, the Zoning Administrator shall be authorized
to enforce the zoning ordinance and municipal civil infractions thereof, and
the City Police Department or the enforcing officers of this code shall be
authorized to enforce other municipal civil infractions, and they shall all
automatically be deemed authorized city officials pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 34.03  CIVIL INFRACTIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   Bureau established.  The city hereby establishes the City of the
Village of Douglas Municipal Civil Infractions Bureau (Bureau) as authorized
under §§ 8396 and 8707(6) of the Act to accept admissions of responsibility for
municipal civil infractions in response to municipal civil infraction notices
issued and served by authorized city officials, and to collect and retain civil
fines and costs as prescribed by this chapter.
   (B)   Location; supervision; employees; rules and regulations.  The Bureau
shall be located at the City Hall and shall be under the supervision and
control of the City Clerk.  The Clerk, subject to the approval of the City
Council, shall adopt rules and regulations for the operation of the Bureau and
shall appoint any other necessary qualified city employees to administer the
Bureau.
   (C)   Disposition of infractions.  The Bureau may dispose only of municipal
civil infractions for which a fine has been scheduled and for which a municipal
civil infraction notice (rather than a citation) has been issued.  The fact
that a fine has been scheduled for a particular municipal civil infraction
shall not entitle any person to dispose of the infraction at the Bureau. 
Nothing in this chapter shall prevent or restrict the city from issuing a
municipal civil infraction citation for any municipal civil infraction or from
prosecuting any infraction in a court of competent jurisdiction.  No person
shall be required to dispose of a municipal civil infraction at the Bureau, and
a person may have the municipal civil infraction processed before a court of
appropriate jurisdiction.  The unwillingness of a person to dispose of any
municipal civil infraction at the Bureau shall not prejudice the person or in
any way diminish the person’s rights, privileges, and protection accorded by
law.
   (D)   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility.  The scope
of the Bureau’s authority shall be limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions.  The Bureau shall not
accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only “with explanation,” and in no event
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged municipal civil infraction.
   (E)   Municipal civil infraction notices.  Municipal civil infraction
notices shall be issued and served by authorized city officials under the same
circumstances and upon the same persons as provided in §
34.04 for municipal civil infraction citations.  In addition to any other
information required by this chapter, the municipal civil infraction notice
shall indicate the time by which the alleged violator shall appear at the
Bureau, the methods by which an appearance at the Bureau may be made, the
address and telephone number of the Bureau, the hours during which the Bureau
is open, the amount of the fine scheduled for the alleged infraction, and the
consequences for failure to appear at the Bureau and pay the required fine
within the required time.
   (F)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs.  An alleged violator who
receives a municipal civil infraction notice shall appear at the Bureau and pay
the specified fine and costs at or by the time specified for appearance in the
municipal civil infraction notice.  An appearance may be made by mail, in
person, or by representation.
   (G)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not
paid.  If an authorized city official issues and serves a municipal civil
infraction notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the
civil fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the
infraction are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation
may be filed with the district court, and a copy of the citation may be served
by first-class mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator’s last
known address.  The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in
all particulars with the requirements for citations as provided by §§ 8705 and
8709 of the Act, but shall consist of a sworn complaint containing the
allegations stated in the municipal civil infraction notice and shall fairly
inform the alleged violator of how to respond to the citation.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 34.04  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   (A)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person committing a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and the required copies of a municipal
civil infraction citation.
   (B)   An authorized city official may issue a municipal civil infraction
citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon an investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon an investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction and if the prosecuting attorney or City Attorney approves in
writing the issuance of the citation.
   (C)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
city official as follows:
      (1)   Except as provided by division (C)(2) below, an authorized city
official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged
violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction involves the use or occupancy of
land, a building, or another structure, then a copy of the municipal civil
infraction citation does not need to be personally served upon the alleged
violator, but may be served upon an owner or occupant of the land, building, or
structure by posting a copy on the land or attaching a copy to the building or
structure.  In addition, a copy of the municipal civil infraction citation
shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the land, building, or
structure at the owner’s last known address.  For the purposes of this chapter,
the owner shall be presumed to be the person or entity designated or listed on
the tax rolls maintained by the city for the land, building, or structure.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 34.05  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; CONTENTS AND FORM.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court, and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   The time for appearance specified in a municipal civil infraction
citation shall be within a reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (C)   The place for appearance specified in a municipal civil infraction
citation shall be the district court.
   (D)   The municipal civil infraction citation shall inform the alleged
violator that he or she may do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction violation
“with explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance or in person or
by representation; or
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the city; or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (E)   The municipal civil infraction citation shall also inform the alleged
violator of all of the following:
      (1)   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation within the
time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance;
      (2)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a
scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is
specified on the citation;
      (3)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing
is requested by the alleged violator or the city;
      (4)   That at an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney; and
      (5)   That at a formal hearing the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (F)   The municipal civil infraction citation shall contain a notice in
boldfaced type that the failure of the alleged violator to appear within the
time specified in the citation or at the time scheduled for a hearing or
appearance is a misdemeanor and will result in the entry of a default judgment
against the alleged violator in the municipal civil infraction action.
   (G)   A municipal civil infraction citation for a municipal civil infraction
signed by an authorized city official shall be treated as made under oath if
the infraction alleged in the citation occurred in the presence of the official
signing the complaint and if the citation contains the following statement
immediately above the date and signature of the official:  “I declare under the
penalties of perjury that the statements above are true to the best of my
information, knowledge, and belief .”
   (H)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the State Court Administrator.
   (I)   The original citation shall be filed with the district court.  Copies
of the citation shall be retained by the city and issued to the alleged
violator as provided by § 8705 of the Act.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 34.06  SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   A schedule of civil fines payable to the Bureau for admissions of
responsibility by persons served with municipal civil infraction notices is
hereby established.  The civil fines payable for admissions of responsibility
for municipal civil infractions are as follows:
 
First Offense                             $ 50 plus costs
First Repeat Offense                      $150 plus costs
Second (or any subsequent) Repeat Offense $300 plus costs
 
   (B)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed each day during or on
which a violation or noncompliance occurs or continues, unless otherwise
provided.
   (C)   A copy of the schedule, as amended from time to time, shall be posted
at the Bureau.
   (D)   This schedule shall apply to all municipal civil infractions unless
another fine is specifically set forth in this code as applicable to a
particular municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-10-1998)
§ 34.07  FAILURE TO APPEAR; MISDEMEANOR; DEFAULT OF CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.
   The failure of an alleged violator to appear at the district court at the
time specified in the municipal civil infraction citation or at the district
court at the time specified for a hearing is a misdemeanor which will also
result in the entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator in the
municipal civil infraction action.
(Ord. 147, passed 8-10-1998)
CHAPTER 35:  COST RECOVERY
Section
   
35.01   Short title
   
35.02   Purpose
   
35.03   Definitions
   
35.04   City’s assessable costs
   
35.05   Fire Districts’s assessable costs
   
35.06   Billing and collection of assessable costs
   
35.07   Procedure for appealing assessable costs
   
35.08   Assessable costs a lien upon property
   
35.09   Other remedies
   
35.10   No limitation of liability
   
35.11   Effective date
§ 35.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Douglas Cost Recovery
Ordinance.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.02  PURPOSE.
   The City of the Village of Douglas (the city) hereby finds that in order to
protect the city and its general populace from extraordinary costs associated
with providing for police, firefighting, rescue, and emergency medical services
within the city limits, it has become necessary to charge certain costs for
providing these services.  The city finds that this legislation is necessary to
fairly allocate the costs among those responsible for them; to establish a
policy and set forth the methods by which it may recover costs incurred in
making emergency responses and providing the response services; and to provide
for the health, safety, and welfare of its residents.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.03  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASSESSABLE COSTS.  The direct and reasonable costs incurred in connection
with a response to a public safety or fire emergency incident within the city. 
These costs include all salaries, wages, or fringe benefits of the city
personnel responding to the incident; salaries, wages, or fringe benefits of
city personnel engaged in the investigation, supervision, and report
preparation regarding the incident; all salaries, wages, or fringe benefits of
the personnel of assisting governmental agencies or any other private or public
entities operating at the request, direction, or on behalf of the city in
response to the incident; salaries, wages, or fringe benefits of the personnel
of the Saugatuck Township Fire District (Fire District); and all costs
connected with the administration of the incident relating to any prosecution
of the person(s) responsible, including those relating to the production and
appearance of any witnesses.  Additional costs may include, but are not limited
to, the rental or leasing of equipment for a specific response, replacement of
equipment which is destroyed or contaminated in the response, laboratory costs
and equipment, medical expenses incurred as a result of response activities,
and any legal expenses that may be incurred as a result of an emergency
response including efforts to recover expenses pursuant to this chapter.
   EMERGENCY ASSISTANCE.  Any response by medical, public safety, police, fire,
or civil defense services to respond to an emergency incident.
   EMERGENCY INCIDENTS.  Include the following:
      (1)   Excessive requests for emergency assistance;
      (2)   A false alarm;
      (3)   A hazardous material incident or emergency;
      (4)   An illegal fire;
      (5)   Threats of harm;
      (6)   A structure demolition or utility line failure;
      (7)   Water rescue attempts; or
      (8)   Any other incident where emergency medical, public safety, police,
fire, or civil defense services are necessary.
   EMERGENCY REQUEST.  Any request for emergency assistance made for a
particular location or premises if emergency assistance has been provided to
that location or premises more than five times in the preceding 30 days.
   FALSE ALARM.  The intentional or non-intentional activation of an automated
or manual device which was designed to request or summon emergency assistance
when there was no need for emergency assistance, and any request for emergency
assistance when the requesting person or entity knew or should have known that
there was no actual need for the assistance.  The determination that there was
no actual need for emergency assistance shall be made by the Chief of the Fire
District or by the most senior official of the Fire District responding to the
false alarm.  A false alarm shall not include any response to a request for
emergency assistance which was caused by an act of God.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL INCIDENT OR EMERGENCY.  Any occurrence, incident,
activity, accident, or emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs
or is reasonably imminent, as determined by the Chief of the Fire District or
the most senior official of the Fire District responding to the incident.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS.  Any explosive pyrotechnic, compressed gas, flammable
liquid, flammable solid, combustible liquid, oxidizing material, poisonous gas,
poisonous liquid, poisonous solid etiological material, radioactive material,
corrosive material, or liquefied petroleum gas and also includes, but is not
limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   Any material listed in the list of toxic pollutants found in 40
C.F.R. §§ 401.15 et seq., as amended, or under any other federal law or
regulations;
      (2)   Any material regulated as a class A or class B explosive by the
United States Department of Transportation, pursuant to 49 C.F.R. § 173.5;
      (3)   Any flammable liquid or solid regulated by the United States
Department of Transportation, pursuant to 49 C.F.R. §§ 171.1 et seq.;
      (4)   Any material designated as a hazardous material by the Secretary of
the United States Department of Transportation through regulations found at 49
C.F.R. §§ 171.1 et seq.;
      (5)   Any material deemed a hazardous substance as defined by Public Act
451 of 1994, Part 207, Subsection 20101(n), being M.C.L.A. § 324.20101(t);
      (6)   Any material designated a hazardous material by state or federal
law or regulation;
      (7)   Any hazardous chemical substance or mixture with respect to which
the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency has taken action
pursuant to § 7 of the Toxic Substance Control Act; and
      (8)   Any otherwise non-hazardous material which becomes a potential
hazard to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   ILLEGAL FIRE.  A fire set or determined to have been set in violation of a
federal, state, or local law and shall include an arson fire and a fire set in
violation of a no burning ban or order.  An ILLEGAL FIRE does not include a
fire caused by an act of God.
   RELEASE.  Any actual or threatened spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring,
emitting, emptying, discharging, injecting, leaching, dumping, or disposing
into the environment, including, but not limited to, the air, soil,
groundwater, and surface water.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, government entity, or other entity responsible for an emergency
incident or assistance or any owner, tenant, occupant, or party in control of
real and personal property from which, onto which or related to which there is
an emergency incident or assistance and their heirs, estates, successors, and
assigns.
   STRUCTURE DEMOLITION.  The tearing down of a structure damaged by fire which
must in the opinion of the Chief of the Fire District or the most senior
official of the Fire District responding to the incident by promptly demolished
following the fire to protect public safety.
   THE CITY.  The City of the Village of Douglas, County of Allegan, State of
Michigan, only.
   THREAT OF HARM.  The verbal or written threat of physical harm to oneself,
another, or another’s property which if carried out would be a violation of
federal, state, or local law.
   UTILITY LINE FAILURE.  The disabling of any transmission or service line,
cable, conduit, pipeline, wire, or the like used to provide, collect, or
transport electricity, natural gas, communication or electronic signals, or
water, sanitary, or storm sewage if the owner or party responsible for the
maintenance of the utility line does not respond within one hour to a request
to repair or correct the failure.
   VEHICLE.  Any motorized or self-propelled means of transportation including,
but not limited to, automobiles, ATV’s, railroad engines and other cars, boats,
helicopters, planes, and/or other aircraft, and all trailers, vehicles, or
other appurtenances attached to any vehicle.
   WATER RESCUE.  Any emergency incident on a body of water where emergency
medical, public safety, police, fire, or civil defense services are necessary. 
Bodies of water include rivers, lakes, streams, impoundments, estuaries,
springs, wells, or other collectors/collections of water.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.04  CITY’S ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   (A)   The city may recover all of its assessable costs incurred in
connection with any emergency assistance provided within its boundaries from
any or all responsible parties jointly and severally.
   (B)   The City Manager or, in his or her absence, a Council member or city
officer designated by the Council as its representative in this manner
(Council’s designee) shall determine the city’s total assessable costs and
shall in consultation with other members of the city personnel involved in
responding to the emergency incidents determine whether to assess any, all, or
part of the costs against any of the responsible parties.  In making the
determinations, the following shall be considered:
      (1)   Total assessable costs;
      (2)   Any risk the incident imposed on the city, its residents, and their
property;
      (3)   The risk of injury or damage to persons or property;
      (4)   Any evacuation required because of the incident;
      (5)   Any unusual or extraordinary use of city personnel or equipment;
and/or
      (6)   Any damage to the environment.
   (C)   After the consideration of the factors listed in division (B)
immediately above, the City Manager or the Council’s designee may allocate
assessable costs among and between responsible parties, including allocating
all or some of the costs jointly and severally against more than one
responsible party regardless of whether a responsible party has other legal
liability or is legally at fault.
   (D)   Whether the City Manager or the Council’s designee determines to
assess all, part, or none of the assessable costs against a responsible party,
the determination shall not in any way limit or extinguish the liability of the
responsible party to the city or any other person, corporation, partnership,
government entity, or any other entity.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.05  FIRE DISTRICT’S ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   (A)   The Fire District may recover all its assessable costs incurred in
connection with any emergency assistance provided within the city boundaries
from any or all responsible parties jointly and severally.
   (B)   The Chief of the Fire District or, in his or her absence, a Board
member or official of the Fire District designated by the Board as its
representative in this matter (Board’s designee) shall determine the Fire
District’s total assessable costs and shall determine whether to assess any,
all, or part of the costs against any of the responsible parties.
   (C)   The Chief of the Fire District or the Board’s designee may allocate
assessable costs among and between responsible parties, including allocating
all or some of the costs jointly and severally against more than one
responsible party regardless of whether a responsible party has other legal
liability or is legally at fault.
   (D)   Whether the Chief or the Board’s designee determines to assess all,
part, or none of the assessable costs against a responsible party, the
determination shall not in any way limit or extinguish the liability of the
responsible party to the Fire District, the city, or any other person,
corporation, partnership, government entity, or any other entity.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.06  BILLING AND COLLECTION OF ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   After determining to assess assessable costs against a responsible party, an
itemized invoice shall be sent to the responsible party at the party’s last
known address.  The invoice shall be due and payable within 30 days of the date
of mailing and any amounts unpaid after the date shall bear a late payment fee
equal to 1% per month or fraction thereof that the amount due and any
previously imposed late payment fee remain unpaid.  If a responsible party
shall appeal assessable costs pursuant to §
35.07, the costs, if upheld, in whole or in part, shall be due and payable 30
days from the date of determination of the appeal and any late payment fees
shall apply thereafter.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.07  PROCEDURE FOR APPEALING ASSESSABLE COSTS.
   (A)   Any responsible party who receives an invoice for assessable costs
shall have an opportunity to meet with the city or the Fire District, depending
on what entity assessed the costs.  The initial meeting shall be with the City
Manager or Council’s designee and/or the Chief or Board’s designee to request a
modification of assessable costs.  The responsible party shall request in
writing such a meeting within seven calendar days of the date of the invoice
assessing the assessable costs.
   (B)   If after this initial meeting any responsible party is still not
satisfied, he or she may request an opportunity to appear before the City
Council and/or the Board of the Fire District to further request a modification
of assessable costs.  A responsible party who desires to appear before the City
Council and/or the Fire District board must have had an initial meeting as
provided above and then shall make a written request to appear before the City
Council of Fire District Board within seven calendar days of the date of this
meeting.  Upon receipt of the request, the responsible party will by put on the
agenda of the next regularly scheduled City Council And/or Fire District Board
meeting, which meeting must be held within 21 calendar days of the date on
which the responsible party files the request to appear.
   (C)   Any filed requests to appear shall specifically identify and explain
all reasons why the responsible party believes the assessed costs should be
modified.  Any reason, basis, or argument for modification of assessable costs
not set forth in the request to appear shall be deemed waived by the
responsible party.  Failure to timely file a written request to appear shall
constitute a wavier of any argument the responsible party may have had that the
party is not liable for the assessable costs invoiced.  After a responsible
party has been given an opportunity to appear before it, the City Council and/
or Fire District Board shall promptly determine whether to confirm, modify, or
void the payment of assessable costs invoiced.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.08  ASSESSABLE COSTS A LIEN UPON PROPERTY.
   Costs assessed against a responsible party not paid when due, including late
fees, shall constitute a lien upon the real property of the responsible party
in the city, from which, upon which or related to which the emergency incident
occurred.  The lien shall be of the same character and effect as the lien
created by City Charter for city real property taxes and shall include accrued
interest and penalties.  The City Treasurer shall, prior to March 1 of each
year, certify to the City Assessor the fact that the assessable costs are
delinquent and unpaid.  The City Assessor shall then enter the delinquent
amount on the next general ad valorem tax roll as a charge against the affected
property, and the lien thereon shall be enforced in the same manner as provided
and allowed by law for delinquent and unpaid real property taxes.  The Fire
District is responsible for alerting the City Treasurer of any delinquent,
unpaid assessable costs.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.09  OTHER REMEDIES.
   In addition to the remedy set forth in §§
35.04 and
35.05, the city and the Fire District shall be entitled to pursue any other
remedy or may institute any appropriate action or proceeding in a court of
competent jurisdiction as permitted by law to collect assessable costs from a
responsible party.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.10  NO LIMITATION OF LIABILITY.
   The recovery of assessable costs pursuant hereto does not limit the
liability of a responsible party under applicable local, state, or federal law.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
§ 35.11  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective 30 days after publication in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city.
(Ord. 08-2006, passed 9-18-2006)
CHAPTER 36:  WATER IMPROVEMENT TAX INCREMENT FINANCING AUTHORITY
Section
   
36.01   Title
   
36.02   Determination of necessity; purpose
   
36.03   Definitions
   
36.04   Creation of Authority
   
36.05   Description of Water Resource Improvement District
   
36.06   Board of Directors
   
36.07   Powers of Authority
   
36.08   Fiscal year; adoption of budget
   
36.09   Termination
§ 36.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Water Improvement Tax Increment Finance
Authority” of the City of the Village of Douglas.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 36.02  DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY; PURPOSE.
   The City Council hereby determines that it is necessary for the best
interests of the public to create a public body corporate, for the purpose of
correcting and preventing deterioration in the water resources of Kalamazoo
Lake; increase property valuation where possible in the water resource
improvement district, and promote economic growth, pursuant to Act 94 of Public
acts of Michigan, 2008, as amended.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 36.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY.  A water resource improvement tax increment finance authority
created under this chapter pursuant to Act 94 of PA 2008, as amended.
   BOARD or BOARD OF DIRECTORS.  The Board of Directors of The Authority, which
should serve as its governing body.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER.  The mayor or his or her city or administrative
manager of a city or supervisor of a township.
   CITY.  The City of the Village of Douglas.
   COUNCIL or CITY COUNCIL.  The governing body of the city having legislative
powers.
   WATER RESOURCE IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT or DISTRICT.  That portion of the
Kalamazoo Lake lying within the city boundaries and parcels of land that are
contiguous to its shoreline up to one mile from the shoreline as designated
herein designated by this chapter, as now existing or hereafter amended, and
within which the Authority shall exercise its powers.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 36.04  CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created pursuant to Act 94 a Water Resource Improvement Tax
Increment Finance Authority for the city. The Authority shall be a public body
corporate and shall be known and exercise its powers under title of the “Water
Resource Improvement Tax Increment Finance Authority of the City of the Village
of Douglas”. The Authority may sue or be sued in any court of this state and
shall possess all of the powers necessary to carry out the purpose of its
incorporation as provided under this chapter and Act 94. The enumeration of a
power in this chapter or Act 94 shall not be construed as a limitation upon the
general powers of the Authority.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 36.05  DESCRIPTION OF WATER RESOURCE IMPROVEMENT DISTRICT.
   The Water Resource Improvement District shall consist of the territory in
the City of the Village of Douglas described below and inclusive of all parcels
delineated on the map attached as exhibit A to the ordinance codified herein
and made a part hereof, subject to such charges as may hereinafter be made
pursuant to this chapter and Act 94:
All properties that fall within a district that would be created by drawing a
line starting at the intersection of Ferry Street and Campbell Road and
proceeding west along Campbell Road to a point approximately 200 feet west of
McVea Drive, then turning south at that point and proceeding in a straight line
to Center Street, then turning east on Center Street and proceeding to a point
approximately 650 feet west of intersection of Center and Ferry Streets, then
turning south at that point and proceeding in a straight line to Wiley Road,
then turning east on Wiley Road proceeding to the eastern boundary of the city,
then turning north and following the boundary of the city to a point in Lake
Kalamazoo that marks the dividing line between the City of Douglas and
Saugatuck Township, then following that line in Lake Kalamazoo that goes west
and north west to a point that aligns with the point of beginning at Ferry
Street and Campbell Road.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 36.06  BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of The Board. The
Board shall consist of the Chief Executive Officer of the city or his or her
designee and not less than five and not more than nine members as determined by
Council. Members shall be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, subject to
approval by the Council. Not less than a majority of the members shall be
persons having an ownership or business interest in property located in the
district. At least one member shall be a resident of the district or of an area
within one-half mile of any part of the district. Of the members first
appointed, an equal number of members, as near as practical, shall serve until
the member’s successor is appointed. After initial appointment, each member
shall serve for a term of four years. Any appointment to fill a vacancy shall
be made by the Chief Executive Officer for the unexpired term only. Members
shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for actual and
necessary expenses. The chairperson shall be elected by The Board. The Board
shall adopt bylaws governing its procedures subject to the approval of Council.
Subject to the provisions of §36.08, the Board may employ and fix the
compensation of a Director who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board and
such other secretary and treasurer and such other personnel as considered
necessary. A member of the Board is not eligible to serve as a Director.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 36.07  POWERS OF AUTHORITY.
   Except as specifically otherwise provided in this chapter, the Authority
shall have all powers provided by law and subject to the limitations imposed by
law and herein.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 36.08  FISCAL YEAR; ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Authority shall begin on July 1st of each year
as may hereafter be adopted by the Council.
   (B)   The Board shall cause the preparation of an annual budget for the
operation of the Authority for each fiscal year. The budget shall contain the
same information required of city departments. After review by The Board, the
budget shall be submitted to Council for approval, which shall occur before
final adoption by The Board.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit financial reports to Council at the same
time and on the same basis as departments of the city if so required. The
Authority shall be audited annually by the same independent auditors auditing
the city and copies of the audit shall be filed with Council.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
§ 36.09  TERMINATION.
   Upon completion of its purpose for which it was organized, the Authority may
be dissolved by the Council. The property and assets of the Authority remaining
after the satisfaction of the obligations of The Authority belong to the
municipality.
(Ord. 08-2011, passed 12-5-2011)
CHAPTER 37:  FINANCE
Section
Procedures for Purchases, Contracts and Bidding
   
37.01   Responsibilities
   
37.02   Purchases of $5,000 and under
   
37.03   Purchases in excess of $5,000 but under $20,000
   
37.04   Purchases in excess of $20,000
   
37.05   Local preference in purchasing
   
37.06   Newspaper notice
   
37.07   Format for submission of bids
   
37.08   Bid opening procedures
   
37.09   Award of contract
   
37.10   Rejection of bids
   
37.11   Advance disclosures
   
37.12   Documents required for purchase or contract
   
37.13   Submittal of required documents
   
37.14   Exceptions to written specifications and bidding requirements for
purchases or contracts in excess of $5,000
   
37.15   Change orders
   
37.16   Exclusions
Investment Policy
   
37.30   Policy
   
37.31   Scope
   
37.32   General objectives
   
37.33   Standards of care
   
37.34   Safekeeping and custody
   
37.35   Suitable and authorized investments
   
37.36   Investment parameters
   
37.37   Reporting
PROCEDURES FOR PURCHASES, CONTRACTS AND BIDDING
§ 37.01  RESPONSIBILITIES.
   All purchases and contracts for materials, supplies, equipment and services
required by any department or organizational unit of the city shall be
performed under the authority of the City Manager or his or her authorized
representative. Any deviations from this authorization shall be approved by the
City Manager.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.02  PURCHASES OF $5,000 AND UNDER.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized to make purchases or authorize
purchases to be made whose total actual or estimated costs do not exceed
$5,000; provided that the funds are provided for within the annual budget, and
provided, further, that such purchases are made in accordance with the rules
and procedures provided for by this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.03  PURCHASES IN EXCESS OF $5,000 BUT UNDER $20,000.
   (A)   The City Manager is authorized to make purchases or to authorize
purchases or contracts, including settlements of pending claims, to be made
whose total or actual estimated costs will be greater than $5,000 but less than
$20,000; provided, that:
      (1)   Where possible at least three written quotations are obtained prior
to awarding the purchase to the best qualified vendor;
      (2)   The funds are provided for within the annual budget; and
      (3)   Such purchases are made in accordance with the rules and procedures
provided for by this subchapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to purchases or
contracts as set forth in §
37.14.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.04  PURCHASES IN EXCESS OF $20,000.
   (A)   All purchases or contracts covered by this subchapter whose estimated
costs exceed $20,000 shall be submitted to the mayor and city council for
approval prior to purchase or contract.
   (B)   Except for the purchases or contracts set forth in §
37.14, all purchases or contracts whose estimated costs exceed $20,000 shall be
based upon written specifications and awarded in the following manner:
      (1)   By written contract let to the lowest responsible bidder after
advertising for sealed bids;
      (2)   In any manner authorized by resolution of the mayor and city
council;
      (3)   In any manner authorized by statute or ordinance.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.05  LOCAL PREFERENCE IN PURCHASING.
   (A)   Any purchase or contract to be made with entirely city funds may be
awarded to the lowest written quoted price or lowest evaluated bid price from a
responsive and responsible local vendor provided that the local vendor’s quote
or bid is no higher than the lowest responsive and responsible non-local vendor
by more than two percent or two thousand dollars, whichever is less.
   (B)   LOCAL VENDOR means any person, firm, partnership, corporation
(including franchises or branches) licensed to conduct business within the
city, physically operating within the corporate boundaries of the city, and
subject to city taxes.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.06  NEWSPAPER NOTICE.
   (A)   When a sealed bid is required by this subchapter, advertisements shall
be published at least once in at least one newspaper of general circulation in
the city at least 20 days prior to the date announced for the receipt of bids.
The newspaper notice required by this section shall include a general
description of the articles to be purchased or sold or the work to be
performed, the location where blank bid forms and specifications may be
secured, the time by which bids must be submitted, the location where the bids
must be submitted, and the time and place for opening bids. Irregularities in
the notice or publication period shall not invalidate the bidding process.
   (B)   The city may solicit sealed bids from all responsible bidders whom the
City Manager or departmental representatives know from experience or research
appear to be capable of providing the items to be purchased or performing the
required service. Notice shall be by sending the prospective bidders a copy of
such newspaper notice or such other notice as will acquaint them with the
proposed purchase or sale.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.07  FORMAT FOR SUBMISSION OF BIDS.
   Bids shall be submitted in a sealed opaque envelope to the City Manager.
Each bid shall be addressed to the City Manager and shall bear on the face of
the envelope the name of the bidder, a statement that it is a sealed bid to be
opened on the date and hour mentioned in the public notice, and a statement of
the contract for which the bid is made. Each bid shall be submitted on the
printed form supplied by the city. Any bid not submitted as required herein may
be rejected and not considered a proper bid.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.08  BID OPENING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Bids shall be opened by the city manager, or his/her designee, in
public at the time and place specified in the public notice, in the presence of
a representative of the department recommending the purchase.
   (B)   A tabulation of all bids received shall be made available for public
inspection in the office of the City Manager within a reasonable period of time
after opening of the bids.
   (C)   Any bid which is not submitted in the form as required by §
37.07 and which is inadvertently opened prior to the official bid opening shall
be rejected.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.09  AWARD OF CONTRACT.
   (A)   The City Manager is empowered to award contracts on behalf of the city
within the purview of this subchapter, which are for less than $20,000. Except
as otherwise provided herein, the Mayor and City Council shall award all other
contracts.
   (B)   Contracts subject to bidding requirements shall be awarded to the
lowest responsible bidder as determined at the sole discretion of the city. In
determining the lowest possible bidder, the city shall consider the following
as well as other criteria:
      (1)   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to perform the
contract or provide the service required;
      (2)   The ability of the bidder to perform the contract within the
proposed schedule for completion;
      (3)   The capacity of the bidder to perform the contract or provide the
service promptly, or within the time specified, without delay or interference;
      (4)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder including but not limited to past performance record;
default under previous contracts, whether or not such contracts were with the
city; competency; and failure to pay or satisfactorily settle all bills due for
labor and material on former contracts;
      (5)   The quality of performance of previous contracts or services;
      (6)   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws and
ordinances relating to the contract or service;
      (7)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and financial ability of
the bidder to perform the contract or service;
      (8)   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies,
machinery, plant or other equipment or contractual services to the particular
use required;
      (9)   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and service
for the use of the subject of the contract, including guarantees; and
      (10)   Whether the bidder is entitled to local preference as set forth in
this subchapter.
   (C)   When the award is not recommended to be given to the lowest bidder, a
statement of the reasons for such award recommendation shall be prepared.
   (D)   Nothing set forth herein shall prohibit the city from negotiating a
lower price than the lowest responsible bidder.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.10  REJECTION OF BIDS.
   The city may reject any and all bids received, may waive any procedural
informality in the bidding process if determined to be in the best interest of
the city or, if no bids are received, may:
   (A)   Abandon the project;
   (B)   Re-advertise for new bids; or
   (C)   Provide for the contract to be negotiated in the open market.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.11  ADVANCE DISCLOSURES.
   Any disclosure of information contained in any submitted bid documents in
advance of the opening of bids, made or permitted by a city officer or employee
or representative thereof, shall operate to void the bid in its entirety as to
all bidders.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.12  DOCUMENTS REQUIRED FOR PURCHASE OR CONTRACT.
   The following requirements shall be met in the manners indicated below:
   (A)   Bid security.
      (1)   Public works or construction contracts over $20,000. When the
estimate for any public works or construction contract is over $20,000, all
bidders shall submit a bid bond secured by a cashier’s check or certified check
or by an insurance company licensed to do business within the state, attached
to the bid documents in an amount equal to at least 5% of the bid or such other
reasonable amount as determined by the City Manager. The security will be held
to ensure good faith on the part of the bidder and to be applied as liquidated
damages should the successful bidder fail to execute and submit all required
contract documents within the time required by §
37.13 or attempt to withdraw the bid prior to the beginning date of the
contract.
      (1)   Other purchases or contracts. For any purchase or contract other
than as set forth in division (A) of this section or if the bid award is
computed from a bid not based on a fixed total contract sum, the City Manager
is empowered to fix a reasonable bid security amount to ensure good faith on
the part of the bidder and to be applied as liquidated damages should the
successful bidder fail to execute and submit all required contract documents
within the time required by §
37.13 or attempt to withdraw the bid prior to the beginning date of the
contract. If the City Manager determines that the requirement of a bid bond may
result in a lack of competitive bids or quotes or is otherwise not warranted,
the City Manager may waive the requirement of a bid bond.
      (3)   Return of bid security. All bid security, other than that submitted
by the successful bidder, shall be returned to the respective bidders within a
reasonable period of time after award of a contract or rejection of the bid.
The bond of the successful bidder shall be held by the City Manager until all
required contract documents have been fully executed.
   (B)   Affidavits of compliance. Each bidder shall submit, with other
required contract bidding documents, the following affidavits.
      (1)   An affidavit that the bidder is familiar with and will comply with
all applicable state, local and federal laws, including, as applicable, but not
limited to, the Prevailing Wage Act and the Davis-Bacon Act.
      (2)   An affidavit indicating the following ownership status of the
bidder:
         (a)   If a corporation. The name of the state in which the corporation
is chartered; the name, address and telephone number of the local registered
agent and office;
         (b)   If a partnership. The name of all partners and the address and
telephone number of the business office;
         (C)   Sole proprietorship. The name of the owner and the address and
telephone number of the business office.
      (3)   An affidavit that the bidder has not colluded with any person in
the bid for the contract.
      (4)   An affidavit that the bidder does not and will not engage in
discriminatory practices and does not and will not engage in discrimination
because of race, sex, religion, national origin, age or sensory, mental or
physical handicap in hiring or firing, and is in fact an equal opportunity
employer.
   (C)   Insurance, all construction and public works contracts.
      (1)   The successful bidder in all construction or public works contracts
shall submit with other required contract documents a certificate of general
liability insurance, issued by an insurance company licensed to do business
within the state, indicating the bidder as the insured and naming the city as
an additional insured for the duration of the contract, in at least the
following amounts.
         (a)   Commercial general liability. One million dollars combined
single limit per occurrence for bodily injury, personal injury, and property
damage. The minimum general aggregate shall be no less than a project/contract
specific aggregate of $1,000,000.
         (b)   Business automobile liability. One million dollars; combined
single limit per accident for bodily injury and property damage.
         (c)   Worker’s compensation insurance, amount as required by state
statute.
         (d)   Any self-insured retentions must be declared to and approved by
the city. This certificate shall be submitted with the other required
documents.
      (2)   The successful bidder shall require the same amounts and coverages
as in division (A) of this section from all subcontractors.
   (D)   Labor and performance bonds.
      (1)   Labor and performance bond. Construction and public works contracts
over $20,000. The successful bidder in all construction and public works
contracts whose estimated contract price exceeds $20,000 shall submit a labor
and materials bond and a performance bond written for the duration of the
contract issued by an insurance company licensed to do business within the
state. The labor and materials bond shall be conditioned upon the full and
complete payment for all materials and labor used to complete the contract, in
the amount of 100% of the contract price. The performance bond shall be
conditioned on the full completion of the contract according to its terms, in
the amount of 100% on the contract price. Any person may submit in lieu of the
performance bond required in this section, cash in escrow with an escrow
agreement approved as to form by the City Attorney. The amount deposited in
escrow shall be in the amount of 100% of the contract price. Notice of intent
to make such an escrow deposit shall accompany the bid proposal. No withdrawal
of the escrow deposit by the bidder shall be allowed until the completion of
the project as approved by the City Manager. The successful bidder shall
execute the performance bond on a form provided by the city or its equivalent
and submit the bond with other required contract documents.
      (2)   The City Manager may require a labor and materials bond or a
performance bond for any other contract to be entered into by the city.
      (3)   All bidders on any contract which is funded from the state motor
fuel tax in whole or in part shall submit to the City Manager when required by
the state, a current certificate of eligibility indicating prequalification in
at least the amount of the bid and areas of expertise required and issued by
the state at or prior to the time and date set for bid opening.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.13  SUBMITTAL OF REQUIRED DOCUMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Within 15 calendar days after award of the contract by the city
and prior to commencing work, the successful bidder shall submit the following
required contract documents fully executed and bound, to the City Manager:
         (a)   All documents as required by §
37.12; and
         (b)   Signed contract form provided by the city.
      (2)   Failure to tender the above documents as required shall permit the
city to terminate the contract award and draw upon the full amount of the
bidder’s bid bond as liquidated damages.
   (B)   The submission of a document required by this subchapter which is in
whole or in part false or misleading in any material statement shall be
considered a default under the contract. The City Manager is hereby empowered
to immediately inform the successful bidder of the default pursuant to the
provisions set out in the contract documents. He or she shall immediately take
steps to institute the city’s remedies available under the contract and at law,
which shall include, but not be limited to, entering into a contract with the
next lowest responsible bidder or re-advertising for bids.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.14  EXCEPTIONS TO WRITTEN SPECIFICATIONS AND BIDDING REQUIREMENTS FOR
PURCHASES OR CONTRACTS IN EXCESS OF $5,000.
   The following purchases or contracts whose estimated cost is in excess of
$5,000 shall not require written specifications or competitive bidding provided
that:
   (A)   The following purchases or contracts shall be submitted to the Mayor
and City Council for approval prior to purchase or contract:
      (1)   Purchases which may only be made from a single source;
      (2)   Purchases for additions to and repairs and maintenance of personal
property owned by the city which may be more efficiently added to, repaired or
maintained by a specific person;
      (3)   Purchases of personal property which are compatible with the
existing equipment or systems owned by the city;
      (4)   Contracts for the services of individuals possessing a high degree
of professional skill;
      (5)   Purchases, which because of the unique characteristics of the
personal property or the needs of the city are not susceptible to competitive
bidding; and
      (6)   Contracts with options to renew for additional periods of time at a
fixed price.
   (B)   The City Manager shall inform the Mayor and City Council by a full
written account of the contracts entered into or purchases made pursuant to
this division:
      (1)   Purchases which can be made at a public auction, close-out sale,
bankruptcy sale or other similar sale at a cost below the market cost in the
community;
      (2)   Purchases where an emergency immediately affects the public health,
safety or welfare if authorized by the City Manager. Upon cessation of the
emergency, the City Manager shall inform the City Council by a full written
account of the contracts entered into or purchases made pursuant to this
division; and
      (3)   Contracts for the printing of bonds, tax warrants and other
evidences of indebtedness.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.15  CHANGE ORDERS.
   Change orders shall be executed in the following manner:
   (A)   The City Manager is hereby empowered to execute the following change
orders:
      (1)   Change orders which do not alter the scope or cost of the project;
and
      (2)   Change orders which result in a reduction in cost, but do not alter
the scope or quality of the project.
   (B)   The City Manager is hereby empowered to execute the following change
orders without prior approval by the City Council, provided, however, he or she
shall report such change orders to the City Council:
      (1)   Change orders which result from emergency situations, defined as:
         (a)   Any clear and present danger or hazard to health, safety or
welfare; or
         (b)   Condition which would require the cessation of work on the
project, if not immediately executed.
      (2)   Change orders which result in an additional project cost, if the
accrued costs of all change orders to date relative to the contract do not
exceed the lesser of $2,500 or 10% of the original project cost.
      (3)   All change orders not included in division (A) or (B) of this
section shall be effective only after prior approval of the city council. If
such approval is given, the City Manager is hereby authorized to execute such
change orders.
      (4)   All change orders necessitating an increase or decrease in the cost
of a contract by a total of $10,000 or more or the time of completion by a
total of 30 days or more shall be effective only after prior approval of the
City Council and a finding that: the circumstances said to necessitate the
change in performance were not reasonably foreseeable at the time the contract
was made; or, the change is germane to the original contract as signed; or the
change is in the best interests of the city and authorized by law.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.16  EXCLUSIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Any collective bargaining agreement or employment contracts to which
the city is a party;
   (B)   Any purchase, sale or lease of real property to which the city is a
party;
   (C)   Contracts with or purchases from another governmental entity; or
   (D)   Contracts or purchases made at prices determined through a bid process
conducted by a local, regional, or state governmental entity or agency.
(Ord. 01-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
INVESTMENT POLICY
§ 37.30  POLICY.
   It is the policy of the City of the Village of Douglas to invest its funds
in a manner which will ensure the preservation of capital, to provide the
highest investment return with maximum security, to meet the daily cash flow
needs of the city, and to comply with all state and local statutes governing
the investment of public funds.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.31  SCOPE.
   (A)   This policy applies to all financial assets of the city held by the
City Treasurer. These financial assets are accounted for in the city audited
financial statements and include the general fund, special revenue funds, debt
service funds, capital project funds (unless bond ordinances and resolutions
are more restrictive), enterprise funds, trust and agency funds, and any new
fund established by the city.
   (B)   Pooling of funds. Except for cash in certain restricted and special
funds, the city will consolidate cash balances from all funds to maximize
investment earnings. Investment income will be allocated to the various funds
based on their respective participation and in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.32  GENERAL OBJECTIVES.
   The primary objectives, in priority order, of investment activities shall
be:
   (A)   Safety. Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the
investment program. Investments shall be undertaken in a manner that seeks to
ensure the preservation of capital in the overall portfolio. The objective will
be to mitigate credit risk and interest rate risk.
      (1)   Credit risk. The city will minimize the risk of loss due to the
failure of the security issuer or backer, by:
         (a)   Limiting investments to the safest types of securities;
         (b)   pre-qualifying the financial institutions, broker/dealers,
intermediaries, and advisers with which the City will do business; and
         (c)   Diversifying the investment portfolio so that potential losses
on individual securities will be minimized.
      (2)   Interest rate risk. The city will minimize the risk that the market
value of securities in the portfolio will fall due to changes in general
interest rates by structuring the portfolio to meet the cash requirements of
ongoing operations, thereby mitigating the need to liquidate securities at a
loss prior to maturity.
      (3)   Concentration risk. The city will minimize the risk associated with
placing a large portion of the investment portfolio with a single issuer by
limiting the exposure of each issuer to 20% of the total portfolio.
      (4)   Custodial credit risk. The city will minimize custodial credit risk
by holding the investments in the city’s name.
      (5)   Foreign currency risk. The city will only invest in U.S. dollar
denominated investments.
   (B)   Liquidity. The investment portfolio shall remain sufficiently liquid
to meet all operating requirements that may be reasonably anticipated. This is
accomplished by structuring the portfolio so that securities mature concurrent
with cash needs to meet anticipated demands (static liquidity). Furthermore,
since all possible cash demands cannot be anticipated, the portfolio should
consist largely of securities with active secondary or resale markets (dynamic
liquidity). A portion of the portfolio also may be placed in money market
mutual funds or local government investment pools which offer same-day
liquidity for short-term funds.
   (C)   Return on investment. The investment portfolio shall be designed with
the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout budgetary and
economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints and
liquidity needs. Return on investment is of secondary importance compared to
the safety and liquidity objectives described above.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.33  STANDARDS OF CARE.
   (A)   Ethics and conflicts of interest. Officers and employees involved in
the investment process shall refrain from personal business activity that could
conflict with the proper execution and management of the investment program, or
that could impair their ability to make impartial decisions. Employees and
investment officials shall disclose any material interests in financial
institutions with which they conduct business. They shall further disclose any
personal financial/investment positions that could be related to the
performance of the investment portfolio. Employees and officers shall refrain
from undertaking personal investment transactions with the same individual with
whom business is conducted on behalf of the city.
   (B)   Delegation of authority. Authority to manage the investment program is
derived from the city charter provision requiring the City Treasurer to be the
custodian of the city’s public funds. Management responsibility for the
operation of the investment program is hereby delegated to the City Treasurer,
who shall act in accordance with established written procedures and internal
controls for the operation of the investment program consistent with this
investment policy. Procedures should include references to: safekeeping, cash
delivery vs. payment, investment accounting, repurchase agreements, wire
transfer agreements, and collateral/depository agreements. No person may engage
in an investment transaction except as provided under the terms of this policy
and the procedures established by the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall
be responsible for all transactions undertaken and shall establish a system of
controls to regulate the activities of subordinate officials.
   (C)   Prudence. Investments shall be made with judgment and care, under
circumstances then prevailing which persons of prudence, discretion and
intelligence exercise in the management of their own affairs, not for
speculation, but for investment, considering the probably safety of their
capital as well as the probably income to be derived.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.34  SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY.
   All security transactions, including collateral for repurchase agreements
and financial institution deposits, entered into by the City Treasurer may be
on a cash basis or a delivery vs. payment basis. Securities may be held by a
third party custodian at the discretion of the City Treasurer and must be
evidenced by safekeeping receipts.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.35  SUITABLE AND AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.
   Investment types. The following investments will be permitted by this policy
and are those defined by state and local law where applicable.
   (A)   United States government obligations, U.S. government agency
obligations, and U.S. government instrumentality obligations, which have a
liquid market with a readily determinable market value.
   (B)   Certificates of deposit, savings accounts, deposit accounts and other
evidences of deposit at financial institutions.
   (C)   Bankers’ acceptances of United States banks.
   (D)   Commercial paper, rated in the highest two tiers (e.g., A-1/A-2, P-1/
P-2, F-1/F-2) by not less than two nationally recognized rating agencies at the
time of purchase.
   (E)   Obligations of this state or any of its political subdivisions that
are rated investment grade by not less than one nationally recognized rating
agency at the time of purchase.
   (F)   Repurchase agreements whose underlying purchased securities consist of
the foregoing.
   (G)   Money market mutual funds registered under the investment company act
of 1940, title I of chapter 686, 54 Stat. 789 15 U.S.C. 80a-l to 80a-3 and 80a-
4 to 80a-64, with the authority to purchase only investment vehicles that are
legal for direct investment by the city. This authorization is limited to
securities whose intention is to maintain a net asset value of $1 per share;
   (H)   Investment pools through an interlocal agreement under the Urban
Cooperation A, 1967 (Ex Sess)PA7, M.C.L.A. §§ 124.501 to 124.502.
   (I)   Investment pools organized under the surplus funds investment pool
act, 1982 PA367, §§ 129.111 to 129.118.
   (J)   Certificates of deposit as authorized by M.C.L.A. § 129.91(5)
including Certificate of Deposit Account Registry Service (CDARS).
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.36  INVESTMENT PARAMETERS.
   (A)   Diversification. The investments shall be diversified by:
      (1)   Limiting investments to avoid overconcentration in securities from
a specific issuer or business sector (excluding U.S. Treasury securities);
      (2)   Limiting investment in securities that have higher credit risks;
      (3)   Investing in securities with varying maturities; and
      (4)   Continuously investing a portion of the portfolio in readily
available funds such as local government investment pools (LGIPs), money market
funds or overnight repurchase agreements to ensure that appropriate liquidity
is maintained in order to meet ongoing obligations.
   (B)   Maximum maturities.
      (1)   To the extent possible, the city shall attempt to match its
investments with anticipated cash flow requirements. Unless matched to a
specific cash flow, the city will not directly invest in securities maturing
more than five years from the date of purchase or in accordance with state and
local statutes and ordinances. The city shall adopt weighted average maturity
limitations (which often range from 90 days to three years), consistent with
the investment objectives.
      (2)   Reserve funds and other funds with longer-term investment horizons
may be invested in securities exceeding five years if the maturity of such
investments is made to coincide as nearly as practicable with the expected use
of funds. The intent to invest in securities with longer maturities shall be
disclosed in writing to the City Council.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
§ 37.37  REPORTING.
   (A)   Methods. The City Treasurer shall prepare an investment report at
least quarterly, including a management summary that provides an analysis of
the status of the current investment portfolio and transactions made over the
last quarter. This management summary will be prepared in a manner which will
allow the city to ascertain whether investment activities during the reporting
period have conformed to the investment policy. The report should be provided
to the City Council and any pool participants and will include the following:
      (1)   Listing of individual securities held at the end of the reporting
period;
      (2)   Realized and unrealized gains or losses resulting from appreciation
or depreciation by listing the cost and market value of securities over one-
year duration that are not intended to be held until maturity (in accordance
with Governmental Accounting Standards Board (GASB) requirements);
      (3)   Average weighted yield to maturity of portfolio on investments as
compared to applicable benchmarks;
      (4)   Listing of investment by maturity date; and
      (5)   Percentage of the total portfolio which each type of investment
represents.
   (B)   Performance standards. The investment portfolio will be managed in
accordance with the parameters specified within this policy. The portfolio
should obtain a market average rate of return during a market/economic
environment of stable interest rates. A series of appropriate benchmarks shall
be established against which portfolio performance shall be compared on a
regular basis.
(Ord. 02-2010, passed 6-8-2010)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SERVICE
      
51.   SEWER SERVICE; GENERALLY
      
52.   SEWER RATES AND CONNECTIONS
      
53.   SEWER USE
      
54.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
CHAPTER 50:  WATER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.001   Definitions
   
50.002   Fluoridation rejected
Rates and Charges
   
50.015   Disruption of service
   
50.016   Operation and management
   
50.017   Renewal of existing water service; apportionment of costs
Water Service User Charge System
   
50.030   All premises charged for service; basis
   
50.031   Delineation of charges; billing periods
   
50.032   Enumeration of rates
   
50.033   Water connection equivalent user factor
   
50.034   Water service connection fees account; use
   
50.035   Delinquent charges constitute lien; notice; security deposit; waiver
Existing Connections to System
   
50.050   Findings of fact; background
   
50.051   Definitions
   
50.052   Responsibility for installation, maintenance, and repair
   
50.053   Prohibited acts
   
50.054   Entry upon private premises
   
50.055   Liens
   
50.056   Meter installation and maintenance
   
50.057   Authority to promulgate rules for operation and maintenance
   
50.058   Violation deemed nuisance
Connections Under KLSWA
   
50.070   Generally
   
50.071   Water use
   
50.072   Meters
Outdoor Watering
   
50.085   Authority to prohibit or restrict water usage
   
50.086   Publication of resolution; notice to public
   
50.087   Revocation of ban
   
50.088   Warning notice
Cross Connections
   
50.100   Adoption of state statutes
   
50.101   Inspection
   
50.102   Right of entry; refusal deemed evidence of cross connections
   
50.103   Discontinuance of service authorized
   
50.104   Protection of potable water supply; labeling of water supplied by
other sources
 
   
50.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACQUIRED.  Acquisition by purchase, construction, or any other method.
   AUTHORITY.  The Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority.
   CITY.  The City of Douglas.
   KLSWA.  The Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority.
   PROJECT.  The improvements, enlargements, and extensions to be acquired.
   REVENUE and NET REVENUE.  Shall be construed as defined in Public Act 94 of
1933, § 3, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 et seq., as amended.
   SYSTEM.  The water system serving the City of Saugatuck or the City of the
Village of Douglas, including all plants, works, instrumentation, and
properties used or useful in connection with the obtaining of a water supply,
the treatment of water, or the distribution of water by the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-31)  (Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 50.002  FLUORIDATION REJECTED.
   Water supplied to the public by the city, or water which is supplied to the
public by any governmental agency under the direction and control of the city,
shall not be treated by the addition of fluoride, the addition of fluoride
being herewith rejected by the city.
(1995 Code, § 58-32)  (Ord. 52, passed 8-6-1973)
RATES AND CHARGES
§ 50.015  DISRUPTION OF SERVICE.
   (A)   If it become’s necessary to shut water off from any section of the
system because of an accident or for the purpose of making repairs or
extensions, the KLSWA will endeavor to give timely notice to affected
customers.  Failure to give the notice shall not render the KLSWA or the city
responsible or liable for damage, injury, or loss which may result therefrom. 
Neither the KLSWA nor the city shall be liable, under any circumstance, for a
deficiency or failure in the supply of water.  Each user who shall accept
service is subject to the regulations imposed by this chapter.
   (B)   The KLSWA Board may, by resolution, restrict or otherwise regulate the
use of water within the system.  Notice of the resolution shall be published in
any newspaper of general circulation within the KLSWA service area at least 24
hours before the restrictions in the use of water become effective.  If an
emergency occurs which requires immediate action, the KLSWA Manager shall have
the authority to take the action as deemed necessary and in the best interests
of the citizens of the service area.
(1995 Code, § 58-51)  (Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995)
§ 50.016  OPERATION AND MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   The operation, maintenance, alteration, repair, and management of the
system shall be under the supervision and control of the KLSWA.  Ownership of
system assets shall remain with the city.
   (B)   The KLSWA may employ the persons in the capacities as it deems
advisable to carry on the efficient management, administration, and operation
of the system and may make the rules, orders, regulations, and policies as it
deems advisable and necessary to assure the efficient management and operation
of the system.
(1995 Code, § 58-66)  (Ord. 86, passed 11-7-1983; Am. Ord. 137, passed 4-10-
1995)
§ 50.017  RENEWAL OF EXISTING WATER SERVICE; APPORTIONMENT OF COSTS.
   The cost of renewal of obsolete water service from the water main to the
property right-of-way shall be apportioned as follows:  The Authority shall
provide labor and authority-owned equipment at no cost to the user.  The user
shall pay for the actual cost of materials used and any outside services which
may be required to complete the renewal.
(1995 Code, § 58-111)  (Ord. 86, passed 11-7-1983)
WATER SERVICE USER CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 50.030  ALL PREMISES CHARGED FOR SERVICE; BASIS.
   All premises connected directly or indirectly to the water service system of
the city, except as provided in this chapter, shall be charged and shall make
payments to the Authority in amounts computed on the basis of the actual flow
where a certified meter exists or a residential user equivalent in all other
cases.
(1995 Code, § 58-81)  (Ord. 86, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 50.031  DELINEATION OF CHARGES; BILLING PERIODS.
   The water service user charges shall consist of a user operation and
maintenance charge, billable quarterly for residential users, and monthly for
commercial and industrial users so designated by the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-82)  (Ord. 86, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 50.032  ENUMERATION OF RATES.
   (A)   Generally.  Rates to be charged for service furnished by the system
shall be as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Water service use charges.  Water service use charges are as
follows.
         (a)   The base rate for water service in the city shall be as follows:
 
Meter Size (Inches) 3/4 Equivalency Base Rate per Quarter
3/4                 1.0             $26.25
1–1/4             3.75            $98.44
1–1/2             5.0             $131.25
NOTES TO TABLE:
* $14.25 of the base rate per quarter per 3/4 equivalency is for debt
service.  The water commodity rate shall be $2.25 per 1,000 gallons; $1.00
per 1,000 gallons of the water commodity rate is for debt service.
 
         (b)   The base rate for water service outside the city shall be as
follows:
 
Meter Size (Inches) 3/4 Equivalency Base Rate per Quarter
3/4                 1.0             $52.50
1–1/4             3.75            $196.88
1–1/2             5.0             $262.50
NOTES TO TABLE:
* $28.50 of the base rate per quarter per 3/4 equivalency is for debt
service.  The water commodity rate shall be $4.50 per 1,000 gallons; $2.00
per 1,000 gallons of the water commodity rate is for debt service.
 
         (c)   The city shall have the right to adjust the user charge by
resolution of a majority vote of the City Council, based on an annual audit
review of the water system operation and maintenance costs.  The review shall
be conducted annually by the Authority.
      (2)   Connection charges.  For each direct connection to lines of the
city’s existing water system, as built, there shall be charged a fee of $2,000
per single-family residential equivalent user, for those premises or buildings
which desire water service and are located within the corporate limits of the
city.  For those premises located outside the corporate limits of the city, the
fee for connection to the water system shall be $4,000 per single-family
residential equivalent user.  The fee shall be a fee imposed by the city for
the privilege of connecting to the city’s existing water system, and shall be
expressly for the purpose of recovering the capital cost of installing the
system.
      (3)   Indirect connection.  In order to defray the proportional share of
the cost of the necessary oversizing of the distribution and transmission lines
of the water system, any booster or pump stations, water production facilities,
including, but not limited to, wells and water treatment facilities, there
shall be imposed a fee, for each indirect connection to the system at any time
hereafter, of $1,000 for each residential single-family equivalent user.  An
indirect connection shall be defined as a connection to a line which is
installed to serve more than one property, the cost of which is paid for by
special assessment or private funds and constructed in accordance with all
applicable state, county, and local codes, ordinances, and regulations, and is
added to the original system after its construction.
      (4)   Equivalent user factor.  Each premises, other than a single-family
residence, shall pay either a direct or indirect connection charge, multiplied
by a factor representing a ratio of water use by the class of premises to
normal single-family residential use, as reflected in §
50.033.
      (5)   Certified meter agreement for water connections.  All commercial
and industrial users shall have the option to prove their residential
equivalency and connection charge to the system by readings taken from a
certified water meter.  That agreement shall read as follows:
 
“I/we hereby agree that I/we choose to prove my/our residential equivalency and
connection charge to the Douglas water system by readings taken from a certified
water meter.
I/we understand that I/we will purchase the necessary water meter from the
Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority and I/we will pay for the installation
costs of the meter if there are installation costs resulting from any necessary
replumbing.
I/we understand that after the certified water meter is installed, the water flow
to the property shall be accurately recorded for a period of two years.  At the
end of the two-year period, the property owner’s residential equivalency will be
determined by dividing the average annual water purchased by 58,765 gallons.  The
resulting number will be the residential equivalency.
Until the two-year proving period has expired, the residential equivalency, as
determined by the authority manager, will be correct until proven different. 
After the two-year period, the connection charge will be readjusted accordingly.
After the two-year period, the water meter shall become the property of the
Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority.”
 
      (6)   Payment of connection charges.  Connection charges, as set forth in
this section, shall be due and payable in cash upon application for connection
to the system.  In addition, the cost of labor, connecting pipe, fittings and
appurtenances, and installation, plus 30% of these costs, shall also be paid by
the prospective user.  Applications for service connections shall be made to
the Authority prior to making the connection, upon forms furnished by the
Authority at which time the applicant shall pay the connection charge, as set
forth in this section, plus $400 which is the estimated cost of the actual
connection thereof subject to refund or additional charge after the actual cost
has been determined.
(1995 Code, § 58-83)  (Ord. 86, passed 11-7-1983; Am. Ord. 86-B-2, passed 2-18-
1995)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.033  WATER CONNECTION EQUIVALENT USER FACTOR.
Occupation Use Units
Occupation Use                          Units
Residential I:
Single-family residence                 1.00 per dwelling unit
2-family residence                      1.00 per dwelling unit
Mobile home (freestanding)              1.00 per dwelling unit
Mobile home (in park)                   1.00 per dwelling unit
Duplex or row house                     1.00 per dwelling unit
Apartment building                      1.00 per dwelling unit
Condominium                             1.00 per dwelling unit
Residential II:
Hotel                                   1.00 per building, plus 0.3 per
                                        bedroom*
Motel                                   1.00 per building, plus 0.3 per
                                        bedroom*
Sorority or fraternity house            1.00 per building, plus 0.3 per
                                        bedroom*
Boardinghouse or inn                    1.00 per building, plus 0.3 per
                                        bedroom*
Convalescent home (sheltered care)      1.00 per building, plus 0.3 per
                                        bedroom*
Convent                                 1.00 per building, plus 0.3 per
                                        bedroom*
Commercial and Industrial:
Athletic club                           1.50 per 1,000 square feet of building*
                                        1.00 per building plus 0.25 per 1,000
Auto dealer                             square feet of building area, including
                                        service area
   Commercial and Industrial:
                                        1.00 per building plus 0.25 per 1,000
Auto repair/collision service           square feet of building area, including
                                        service area
Auto wash-automatic/mechanical/fresh or
recycled water:
  Under 20 gallons per car             1.00 per car capacity of wash line, or
                                        1.00 per stall
  20-40 gallons per car                1.50 per car capacity of wash line, or
                                        1.50 per stall
  40-70 gallons per car                3.00 per car capacity of wash line, or
                                        3.00 per stall
Auto wash, coin-operated/manual         1.00 per stall
Bar                                     3.00 per 1,000 square feet*
Barbershop                              1.00 per premises plus 0.1 per station
                                        after 2 stations
Beauty shop                             1.00 per premises plus 0.1 per station
                                        after 2 stations
Bowling alley (no bar, and the like)    1.00 per premises, plus 0.2 per alley*
Cleaners (drop-off and pickup only)     1.00 per building
Cleaners (with cleaning and pressing)   1.00 per building, plus 0.5 per 500
                                        square feet
Clinic (medical or dental)              1.00 per premises, plus 0.5 per exam
                                        room
Country club                            1.50 per 1,000 square feet of
                                        clubhouse*
Drive-in restaurant                     2.00 per 1,000 square feet
Drugstore                               1.00 per premises*
Dry goods, retail stores                1.00 per premises, plus 0.1 per 1,000
                                        square feet
Factory, dry process, office and        0.75 per 1,000 square feet
production area
Factory, wet process, office and        1.50 per 1,000 square feet
production area
Funeral home                            1.50 per 1,000 square feet*
Grocery store, food market              1.00 per premises, plus 0.50 per 1,000
                                        square feet
Hospital or skilled nursing care        1.10 per bed
                                        1.00 per premises, plus 0.25 per
Laundry (self-serve)                    standard washing machine, plus 0.35 per
                                        large capacity washing machine
Marina                                  1.00 per building, plus 0.08 per boat
                                        slip*
Professional office building            0.75 per 1,000 square feet
Restaurant (meals only)                 2.00 per 1,000 square feet
   Commercial and Industrial:
Restaurant (with bar)                   5.00 per 1,000 square feet
Service station                         1.00 per 1,000 square feet of building
                                        area
Snack bar                               2.00 per 1,000 square feet
Theatre                                 0.03 per seat or car space
Veterinarian facility                   1.50 per premises plus 0.1 per kennel
Warehousing storage                     0.20 per 1,000 square feet
Other:
Church                                  0.25 per 1,000 square feet
School                                  1.00 per classroom
Public buildings, municipal             0.75 per 1,000 square feet
Public buildings, federal and state     1.00 per 1,000 square feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
* Additional fees for bars, laundry facilities, snack bars, and restaurant
facilities.
Water-cooled air conditioning, refrigeration, freezing compressors to be
evaluated and charged according to formula.
Minimum connection fee of 1.00 unit applies in cases where square footage or
other criteria amounts to less than one unit.
 
(1995 Code, § 58-84)  (Ord. 86, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 50.034  WATER SERVICE CONNECTION FEES ACCOUNT; USE.
   All revenues received from connection fees and their income shall be set
aside in a special account designated City of Douglas Water Service Connection
Fees and used as follows, subject to the discretion and approval of the City
Council:
   (A)   To extend, enlarge, improve, or maintain the water system; and
   (B)   To retire any bond indebtedness incurred by the city to improve or
expand the water system.
(1995 Code, § 58-85)  (Ord. 86, passed 11-7-1983)
§ 50.035  DELINQUENT CHARGES CONSTITUTE LIEN; NOTICE; SECURITY DEPOSIT; WAIVER.
   (A)   Notice; security deposit.  The charges for services which are under
the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as
amended, make a lien on all premises served thereby, and are hereby recognized
to constitute the lien.  Whenever any such charge against any piece of property
shall be delinquent for six months, the Authority Manager or his or her
representative in charge of the collection thereof shall certify annually, on
August 1 of each year, to the tax assessing officer of the city, the facts of
the delinquency whereupon the charge shall be entered by him or her upon the
next tax roll as a charge against the premises and shall be collected and the
lien thereof enforced in the same manner as general city taxes against the
premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced; provided, however, that
where notice is given that a tenant is responsible for the charges and service
as provided by Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, no
further service shall be rendered the premises until a cash deposit in the
amount of $36 shall have been made as security for payment of the charges and
service; provided, however, that when a tenant, not the owner of the property,
is the customer to receive service and is the party who will be responsible for
the charges, then prior to furnishing of the service, either the tenant or the
property owner shall notify the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority, in
writing, of the fact of the tenancy and that the tenant will be responsible for
the payment of the services.  The tenant and/or the property owner shall
further provide a copy of the lease, if there is one, and the term of the
tenancy.  The tenant and/or the landlord shall further deposit with the
Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority the sum of $100 for residential uses,
and, in the case of nonresidential uses, the sum of $100, or an amount equal to
the average annual charges to the premises based on the two immediate preceding
calendar years, whichever is greater.  The cash deposit shall be made prior to
the furnishing of service to the premises.  If the notice and cash security
deposit are provided as set forth in this section, then the charges shall not
become a lien on the premises, where the customer receiving the service is a
tenant and not the property owner.
   (B)   No waiver.  If the tenant fails to provide the notice and cash
security deposit as required in division (A) above, the charges against the
property may be a lien on the premises, even if the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and
Water Authority inadvertently provides service to a tenant without having
received a written notice of the tenancy or the amount of the security provided
for in this section.  The providing of service in the case shall not constitute
a waiver of the right of the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority to impose
a lien on the premises for unpaid charges.
(1995 Code, § 58-86)  (Ord. 86, passed 11-7-1983; Am. Ord. 117, passed 12-7-
1987)
EXISTING CONNECTIONS TO SYSTEM
§ 50.050  FINDINGS OF FACT; BACKGROUND.
   (A)   Over many years, private individuals have, from time to time,
installed private water supplying pipes on public or private property, or a
combination of both, for the purpose of connecting their private property to
the existing watermain in the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Some of these private water lines have, over the years, been installed
upon formal request to and permission granted by the City Council, while others
have been installed without the formality.
   (C)   In some cases, private supplying water pipes have been used as feeder
lines for additional individuals who sought to hook onto the private supplying
line in order to obtain water from the city water system.
   (D)   The end result of the provisions of divisions (A) through (C) above,
over many years, is that there are numerous undersized private water lines
existing in the city, which serve various residents of the city, and it has
been unclear as to who has the responsibility for maintaining and repairing the
water lines.
   (E)   The city is in need of clarifying and defining for itself and for the
Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority which water lines shall be the
responsibility of the municipality to repair and maintain, and which water
lines shall be considered to be private connecting and supplying lines which
are the responsibility of the private property owners utilizing the lines.
(1995 Code, § 58-126)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 50.051  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONNECTING OR SUPPLYING PIPE.  A water pipe, regardless of size, which is
situated primarily on private property, and which lies between the curb box, or
where the curb box would usually be located, and the premises, building, or
yard being served by the municipal water service.
   CURB BOX.  The control valve owned by the municipality which controls the
service of water to the premises being served, and is usually located near the
right-of-way line adjacent to the premises being served.
   DISTRIBUTING PIPE.  A water pipe lying completely within the public right-
of-way, or on an easement granted to the municipality or its agents for
locating a distributing pipe.
   MUNICIPALITY.  The city and its agent, the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water
Authority, which agent has been charged with the operation and maintenance of
the municipal water system.
(1995 Code, § 58-127)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 50.052  RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR.
   Water connecting or supplying pipes leading from buildings or yards to the
curb box, or at the public right-of-way location where the curb box would
usually be located, if there is not one presently existing, shall be inserted
and kept in repair at the expense of the owner or occupant of the building or
yard being served, and shall not be inserted or connected with the main
distributing pipe (water main) until a permit therefor shall be obtained from
the City Council or from its authorized agent.  It shall be the responsibility
of the private property owners, and not the city or the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer
and Water Authority, to fairly apportion and divide the expenses of maintaining
and repairing existing connecting and supplying pipes, as those pipes are
defined in this subchapter, where a connecting or supplying pipe is providing
water to more than one premises.
(1995 Code, § 58-129)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.053  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person, other than an authorized employee of the municipality, shall turn
on or turn off any water connecting or supplying pipe at the curb box line
without written permission from the municipality.  No person shall remove,
install, or tamper with any water meter other than an authorized employee of
the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 58-130)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.054  ENTRY UPON PRIVATE PREMISES.
   Should a private property owner fail, refuse, or neglect to replace, repair,
or maintain an existing supplying or connecting water pipe, and should the
failure and neglect cause, or have the potential to cause damage to the water
system of the city, loss of water from the city water system, or otherwise
result in a danger to the health, welfare, and safety of the public, or the
municipally owned water system, then the municipality shall have the authority
to enter upon the private premises of the property owner and to make the
repairs as may be necessary to eliminate the hazard to the water system and the
health, welfare, and safety of the public.
(1995 Code, § 58-131)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 50.055  LIENS.
   Charges for repairs made by the municipality to a connecting or supplying
water pipe, made pursuant to the provisions of §
50.054, shall be a lien on the premises which is served by the connecting or
supplying water pipe, and whenever any such charge against any piece of
property or premises shall be delinquent for six months, the city official in
charge of the collection thereof shall certify annually, on April 1 or August 1
of each year, to the tax assessing officer of the city, the facts of the
delinquency, whereupon the charge shall be by him or her entered upon the next
tax roll as a charge against the premises, and shall be collected and the lien
thereof in force in the same manner as general taxes against the premises are
collected and the lien thereof enforced.
(1995 Code, § 58-132)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 50.056  METER INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All water meters shall be installed only by an authorized employee of
the municipality.  All water meters shall be located inside the building on the
premises, in a place easily accessible for purposes of reading, repair, and
maintenance.  Turnoff valves shall be located in the house on the water line
immediately before and after the water meter.
   (B)   The location of a water meter outside of a building shall be only upon
written consent of the municipality.
(1995 Code, § 58-133)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.057  AUTHORITY TO PROMULGATE RULES FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The city hereby delegates to the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority
Board the power to promulgate rules and regulations governing the operation and
maintenance of the city water system, which rules and regulations shall be
consistent with the ordinances of the city and the state statutes.  The rules
and regulations, once adopted by the Board of the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and
Water Authority, must be approved by resolution of each governing board of the
member municipality of the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority.  The rules
and regulations shall not take effect unless and until so approved.
(1995 Code, § 58-134)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)
§ 50.058  VIOLATION DEEMED NUISANCE.
   The violation of any provision of this subchapter shall be deemed to be a
nuisance per se, and shall constitute a basis for the abatement thereof by the
municipality by the obtaining of injunctive relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(1995 Code, § 58-135)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)
CONNECTIONS UNDER KLSWA
§ 50.070  GENERALLY.
   (A)   Installation; maintenance.  The corporation cock, the service pipe
from the main to the curb stop valve, the curb stop valve, and curb box will be
provided in place and maintained by the KLSWA after payment of the appropriate
connection charge.  The service pipe from the curb stop box to the building on
private property shall be installed and properly maintained by the owner.  The
customer shall keep the stop box free from obstructions that would prevent
access to the valve by approved personnel.
(1995 Code, § 58-141)  (Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995)
   (B)   Application for connection.  Before any connection is made to any
water main, application for connection must be made by the owner of the
premises to be served, or by his or her authorized representative.
(1995 Code, § 58-142)
   (C)   Connection charges.  Connection charges shall be due and payable in
cash upon application for connection to the system.  In addition, the cost of
labor, connecting pipe, fittings and appurtenances, and installation, plus 30%
of these costs, shall also be paid by the prospective user.  Applications for
service connections shall be made to the Authority prior to making the
connection, upon forms furnished by the Authority, at which time the applicant
shall pay the connection charge plus $400 which is the estimated cost of the
actual connection thereof subject to refund or additional charge after the
actual costs has been determined.
(1995 Code, § 58-143)  (Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995)
   (D)   Revenue from connection fees.  All revenue received from connection
fees shall be set aside in a special escrow account used to:
      (1)   Extend and enlarge the system or make capital improvements to the
system; or
      (2)   Retire bond indebtedness incurred by the owners of the system to
improve or expand the system.
(1995 Code, § 58-144)  (Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995)
   (E)   Charges deemed lien.  The charges for services which are under the
provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as
amended, make a lien on all premises served thereby and are recognized to
constitute the lien; and whenever any such charge against any piece of property
shall be delinquent for six months, the Authority Manager or his or her
representative in charge of collection thereof shall certify annually, on May 1
of each year, to the tax-assessing officer of the city, the facts of the
delinquency whereupon the charge shall be by the assessor entered upon the next
tax roll as a charge against the premises and shall be collected and the lien
thereof enforced in the same manner as general city or city taxes against the
premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced.
(1995 Code, § 58-145)  (Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995)
   (F)   Tampering with pipes and other equipment.  No person shall interfere
in any way with service pipes installed by or for the KLSWA.  No person shall
turn water on or off at the curb stop valve, except agents and employees of the
KLSWA or persons under their direction.
(1995 Code, § 58-146)  (Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995) Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.071  WATER USE.
   (A)   Single connection per premises.
      (1)    Each and every house or condominium unit shall have a single
service connection.
      (2)   Each and every separate building or condominium unit used for
business purposes shall have a separate service connection.
(1995 Code, § 58-151)
   (B)   Multiple occupancy premises.  All buildings divided into separate
business places or separate family dwellings or apartments may have one meter
to cover the entire building.  Where two or more units are served by one meter,
the bill for water and sewer shall be sent to the landlord.
(1995 Code, § 58-152)
   (C)   Passing water onto another property.  No connection through which
water may pass from one property to another shall be constructed, though the
ownership of both properties may be the same.  Water may be connected with the
consumer’s garage or other outbuilding on the same lot.
(1995 Code, § 58-153)
   (D)   Water shutoff.  Where water has been turned off by the KLSWA for any
reason, no person, except employees or agents of the KLSWA, may turn it on
again.
(1995 Code, § 58-154)
   (E)   Steam boilers.  No high pressure steam boiler shall be directly
connected to the service pipe.
(1995 Code, § 58-155)
   (F)   Access to premises.  KLSWA employees and authorized agents shall have
free access at all reasonable hours to inspect any premises supplied with
water.  If any authorized employee is refused admittance, or in any way
hindered in making the necessary inspection or examination, the water service
may be turned off from the premises after giving 24-hours’ notice to the owner
or tenant.
(1995 Code, § 58-156)
   (G)   Fire hydrants.  Fire hydrants may be used by fire district personnel,
KLSWA employees or agents, or by persons specifically authorized by the KLSWA. 
No person shall in any manner obstruct or prevent free access to any fire
hydrant.
   (H)   Obsolete service connections.  Replacement of obsolete water services
from the main to the property line shall be the responsibility of the KLSWA. 
The KLSWA will provide labor and equipment at no cost to the customer.  The
customer shall pay for the cost of material and any outside services required
to complete the replacement.
   (I)   Water wells. City Council approval will be required prior to applying
for a permit from the Allegan County Health Department to construct a water
well on private property anywhere in the city. Approval is at the discretion of
the City Council and must include a finding that no practical or financially
feasible solution is available to provide public water service to the property.
Existing water wells approved by the Allegan County Health Department that
provide the only source of potable water for a single parcel are considered
conforming under §
50.071(A). and may be continued until either the casing or the screen of their
well fails at which time connection to a public water main, if available, shall
be required.
(1995 Code, § 58-158)
(Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995; Am. Ord. 05-2018, passed 11-5-2018)  Penalty, see
§
50.999
§ 50.072  METERS.
   (A)   Rates.  All premises using water shall be metered and payment shall be
made for water at rates established by Council resolution.  The KLSWA Board
shall make recommendations to the municipal councils for rate adjustments
sufficient to provide for operation, maintenance, depreciation, and return on
investment.
(1995 Code, § 58-161)
   (B)   Ownership by KLSWA; size.
      (1)   Meters shall be furnished by the KLSWA, shall remain the property
of the KLSWA, and will at all times be under its control.
      (2)   For ordinary domestic consumption, a 5/8-inch by 3/4-inch meter
will be furnished.  When application is made for a larger meter, the KLSWA
Manager shall determine whether a meter of the size is required.  The KLSWA
will furnish meters up to and including one inch.  Where a larger meter is
required, special arrangements must be made between the KLSWA Manager and the
customer.  All meters shall be paid for by the customer and shall become KLSWA
property upon installation.
(1995 Code, § 58-162)
   (C)   Placement.
      (1)   Wherever possible, meters shall be set below grade line in a cellar
or basement.
      (2)   All meters shall be set horizontally in dry, clean, sanitary
places, perfectly accessible with valves on both sides, and where a small leak
or the spilling of water will do no damage.
(1995 Code, § 58-163)
   (D)   Seals; tampering.  Meters shall be sealed by the KLSWA and no one
except an authorized employee of the KLSWA may break or injure the seals.  No
person except an authorized employee of the KLSWA may alter the position of,
change the location of, or interfere with a meter in any way.
(1995 Code, § 58-164)
   (E)   Responsibility for expenses.
      (1)   The expense of installing and maintaining meters shall be borne by
the KLSWA; provided, however, that where replacements, repairs, or adjustments
of a meter are made necessary by the act of negligence or carelessness of the
owner or occupant of the premises, the expense to the KLSWA shall be charged to
and collected from the owner of the premises.  In case the owner or occupant
fails to pay these charges, the same shall be added to and become part of the
water bill.
      (2)   The owner or occupant of the premises where a meter is installed
shall be held responsible for its care and protection from freezing.  In case
of damage to the meter, or in case of its stoppage or imperfect operation, the
owner or occupant shall give immediate notice to the KLSWA.  All water
furnished by the KLSWA must pass through a meter.  No bypass around any meter
shall be permitted except by express permission of the KLSWA.  Any such bypass
permitted by the KLSWA shall be sealed by the KLSWA and only broken under the
stress of extreme emergency.
(1995 Code, § 58-165)
   (F)   Bypasses.  All water furnished by the KLSWA must pass through a
meter.  No bypass around any meter shall be permitted except by express
permission of the KLSWA.  Any such bypass permitted by the KLSWA shall be
sealed by the KLSWA and only broken under the stress of extreme emergency.
(1995 Code, § 58-166)
   (G)   Accuracy; testing.  The accuracy of the meter on any premises will be
tested by the KLSWA upon request of the consumer.  If on the test the meter
shall over register by 5% or more, another meter shall be installed and the
customer’s bill shall be adjusted in a just and fair manner.  If, however, the
meter shall test correctly, the customer shall pay the KLSWA for the costs
incurred.
(1995 Code, § 58-167)
(Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995)  Penalty, see §
50.999
OUTDOOR WATERING
§ 50.085  AUTHORITY TO PROHIBIT OR RESTRICT WATER USAGE.
   The City Council, upon a finding that there is presently a water shortage or
that such a water shortage may be imminent in the city public water system,
shall have the power to pass a resolution totally prohibiting or restricting
the use of the public water system for outdoor watering within the city
limits.  The resolution shall state the finding mentioned in this section, and
shall state the date the prohibition or restriction shall take effect.
(1995 Code, § 58-172)  (Ord. 115, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 50.086  PUBLICATION OF RESOLUTION; NOTICE TO PUBLIC.
   Upon the passing of a resolution as described in §
50.085, the City Clerk shall cause to be published, in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city, a copy of the resolution.  The resolution shall
constitute notice to the public of the ban on watering outdoors through use of
the public water system.
(1995 Code, § 58-173)  (Ord. 115, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 50.087  REVOCATION OF BAN.
   The resolution imposing the outdoor watering restrictions may be lifted upon
written order of the City President, filed with the City Clerk, after
consultation with the manager of the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority,
or by a vote of the City Council; provided, in each case, that a finding is
made that the water emergency no longer exists.
(1995 Code, § 58-174)  (Ord. 115, passed 7-6-1987)
§ 50.088  WARNING NOTICE.
   Any person, corporation, partnership, group, or other association of persons
who violate the water restrictions set forth in the resolution provided for in
§
50.085 shall first be given a written notice by the city police, with a request
to cease the violation.  A second violation of the restrictions provided for in
the resolution described in §
50.085 may result in prosecution under §
50.999.
(1995 Code, § 58-175)  (Ord. 115, passed 7-6-1987)
CROSS CONNECTIONS
§ 50.100  ADOPTION OF STATE STATUTES.
   The city adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules of the
Michigan Department of Public Health, being R 325.11401 to R 325.11407 of the
Michigan Administrative Code.
(1995 Code, § 58-186)  (Ord. 49, passed 3-5-1973)
§ 50.101  INSPECTION.
   It shall be the duty of the City Water Department to cause inspections to be
made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross
connections with the public water supply is deemed possible.  The frequency of
inspections and reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the City Water Department and as approved by the State
Department of Public Health.
(1995 Code, § 58-188)  (Ord. 49, passed 3-5-1973)
§ 50.102  RIGHT OF ENTRY; REFUSAL DEEMED EVIDENCE OF CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   The representative of the City Water Department shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply system of the city for the purpose of inspecting the piping system
thereof for cross connections.  On request, the owner, lessees, or occupants of
any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent
information regarding the piping system on the property.  The refusal of the
information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed evidence of
the presence of cross connections.
(1995 Code, § 58-189)  (Ord. 49, passed 3-5-1973)  Penalty, see §
50.999
§ 50.103  DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE AUTHORIZED.
   The City Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this subchapter exists, and to take the other precautionary
measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply system.  Water service to the property shall not be
restored until the cross connection has been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-190)  (Ord. 49, passed 3-5-1973)
§ 50.104  PROTECTION OF POTABLE WATER SUPPLY; LABELING OF WATER SUPPLIED BY
OTHER SOURCES.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this subchapter and by the State Plumbing Code.  Any water outlet which
could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied by the
potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner.
(1995 Code, § 58-191)  (Ord. 49, passed 3-5-1973)
§ 50.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall, upon
conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction, be punished as provided in §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 58-33)  (Ord. 137, passed 4-10-1995)
   (B)   Violation of §§
50.050et seq. shall be a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by a fine not to
exceed $100, or a jail sentence not to exceed a maximum of 90 days, or both. 
Each act of violation and every day upon which the violation shall occur shall
constitute a separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 58-128)  (Ord. 113, passed 4-6-1987)
   (C)   Any person who violates the water restrictions imposed by the
resolution of the city, passed pursuant to §
50.085, and duly published in accordance with §
50.086, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, may be fined up
to $100, or imprisoned up to 90 days, or both.
(1995 Code, § 58-171)  (Ord. 115, passed 7-6-1987)
   (D)   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions
of §§
50.100et seq., or any written order of the City Water Department, in pursuance
thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, on conviction thereof,
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500 for each
violation.  Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this
subchapter shall occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for
the purpose of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-187)  (Ord. 49, passed 3-5-1973)
CHAPTER 51:  SEWER SERVICE; GENERALLY
Section
   
51.01   Operation according to state statutes
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Operation and maintenance; supervision and control; collection of rates
and charges
   
51.04   Rates for service
   
51.05   Free service
   
51.06   Public sanitary sewers; connection to required
   
51.07   Rates for administration and operation
   
51.08   Operating year
   
51.09   Receiving fund for system revenues
   
51.10   Insufficient funds
   
51.11   Investment of funds
   
51.12   Hardship application for deferment of payment of connection charges
§ 51.01  OPERATION ACCORDING TO STATE STATUTES.
   It is hereby determined to be desirable and necessary, for the public
health, safety, and welfare of the city, that those facilities of the county
sewage disposal system (Saugatuck-Douglas) constructed for the benefit of the
city be operated as provided in Chapters 51 through 53 under Public Act 185 of
1957, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.731 to 123.786, as amended, on a public utility
rate basis in accordance with the provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 to 141.138, as amended.
(1995 Code, § 58-211)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of Chapters
51 through
53, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning.
   REVENUES and NET REVENUES.  As defined in Public Act 94 of 1933, § 3, being
M.C.L.A. § 141.103, as amended.
   THE SYSTEM.  The city facilities of the county sewage disposal system
(Saugatuck-Douglas), including all treatment works, sewers, pumps, lift
stations, and all other facilities used or useful in the collection and
disposal of domestic, commercial, or industrial wastes, including all
appurtenances thereto and including all extensions and improvements thereto
which may hereafter be acquired.
(1995 Code, § 58-212)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.03  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE; SUPERVISION AND CONTROL; COLLECTION OF
RATES AND CHARGES.
   The Kalamazoo Lake Water and Sewer Authority shall operate and maintain the
system under the general supervision and control of the County Department of
Public Works, subject to the terms of the contract dated 8-5-1977, between the
county, the Cities of Saugatuck and Douglas, and the Authority.  Pursuant to
the terms of the contract, the city has retained the exclusive right to
establish, maintain, and collect rates and charges for sewer collection and
disposal service.  In that capacity, the City Council may employ the persons,
including the Authority, in the capacities as it deems advisable and necessary
to ensure the efficient establishment, maintenance and collection of the rates
and charges.
(1995 Code, § 58-213)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.04  RATES FOR SERVICE.
   (A)   Generally.  Rates to be charged for service furnished by the system
shall be as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Sewer use charges.  Sewer use charges shall be as follows.
         (a)   Premises with water service.
            1.   Service in city.  The base rate for sewer service in the City
of the Village of Douglas shall be as follows:
Meter Size Meter Equivalency Quarterly Meter Charge
Meter Size               Meter Equivalency Quarterly Meter Charge
5/8 inches by 3/4 inches 1.00              $13.25
1 inch                   2.50              $33.13
1–1/4 inch             3.75              $49.69
1–1/2 inch             5.00              $66.25
2 inches                 8.00              $106.00
3 inches                 16.00             $212.00
4 inches                 25.00             $331.25
6 inches                 50.00             $662.50
NOTES TO TABLE:
The sewer commodity rate shall be $2.00 per 1,000 gallons.
 
(Am. Ord. 61-E, passed 6-20-2005)
            2.   Service outside city.  The base rate for sewer service outside
of the city shall be as follows:
 
Meter Size (Inches) 3/4 Equivalency Base Rate per Quarter
3/4                 1.0             $24.00
1–1/4             3.75            $90.00
1–1/2             5.0             $120.00
NOTES TO TABLE:
The sewer commodity rate shall be $2.90 per 1,000 gallons outside the city.
 
         (b)   Premises without water service.  Sewer use charges to each
single-family residential premises shall be in the flat amount of $24 per
quarter.  Each premises other than a single-family residence shall pay a
quarterly charge of $24, multiplied by a factor representing a ratio of sewage
use by the class of premises to normal single-family residential sewage use, as
reflected in Appendix A which is on file in the city office; provided, however,
that the minimum quarterly charge to any premises shall be $24.
      (2)   Connection charge.  Connection charges shall be as follows.
         (a)   Direct connection.  For each direct connection to lines of the
system, there shall be charged a fee of $500 per single-family residence
equivalent.
         (b)   Indirect connection.  In order to defray the proportional share
of treatment works and the necessary oversizing of trunks and pumping stations,
for each indirect connection to the system there shall be charged a fee of $250
per single-family residence equivalent.  An indirect connection shall be
defined as one made to lines added to the system after its original
construction, the cost of which is paid from special assessments or private
funds.
         (c)   Equivalent user factor.  Each premises other than a single-
family residence shall pay either a direct or indirect connection charge,
multiplied by a factor representing a ratio of sewage use by the class of
premises to normal single-family residential use, as reflected in Appendix A
which is on file in the city office.
         (d)   Payment of connection charge.  Connection charges as set forth
in this division (B)(2) shall be due and payable in cash upon application for
connection to the system.
      (3)   Industrial cost recovery charge.  The City Council shall establish
a system of industrial cost recovery charges applicable to any user of the
system consistent with the terms and conditions of the federal grant financing
part of the cost of the system, which charges shall be collected, held, and
used in the manner required by the federal grant.
      (4)   Special rates.  For miscellaneous or special services for which a
special rate shall be established, the rates shall be fixed by the City
Council.
      (5)   Billing.  Bills will be rendered quarterly on July 1, October 1,
January 1, and April 1, payable without penalty within 30 days after the date
thereon.  Payments received after the period shall bear a penalty of 5% of the
amount of the bill.
      (6)   Enforcement.  The charges for services which are under the
provisions of Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as
amended, made a lien on all premises served thereby, unless notice is given
that a tenant is responsible, are hereby recognized to constitute the lien, and
whenever any such charge against any piece of property shall be delinquent for
six months, the city official in charge of the collection thereof shall certify
annually, on April 1 of each year, to the tax assessing officer of the city the
facts of the delinquency, whereupon the charge shall be by him or her entered
upon the next tax roll as a charge against the premises and shall be collected
and the lien thereof enforced, in the same manner as general city taxes against
the premises are collected and the lien thereof enforced; provided, however,
that where notice is given that a tenant is responsible for the charges and
service as provided by Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, 
no further service shall be rendered the premises until a cash deposit in the
amount of $50 shall have been made as security for payment of the charges and
service.  In addition to the provisions of this division (B)(6), the city shall
have the right to shut off sewer service to any premises for which charges for
sewer service are more than three months delinquent, and the service shall not
be reestablished until all delinquent charges and penalties and a turn-on
charge, to be specified by the City Council, have been paid.  Further, the
charges and penalties may be recovered by the city by court action.
(1995 Code, § 58-214)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977; Am. Ord. 61-C, passed 2-18-
1995)
§ 51.05  FREE SERVICE.
   No free service shall be furnished by the system to any person, firm, or
corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
(1995 Code, § 58-215)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.06  PUBLIC SANITARY SEWERS; CONNECTION TO REQUIRED.
   It is hereby determined and declared that public sanitary sewers are
essential to the health, safety, and welfare of the people of the city; that
all premises on which structures in which sanitary sewage originates are
situated shall connect to the system at the earliest reasonable date as a
matter for the protection of the public health, safety, and welfare of the
people of the city; and, therefore, all premises on which structures in which
sanitary sewage originates are situated or become situated and to which sewer
services of the system shall be available shall connect to the system within 90
days after the mailing or posting of notice to the premises by the appropriate
city official that the services are available.  The notification and
enforcement of this section shall be in conformity with applicable state and
local laws and regulations.
(1995 Code, § 58-216)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.07  RATES FOR ADMINISTRATION AND OPERATION.
   The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to provide for the
payment of the expenses of administration and operation, the expenses for
maintenance of the system as are necessary to preserve the same in good repair
and working order, to provide for the payment of a portion of the contractual
obligations of the city to the county pursuant to the contract between the
county and the city as the same become due, and to provide for such other
expenditures and funds for the system as Chapters
51 through
53 may require.  The rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time as may
be necessary to produce these amounts.
(1995 Code, § 58-217)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.08  OPERATING YEAR.
   The system shall be operated on the basis of an operating year commencing on
March 1, and ending on the last day of February next following.
(1995 Code, § 58-218)  (Ord. 59, passed 11-6-1978)
§ 51.09  RECEIVING FUND FOR SYSTEM REVENUES.
   (A)   Generally.  The revenues of the system shall be set aside, as
collected, and deposited in a separate depository account in a bank duly
qualified to do business in the state, in an account to be designated Sewer
System Receiving Fund, referred to in Chapters
51 through
53 as the receiving fund, and the revenues so deposited shall be transferred
from the receiving fund periodically in the manner and at the times hereafter
specified.
   (B)   Operation and Maintenance Fund.  Out of the revenues in the receiving
fund there shall be first set aside quarterly into a depository account,
designated Operation and Maintenance Fund, a sum sufficient to provide for the
payment of the next quarter’s current expenses of administration and operation
of the system, and the current expenses for the maintenance thereof as may be
necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order.
   (C)   Contract Payment Fund.  There shall next be established and maintained
a depository account, to be designated Contract Payment Fund, which shall be
used solely for the payment of the city’s obligations to the county pursuant to
the contract.  There shall be deposited in the fund quarterly, after
requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund have been met, the sums as
the City Council shall specify to pay the contractual obligations, when due. 
Should the revenues of the system prove insufficient for this purpose, the
revenues may be supplemented by any other funds of the city legally available
for the purpose.
   (D)   Replacement Fund.  There shall next be established and maintained a
depository account, designated Replacement Fund, which shall be used solely for
the purpose of making major repairs and replacements to the system, if needed. 
There shall be set aside into the fund, after provision has been made for the
Operation and Maintenance Fund and the Contract Payment Fund, the revenues as
the City Council shall deem necessary for this purpose.
   (E)   Improvement Fund.  There shall next be established and maintained an
Improvement Fund for the purpose of making improvements, extensions, and
enlargements to the system.  There shall be deposited into the fund, after
providing for the Replacement Fund, the revenues as the City Council shall
determine.
   (F)   Surplus moneys.  Moneys remaining in the Receiving Fund at the end of
any operating year, after full satisfaction of the requirements of the funds
described in this section, may, at the option of the City Council, be
transferred to the Improvement Fund or used in connection with any other
project of the city reasonably related to the purposes of the system.
   (G)   Bank accounts.  All moneys belonging to any of the funds or accounts
described in this section may be kept in one bank account, in which event the
moneys shall be allocated on the books and records within this single bank
account, in the manner set forth in this section.
(1995 Code, § 58-219)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.10  INSUFFICIENT FUNDS.
   If the moneys in the Receiving Fund are insufficient to provide for the
current requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, any moneys and/or
securities in other funds of the system, except sums in the Contract Payment
Fund derived from tax levies, shall be transferred to the Operation and
Maintenance Fund, to the extent of any deficit therein.
(1995 Code, § 58-220)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.11  INVESTMENT OF FUNDS.
   Moneys in any fund or account established by the provisions of Chapters
51 through
53 may be invested in obligations of the United States of America in the manner
and subject to the limitations provided in Public Act 94 of 1933, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 to 141.138, as amended.  If the investments are made, the
securities representing the investments shall be kept on deposit with the bank
or trust company having on deposit the fund from which the purchase was made. 
Income received from the investments shall be credited to the fund from which
the investments were made.
(1995 Code, § 58-221)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
§ 51.12  HARDSHIP APPLICATION FOR DEFERMENT OF PAYMENT OF CONNECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   Generally.  The owner of a single-family residence, in which residence
the owner resides and upon which a connection charge has been imposed, may
submit a hardship application to the city seeking a deferment of the payment of
the connection charge provided for in §
51.04, based upon a showing of financial hardship, subject to and in accordance
with the following.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The owners of the premises shall, under oath, complete a hardship
application provided by the City Council, and file the application, together
with all other information and documentation reasonably required by the city,
with the city at the time of application for connection to the system.  An
application shall be completed and filed by each and every legal and equitable
interest holder in the premises, excepting financial institutions having
security interests in the premises.
      (2)   Hardship applications shall be reviewed by the City Council, and
after due deliberation of hardship applications, the City Council shall
determine, in each case, whether there has been an adequate showing of
financial hardship, and shall forthwith notify the applicants of the
determination.
      (3)   An applicant aggrieved by the determination of the City Council may
request the opportunity to appear before the City Council in person for the
purpose of showing hardship and presenting any argument or additional
evidence.  A denial of hardship following such a personal appearance before the
City Council shall be final and conclusive.
      (4)   If the City Council makes a finding of hardship, the City Council
shall fix the amount of partial or total deferment of the charge so imposed,
and in so doing, shall require an annual filing of financial status by each
applicant, providing that upon a material change of financial status of an
applicant, the applicant shall immediately notify the City Clerk so that a
further review of the matter may be made by the City Council, and provided
further that the duration of the deferment granted shall be self-terminating
upon the occurrence of any one of the following events:
         (a)   A change in the financial status of any applicant which removes
the basis for financial hardship;
         (b)   A conveyance of any interest in the premises by any of the
applicants, including the execution of a new security interest in the premises
or extension thereof; or
         (c)   A death of any of the applicants.
      (5)   Upon a determination of the City Council deferring all or part of
the charges imposed, the owners of the premises shall, within one month after
the determination, execute and deliver to the city as the secured party a
recordable security instrument covering the premises, guaranteeing payment of
the deferred amounts on or before the death of any of the applicants, or, in
any event, upon the sale or transfer of the premises.  The security interest
shall guarantee payment of an amount necessary to cover all fees and charges
deferred and all costs of installation and connection, if applicable, the
consideration for the security interest being the grant of deferment pursuant
to Chapters
51 through
53.
(1995 Code, § 58-222)  (Ord. 57, passed 8-18-1977)
CHAPTER 52:  SEWER RATES AND CONNECTIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.001   Purpose
   
52.002   Definitions
Required Use of Public Sewers
   
52.015   Deposit of objectionable waste on public or private property
   
52.016   Discharge of polluted waters
   
52.017   Construction of sewage disposal facility
   
52.018   Installation of toilet facilities required
   
52.019   Requirements to discharge industrial wastes
   
52.020   Filing of records, reports, and statements
   
52.021   Compliance schedule
   
52.022   Report after final compliance
   
52.023   Records kept by dischargers
   
52.024   Notification of applicable standards and requirements
   
52.025   Adjustment of categorical pretreatment standards
   
52.026   Continued compliance
   
52.027   Description of pollutants by sampling and analysis
   
52.028   Signature on reports and certification statement
   
52.029   Noncompliance with federal categorical or local discharge limits
   
52.030   Requirement of installation of technology
   
52.031   Unlawful to discharge wastewater to KLSWA without permit
   
52.032   Existing discharges
   
52.033   New discharges
   
52.034   Prevention and protection measures in industrial discharge permits
   
52.035   Notice of intent to issue pretreatment permit
   
52.036   Permit appeals
   
52.037   Modify permits
   
52.038   Terminate permits
   
52.039   Data available to public
Private Wastewater Disposal
   
52.050   Required under certain conditions
   
52.051   Connection with available public sewer required; filling of private
disposal facilities
   
52.052   Operation and maintenance
   
52.053   Interference with additional requirements
   
52.054   Disposal system requirements
Building Sewers and Connections
   
52.065   Building sewer permits; classes; application; fees
   
52.066   Costs and expenses borne by owner; indemnification of city
   
52.067   Separate and independent sewer for each building; exceptions
   
52.068   Use of old building sewers
   
52.069   Specifications of construction materials
   
52.070   Joints and connections
   
52.071   Size and slope
   
52.072   Elevation; depth; open trench work; pipe laying and backfill
   
52.073   Lifting
   
52.074   Connection at wye branch
   
52.075   Inspection; connection made under supervision
   
52.076   Guarding of excavations; restoration of public property
   
52.077   Connection permitted according to capacity of system
Use of Public Sewers
   
52.090   Discharge of unpolluted waters
   
52.091   Unpolluted drainage to be discharged to storm sewers or natural
outlets
   
52.092   Prohibited discharges
   
52.093   Discharge requirements
   
52.094   Responses by city to prohibited discharges with deleterious effects
   
52.095   Use of grease, oil, and sand interceptors
   
52.096   Maintenance of preliminary treatment facilities
   
52.097   Control manholes
   
52.098   Special agreements
   
52.099   Industrial cooling water; treatment
   
52.100   Right of entry for inspection
   
52.101   Confidential information from industrial users
   
52.102   Revision of standards
   
52.103   Dilution of discharge
   
52.104   Choice of monitoring wastestreams
   
52.105   Spill prevention plan
   
52.106   Local limits and requirements
   
52.107   Concentral or mass limits
   
52.108   Changes of pollutants in discharge
   
52.109   Notification of hazardous waste discharge
Powers and Authority of Inspectors
   
52.120   Right of entry for inspection and testing
   
52.121   Observation of safety rules during gauging and sampling
   
52.122   Remedy of noncompliance
   
52.123   Discharge as an endangerment
   
52.124   Revoke treatment services
   
52.125   Administrative enforcement remedies
   
52.126   Legal action
   
52.127   Request for written interpretation
   
52.128   Upset
   
52.129   Affirmative defense in discharge of water or waste
   
52.130   Bypass
Protection from Damage
   
52.145   Destruction of or tampering with equipment; violators subject to
arrest
Conditions of Service
   
52.160   Responsibility for installation and maintenance of public and building
sewers at time of original construction
   
52.161   Responsibility for installation of building sewer after original
construction
   
52.162   Claims for damages against the Authority
   
52.163   Receivers of service subject to inspection
   
52.164   Amendment of subchapter
Violations
   
52.175   Service of notice; contents
   
52.176   Liability by industry for fines levied against city
   
52.177   Falsify or misrepresent documents
   
52.178   Notify public of violators
 
   
52.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.001  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to:
   (A)   Establish uniform requirements for direct and indirect contributors
into the wastewater collection and treatment system and to enable the Authority
to comply with applicable state and federal laws and the general pretreatment
regulations (40 C.F.R. pt. 403);
   (B)   Prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater system
which will:
      (1)   Interfere with the operation of the system;
      (2)   Cause the treatment plant to violate its NPDES discharge permits;
      (3)   Contaminate the sludge;
      (4)   Pass through the system, inadequately treated, into receiving
waters or the atmosphere;
      (5)   Pose a health threat to sewer workers; or
      (6)   Be otherwise incompatible with the system.
   (C)   Improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewaters and sludges
from the system; and
   (D)   Provide for equitable distribution of the cost of the municipal
wastewater system.
(1995 Code, § 58-241)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.002  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY.  The Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority (sometimes referred
to as KLSWA), its Manager, and authorized representatives.
   AUTHORITY MANAGER.  The Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority Manager.
   BOD (BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The quantity of oxidation of organic
matter under standard laboratory procedure in five days at 20°C, expressed in
milligrams per liter.
   BUILDING DRAIN.  The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer,
beginning five feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public sewer
or other place of disposal.
   BYPASS.  The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial users treatment process or facility.
   CATEGORICAL INDUSTRY.  Any industry which the EPA recognizes as belonging to
one of the groups listed in Appendix C of C.F.R. pt. 403.
   CITY.  The City of the Village of Douglas, Allegan County, Michigan, as
represented by the Douglas City Council.
   CLASSES OF USERS.  The division of sanitary sewer customers into classes by
similar process or discharge flow characteristics as follows.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER.  Any retail or wholesale business engaged in
selling merchandise or a service that discharges only segregated domestic
wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER.  Any federal, state, or local government office
or government service facility that discharges only segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER.  Any manufacturing establishment which produces a
product from raw or purchased material.  A user may be excluded from the
INDUSTRIAL USER class if it is determined that the user will discharge only
segregated domestic strength wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences. 
INDUSTRIAL USERS subject to the industrial cost recovery system shall include
the following:
         (a)   Any nongovernmental user of publicly owned treatment works which
discharges more than 25,000 gallons per day of sanitary waste, or a volume of
process waste, or combined process and sanitary waste, equivalent to 25,000
gallons per day of sanitary waste;
         (b)   Any nongovernmental user of a publicly owned treatment works
which discharges wastewater to the treatment works which contains toxic
pollutants or poisonous solids, liquids, or gases in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other wastes, to injure or interfere with
any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals, create
a public nuisance, or create any hazard in, or have an adverse effect on, the
waters receiving any discharge from the treatment works; and
         (c)   All commercial users of an individual system constructed with
grant assistance under § 201(h) of the Act and this chapter.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER.  Any educational, religious, or social
organization such as a school, church, nursing home, hospital, or other
institutional user that discharges only segregated domestic wastes or wastes
from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER.  An individual home or dwelling unit, including
mobile homes, apartments, condominiums, or multi-family dwellings, that
discharges only segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary
conveniences.
   C.O.D. (CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND).  The oxygen consuming capacity of inorganic
and organic matter present in wastewater.
   COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus any additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the treatment works was designed to treat the pollutants and can, in
fact, remove the pollutants to a substantial degree.  The term SUBSTANTIAL
DEGREE generally means removals in the order of 80% or greater.
   DISCHARGE or INDIRECT DISCHARGE.  The introduction of pollutants into the
POTW from any nondomestic source regulated under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by the Clean Water Act of 1977.
   GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the domestic and commercial preparation,
cooking, and dispensing of food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of
produce.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  Any pollutant that is not a compatible pollutant,
as defined in this section.
   INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY.  The recovery from each industrial user, as
defined, that portion of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency grant which
is allocable to the treatment of industrial wastes from the industries.  The
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY CHARGE is defined in the sewer rate and connection
ordinance.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes from industrial manufacturing
processes, trades, or businesses as distinct from segregated domestic strength
wastes, or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION.  Any waters entering the system from the ground through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections, or
manhole walls.  INFILTRATION does not include, and is distinguished from,
inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW.  The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow.
   INFLOW.  Any waters entering the system through the sources as, but not
limited to, building downspouts, footing or yard drains, cooling water
discharges, seepage lines from springs and swampy areas, and storm drain cross
connections.
   INSPECTOR.  Any person or persons authorized by the Authority to inspect and
approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to the public
sewer system.
   INTERFERENCE.  A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use, or disposal; and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW’s NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation, or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations) § 405 of the Clean
Water Act, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA), including Title II, more
commonly referred to as the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA), and
including state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries
Act.
   µg/l.  Micrograms per liter.
   mg/l.   Milligram per liter.
   NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface water or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which there
is or may be a discharge of pollutants, provided that:
         (a)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is
constructed at a site at which no other source is located;
         (b)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
         (c)   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility, or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site.  In determining whether these are
substantially independent factors such as the extent to which the new facility
is integrated with the existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility
is engaged in the same type of activity as the existing source should be
considered.
      (2)   NEW SOURCE shall include the replacement or addition of either
process or production equipment generating wastewater at an established site. 
Construction of a new source as defined under this division (2) has commenced
if the owner or operator has:
         (a)   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on-site
construction program:
            1.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
            2.   Significant site preparation work, including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities which
is necessary for the placement, assembly or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
         (b)   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time.  Options to purchase, or contracts which can be
terminated or modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility,
engineering and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under
this division (2).
   NONCATEGORICAL INDUSTRY.  Any industry not classified by the EPA as a
categorical industry in 40 C.F.R. Appendix.
   NORMAL STRENGTH SEWAGE.  A sanitary wastewater flow containing an average
daily BOD of not more than 200 mg/l or an average daily suspended solids
concentration of not more than 250 mg/l.
   NPDES PERMIT.  National Pollution Discharge Elimination System permit. 
According to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by Pub. L. No.
92-500, it prohibits any person from discharging pollutants into a waterway
from a point source, unless the discharge is authorized by a permit issued
either by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or by an approved state
agency.  NPDES PERMIT shall mean the permit issued pursuant to the National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System for the discharge of wastewater into the
waters of the state.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COSTS.  All costs, direct and indirect, other than
debt service, necessary to ensure adequate wastewater treatment on a continuing
basis; to conform with all related federal, state, and local requirements; and
to ensure optimal long-term facility management (O & M costs include
depreciation and replacement costs).
   PASS THROUGH.  A discharge which exits the POTW in quantities or
concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or discharges
from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s
NPDES permit, including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation,
or group.
   pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the concentration of hydrogen ions
in grams per liter of solution.
   PPM.  Parts per million.
   PRETREATMENT.  The treatment of extra strength wastewater flows in privately
owned pretreatment facilities prior to discharge into publicly owned sewage
works.
   PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL SYSTEM.  A cesspool, septic tank, or similar
device which discharges to a suitable drainage field.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to such a degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the low conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in dimension.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS or POTW.  The treatment works as defined by §
212 of the Act, which is owned by the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water
Authority.  This definition includes any devices and systems used in the
storage, treatment, recycling, and reclamation of municipal sewage or
industrial wastes of a liquid nature.  It also includes sewers, pipes, and
other conveyances only if they convey wastewater to the POTW treatment plant. 
The term also means the municipality which has jurisdiction over the indirect
discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
   PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and which is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT.  Necessary expenditures made during the service life of the
treatment works to replace equipment and plant appurtenances required to
maintain the intended performance of the treatment works.
   SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which stormwater,
surface water, and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE.  A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with the
groundwater, surface water, and stormwater as may be present.  The three most
common types of sewage are:
      (1)   COMBINED SEWAGE.  Wastes, including sanitary sewage, industrial
sewage, stormwater, and infiltration and inflow carried to the wastewater
treatment facilities by a combined sewer;
      (2)   INDUSTRIAL SEWAGE.  A combination of liquid- and water-carried
wastes discharged from any industrial establishment and resulting from any
trade or process carried on in that establishment.  This shall include the
wastes from pretreatment facilities and polluted cooling water; and
      (3)   SANITARY SEWAGE.  The combination of liquid- and water-carried
wastes discharged from toilet and other sanitary plumbing facilities.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT FACILITY.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SHALL.  Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.  Shall mean:
      (1)   All dischargers subject to US EPA Categorical Pretreatment
Standards; and/or
      (2)   All noncategorical dischargers that, in the opinion of the
Authority, have a reasonable potential to adversely affect the POTW operation,
or which discharge a waste stream making up 5% of the dry weather hydraulic or
organic capacity of the POTW, or discharge greater than 25,000 gpd to the POTW.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE.  Shall mean:
      (1)   Chronic violations of local discharge limits, defined as those in
which 66% or more of all the samples and measurements collected during any six-
month period exceed the daily maximum limit or the average limit for the same
pollution parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations in which 33% or more of
all samples or measurements for each pollutant parameter taken during any six-
month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum limit or the
average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oils,
and grease and 1.2 for all other pollutants, except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or long-term average) which, in the opinion of the Manager, has caused
interference, pass through, or endangered the health of POTW personnel or the
general public, alone or in combination with other discharges;
      (4)   Any discharge which presents an imminent danger to human health,
welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted in the manager’s exercise of
his or her emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days of the scheduled date, a compliance
milestone or enforcement order for starting construction, completing
construction, or attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days of the due date, required
compliance reports, self-monitoring reports, base line monitoring reports, or
other reports required by this chapter;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and/or
      (8)   Any other violation(s) which the Manager determines will adversely
affect the operation or implementation of the local pretreatment program.
   SLUDGE.  Accumulated solid material separated from liquid waste as a result
of the wastewater treatment process.
   SLUG.  Any discharge of water, wastewater, or industrial wastewater which,
in concentration of any given constituent, is more than five times the average
24-hours’ concentration of flows during normal operation.
   STORM DRAIN (STORM SEWER).  A sewer which carries stormwater and surface
water and drainage, but excludes sewage and industrial wastes, other than
unpolluted cooling water.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface of, or in
suspension in, water, sewage, or other liquids and which can be removed by
laboratory filtering.
   TOWNSHIP.  Saugatuck Township, as represented by the Township Board.
   USER DEBT RETIREMENT CHARGE.  The charge levied on all users of the sewage
works for the cost of any bond debt of which debt repayment is to be met from
the revenues of the works.
   USER O & M CHARGE.  The charge levied on all users of the sewage works for
the cost of operation and maintenance, including replacement and depreciation
of the treatment works.
   WASTEWATER.  A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
the ground, surface, and stormwaters as may unintentionally be present.
   WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement of devices and structures used
for treating wastewater.
   WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WYE BRANCH.  A local service connection to the sewer that is made at an
angle similar to a wye so that a sewer cleaning rod will not come into the
sewer at a right angle and penetrate the far side, but will travel down the
course of the sewer.
(1995 Code, § 58-242)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
REQUIRED USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.015  DEPOSIT OF OBJECTIONABLE WASTE ON PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited, in an unsanitary manner, upon public or private property within the
system or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Authority, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste which ordinarily would
be regarded as sewage or industrial wastes.
(1995 Code, § 58-266)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.016  DISCHARGE OF POLLUTED WATERS.
   It shall be unlawful to discharge to any natural outlet within the system,
or in any area under the jurisdiction of the Authority, any sanitary sewage,
industrial waste, or other polluted waters, except where suitable treatment has
been provided in accordance with subsequent provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-267)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.017  CONSTRUCTION OF SEWAGE DISPOSAL FACILITY.
   Except as hereinafter provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for disposal of sewage.
(1995 Code, § 58-268)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.018  INSTALLATION OF TOILET FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   The owner of any house, building, or property used for human occupancy,
employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the system and
abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is now located or
may in the future be located a public sewer or combined sewer of the Authority
within 200 feet of the property line, is hereby required, at his or her
expense, to install suitable toilet facilities therein, and to connect the
facilities directly with the proper public sewer, in accordance with the
provision of this chapter, when given official notice to do so, provided that
the connection shall not be required to be made less than six months after the
sewer is made available for connection thereto.
(1995 Code, § 58-269)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.019  REQUIREMENTS TO DISCHARGE INDUSTRIAL WASTES.
   (A)   Within 180 days after the effective date of a categorical pretreatment
standard applicable to an industrial user, or 180 days after the final
administrative decision made upon a category determination submission,
whichever is later, industrial users subject to the categorical pretreatment
standards which are discharging to or which are scheduled to discharge to the
POTW shall be required to submit to the Authority Manager a report which
contains the information listed in this section.  Where reports containing this
information already have been submitted to the appropriate state or federal
agency in compliance with the requirements of 40 C.F.R. pt. 128.140(b) (1977),
the industrial user will not be required to submit this information.  In
addition, at least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge any industry or
structure planning to discharge industrial wastes to the sanitary sewer shall
file the material listed below with the Authority Manager.
   (B)   The Authority may also require each person who applies for sewer
service, receives sewer service, or through the nature of the enterprise
creates a potential environmental problem, to file the material listed below:
      (1)   Written statement.  A written statement setting forth the name and
address of the facility, including the name of the operator and owners, the
nature of the enterprise, the source and amount of water used, and the amount
of water to be discharged, with the present or expected bacterial, physical,
chemical, radioactive, or other pertinent characteristics of the wastes;
      (2)   Permits.  The user shall submit a list of any environmental control
permits held by or for the facility;
      (3)   Description of operations.  The user shall submit a brief
description of the nature, average rate of production, and standard industrial
classification of the operation(s) carried out by the industrial user.  This
description should include a schematic process diagram which indicates points
of discharge to the POTW from the regulated processes;
      (4)   Flow measurement.
         (a)   The user shall submit information showing the measured average
daily and maximum daily flow, in gallons per day, to the POTW from each of the
following:
            1.   Regulated process streams; and
            2.   Other streams as necessary to allow use of the combined
wastestream formula set forth in the applicable federal regulations.
         (b)   The Authority Manager may allow for verifiable estimates of
these flows where justified by cost or feasibility considerations.
      (5)   Measurement of pollutants.  All measurements, tests, and analyses
of the characteristics of water and wastes to which reference is made in this
chapter shall be determined in accordance with methods listed in 40 C.F.R. pt.
136 or the laboratory procedure set forth in the latest edition, at the time of
analysis, of Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage,
provided, in the event of any conflict, 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 shall be followed. 
These measurements shall be determined at the control manhole provided for, or
upon suitable samples taken at, the control manhole.  In the event that no
special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be considered to
be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the point at which the
building sewer is connected.  The following requirements shall also apply to
all users.
         (a)   The user shall identify the categorical pretreatment standards
applicable to each regulated process.
         (b)   In addition, the user shall submit the results of sampling and
analysis identifying the nature and concentration (or mass, where required by
the standard or Authority Manager) of regulated pollutants in the discharge
from each regulated process.  Both daily maximum and average concentration (or
mass, where required) shall be reported.  The sample shall be representative of
daily operations.
         (c)   A minimum of four grab samples must be used for pH, cyanide,
total phenols, oils and grease, sulfide, and volatile organics.  For all other
pollutants, 24-hour composite samples must be obtained through flow-
proportional composite sampling techniques where feasible.  The Authority
Manager may waive flow-proportional composite sampling for any industrial user
that demonstrates that flow-proportional sampling is infeasible.  In such
cases, samples may be obtained through time-proportional composite sampling
techniques or through a minimum of four grab samples where the user
demonstrates that this will provide a representative sample of the effluent
being discharged.
         (d)   The user shall take a minimum of one representative sample to
compile that data necessary to comply with the requirements of this division
(B)(5).
         (e)   Samples should be taken immediately downstream from pretreatment
facilities if such exist or immediately downstream from the regulated process
if no pretreatment exists.  If other wastewaters are mixed with the regulated
wastewater prior to pretreatment, the user should measure the flows and
concentrations necessary to allow use of the combined wastestream formula in
order to evaluate compliance with the categorical pretreatment standards.
         (f)   Where 40 C.F.R. pt. 136 or the most recent edition of Standard
Methods for the Examination of Water and Sewage do not contain sampling or
analytical techniques for the pollutant in question, or where the Authority
Manager determines that the part 136 sampling and analytical techniques are
inappropriate for the pollutant in question, sampling and analysis shall be
performed by using validated analytical methods or any other applicable
sampling and analytical procedures, including procedures suggested by the POTW
or other parties, approved by the Authority Manager.
         (g)   The Authority Manager may allow the submission of a baseline
report which utilizes only historical data so long as the data provides
information sufficient to determine the need for industrial pretreatment
measures.
         (h)   The baseline report shall indicate the time, date and place, of
sampling, and methods of analysis, and shall certify that the sampling and
analysis is representative of normal work cycles and expected pollutant
discharges to the POTW.
         (i)   Sampling shall be carried out by methods listed in 40 C.F.R. pt.
136 to reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to
determine the existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.  The particular
analyses involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of
a premise is appropriate or whether grab sample or samples should be taken. 
All costs incurred in either industrial self-monitoring or compliance
monitoring by the Authority shall be borne by the owner, including fees for
inspection and surveillance.
      (6)   Certification.  A statement, reviewed by an authorized
representative of the user and certified to by a qualified professional,
indicating whether pretreatment standards are being met on a consistent basis,
and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance (O & M) and/or
additional pretreatment is required for the industrial user to meet the
pretreatment standards and requirements; and
      (7)   Compliance schedule.  If additional pretreatment and/or O & M will
be required to meet the categorical pretreatment standards; the shortest
schedule by which the industrial user will provide the additional pretreatment
and/or O & M is required.  The completion date in this schedule shall not be
later than the compliance date established for the applicable categorical
pretreatment standard.
(1995 Code, § 58-270)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.020  FILING OF RECORDS, REPORTS, AND STATEMENTS.
   Any industry or structure discharging industrial wastes to the sanitary
sewer, and any other person who applies for sewer service, receives sewer
service, or through the nature of the enterprise creates a potential
environment problem shall, unless otherwise authorized by the Authority
Manager:
   (A)   Provide a plan map of the building, works or complex, with each
outfall to the surface waters, sanitary sewer, storm sewer, natural
watercourse, or groundwaters noted, described, and the waste stream identified;
   (B)   Sample, test, and file reports with the Authority Manager and the
appropriate state agencies on appropriate characteristics of wastes on a
schedule, at locations, and according to methods outlined in a §
52.019(B)(5);
   (C)   Provide an affidavit placing waste treatment facilities, process
facilities, waste streams, or other potential waste problems under the specific
supervision and control of persons properly qualified to supervise the
facilities;
   (D)   Provide a report on raw materials entering the process or support
system, intermediate materials, final product and waste byproducts as those
factors may affect waste control;
   (E)   Maintain records and file reports on the final disposal of specific
liquid, solids, sludge, oil, radioactive material, solvent, or other waste;
   (F)   If any industrial process is to be altered so as to include or negate
a process waste or potential waste, written notification shall be given to the
Authority Manager subject to approval;
   (G)   Submit annual progress reports to the Authority Board outlining
progress towards compliance with categorical pretreatment requirements
developed by the Environmental Protection Agency;
   (H)   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with the
pretreatment standards set forth in this chapter or within 90 days following
commencement of discharge by a new discharger, any discharger subject to this
chapter shall, in addition to the information required by §
52.019 and this section, report whether applicable pretreatment standards are
being met on a consistent basis.  If not, the discharger shall indicate what
additional operation and maintenance and/or pretreatment is necessary to ensure
compliance.  This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of
the discharger and certified to by a qualified engineer;
   (I)   If the sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation
of this chapter the user shall notify the wastewater plant within 24 hours of
becoming aware of the violation.  The user shall also repeat the sampling and
analysis and report the results to the authority within 30 days of the initial
violation, unless the authority agrees to perform the sampling within the 30-
day deadline; and
   (J)   New sources, when subject to a national categorical pretreatment
standard, shall submit a base line report at least 90 days prior to
commencement of discharge to the POTW.
(1995 Code, § 58-271)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.021  COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   Generally.  The following conditions shall apply to the compliance
schedule required by §
52.019(B)(7).
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form of
dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the
industrial user to meet the applicable pretreatment standards (e.g., hiring an
engineer, completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing
contract for major components, commencing construction, completing
construction, and the like).
      (2)   No increment referred to in division (B)(1) above shall exceed nine
months.
      (3)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and the
final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a progress report
to the Authority Manager, including, at a minimum, whether or not it complied
with the increment of progress to be met on the date and, if not, the date on
which it expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason for
delay, and the steps being taken by the industrial user to return the
construction to the schedule established.  In no event shall more than nine-
months’ elapse between the progress reports to the Authority Manager.
(1995 Code, § 58-272)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.022  REPORT AFTER FINAL COMPLIANCE.
   Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards or in the case of a new source following commencement of
the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any industrial user subject to
pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the Authority Manager a
report containing the information described in §
52.019(B)(4), (B)(5), and (B)(6).  This report shall include the user’s actual
production during the appropriate sampling period.
(1995 Code, § 58-273)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.023  RECORDS KEPT BY DISCHARGERS.
   All dischargers subject to this chapter shall retain for no less than three
years any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence, and
any summaries thereof relating to monitoring, sampling, and chemical analysis
of its discharge, whether or not the records are required by this chapter.  All
the records shall be made available for inspection and copying by the DNR and
the EPA, and the authority in the case of an industrial user.  All records
which pertain to matters which are the subject of administrative action,
enforcement, or litigation shall be maintained and preserved until all
enforcement limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(1995 Code, § 58-274)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.024  NOTIFICATION OF APPLICABLE STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   The authority assumes the responsibility of notifying industrial users of
applicable pretreatment standards and any applicable requirements under the
General Federal Pretreatment Regulations and Subtitles C and D of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act.
(1995 Code, § 58-275)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.025  ADJUSTMENT OF CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS.
   Categorical pretreatment standards may be adjusted to reflect the presence
of pollutants in the industrial user’s intake water if the industrial user
meets the requirements outlined in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.15.
(1995 Code, § 58-276)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.026  CONTINUED COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   Periodic reports on continued compliance.
      (1)   Any industrial user subject to a categorical pretreatment standard,
and all noncategorical industries, when required by the Authority Board, shall
submit to the Authority during the months of June and December, unless required
more frequently in the pretreatment standard or by the Authority or the
Authority Manager, a report indicating the nature and concentration of
pollutants in the effluent which are limited by the categorical pretreatment
standards, and as further required by the permit.  In addition, this report
shall include a record of measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows
for the reporting period for the discharge reported in §§
52.019 and
52.020, except that the Authority may require more detailed reporting of
flows.  At the discretion of the Authority and in consideration of the factors
as local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles, and the like, the
Authority may agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to
be submitted.
      (2)   Where the Authority has imposed mass limitations on industrial
users as provided for by 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6, the report required by division
(A)(1) above shall indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment
standards in the discharge from the industrial user.
      (3)   For industrial users subject to equivalent mass or concentration
limits established by the Authority in accordance with 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6, the
report required by division (A)(1) above shall contain a reasonable measure of
the user’s long-term production rate.  For all other industrial users subject
to categorical pretreatment standards expressed only in terms of allowable
pollutant discharge per unit of production (or other measure of operation), the
report required by division (A)(1) above shall include the user’s actual
average production rate for the reporting period.
   (B)   Notice of potential problems, including slug loading.  All categorical
and noncategorical industrial users shall notify the POTW immediately of all
discharges that could cause problems to the POTW, including any slug loadings,
as defined in §
52.002, by the industrial user.
   (C)   Monitoring and analysis to demonstrate continued compliance.
      (1)   The reports required in §§
52.019 and
52.022, and division (A) above, shall contain the results of sampling and
analysis of the discharge, including the flow and the nature and concentration,
or production and mass where requested by the Authority, of pollutants
contained therein which are limited by the applicable pretreatment standards. 
This sampling and analysis may be performed by the Authority in lieu of the
industrial user.  Where the Authority performs the required sampling and
analysis in lieu of the industrial user, the user shall not be required to
submit the compliance certification required under 40 C.F.R. pts. 403.12(b)(6)
and 403.12(d).  In addition, where the Authority itself collects all the
information required for the report, including flow data, the industrial user
will not be required to submit the report.
      (2)   If sampling performed by an industrial user indicates a violation,
the user shall notify the control authority within 24 hours of becoming aware
of the violation.  The user shall also repeat the sampling and analysis and
submit the results of the repeat analysis to the control authority within 30
days after becoming aware of the violation, except the industrial user is not
required to resample if:
         (a)   The Authority performs sampling at the industrial user at a
frequency of at least once per month; or
         (b)   The authority performs sampling at the user between the time
when the user performs its initial sampling and the time when the user receives
the results of this sampling.
      (3)   The reports required in division (A)(1) above shall be based upon
data obtained through appropriate sampling and analysis performed during the
period covered by the report, which data is representative of conditions
occurring during the reporting period.  The Authority shall require that
frequency of monitoring necessary to assess and assure compliance by industrial
users with applicable categorical pretreatment standards and requirements.
      (4)   All analyses shall be performed in accordance with procedures
established pursuant to §
52.019(B)(5).
      (5)   If an industrial user subject to the reporting requirement in
division (A)(1) above monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by
the Authority, using the procedures prescribed above, the results of this
monitoring shall be included in the report.
(1995 Code, § 58-277)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.027  DESCRIPTION OF POLLUTANTS BY SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS.
   Significant noncategorical industrial users shall submit to the Authority
Manager at least once every six months (on dates specified by the Authority
Manager) a description of the nature, concentration, and flow of the pollutants
required to be reported by the Authority.  These reports shall be based on
sampling and analysis performed in the period covered by the report, and
performed in accordance with the techniques described in §
52.019(B)(5).  This sampling and analysis may be performed by the Authority in
lieu of the significant noncategorical industrial user.  Where the Authority
itself collects all the information required for the report, the significant
noncategorical industrial user will not be required to submit the report.
(1995 Code, § 58-278)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.028  SIGNATURE ON REPORTS AND CERTIFICATION STATEMENT.
   The reports required by this chapter of significant industrial users and
others as required by the Manager shall include the certification statement set
forth at 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(1)(2)(ii), as amended, and shall be signed as
follows:
   (A)   By a responsible corporate officer, if the user submitting the reports
required by this chapter is a corporation.  For the purpose of this section, a
RESPONSIBLE CORPORATE OFFICER:  means a president, secretary, treasurer, or
vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function,
or any other person who performs similar policy- or decision-making functions
for the corporation; or the manager of one or more manufacturing, production,
or operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 (in second quarter 1980 dollars),
if authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the manager in
accordance with corporate procedures;
   (B)   By a general partner or proprietor if the user submitting the required
reports is a partnership or sole proprietorship respectively;
   (C)   By a duly authorized representative of the individual designated in
divisions (A) or (B) above if:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual described in
divisions (A) or (B) above;
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager, operator of a
well, or well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent responsibility,
or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company; and
      (3)   The written authorization is submitted to the Authority.
   (D)   If an authorization under division (C) above is no longer accurate
because a different individual or position has responsibility for the overall
operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental matters
for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of division
(C) above must be submitted to the Authority prior to or together with any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
(1995 Code, § 58-279)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.029  NONCOMPLIANCE WITH FEDERAL CATEGORICAL OR LOCAL DISCHARGE LIMITS.
   In addition to the base line monitoring reports required by this chapter,
compliance schedules are required of industrial dischargers not in compliance
with federal categorical limits or local discharge limits.  These schedules
must indicate the major milestones, with dates, that will lead the industry
into compliance.  Industries not in compliance with federal or local discharge
limits are required to submit progress reports no later than 14 days following
each date in their compliance schedule.  Progress reports shall indicate if the
compliance schedule is being met and, if not, reasons for noncompliance must be
provided.  In addition, steps being taken by the industry to return to the
established schedule must also be indicated.
(1995 Code, § 58-280)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.030  REQUIREMENT OF INSTALLATION OF TECHNOLOGY.
   The Authority shall require the development of a compliance schedule by each
industrial user for the installation of technology to meet applicable
pretreatment standards and other requirements set forth herein.
(1995 Code, § 58-281)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.031  UNLAWFUL TO DISCHARGE WASTEWATER TO KLSWA WITHOUT PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for significant industrial users to discharge
wastewater to the KLSWA sanitary system without first obtaining a permit from
the Authority regulating the discharges.
   (B)   The permits will be enforceable and will contain, at minimum, these
elements:
      (1)   A statement of duration which will in no case exceed five years;
      (2)   A statement of nontransferability without a minimum of prior
notification to the POTW and provisions for copies of the existing permit to
the new owner or operator;
      (3)   Effluent limits based on applicable pretreatment standards as
outlined in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403, or local limits as contained in this chapter;
      (4)   Industrial discharge permits will include specific self-monitoring,
sampling, reporting, notification, and record keeping requirements.  Permits
shall contain the following:
         (a)   Limits on the maximum rate of discharge;
         (b)   Limits on the concentration of identified wastewater
constituents;
         (c)   Requirements for the installation of appropriate technology to
prevent the introduction of pollutants to the treatment works;
         (d)   Requirements for spill control plans;
         (e)   Requirements for the installation of inspection and sampling
facilities;
         (f)   Specifications for monitoring programs, including frequency of
sampling and specification of parameters;
         (g)   Compliance schedules;
         (h)   Requirements for submission of reports;
         (i)   Requirements for retaining records;
         (j)   Requirements for notification of accidental or slug discharges;
and
         (k)   Other requirements or conditions deemed appropriate by the
Manager to ensure compliance with Authority sewer use ordinance and state or
federal laws, rules, and regulations regarding industrial discharges to local
sanitary systems.
      (5)   A statement of applicable civil criminal penalties for violation of
pretreatment standards, regulations, and applicable compliance schedules.  In
no instance may compliance schedules extend beyond applicable federal
guidelines.
(1995 Code, § 58-282)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.032  EXISTING DISCHARGES.
   Any significant industrial user which discharges nondomestic waste into the
sanitary sewer system prior to the effective date of this chapter and who
wishes to continue the discharges in the future shall, within 90 days after the
date, apply to the Authority Board for an industrial discharge permit and shall
not cause or allow discharges to the POTW after 180 days from the effective
date of this chapter, except in accordance with a permit issued by the
Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-283)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.033  NEW DISCHARGES.
   Any significant industrial user proposing to begin discharge of nondomestic
waste into the KLSWA system must obtain an industrial discharge permit prior to
beginning the discharge.  An application for this permit must be filed at least
60 days prior to the anticipated start-up date.
(1995 Code, § 58-284)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.034  PREVENTION AND PROTECTION MEASURES IN INDUSTRIAL DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   Industrial discharge permit shall include the conditions as are reasonably
deemed necessary by the manager of the KLSWA wastewater plant to prevent pass
through or interference, protect water quality in the Kalamazoo River, protect
worker health and safety, facilitate sludge management and disposal, protect
ambient air quality, and protect against damage to the POTW and the KLSWA
collection system.  Permits shall contain, but shall not necessarily be limited
to, the elements contained in §
52.031.
(1995 Code, § 58-285)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.035  NOTICE OF INTENT TO ISSUE PRETREATMENT PERMIT.
   The Authority Manager shall publish in the local newspaper a notice of
intent to issue a pretreatment permit at least 14 days prior to issuance.  The
notice will indicate a location where a draft permit may be reviewed and an
address where written comments may be submitted.
(1995 Code, § 58-286)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.036  PERMIT APPEALS.
   (A)   The Authority Manager will provide all interested persons with notice
of final permit decisions.  Upon notice by the Authority Manager, any person,
including the industrial user, may petition to appeal the terms of the permit
within 30 days of the notice.  Failure to submit a timely petition for review
shall be deemed a waiver of appeal.  In its petition, the appealing party must
indicate the permit provisions objected to, the reasons for the objection, and
the alternative condition, if any, which they seek to place in the permit.
   (B)   The Authority Board may, after considering this petition and any
arguments by the Authority Manager, determine that reconsideration is proper. 
It shall then remand the permit back to the Authority Manger for reissuance. 
The permit provisions being reconsidered by the Authority Manager shall be
stayed pending reissuance.
   (C)   The Authority Board’s decision not to reconsider a final permit shall
be considered the final administrative action for purposes of judicial review.
(1995 Code, § 58-287)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.037  MODIFY PERMITS.
   The Authority Manager may modify a permit for good cause, including:
   (A)   Incorporation of new federal, state, or local standards; and
   (B)   Material or substantial alteration of the discharger’s operation.
(1995 Code, § 58-288)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.038  TERMINATE PERMITS.
   Pretreatment permits may be terminated for the following reasons:
   (A)   Falsifying self-monitoring reports;
   (B)   Tampering with monitoring equipment;
   (C)   Refusing to allow timely access to facility premises and records;
   (D)   Failure to meet effluent limitations or causing the POTW to violate
its NPDES permit;
   (E)   Failure to pay fines;
   (F)   Failure to pay sewer charges; and/or
   (G)   Failure to meet compliance schedule.
(1995 Code, § 58-289)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.039  DATA AVAILABLE TO PUBLIC.
   Information and data provided to the Authority or Authority Manager,
pursuant to this chapter, which is effluent data shall be available to the
public without restriction.
(1995 Code, § 58-290)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
PRIVATE WASTEWATER DISPOSAL
§ 52.050  REQUIRED UNDER CERTAIN CONDITIONS.
   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of §§
52.015et seq., the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage
disposal system complying with all requirements of the County Health
Department.
(1995 Code, § 58-301)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.051  CONNECTION WITH AVAILABLE PUBLIC SEWER REQUIRED; FILLING OF PRIVATE
DISPOSAL FACILITIES.
   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served by a
private sewage disposal system, as provided in §§
52.015et seq., a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter.  Any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable
material.
(1995 Code, § 58-302)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.052  OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal facilities
in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-303)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.053  INTERFERENCE WITH ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State Department of
Public Health.
(1995 Code, § 58-304)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.054  DISPOSAL SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private wastewater disposal
system shall comply with all local, county, state, and federal requirements. 
No permit shall be issued for any private wastewater disposal systems employing
subsurface soil absorption facilities where the area of the lot is less than 3/
4 acre.  No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
public sewer or natural outlet.
(1995 Code, § 58-305)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
BUILDING SEWERS AND CONNECTIONS
§ 52.065  BUILDING SEWER PERMITS; CLASSES; APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   There shall be three classes of building sewer permits:
      (1)   Residential;
      (2)   Commercial; and
      (3)   Industrial.
   (B)   In any case, the owner or his or her agent shall make application on a
special form furnished by the Authority.  The permit application shall be
supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information considered
pertinent in the judgment of the Authority Manager.  A minimum permit and
inspection fee of $10 for a residential, $25 for a commercial, and $50 for an
industrial building sewer permit shall be paid to the Authority at the time the
application is filed.
(1995 Code, § 58-316)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.066  COSTS AND EXPENSES BORNE BY OWNER; INDEMNIFICATION OF CITY.
   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by the owner.  The owner or the person installing
the building sewer for the owner shall indemnify the Authority from any loss or
damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the
building sewer.
(1995 Code, § 58-317)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.067  SEPARATE AND INDEPENDENT SEWER FOR EACH BUILDING; EXCEPTIONS.
   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, court, yard, or driveway.  The
building sewer from the front building may be extended to the rear building and
the whole considered as one building sewer.  Other exceptions will be allowed
only by special permission granted by the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-318)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.068  USE OF OLD BUILDING SEWERS.
   Old building sewers or portions thereof may be used in connection with new
buildings only when they are found, on examination and testing by the Inspector
or his or her representative, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-319)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.069  SPECIFICATIONS OF CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be constructed of either of the following
types of pipe meeting the current ASTM specifications:
      (1)   Plastic (ABS) ASTM D 1527 SDR 35;
      (2)   Plastic (PVC) ASTM D 1785 SDR 35;
      (3)   Asbestos-cement (AC) ASTM C-428 C1-2400;
      (4)   Cast-iron extra heavy ASTM A-74; and
      (5)   Nonreinforced concrete ASTM C-14 extra strength.
   (B)   If installed in filled or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be
of cast-iron extra heavy pipe, except that other types of pipe may be used if
laid on a suitable improved bed or cradle, as approved by the Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 58-320)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.070  JOINTS AND CONNECTIONS.
   All building sewer joints and connections shall be made gastight and
watertight and shall conform to the requirements of the current building and
plumbing codes.  Asbestos cement or concrete sewer pipe joints shall be of
rubber ring, flexible compression type, similar and equal to joints specified
for vitrified clay pipe.  The joints and connections shall conform to the
manufacturer’s recommendations.
(1995 Code, § 58-321)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.071  SIZE AND SLOPE.
   (A)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than four
inches.
   (B)   Minimum grade shall be as follows:
      (1)   Six-inch pipe - 1/8 inch per foot or one inch per eight feet; 1%;
and
      (2)   Four-inch pipe - 1/4 inch per foot or two inches per eight feet;
2%.
(1995 Code, § 58-322)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.072  ELEVATION; DEPTH; OPEN TRENCH WORK; PIPE LAYING AND BACKFILL.
   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the buildings at
an elevation below the basement floor.  No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to, or within three feet of, any bearing wall which might thereby be
weakened.  The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost.  All
excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open
trench work, unless otherwise approved by the Inspector.  Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with current ASTM specifications,
except that no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the Inspector or his or her representative.
(1995 Code, § 58-323)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.073  LIFTING.
   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit gravity
flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drains shall be lifted
by artificial means and discharged to the building sewer; subject to approval
by the Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 58-324)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.074  CONNECTION AT WYE BRANCH.
   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be made at
the wye branch designated for the property if the branch is available at a
suitable location.  Any connection not made at the designated wye branch in the
main sewer shall be made only as directed by the Inspector.
(1995 Code, § 58-325)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.075  INSPECTION; CONNECTION MADE UNDER SUPERVISION.
   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the Inspector when the
building sewer is ready for inspection and connection to the public sewer.  The
connection shall be made under the supervision of the Inspector or his or her
representative.
(1995 Code, § 58-326)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.076  GUARDING OF EXCAVATIONS; RESTORATION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately guarded
with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard.  Streets,
sidewalks, parkways, and other public property disturbed in the course of the
work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-327)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.077  CONNECTION PERMITTED ACCORDING TO CAPACITY OF SYSTEM.
   No connection will be allowed, unless there is capacity available in
downstream sewers, pump stations, interceptors, force mains, and treatment
plant, including capacity for BOD and suspended solids in the treatment plant
as determined by the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-328)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS
§ 52.090  DISCHARGE OF UNPOLLUTED WATERS.
   No person shall discharge, or cause to be discharged, any stormwater,
surface water, groundwater, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, uncontaminated
cooling water, or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer,
unless approved in writing by the Manager.
(1995 Code, § 58-341)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.091  UNPOLLUTED DRAINAGE TO BE DISCHARGED TO STORM SEWERS OR NATURAL
OUTLETS.
   Stormwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be discharged to the
sewers as are specifically designated as combined sewers or storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the appropriate state agency.  Industrial cooling
water or unpolluted process waters may be discharged, upon approval of the
appropriate state agency, to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
(1995 Code, § 58-342)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.092  PROHIBITED DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Generally.  Except as hereinafter provided in §
52.098, no person shall discharge any of the following described waters or
wastes to any public sewers.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   BOD in excess of 200 mg/l;
      (2)   C.O.D. in excess of 450 mg/l;
      (3)   Chlorine demand in excess of 15 mg/l;
      (4)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, and the
like) released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration
which will cause interference with the POTW;
      (5)   Color (as from, but not limited to, dyes, inks, or vegetable
tanning solutions) shall be controlled to prevent light absorbency which would
interfere with treatment plant processes or that prevent analytical
determinations;
      (6)   Explosive liquid, solid, or gas, gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel
oil, or other flammable waste;
      (7)   Garbage not properly shredded, no particle size greater than 1/
2 inch;
      (8)   Petroleum oil, nonbiodegradable cutting oil, products of mineral
oil origin, or grease, oil, wax or fat, whether emulsified or not, in amounts
that will cause interference or pass through, or in excess of 50 mg/l, or other
substances which may solidify or become viscous at temperatures between 32°F
and 150°F;
      (9)   Industrial wastes in concentrations above those listed below:
Copper (Cu)         1.0 mg/l
Cadmium (Cd)        1.0 mg/l
Chromium total      0.8 mg/l
Chromium hexavalent 0.2 mg/l
Lead (Pb)           0.2 mg/l
Nickel (Ni)         1.0 mg/l;
Zinc (Zn)           2.6 mg/l/day max; 1.48 mg/l/mo avg
Silver (Ag)         0.1 mg/l
Phosphorus (P)      6.5 mg/l
Cyanide (Cn)        0.5 mg/l
Total Phenol        0.02 mg/l
Or any other metallic compounds in sufficient quantity to impair the
operations of the sewer treatment processes.
 
      (10)   Inert suspended solids, such as, but not limited to, fuller’s
earth, lime slurries, and lime residues, or dissolved solids, such as, but not
limited to, sodium chloride and sodium sulfate, in unusual concentrations;
      (11)   Solid, insoluble, or viscous substances, in amounts which will
cause obstruction to the flow in the POTW resulting in interference such as,
but not limited to, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass,
tar, feathers, plastics, wood, hair, fleshings, and the like;
      (12)   Noxious or malodorous gas, such as, but not limited to, hydrogen
sulfide, sulphur dioxide, or oxides of nitrogen, and other substances capable
of public nuisance;
      (13)   Pollutants which will cause corrosive structural damage to the
POTW, but in no case discharges with pH lower than 6.5 and greater than 9.5;
      (14)   Radioactive wastes or isotopes of the half-life or concentration
which may exceed limits established by state and federal regulations;
      (15)   Suspended solids in excess of 250 mg/l;
      (16)   Heat in amounts which will inhibit biological activity in the POTW
resulting in interference, but in no case heat in the quantities that the
temperature at the POTW treatment plant exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (17)   Water or wastes containing substances which are not amenable to
treatment or reduction by the sewage treatment processes employed, or are
amenable to treatment to only the degree that the sewage treatment plant
effluent cannot meet the requirements of other agencies having jurisdiction
over discharges to the receiving waters;
      (18)   Discharges that would result in excess foaming during the
treatment process.  Excess foaming is any foam which, in the opinion of the
Authority Manager, is a nuisance in the treatment process;
      (19)   Any pollutant(s) which causes pass through or interference;
      (20)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flash point of
less than 140°F or 60°C using test methods specified in the latest edition of
Standard Methods; and/or
      (21)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors, or
fumes within the POTW in a quantity which may cause acute health and safety
problems.
(1995 Code, § 58-343)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.093  DISCHARGE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.  In addition to the foregoing, the following requirements
shall apply.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   No slug loads, as defined by §
52.002, shall be permitted.
      (2)   New sources shall install, have in operation, and start up all
pollution control equipment necessary to meet applicable pretreatment standards
before beginning discharge.  Within the shortest feasible time, not to exceed
90 days, new sources must be in compliance with all pretreatment standards.
      (3)   All categorical and noncategorical users of the sewer system shall
immediately notify the wastewater plant of all discharges that could cause
problems with plant operations, including any slug loads.  A written report is
required within five days detailing conditions which caused the slug load to be
discharged and steps taken to eliminate reoccurrence of the slug loading. 
Immediate notice shall be provided to the authority at 857-2709 with a follow-
up report sent to the authority at P.O. Box 789, Saugatuck, MI, 49453.
      (4)   No trucked or hauled pollutants may be discharged to the POTW,
except at points designated by the POTW.
(1995 Code, § 58-344)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.094  RESPONSES BY CITY TO PROHIBITED DISCHARGES WITH DELETERIOUS EFFECTS.
   (A)   If any waters or wastes are discharged or are proposed to be
discharged to the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated in §§
52.092 or
52.093, and which in the judgment of the Authority Manager may have a
deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or receiving
waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a public
nuisance, the Authority may:
      (1)   Reject the wastes;
      (2)   Require pretreatment to acceptable condition for discharge to the
public sewers.  Requirements for pretreatment are to be developed, pursuant to
§ 307 of Pub. L. No. 92-500, by the Environmental Protection Agency.  When
pretreatment is necessary, construction to achieve pretreatment requirements is
to be initiated within three years after the date of promulgation of the
pretreatment standards;
      (3)   Require pretreatment to an acceptable level, other than normal
strength sewage, for discharge to the public sewers; and/or
      (4)   Require new industrial customers or industries with significant
changes in strength or flow to submit prior information to the authority
concerning the proposed flows.
   (B)   If the Authority permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plants and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the Authority Manager and subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
(1995 Code, § 58-345)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.095  USE OF GREASE, OIL, AND SAND INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the Authority, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes
containing grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, or other
harmful ingredients, except that the interceptors shall not be required for
private living quarters or dwelling units.  All interceptors shall be of a type
and capacity approved by the Authority, and shall be located as to be readily
and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
(1995 Code, § 58-346)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.096  MAINTENANCE OF PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   Where preliminary treatment or flow equalizing facilities are provided for
any waters or wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and
effective operation by the owner at his or her expense.
(1995 Code, § 58-347)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.097  CONTROL MANHOLES.
   When required by the Authority, the owner of any property serviced by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole together with the necessary meters, and other appurtenances in the
building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and measurement of the
wastes.  The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the Authority. 
The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense, and shall be
maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
(1995 Code, § 58-348)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.098  SPECIAL AGREEMENTS.
   No statement contained in this subchapter shall be construed as preventing
any special agreement or arrangement between the Authority and any industrial
concern after recommendation by the Authority whereby an industrial waste of
unusual strength or character may be accepted by the Authority for treatment,
subject to payment therefor, by the industrial concern.  The municipalities
specifically exclude the waiver of Federal Pretreatment Regulations and
National Categorical Standards.  Specifically excluded are heavy metals, PCB’s,
and any pollutant that will likely contribute to or cause operational or sludge
disposal problems or unacceptable discharges to the receiving waters.
(1995 Code, § 58-349)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.099  INDUSTRIAL COOLING WATER; TREATMENT.
   Industrial cooling water containing the pollutants as insoluble oils or
grease, or other suspended solids, shall be treated for removal of the
pollutants and then discharged to the storm sewer.  All discharges of cooling
water to the stormwater system require an NPDES permit issued by the state
prior to initiation of the discharge.
(1995 Code, § 58-350)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.100  RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   Agents of the Authority, State Department of Natural Resources, or U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency shall have the right to enter all properties
for the purpose of inspecting, measuring, sampling, and testing the wastewater
discharge, and inspecting and copying all records which are required to be kept
pursuant to this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-351)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.101  CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION FROM INDUSTRIAL USERS.
   The Authority agrees to regard information submitted by industrial users
during the pretreatment program’s development and implementation as
confidential.  Effluent data furnished by industries shall, however, be
available without restriction as per 40 C.F.R. pt. 2.302.
(1995 Code, § 58-352)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.102  REVISION OF STANDARDS.
   The Authority reserves the right to revise the standards contained in this
subchapter consistent with the requirements outlined in 40 C.F.R. pt. 403 and
the state pretreatment program.  Specific effluent limits shall not be
developed and enforced without individual notice to persons or groups who have
requested the notice and an opportunity to respond.
(1995 Code, § 58-353)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.103  DILUTION OF DISCHARGE.
   Except where expressly permitted to do so by an applicable categorical
pretreatment standard, no industrial user shall ever increase the use of
process water, or in any other way attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial
or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a
pretreatment standard.  The Authority may impose mass limitations on industrial
users which are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards.
(1995 Code, § 58-354)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.104  CHOICE OF MONITORING WASTESTREAMS.
   Where a treated regulated process wastestream is combined prior to treatment
with wastewaters other than those generated by the regulated process, the
industrial user may monitor either the segregated process wastestream or the
combined wastestreams for the purpose of determining compliance with applicable
pretreatment standards.  If the industrial user chooses to monitor the
segregated process wastestream, it shall apply the applicable categorical
pretreatment standard.  If the user chooses to monitor the combined
wastestream, it shall apply an alternative discharge limit calculated using the
combined wastestream formula as provided by federal regulations.  The
industrial user may change monitoring points only after receiving approval from
the Authority.  The Authority shall ensure that any change in an industrial
user’s monitoring point(s) will not allow the user to substitute dilution for
adequate treatment to achieve compliance with applicable standards.
(1995 Code, § 58-355)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.105  SPILL PREVENTION PLAN.
   (A)   Industrial users determined to be storing toxic or hazardous wastes or
other pollutants in quantities that when spilled could adversely impact the
wastewater treatment plant will be required to develop a spill prevention
plan.  The spill prevention plan shall include:
      (1)   A description of any facilities to be constructed to prevent a
spill from reaching the sewage collection system;
      (2)   A description of procedures to be used in the event of a spill,
including instructions for notifying the manager of the authority or his or her
representative, and a description of emergency clean-up procedures; and
      (3)   A description of the type of surveillance the industrial user
intends to employ in order to detect and prevent pollutant discharges.
   (B)   The completed spill prevention plan shall be submitted to the
Authority for approval.  The access to the property of industrial users, for
spill containment inspection, shall be granted to municipal, state, and federal
agents during normal business hours.
(1995 Code, § 58-356)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.106  LOCAL LIMITS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   Local limits and requirements shall be met by all dischargers to the POTW. 
Applicable national categorical pretreatment standards and state limitations
and requirements shall be met where they are more stringent than local
requirements and limitations.
(1995 Code, § 58-357)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.107  CONCENTRAL OR MASS LIMITS.
   Pollution discharge limits in categorical pretreatment standards will be
expressed as either concentration or mass limits.  Whenever concentration
limits are specified, equivalent mass limits will be provided wherever
possible.  In the regulation of industrial discharges, the Authority may use
either concentration or mass limits.
(1995 Code, § 58-358)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.108  CHANGES OF POLLUTANTS IN DISCHARGE.
   All industrial dischargers shall notify the Authority in advance of any
substantial changes in the volume or character of the pollutants in their
discharge, including listed or characteristic hazardous waste for which the
industrial user has submitted notification under 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.12.
(1995 Code, § 58-359)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.109  NOTIFICATION OF HAZARDOUS WASTE DISCHARGE.
   (A)   The industrial user shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste
Management Division Director, and state hazardous waste authorities in writing
of any discharge into the POTW of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of,
would be a hazardous waste under 40 C.F.R. pt. 261.  The notification must
include the name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. pt. 261, the
EPA hazardous waste number, and the type of discharge (continuous, batch, or
other).  If the industrial user discharges more than 100 kilograms of the waste
per calendar month to the POTW, the notification shall also contain the
following information to the extent the information is known and readily
available to the industrial user:  an identification of the hazardous
constituents contained in the wastes, an estimation of the mass and
concentration of the constituents in the wastestream discharged during that
calendar month, and an estimation of the mass of constituents in the
wastestream expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.  All
notifications must take place within 180 days of the effective date of this
chapter.  Industrial users who commence discharging after the effective date of
this chapter shall provide the notification no later than 180 days after the
discharge of the listed or characteristic hazardous waste.  Any notification
under this division (A) need be submitted only once for each hazardous waste
discharged.  However, notifications of changed discharges must be submitted
under 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.12(j).  The notification requirement in this section
does not apply to pollutants already reported under the self-monitoring
requirements of 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.12(b), (d), and (e).
   (B)   Dischargers are exempt from the requirements of division (A) above
during a calendar month in which they may discharge no more than 15 kilograms
of hazardous wastes, unless the wastes are acute hazardous wastes as specified
in 40 C.F.R. pts. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e).  Discharge of more than 15 kilograms
of nonacute hazardous wastes in a calendar month, or of any quantity of acute
hazardous wastes as specified in 40 C.F.R. pts. 261.30(d) and 261.33(e),
requires a one-time notification.  Subsequent months during which the
industrial user discharges more than the quantities of any hazardous waste do
not require additional notification.
   (C)   In the case of any new regulation under § 3001 of RCRA identifying
additional characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional
substance as a hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the POTW, the
EPA Regional Waste Management Waste Division Director, and state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of the substance within 90 days of the
effective date of the regulations.
   (D)   In the case of any notification made under this section, the
industrial user shall certify that it has a program in place to reduce the
volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
(1995 Code, § 58-360)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS
§ 52.120  RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION AND TESTING.
   The Authority Manager and other duly authorized employees or representatives
of the Authority, bearing proper, credentials, and identification, shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter.  The Authority Manager or his or her
representatives shall have no authority to inquire into any processes,
including metallurgical, chemical, oil refining, ceramic, paper, or other
industries beyond that point having a direct bearing on the kind and source of
discharge to the sewers and waterways of facilities for waste treatment.  The
Authority reserves the right to inspect and copy any and all the records as are
required to be kept under this chapter and those records deemed necessary to
enforce the industrial pretreatment sections of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-371)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.121  OBSERVATION OF SAFETY RULES DURING GAUGING AND SAMPLING.
   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to in §
52.120, the Authority Manager or duly authorized employees of the Authority
shall observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the
company.  The company shall be held harmless for injury or death to the
employees, and the Authority shall indemnify the claims and demands for
personal injury or property damage asserted against the company and growing out
of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such may be caused by
negligence or failure of the company to maintain safe conditions as required by
this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-372)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.122  REMEDY OF NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Noncompliance with pretreatment standards, industrial user discharge
permits, or other state, federal, or local requirements by any industrial user
is hereby deemed a nuisance, the arrest and prevention of which shall be
specifically enforceable by the Authority.  The Authority shall have the power
and authority to seek an injunction where necessary to prevent or remedy
noncompliance with this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-373)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.123  DISCHARGE AS AN ENDANGERMENT.
   If, in the opinion of the Authority or the Authority Manager, any discharge
of pollutants to the POTW reasonably appears to present an imminent
endangerment to the health or welfare of persons, the Authority or the
Authority Manager shall notify the user responsible for the discharge that it
must take immediate action to abate the risk, including the cessation of the
discharge endangering the health or welfare of persons.  If the user does not
immediately respond to the notice, the Authority or the Authority Manager shall
be authorized to take the actions as are necessary to halt or prevent any such
discharge, including emergency suspension of service.  This shall be known as
the Authority’s emergency authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-374)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.124  REVOKE TREATMENT SERVICES.
   The Authority reserves the right to revoke treatment services to any
industrial user that:
   (A)   Fails to report factually the characteristics of its discharge;
   (B)   Fails to report changes in discharge characteristics or constituents;
   (C)   Refuses access to its premises by duly authorized authority
representatives; or
   (D)   Violates other conditions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 58-375)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.125  ADMINISTRATIVE ENFORCEMENT REMEDIES.
   (A)   Generally.  When a violation of this chapter, industrial user permit,
order, or compliance schedule is not corrected in a timely manner; or when, in
the opinion of the Authority any discharge presents or may present an
endangerment to the environment or threatens to interfere with the operation of
the POTW, the Authority shall have recourse to the administrative enforcement
remedies set forth below.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Notification of violation.  Whenever the POTW finds that any
industrial user has violated or is violating this chapter, or industrial user
discharge permit, or order issued hereunder, the Manager or his or her agent
may serve upon the user written notice of the violation.  Within ten days of
the receipt date of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
the satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific
requirement actions, shall be submitted to the Manager.  Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violations occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
      (2)   Consent orders.  The Manager is hereby empowered to enter into
consent orders, assurances of voluntary compliance, or other similar documents
establishing an agreement with the industrial user responsible for the
noncompliance.  The orders will include compliance schedules, stipulated fines,
or remedial actions and signatures of the Manager and industry
representatives.  Consent orders shall have the same force and effect as
administrative orders issued pursuant to division (B)(4) below.
      (3)   Show cause order.  The Manager may order any user which causes or
contributes to violation of this chapter, industrial user discharge permit, or
order issued hereunder, to show cause why a proposed enforcement action should
not be taken.  The notice of the meeting shall be served personally or by
registered or certified mail (return receipt requested) at least ten days prior
to the hearing.  The notice may be served on any principal executive, general
partner, or corporate officer.  Whether or not a duly notified industrial user
appears as noticed, enforcement action may be pursued as appropriate.
      (4)   Compliance order.  When the Manager finds that an industrial user
has violated or continues to violate  this chapter or an industrial user
discharge permit or order issued thereunder, he or she may issue an order to
the industrial user responsible for the discharge directing that, following a
specified time period, sewer service shall be discontinued, unless adequate
treatment facilities, devices, or other related appurtenances have been
installed and are properly operated and compliance is achieved.  Orders may
also contain such other requirements as might be reasonable, necessary, and
appropriate to address the noncompliance, including the installation of
pretreatment technology, additional self-monitoring, and management practices.
      (5)   Cease and desist orders.  When the Manager finds that an industrial
user has violated or continues to violate this chapter or any permit or order
issued hereunder, the Manager may issue an order to cease and desist all
illegal or unauthorized discharges immediately.
         (a)   In an emergency, the order to cease and desist may be given by
telephone.
         (b)   In nonemergency situations, the cease and desist order may be
used to suspend or permanently revoke industrial user discharge permits.
         (c)   The cease and desist order may order the industrial user to take
the appropriate remedial or preventative action as may be needed to properly
address a continuing or threatened violation, including halting operations and
terminating the discharge.
      (6)   Administrative fines.  Notwithstanding any other section of this
chapter, any user who is found to have violated any provision of this chapter,
or permits and orders issued hereunder, shall be fined in an amount not to
exceed $1,000 per violation.  Each day on which noncompliance shall occur or
continue shall be deemed a separate and distinct violation.  The assessments
may be added to the user’s next scheduled sewer service charge and the Manager
shall have such other collection remedies, as he or she has, to collect other
service charges.  Unpaid charges, fines, and penalties shall constitute a lien
against the individual user’s property.  Industrial users desiring to dispute
the fines must file a request for the Manager to reconsider the fine within ten
days of being notified of the fine.  Where the Manager believes a request has
merit, he or she shall convene a hearing on the matter within 15 days of
receiving the request from the industrial user.
      (7)   Emergency suspensions.
         (a)   The Manager may suspend the wastewater treatment service and/or
industrial user discharge permit of an industrial user whenever the suspension
is necessary in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge presenting or
causing an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health or welfare of
persons, the POTW, or the environment.
         (b)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater treatment
service and/or the industrial user discharge permit shall immediately stop or
eliminate its contribution.  In the event of a user’s failure to immediately
comply voluntarily with the suspension order, the Manager shall take the steps
as deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection, to
prevent or minimize damage to the POTW, its receiving stream, or endangerment
to any individuals.  The Manager shall allow the user to recommence its
discharge when the endangerment has passed, unless the termination proceedings
set forth in division (B)(8) below are initiated against the user.
         (c)   An industrial user which is responsible, in whole or in part,
for imminent endangerment shall submit a detailed written statement describing
the causes of the harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any
future occurrence to the Manager prior to the date of the hearing described in
division (B)(7)(b) above.
      (8)   Termination of permit.  Significant industrial users proposing to
discharge into the POTW must first obtain an industrial user discharge permit
from the control authority.
         (a)   Any user who violates any one of the following conditions of
this chapter or an industrial user discharge permit or order, or any applicable
or state and federal law, is subject to termination:
            1.   Violation of industrial user discharge permit conditions;
            2.   Failure to accurately report the wastewater constituents and
characteristics of its discharge;
            3.   Failure to report significant changes in operations or
wastewater constituents and characteristics; and/or
            4.   Refusal of reasonable access to the user’s premises for the
purpose of inspection, monitoring, or sampling.
         (b)   Noncompliant industrial users will be notified of the proposed
termination of their industrial user discharge permit and be offered an
opportunity to show cause under division (B)(3) above why the proposed action
should not be taken.
(1995 Code, § 58-376)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.126  LEGAL ACTION.
   Following the entry of any order by the Authority Board regarding the
conduct of a discharger contrary to the provisions of §
52.124, the attorney for the Authority Board may, following authorization by
the Authority Board, commence an action for appropriate legal relief in the
local court.  The Authority shall also be authorized to take the actions as are
necessary to halt or prevent any discharge which presents or may present an
endangerment to persons, to the environment, or which threatens to interfere
with the operation of the POTW.
(1995 Code, § 58-377)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.127  REQUEST FOR WRITTEN INTERPRETATION.
   Any discharger shall have the right to request in writing an interpretation
or ruling by the Authority on any matter covered by this chapter and shall be
entitled to a prompt written reply.  In the event that such an inquiry deals
with matters of compliance with this chapter, for which enforcement activity
relating to alleged violation is the subject of the discharger’s request, the
request may stay all enforcement proceedings pending receipt of the aforesaid
written reply.  Stays shall not be granted where the action results in a threat
to the environment, the POTW, or to public health and safety.  Appeal of any
final judicial order entered pursuant to this chapter may be taken in
accordance with local and state law.
(1995 Code, § 58-378)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.128  UPSET.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      UPSET.  An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user.  An UPSET does not include
noncompliance caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment
facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance,
or careless or improper operation.
   (B)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action brought
for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards if the requirements
met by division (C) below are met.
   (C)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of upset shall
demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs or other
relevant evidence, that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause of the upset;
      (2)   The facility was, at the time, being operated in a prudent and
workman-like manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and/or
      (3)   The user has submitted the following information to the Authority
Manager within 24 hours of becoming aware of the upset.  (If this information
is provided orally, a written submission must be provided within five days.)
         (a)   A description of the indirect discharge and cause of the
noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times,
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
   (D)   In any enforcement proceeding, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (E)   No determination made in the course of the review of the alleged upset
shall constitute final agency action subject to judicial review.  Users will
have the opportunity for a judicial determination on any claim of upset only in
enforcement action brought for noncompliance with categorical pretreatment
standards.
   (F)   Users shall control production of all discharges subject to
categorical pretreatment standards upon reduction, loss, or failure of its
treatment system.  This requirement applies in situations where, among other
things, the primary source of power to the treatment facility is reduced, lost,
or fails.
(1995 Code, § 58-379)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.129  AFFIRMATIVE DEFENSE IN DISCHARGE OF WATER OR WASTE.
   A user shall have an armative defense in any action brought against it
alleging a violation of §
52.092, which results in pass through of pollutants or interference with POTW
operations where the user can demonstrate that:
   (A)   It did not know or have reason to know that its discharge, alone or in
conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, would cause pass
through or interference; and
   (B)   A local limit designed to prevent pass through and/or interference, as
the case may be, was developed in accordance with this chapter for each
pollutant in the user’s discharge that caused pass through or interference, and
the user was in compliance with each such local limit directly prior to and
during the pass through or interference; or
   (C)   If a local limit designed to prevent pass through and/or interference,
as the case may be, has not been developed for the pollutant(s) that caused the
pass through or interference, the user’s discharge directly prior to and during
the pass through or interference did not change substantially in nature or
constituents from the user’s prior discharge activity when the POTW was
regularly in compliance with the POTW’s NPDES permit requirements and, in the
case of interference, applicable requirements for sewage sludge use or
disposal.
(1995 Code, § 58-380)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.130  BYPASS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BYPASS.  The intentional diversion of wastestreams from any portion of a
user’s treatment facility.
      SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE.  Substantial physical damage to property, damage
to the treatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in the absence of a bypass.  SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not
mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   (B)   A user may allow any bypass to occur which does not cause pretreatment
standards or requirements to be violated, but only if it also is for essential
maintenance to assure efficient operation.  These bypasses are not subject to
the provision of divisions (C) and (D) below.
   (C)   Notice.
      (1)   If a user knows in advance of the need for a bypass, it shall
submit prior notice to the Authority Manager, if possible at least ten days
before the date of the bypass.
      (2)   A user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that
exceeds applicable pretreatment standards to the Authority Manager within 24
hours from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass.  A written submission
shall also be provided within five days of the time the user becomes aware of
the bypass.  The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates and time, and,
if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it is expected to
continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and prevent
reoccurrence of the bypass.  The Authority Manager may waive the written report
on a case-by-case basis if the oral report has been received within 24 hours.
   (D)   Prohibition of bypass.
      (1)   Bypass is prohibited, and the Authority may take enforcement action
against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   Bypass is unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal injury,
or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime.  This condition is not
satisfied if adequate back-up equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
         (c)   The user submitted notices as required under division (C) above.
      (2)   The Authority Manager may approve an anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse affects, if the Authority Manager determines that it
will meet the three conditions listed in division (D)(1) above.
(1995 Code, § 58-381)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE
§ 52.145  DESTRUCTION OF OR TAMPERING WITH EQUIPMENT; VIOLATORS SUBJECT TO
ARREST.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully, or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure, appurtenance,
or equipment which is a part of the sewage works.  Any person violating this
provision shall be subject to immediate punishment as provided herein.
(1995 Code, § 58-396)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
CONDITIONS OF SERVICE
§ 52.160  RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC AND
BUILDING SEWERS AT TIME OF ORIGINAL CONSTRUCTION.
   At the time of original construction of the public sewer, the Authority
shall install that portion of the building sewer from the public sewer to the
lot or easement line of all occupied premises.  The Authority shall maintain,
at its expense, the public sewer.  Those customers making connections at the
time of original construction of the public sewer shall install, at their
expense, that portion of the building sewer from the lot or easement line to
their premises.  The customer shall maintain, at his or her expense, the
building sewer.
(1995 Code, § 58-416)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.161  RESPONSIBILITY FOR INSTALLATION OF BUILDING SEWER AFTER ORIGINAL
CONSTRUCTION.
   Those customers making connections subsequent to the time of original
construction of the public sewer shall install, at their expense, that portion
of the building sewer from the public sewer to the lot or easement line in
addition to that portion of the building sewer from the lot or easement line to
their premises.
(1995 Code, § 58-417)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.162  CLAIMS FOR DAMAGES AGAINST THE AUTHORITY.
   The Authority shall, in no event, be held responsible for claims made
against it by reason of the breaking of any mains or service laterals, or by
reason of any other interruption of the service caused by the breaking of
machinery or stoppage for necessary repairs.  No person shall be entitled to
damages nor have any portion of a payment refunded for any interruption.
(1995 Code, § 58-418)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.163  RECEIVERS OF SERVICE SUBJECT TO INSPECTION.
   The premises receiving sanitary sewer service shall, at all reasonable
hours, be subject to inspection by duly authorized personnel of the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-419)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.164  AMENDMENT OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter may be changed or amended.
(1995 Code, § 58-420)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
VIOLATIONS
§ 52.175  SERVICE OF NOTICE; CONTENTS.
   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter, industrial
user discharge permit, orders, or compliance schedules shall be served a
written notice stating the nature of the violation.
(1995 Code, § 58-441)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.176  LIABILITY BY INDUSTRY FOR FINES LEVIED AGAINST CITY.
   Any business, industry, or person violating any of the provisions of this
chapter, industrial user discharge permit, orders, or compliance schedules,
which results in fines or penalties being levied against the Authority, shall
become liable for the fine or penalty, plus any expenses, loss, or damage
occasioned by the violation.  This fine or penalty would be levied in addition
to the fine identified in §
52.999.
(1995 Code, § 58-443)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.177  FALSIFY OR MISREPRESENT DOCUMENTS.
   Any industry having been determined to have falsified or misrepresented any
application or report required by this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and shall be subject to the penalties outlined in §
52.999.
(1995 Code, § 58-444)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)  Penalty, see §
52.999
§ 52.178  NOTIFY PUBLIC OF VIOLATORS.
   The Authority, in compliance with the federal requirements, will annually
notify the public of all industrial users who have significantly violated
applicable pretreatment standards or other pretreatment requirements.
(1995 Code, § 58-445)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
§ 52.999  PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this chapter,
industrial user discharge permit, orders, or compliance schedules shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $1,000, or by imprisonment of not more than
90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.  Each day in which any such
violation shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 58-442)  (Ord. passed 5-22-1995)
CHAPTER 53:  SEWER USE
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Definitions
   
53.02   Operation, maintenance, and management
Sewer Use Charge System
   
53.15   All premises charged for service; basis
   
53.16   Delineation of charges; billing periods
   
53.17   Enumeration of rates
Industrial Cost Recovery System
   
53.30   Industrial users subject to industrial cost recovery charge; basis
   
53.31   Industrial user defined
   
53.32   Nonindustrial users not subject to subchapter
   
53.33   Industrial cost recovery period
   
53.34   Calculation of charges; determination of share; annual payment
   
53.35   Recovery account; disposition of funds
   
53.36   Adjustment of charges; basis
Sewer Connection Charges
   
53.50   Assessment fee; lateral stub installation costs; single-family
residential use charge
Payments and Collections
   
53.65   Due date of bills; penalty and notice for delinquency; enforcement
measures
   
53.66   Mailing of bills and notices
   
53.67   Cancellation of permit applications; disconnection of service for cause
   
53.68   Discontinued service for nonpayment; deposit required; payment of
delinquent charges and penalties
   
53.69   Reestablishing service
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY.  The Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority.
   REVENUES and NET REVENUES.  As defined in Public Act 94 of 1933, § 3, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 to 141.138, as amended.
   THE SYSTEM.  All facilities of the city and all subsequent additions,
including all sewers, pumps, lift stations, and all other facilities used or
useful in the collection, treatment, and disposal of domestic, commercial, or
industrial wastes, including all appurtenances thereto and including all
extensions and improvements thereto which may hereafter be acquired.
(1995 Code, § 58-476)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.02  OPERATION, MAINTENANCE, AND MANAGEMENT.
   The operation, maintenance, alteration, repair, and management of the system
shall be under the supervision and control of the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and
Water Authority.  That Authority may employ such persons in such capacities as
it deems advisable to carry on the efficient management and operations of the
system and may make the rules, orders, and regulations as it deems advisable
and necessary to ensure the efficient management and operation of the system.
(1995 Code, § 58-491)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
SEWER USE CHARGE SYSTEM
§ 53.15  ALL PREMISES CHARGED FOR SERVICE; BASIS.
   All premises connected directly or indirectly to the sanitary sewers of the
city, except as provided in this chapter, shall be charged and shall make
payments to the Authority in amounts computed on the basis of the actual flow
where a certified meter exists or a residential user equivalent in all other
cases.
(1995 Code, § 58-511)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.16  DELINEATION OF CHARGES; BILLING PERIODS.
   The sewer user charges shall consist of a user O & M charge, billable
quarterly for residential users and monthly for commercial and industrial users
so designated by the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-512)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.17  ENUMERATION OF RATES.
   (A)   Generally.  Rates to be charged for service furnished by the system
shall be as follows.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Sewer use charges.  Sewer use charges shall be at the rate of $1
per 1,000 gallons of water used quarterly, with a minimum charge of $12 for the
first 12,000 gallons.  Premises outside city limits shall pay an additional $1
per 1,000 gallons used quarterly, with a minimum charge of $24 for the first
12,000 gallons.  The additional revenues to be allocated to capital funds of
the adjacent city.
      (2)   Connection charges.  For each direct connection to lines of the
city’s existing sewer system, as built as of 6-9-1992, there shall be charged a
fee of $2,500 per single-family residential equivalent user, for those premises
or buildings which desire sanitary sewer service and are located within the
corporate limits of the city.  For those premises located outside the corporate
limits of the city, the fee for connection to the sanitary sewer system, as it
exists on 6-10-1993, shall be $3,500 per single-family residential equivalent
user.  The fee shall be imposed by the city for the privilege of connecting to
the city’s existing sanitary sewer system, and shall be expressly for the
purpose of recovering the capital cost of installing the system.
      (3)   Indirect connection.  In order to defray the proportional share of
the cost of the necessary oversizing of trunks, pumping stations, and sewer
treatment facilities, there shall be imposed a fee, for each indirect
connection to the system at any time hereafter of $1,250 for each residential
single-family equivalent user.  An indirect connection shall be defined as a
connection to a line which is installed to serve more than one property, the
cost of which is paid for by special assessment or private funds and
constructed in accordance with all applicable state, county, and local codes,
ordinances, and regulations, and is added to the original system after its
construction.
      (4)   Equivalent user factor.  Each premises, other than a single-family
residence, shall pay either a direct or indirect connection charge multiplied
by a factor representing a ratio of sewage use by the class of premises to
normal single-family residential use, as reflected in §
50.033.
      (5)   Payment of connection charge.  Connection charges, as set forth in
this section, shall be due and payable in cash upon application for connection
to the system.
(1995 Code, § 58-513)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY SYSTEM
§ 53.30  INDUSTRIAL USERS SUBJECT TO INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY CHARGE; BASIS.
   Each industrial user that discharges to the system will be subject to an
industrial cost recovery charge equal to each industrial user’s allocable share
of the federal construction grant received after 3-1-1973, based on pollutant
loading, volume, and delivery flow rate.
(1995 Code, § 58-531)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.31  INDUSTRIAL USER DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   INDUSTRIAL USER.  As defined in Chapters
51 through
53.
(1995 Code, § 58-532)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.32  NONINDUSTRIAL USERS NOT SUBJECT TO SUBCHAPTER.
   A nonindustrial user is any user of the system that is not an industrial
user.  Nonindustrial users are not subject to the industrial cost recovery
system charges.
(1995 Code, § 58-533)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.33  INDUSTRIAL COST RECOVERY PERIOD.
   The industrial cost recovery period is the time period that is provided to
allow industrial users to pay their total industrial cost recovery charge.  The
period of time shall be equal to 30 years or the useful life of the system,
whichever is less, as determined by the Authority.
(1995 Code, § 58-534)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.34  CALCULATION OF CHARGES; DETERMINATION OF SHARE; ANNUAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   The industrial cost recovery charge for each industrial user shall be
a portion of the federal construction grant amount equal in proportion to the
industrial share of the total capacity of the system in terms of strength,
volume, and delivery flow rate.  Specifically, the industrial share of the
total capacity shall be determined by one of the three following relationships,
whichever produces the largest value:
      (1)   Industrial volume contribution per unit of time - plant design
volume per unit of time;
      (2)   Industrial BOD contribution per unit of time - plant BOD design
capacity per unit of time; and
      (3)   Industrial suspended solids contribution per unit of time - plant
suspended solids design capacity per unit of time.
   (B)   Industrial cost recovery charges shall be calculated and paid annually
in an amount equal to the total industrial cost recovery charge for any
industrial user divided by the number of years in the cost recovery period.
(1995 Code, § 58-535)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.35  RECOVERY ACCOUNT; DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Costs recovered from industrial users shall be deposited by the
authority in a separate account identified as the City of Douglas Industrial
Cost Recovery Account.
   (B)   Funds shall be distributed from the industrial cost recovery account
in accordance with U.S. Environmental Protection Agency rules and in the
following manner.
      (1)   The city shall retain 50% of the total recovered amount.  The
remainder, together with any interest earned thereon, shall be returned to the
U.S. treasury on an annual basis.
      (2)   Eighty percent of the retained amount, together with interest
earned thereon, shall be used solely for the eligible costs of expansion or
reconstruction of the treatment works.  The remainder of the retained amount
may be used as the city sees fit.
      (3)   Pending use, the city shall invest the retained amounts for
expansion and reconstruction in:
         (a)   Obligations of the U.S. government;
         (b)   Obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the U.S.
government or any agency thereof; or
         (c)   Shall deposit the amounts in accounts fully collateralized by
obligations of the U.S. government or by obligations fully guaranteed as to
principal and interest by the U.S. government or any agency thereof.
(1995 Code, § 58-536)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.36  ADJUSTMENT OF CHARGES; BASIS.
   The city shall have the right to adjust the industrial cost recovery charges
to any industrial user that makes a significant change in the volume, strength,
or delivery flow rate.  Industrial users will only be required to pay for those
years of the cost recovery period that they use the system and only at an
annual rate in proportion to the length of the entire recovery period.
(1995 Code, § 58-537)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
SEWER CONNECTION CHARGES
§ 53.50  ASSESSMENT FEE; LATERAL STUB INSTALLATION COSTS; SINGLE-FAMILY
RESIDENTIAL USE CHARGE.
   All premises connected directly or indirectly to the sanitary sewers of the
city, and located on land included within the boundaries of a sanitary sewer
special assessment district, shall be charged an assessment fee in accordance
with the provisions of the special assessment district.  In addition, where no
lateral stub exists, the actual cost of the installation of the stub, along
with the service lateral, will be borne entirely by the property owner.  Where
a sewer already exists, each person desiring to tap a single-family residential
premises into the system shall pay in cash at the time of application for a tap
permit a charge for the privilege of using the facilities and receiving the
service of the system.  The amount of the charge for premises other than
single-family residential shall be determined by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 58-561)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
PAYMENTS AND COLLECTIONS
§ 53.65  DUE DATE OF BILLS; PENALTY AND NOTICE FOR DELINQUENCY; ENFORCEMENT
MEASURES.
   Bills for sewage disposal service are due and payable at the business office
of the Authority or to any designated agent on their date of issue and, if not
paid by the thirtieth day thereafter, shall be deemed delinquent and shall be
subject to a penalty of 5% of the bill.  Bills shall be dated and mailed
quarterly and shall cover one-quarter’s (three-months’) service in advance.  If
a bill is not paid within 30 days after its date of issuance, the Authority
shall serve upon the customer a written notice of delinquency; and if it is not
paid within 60 days after the date of issuance, the Authority may discontinue
sewer service to the premises and take any other measures as are permitted by
state law.
(1995 Code, § 58-576)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.66  MAILING OF BILLS AND NOTICES.
   All bills and notices relating to the conduct of the business of the
Authority and of the sewage works will be mailed to the customer at the address
listed on the application for the connection permit, unless a change of address
has been filed in writing at the business office of the Authority.  It shall
not otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice, nor will the
customer be excused from nonpayment of a bill or from any performance required
in the notice.
(1995 Code, § 58-577)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.67  CANCELLATION OF PERMIT APPLICATIONS; DISCONNECTION OF SERVICE FOR
CAUSE.
   Applications for connection permits may be cancelled and/or sewer service
disconnected by the Authority for any violation of any rule, regulation, or
condition of service, and especially for any of the following reasons:
   (A)   Misrepresentation in the permit application as to the property or
residential equivalents to be serviced by the sewage works;
   (B)   Nonpayment of bills; and/or
   (C)   Improper or imperfect service pipes and fixtures or failure to keep
the same in a suitable state of repair.
(1995 Code, § 58-578)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.68  DISCONTINUED SERVICE FOR NONPAYMENT; DEPOSIT REQUIRED; PAYMENT OF
DELINQUENT CHARGES AND PENALTIES.
   Where the sewer service supplied to a customer has been discontinued for
nonpayment of a delinquent bill, the Authority reserves the right to request a
nominal sum be placed on deposit with the Authority for the purpose of
establishing or maintaining any customer’s credit.  Service shall not be
reestablished until all delinquent charges and penalties and a turn-charge to
be specified by the City Council have been paid.  Further, the charges and
penalties may be recovered by the city by court action.
(1995 Code, § 58-579)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
§ 53.69  REESTABLISHING SERVICE.
   The Authority shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate interruptions
of service and, when the interruptions occur, will endeavor to reestablish
service with the shortest possible delay.  Whenever service is interrupted for
the purpose of working on the sewage works, all customers affected by the
interruption will be notified in advance whenever it is possible to do so.
(1995 Code, § 58-580)  (Ord. 60, passed 4-2-1979)
CHAPTER 54:  GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
54.01   Purpose and intent
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Disposal of solid waste generally
   
54.04   Accumulation of solid waste
   
54.05   Unauthorized dumping and littering
   
54.06   Pre-collection requirements; separation; containers
   
54.07   Receptacles
   
54.08   Contractor registration
   
54.09   Contracts
   
54.10   Transportation of waste materials
   
54.11   Fees
   
54.12   Prohibited waste
   
54.13   Enforcement
   
54.14   Rules and regulations
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of the City Council that this chapter be liberally
construed for the purpose of providing sanitary and satisfactory methods of
preparation, collection and disposal of domestic solid waste and materials, as
well as the maintenance of public and private property in a clean, orderly and
sanitary condition, for the health, safety and welfare of the city, and to
provide for a reasonable system of user fees. Upon approval of the City
Council, the City Manager is authorized to make such rules and regulations as
appear to be necessary from time to time to carry out the intent of this
chapter; provided, however, that such rules are not in direct conflict with
city ordinances or state law.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BULK REFUSE.  Appliances, furniture and other bulky refuse items, excluding
construction and demolition debris, which cannot readily be placed in an
approved container.
   COMMERCIAL ESTABLISHMENT.  Property classified by the city's zoning
ordinance as a nonindustrial, business or residential property with more than
four units.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS.  Waste from buildings, driveways or other construction,
alteration or repair, including dirt from excavations.
   CONTRACTOR.  A person engaged in the business of collecting, transporting,
delivering or disposing of solid waste, bulk refuse, commercial or construction
debris, garbage, hazardous or industrial solid waste, and is:
      (1)   A licensed contractor under §
54.08; or
      (2)   A designated collector under §
54.09.
   DEMOLITION DEBRIS.  Refuse incidental to the demolition of buildings,
structures or appurtenances on a premises.
   DISCARDED HOUSEHOLD DEBRIS. Domestic refuse of a quantity that exceeds the
amount generated by routine housekeeping, including for example, unsold garage
sale items and items discarded in the process of vacating a premises. DISCARDED
HOUSEHOLD DEBRIS does not include bulk refuse for which removal arrangements
have been made.
   DOMESTIC SOLID WASTE.  The waste materials resulting from the usual routine
of housekeeping, including garbage and rubbish, and excluding hazardous waste,
construction and demolition debris, industrial solid waste and medical waste.
   GARBAGE.  All animals, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetable waste incidental to
the use, preparation and storage of food for human consumption. This term does
not include food processing wastes from canneries, slaughterhouses and
packinghouses or hazardous waste.
   GREASE INCEPTOR WASTE.  Grease and other wastes required to be collected by
inceptors in accordance with the sewer regulations found in of the city code.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE.  Hazardous waste as defined in Part 111 of the Michigan
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§
324.11101 et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
   INDUSTRIAL SOLID WASTE.  All solid waste materials resulting from industrial
or manufacturing operations or process of every nature, including organic
wastes from canneries, slaughterhouses, packinghouses and other industrial food
processing operations. This term includes refuse material resulting from
cleaning up in connection with such industrial or manufacturing operations, and
refuse material resulting from offices, stores, lunchrooms, warehouses or other
operations established in conjunction with such industrial or manufacturing
operations, and excludes hazardous waste.
   MEDICAL WASTE.  Any material identified by state or federal regulation as
medical, bio-hazardous or pathological waste, and subject to special handling
and disposal regulations.
   MULTIPLE RESIDENTIAL.  Residential establishments consisting of five or more
residential units.
   NON-PORTABLE RECEPTACLE.  A stationary dumpster of a type that can be
mechanically hoisted by a refuse collection vehicle, and with specifications
established and approved by the city and the necessities of health and safety.
NON-PORTABLE RECEPTACLES shall be of all-weather material of a sufficient size
and capacity to eliminate overflowing, and secured to prevent unauthorized
access.
   PARTICIPATING UNIT. Any premises receiving services from the designated
collector as provided for in §
54.09.
   PERSON IN CHARGE.  The owner, proprietor, occupant or agent in charge of any
premises, whether an individual, partnership, corporation or business entity.
   PREMISES.  A parcel of land within the city, which includes rights-of-way or
legal easements, separated from adjacent parcels of land by legal description.
   RECYCLABLE MATERIALS. Materials separated from solid waste for the express
purpose of preparation for and delivery to a secondary market or other use. For
purposes of this chapter, RECYCLABLE MATERIALS shall, at a minimum, include
plastic bottles, polystyrene, newsprint, container glass, tin/steel cans,
aluminum, aerosol cans, corrugated cardboard boxes, magazines and junk mail.
Additional RECYCLABLE MATERIALS may be collected, provided they are properly
collected, transported and recycled in accordance with all applicable laws and
regulations.
   REFUSE.  The same as SOLID WASTE.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT.  A building, or portion thereof, designated for occupancy
exclusively for residential purposes, and having cooking facilities and
separate sanitary facilities, not including a licensed nursing home.
   RUBBISH. The miscellaneous waste materials resulting from housekeeping and
ordinary mercantile enterprises, including materials such as packing boxes,
cartons, excelsior, paper, ashes, cinders, glass, metal, plastic and rubber,
and excluding hazardous waste.
   SOLID WASTE.  Garbage and rubbish. This term does not include human body
waste, liquid waste, materials that have been separated either at the source or
at a processing site for the purpose of reuse, recycling or composting, or any
material that has been identified by state or federal regulation to be
unsuitable for disposal in a Type II sanitary landfill or its state-designated
equivalent.
   TYPE II SANITARY LANDFILL. As defined in Part 115 of Public Act No. 451 of
1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 to 324.90106, as amended from time to time, or a
state equivalent designation.
   YARD WASTE.  Grass clippings, brush trimmings and branches under six inches.
YARD WASTE does not include leaves.
   YARD WASTE COLLECTION.  The YARD WASTE COLLECTION service provided by a
licensed contractor or designated collector for a designated number of months
each year, for example, April 1 to November 30.
   YARD WASTE CONTAINER. A container specifically identified by the city as
suitable for the collection and disposal of yard waste.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.03 DISPOSAL OF SOLID WASTE GENERALLY.
   A person shall dispose of his solid waste and segregate items as provided in
this chapter, or as specified by subsequent resolution of the City Council,
from all other solid waste produced, and shall separately bundle or contain
such items for proper disposal and collection, in accordance with the
provisions set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.04  ACCUMULATION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Accumulation of refuse or garbage.  No owner and/or person in control
of a residential unit, commercial establishment or industrial facility shall
permit the accumulation of refuse, garbage or solid waste upon his or her
premises for a period that would pose a health hazard, subject adjacent
property occupants to unreasonably offensive odors or become a public nuisance.
The accumulation of refuse, garbage or solid waste for a period in excess of
seven days shall be prima facie evidence of posing a health hazard and creating
a public nuisance. The terms of a lease shall not excuse either the property
owner or the tenant from complying with the requirements of this section.
   (B)   Composting storage.  Leaves, yard waste and vegetable waste may be
stored for composting purposes as long as they do not harbor rodents, subject
adjacent property owners to an unreasonably offensive odor, or become a public
nuisance, provided compost is stored in the rear yard and located not closer
than ten feet from the property line.
   (C)   Alternate means of disposal.  Residential units that are not
participating units are required to provide alternative means of disposing of
solid waste. Only a licensed contractor can collect and transport domestic
solid waste or recyclable materials in the city.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.05  UNAUTHORIZED DUMPING AND LITTERING.
   Except as permitted by the city's brush and leaf pickup policy, it shall be
unlawful for any person to throw or deposit any refuse upon or into any street,
right-of-way, alley or waterway. It is also unlawful to place or permit the
placement of any portable or non-portable container upon another's property,
public or private, without the permission of the owner, proprietor, occupant or
agent in charge of such property. Even with such permission, portable
containers not belonging to a participating unit shall not be placed or
permitted upon the property of a participating unit for disposal by the
designated collector without the designated collector's express consent.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.06  PRE-COLLECTION REQUIREMENTS; SEPARATION; CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Pre-collection; separation and container regulation. All persons
within the city who place the following items for disposal, removal or
collection shall do so in strict conformity with the following regulations:
      (1)   Solid waste.  Solid waste shall be separated and contained in an
approved container.
      (2)   Yard waste.  Yard waste shall be separated as required by the city
and contained in an approved container.
      (3)   Bulk refuse.  All bulk refuse shall be separated and must be
removed using an approved method. Approved methods of removal shall be limited
to:
         (a)   Arrangements with the contractor; or
         (b)   Private arrangements to transfer the bulk refuse to an
appropriate disposal site or facility.
      (4)   Recyclable material.  All recyclable material shall be separated
and contained in a recycling container furnished by the contractor.
      (5)   Industrial solid waste.  All industrial solid waste shall be
collected by collectors privately contracted for by the industrial user, and
shall otherwise comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Discarded household, construction and demolition debris.  All
discarded household, construction and demolition debris shall be separated and
collected by contractors privately contracted for by the person who produced
the waste, and shall otherwise comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Hazardous waste. All hazardous waste shall be separated and
collected by collectors privately contracted for by the person who produced/the
waste, and shall otherwise comply with the provisions of this chapter.
      (8)   Medical waste.  All medical waste shall be separated and disposed
of in accordance with all applicable state and federal regulations, shall be
collected by contractors privately contracted for by the person who produced
the waste, and shall otherwise comply with the provisions of this section.
      (9)   Grease inceptor waste.  All grease inceptor waste shall be
separated and disposed of in accordance with all applicable state and federal
regulations, shall be collected by contractors privately contracted for by the
person who produced the waste, and shall otherwise comply with the provisions
of this section.
   (B)   Use of unapproved containers.  Items placed in an unapproved container
will not be picked up, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.07  RECEPTACLES.
   (A)   Maintenance.  The owner, person in charge, or occupant of a building,
house or structure where domestic solid waste accumulates shall maintain proper
refuse receptacles as defined in this chapter, and shall place, or cause to be
placed, in such receptacles all domestic solid waste accumulating on the
premises, provided that bulk refuse, recyclable materials and yard waste may be
stored in a condition properly prepared for collection as specified in this
chapter.
   (B)   Residential.  The person in charge of every residential building
having four or less residential units shall maintain and keep clean proper
receptacles to house domestic waste.
   (C)   Commercial, industrial and multiple residential.  The person in charge
of a building consisting of five or more residential units, and every building
used as a commercial or industrial business, shall provide and keep clean and
in place, proper receptacles of a portable type as defined in this chapter,
provided that if the city determines that portable receptacles are not
practical for a multiple dwelling, commercial or industrial business, it may
authorize the use of non-portable receptacles as defined in this chapter.
   (D)   Portable receptacles.  Portable receptacles for domestic sold waste
shall be of metal, fiberglass, plastic or other substantial construction
approved by the city. Such receptacles shall have handles and tight-fitting
covers, and shall not exceed 96 gallons each in capacity.
   (E)   Non-portable receptacles.  It shall be the responsibility of the
property owner or agent being serviced to maintain the non-portable receptacle
area free of odors, scattered or overflowing debris and all other nuisances.
All garbage shall be properly wrapped or placed within a closed plastic bag
before it is placed in a non-portable receptacle. The city may at any time
order the relocation or screening of a dumpster if it is deemed to be
interfering with the health, safety or well being of others.
   (F)   Location.  All non-portable receptacles shall be placed and collected
in a location designated by the city. Such receptacles shall be located so that
the permitted collectors will not have to trespass on the private property of
another in order to pick up such receptacles. In no event shall non-portable
receptacles be placed in or upon public property, easements or public rights-
of-way. All portable receptacles shall be stored upon the premises, and shall
not be set out for collection prior to 12:00 p.m. proceeding the day of
collection, and after the receptacles are emptied they shall be returned to
their place of storage on the same day collections are made. No empty portable
receptacles shall be stored on city property, including the public right-of-
way, sidewalks and streets.
   (G)   Nonconforming receptacles.  Receptacles that are badly broken or
otherwise fail to meet the requirements of this chapter may be classified as
rubbish and, after due notice to the owner and contractor/collector, may be
ordered by the city to be collected as rubbish by the contractor/collector.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.08  CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION.
   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting,
delivering or disposing of solid waste, bulk refuse, commercial or construction
debris, garbage, hazardous or industrial solid waste in the city without first
obtaining a business license from the city as provided for in §
110.02 of the city code.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.09  CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Grant of exclusive contract.  The city may by resolution grant an
exclusive, revocable contract to a designated collector, giving it the right,
power and authority to collect domestic and/or commercial solid waste,
recyclable materials, bulk refuse and yard waste as described herein within the
city. The designated collector shall receive no compensation from the city, but
shall be permitted to enter into private contracts for the collection of solid
domestic waste and other services authorized herein.
   (B)   Intergovernmental agreement.  The city may by resolution enter in to
an intergovernmental agreement with one or more units of local government for
the purpose of designating a collector and giving it the right, power and
authority to collect domestic solid waste, recyclable materials, bulk refuse
and yard waste as described herein within the city.
   (C)   Renewal of contract.  Any agreement the city enters into with the
designated collector, or renewal extension or amendment thereto, is subject to
revocation at the will of the City Council.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.10  TRANSPORTATION OF WASTE MATERIALS.
   (A)   Mode of transportation.  The transportation of all garbage, offal or
rubbish or other waste materials through the streets, alleys or thoroughfares
of the city shall be conducted in a manner that does not create a nuisance. It
shall be unlawful for any person to transport, cart, carry or convey through or
over any of the streets, alleys or public places of the city any unwanted
garbage, refuse or food containers without the approval of the city. It shall
be unlawful for any person to transport or otherwise convey through or over any
of the street or public places of the city any rubbish or other waste material,
except under written regulations or with the written consent of the city,
except rubbish or waste material accumulating on property owned or controlled
by him or her, and then only by approved methods of conveyance.
   (B)   Conveyance vehicles.  Vehicles conveying waste must be of such
construction and operated in such a manner that the contents shall not spill
upon the public right-of-way or public property. Such vehicles shall be
watertight and covered.
   (C)   Collection schedule.  All solid waste contractors who maintain a
regular schedule for collection activities within the city shall file that
schedule with the City Clerk.
   (D)   Collection times.  All solid waste contractors shall schedule their
collection activities so that they occur within the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m. local time, Monday through Saturday.
   (E)   Collection days.  The City Council may establish by category of waste
being collected the day or days of the week that solid waste contractors may
operate within the city.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.11  FEES.
   Charges for the collection and disposal of domestic solid waste and
materials shall be billed by the designated collector directly to the
residential unit or participating unit owner or occupant at a rate outlined in
the collector's contract with the city.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.12  PROHIBITED WASTE.
   (A)   Prohibited waste.  It shall be unlawful for any person to place any
material in a container or receptacle that might endanger the collection
personnel, or to deposit or deliver to a disposal site any hazardous material,
waste material that would be detrimental to the normal operation of collection,
incineration, recycling or disposal, such as gaseous, solid or liquid poison,
dead animals, ammunition, explosives, flammable liquid, un-drained garbage of a
liquid or semi-liquid nature, whether in containers or not, concrete, dirt,
automobile or equipment parts, or any material that possesses heat sufficient
to ignite any other collected materials. No motor vehicles shall be dumped or
abandoned at any disposal site.
   (B)   Prohibited placement.  It shall be unlawful for any person to place
yard waste, bulk refuse, hazardous waste or other waste specifically required
to be separated from solid waste by this chapter, in a refuse container for the
purpose of refuse collection, removal or disposal, or not otherwise dispose of
such item, except in conformance with the provisions of this section.
   (C)   Unauthorized use. No person shall dump or place garbage, rubbish or
refuse in a dumpster, bin or other container located on the property of another
person leased, owned or maintained by that person without the authorized
permission of that person.  All violators will be prosecuted to the fullest
extent allowed by law and/or provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.13  ENFORCEMENT.
   Enforcement of this chapter shall be the responsibility of the City Manager
or his or her designee. The city is authorized and directed to establish and
promulgate reasonable regulations as to the manner, days and times for the
collection of waste or recyclable materials. The City Council may, by majority
vote, change, modify, repeal or amend any portion of this chapter. Designated
city officials charged with the enforcement of this chapter may be authorized
to issue citations or notices for violations relative to any part of this
chapter.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.14  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The city may promulgate rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
§ 54.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, trust, partnership or other legal
entity that violates or refuses to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall be punished by
a civil fine in accordance with §§
34.01 through
34.07 of this code.
   (B)   Each day that a violation of this chapter continues to exist shall
constitute a distinct and separate offense, and shall make the violator liable
for the imposition of fines for each day.
   (C)   Any violation of the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a
nuisance per se, and the foregoing penalties shall be in addition to the
abatement of the violating condition and injunctive or other relief that may be
ordered by the court as prescribed by the laws of the State of Michigan for the
abatement of a nuisance designated as a municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 04-2012, passed 9-4-2012)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
      
71.   BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES
      
72.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 70:  STOPPING, STANDING, AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
70.01   Parking during early morning hours
   
70.02   Applicability of § 70.01
   
70.03   Exceptions to § 70.01
   
70.04   Early morning parking during snowfall conditions
Storage of Dismantled or Inoperable Motor Vehicles
   
70.15   Scope
   
70.16   Definitions
   
70.17   Notice
   
70.18   Violations
Parking Violations Bureau
   
70.30   Established; supervision and control
   
70.31   Administration
   
70.32   Limitations on disposition of violations
   
70.33   Settlement of violations
   
70.34   Issuance of traffic ticket or notice of violation deemed allegation;
time limit for response
   
70.35   Schedule of offenses
   
70.36   Impoundment
Parking and Outdoor Storage of Commercial, Utility, and
Recreational Vehicles and Equipment
   
70.50   Definitions
   
70.51   General requirements
   
70.52   Requirements for recreational vehicles
   
70.53   Violations
   
70.54   Right of entry and inspection
   
70.55   Exemption
   
70.56   Vehicles in use prior to effective date
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.01  PARKING DURING EARLY MORNING HOURS.
   It shall be unlawful to park or leave standing unattended any vehicle on the
streets of the city between the curblines or traveled portion thereof, at any
time between the hours of 3:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m., Eastern Standard Time;
provided, however, that the prohibition shall not be applicable during the
period from June 1 to September 15, inclusive, except as to the streets or
portions thereof on which parking is expressly prohibited by posted official
signs on the streets or portions thereof.
(1995 Code, § 54-56)  (Ord. 50, passed 6-4-1972)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.02  APPLICABILITY OF § 70.01.
   The prohibition contained in §
70.01 shall not be applicable on Sundays or legal holidays, except as to
parking in streets or parts thereof in which parking is expressly prohibited by
posted official signs on the streets; and except as prohibited by §
70.03.
(1995 Code, § 54-57)  (Ord. 50, passed 6-4-1972)
§ 70.03  EXCEPTIONS TO § 70.01.
   The City Council may, in hardship cases, authorize parking during the
periods set forth in §
70.01, when it shall appear that off-street parking on premises fronting on the
streets is not reasonably available on the premises.  The permits shall
designate the parking area and vehicles, and in no event shall such parking
continue after elimination of the hardship, nor shall the permit authorize
parking contrary to the provisions of §
70.04.
(1995 Code, § 54-58)  (Ord. 50, passed 6-4-1972)
§ 70.04  EARLY MORNING PARKING DURING SNOWFALL CONDITIONS.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of §§
70.01,
70.02, and
70.03, it shall be unlawful to park or leave standing unattended any vehicle
between the curblines of any street or upon the traveled portion of any street
in the city during the hours from 3:00 a.m. to 7:00 a.m., Eastern Standard
Time, on any calendar day immediately following a calendar day in which two
inches or more of snow has fallen in the city by 6:00 p.m., Eastern Standard
Time, of the day; provided, however, that the prohibition as contained in this
section shall not be applicable to areas from which snowfall has been removed
by the City Street Department.
(1995 Code, § 54-59)  (Ord. 50, passed 6-4-1972)  Penalty, see §
10.99
STORAGE OF DISMANTLED OR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 70.15  SCOPE.
   (A)   No person shall park, store, or permit, or suffer to be parked or
stored, any dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable motor vehicle upon
any private premises within the city for a period of time in excess of ten days
after receiving notice as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   This subchapter shall apply to the registered owner of such a vehicle
and to the owner and lessee of the premises whereon such a vehicle shall be
parked or stored.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not apply to any vehicle parked or stored within
a wholly enclosed garage or other wholly enclosed structure.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not apply to the owner or lessee of any premises
who is not the registered owner of the vehicle, and who shall notify the
enforcing officer in writing that such a vehicle is on the premises without the
consent of the owner or lessee, and shall authorize the enforcing officer to
remove the vehicle pursuant to Public Act 99 of 1964, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.252
et seq., as amended.
(1995 Code, § 54-76)  (Ord. 42, passed 3-6-1967)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.16  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISMANTLED OR PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle from
which some parts, which are ordinarily components of the motor vehicle, have
been removed or are missing.
   ENFORCING OFFICER.  The City Chief of Police, the City Clerk, or the
authorized representative of either.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any motor vehicle which, by reason of
dismantling, disrepair, or other cause whatsoever, is incapable of being
propelled under its own power.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any wheeled vehicle which is self-propelled, or is intended
to be self-propelled.
(1995 Code, § 54-77)  (Ord. 42, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 70.17  NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice as required in this subchapter shall be given by the enforcing
officer, in writing, clearly notifying the vehicle owner, premises owner, and
premises lessee, of the identity and location of the vehicle, and further
notifying the person that failure to comply with this subchapter within ten
days of receipt of the notice shall constitute a misdemeanor.
   (B)   The notice shall be served by personal service or by certified mail,
and, if served by certified mail, it shall be addressed as follows:
      (1)   In the case of the vehicle owner, to the last known address of the
owner, as shown by the records of the office of the Secretary of State of the
state of registration of the vehicle;
      (2)   In the case of a property owner, to the last known address of the
owner, taken from the tax records of the city; and
      (3)   In the case of a premises lessee, to the mailing address of the
premises.
   (C)   Mailed notice, as set forth in this section, shall be effective notice
if actually received by the addressee, whether or not the notice is addressed
as set forth in division (B) above.
(1995 Code, § 54-78)  (Ord. 42, passed 3-6-1967)
§ 70.18  VIOLATIONS.
   A person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the
civil fines set forth in the schedule of civil fines in §
34.06 and any other relief that may be imposed by the court.  Each act of
violation and each day upon which the violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation.
(1995 Code, § 54-79)  (Ord. 42, passed 3-6-1967; Am. Ord. 154, passed 8-10-
1998)  Penalty, see §
10.99
PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
§ 70.30  ESTABLISHED; SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   Pursuant to § 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act (Public Act 154 of 1968,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8101 et seq., a Parking Violations Bureau, for the
purpose of handling alleged parking violations within the city, is hereby
established.  The Parking Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and
control of the Chief of Police.
(1995 Code, § 54-101)  (Ord. 51, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 70.31  ADMINISTRATION.
   The Chief of Police shall, subject to the approval of the City Council,
establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau, appoint
qualified city employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation thereof.
(1995 Code, § 54-102)  (Ord. 51, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 70.32  LIMITATIONS ON DISPOSITION OF VIOLATIONS.
   No violation not scheduled in §
70.35 shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau.  The fact that a
particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged violator to the
disposition of the violation at the Bureau, and, in any case, the person in
charge of the Bureau may refuse to dispose of the violation, in which case any
person having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint before any
court having jurisdiction of the offense as provided by law.
(1995 Code, § 54-103)  (Ord. 51, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 70.33  SETTLEMENT OF VIOLATIONS.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator.  No penalty for any violation shall
be accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense, and in no
case shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to the alleged
violation.  No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at
the Parking Violations Bureau, and all persons shall be entitled to have any
such violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire.  The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges, and protection accorded to him or her by law.
(1995 Code, § 54-104)  (Ord. 51, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 70.34  ISSUANCE OF TRAFFIC TICKET OR NOTICE OF VIOLATION DEEMED ALLEGATION;
TIME LIMIT FOR RESPONSE.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a police officer
of the city shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation.  The traffic
ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in which the
person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking Violations
Bureau.  It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours during
which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled, or the offense
for which the ticket was issued, and advise that a warrant for the arrest of
the person to whom the ticket was issued will be sought if the person fails to
respond within the time limit.
(1995 Code, § 54-105)  (Ord. 51, passed 6-4-1973)
§ 70.35  SCHEDULE OF OFFENSES.
    The following is a schedule of parking violations:
Offense Penalty
Offense                                                                      Penalty
Parking too far from curb  M.C.L.A. § 257.675                              $25.00
Angle parking violations  M.C.L.A. § 257.675                               $25.00
Obstructing traffic  M.C.L.A. § 257.676b / § 257.252d                     $25.00
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary):
  (1) On sidewalks  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                                    $25.00
  (2) In front of drive  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                               $25.00
  (3) Within intersection  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                             $25.00
  (4) Within 15 feet of hydrant  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                       $25.00
  (5) Within 20 feet of crosswalk, not a crosswalk within 15 feet of        $25.00
intersection  M.C.L.A. § 257.674
  (6) Within 30 feet of street side traffic sign or signal  M.C.L.A. §    $25.00
257.674
  (7) Double parking/on the roadway side of a vehicle parked at the edge of $25.00
roadway M.C.L.A.      § 257.674
  (8) On bridge or viaduct or within tunnel  M.C.L.A. § 257.674           $25.00
  (9) Within 200 feet of accident with police in attendance  M.C.L.A. §   $25.00
257.674
  (10) Blocking emergency exit  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                        $25.00
  (11) Blocking fire escape  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                           $25.00
  (12) Unauthorized parking in a parking space which is reserved for        $100.00
handicap parking  M.C.L.A.          § 257.252d
  (13) In prohibited zone (signs required)  M.C.L.A. § 257.674            $25.00
  (14) In alley  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                                       $25.00
  (15) Displaying vehicle for sale                                          $25.00
  (16) Working on or repairing vehicle                                      $25.00
  (17) Displaying advertising                                               $25.00
  (18) Selling merchandise                                                  $25.00
  (19) Storage over 48 hours  M.C.L.A. § 257.252d                         $25.00
  (20) Wrong side boulevard roadway  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                   $25.00
Prohibited parking (signs unnecessary):
  (21) Loading zone violation  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                         $25.00
  (22) Bus, parking other than bus stop  M.C.L.A. § 257.674               $25.00
  (23) Taxicab, parking other than cabstand  M.C.L.A. § 257.674           $25.00
  (24) Bicycle parking violations  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                     $25.00
  (25) Exceeding 10-minute parking (signs necessary)  M.C.L.A. § 257.674  $25.00
  (26) Overnight parking at Union Street Boat Launch without launch permit $25.00
M.C.L.A. § 257.674
  (27) Parking without payment at Schultz Park  M.C.L.A. § 257.674        $25.00
  (28) Abandoned vehicle  M.C.L.A. § 257.252d                             $25.00
  (29) Disabled vehicle, failure to move  M.C.L.A. § 257.252d             $25.00
  (30) Keys in vehicle or motor running  M.C.L.A. § 257.252d              $25.00
  (31) All night parking 3:00 a.m. to 7:a.m.  M.C.L.A. § 257.674          $25.00
  (32) Tow away zone  M.C.L.A § 257.252d                                  $25.00
  (33) Fire lane  M.C.L.A. § 257.674                                      $25.00
  (34) Within 500 feet of a fire at which fire apparatus is in attendance  $25.00
M.C.L.A. § 257.674
  (35) Charging station without an active vehicle charge  M.C.L.A. § 257.6$25.00
  (36) Blocking/obstructing non-motorized path/trail  M.C.L.A. § 257.674  $25.00
NOTES TO TABLE:
These fines may be changed by resolution of the City Council from time to time.
 
(1995 Code, § 54-106)  (Ord. 104-A, passed 8-5-1991; Am. Ord. 104-B, passed 5-
8-1995; Am. Ord. 104-C, passed 8-14-1995; Am. Ord. 04-2020, passed 4-6-2020)
§ 70.36  IMPOUNDMENT.
   (A)   The city may provide for the immediate removal of a vehicle from
public or private property to a place of safe-keeping at the expense of the
last titled owner of the vehicle in any of the following circumstances:
      (1)   A vehicle with six or more unpaid traffic tickets or parking
violation notices under this chapter, the Uniform Traffic Code, or the Michigan
Vehicle Code;
      (2)   If removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because of
fire, flood, storm, snow, natural or manmade disaster, or another emergency;
and
      (3)   In any other circumstance in which impoundment is authorized under
the Uniform Traffic Code or the Michigan Vehicle Code, including but not
limited to Section 252d.
   (B)   Whenever a vehicle has been towed and impounded in accordance with
this section, the owner or operator thereof shall pay to the towing contractor
of the city all costs and expenses by reason of the institution of those steps
necessary for removal of the vehicle. However, the bond or deposit required by
the city or the towing contractor for the owner or operator to recover
possession of the vehicle shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted under
the Michigan Vehicle Code, including but not limited to Section 606.
   (C)   All fine(s) shall be paid as set forth in §
70.35. All costs of impoundment shall be paid directly to the towing contractor
of the city.
(Ord. 04-2020, passed 4-6-2020)
PARKING AND OUTDOOR STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL, UTILITY, AND
RECREATIONAL VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT
§ 70.50  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL, UTILITY, AND RECREATIONAL VEHICLE (CURV).  Any trailer, boat,
travel trailer, motor home, camper, farm tractor, lawn tractor, bulldozer,
semi-trailer, earth carrier, crane, jet ski, commercial vehicle, snowmobile, or
other vehicle of similar size, regardless of its intended purpose and use.
   FRONT YARD.  The open and unoccupied space between the front line of the
building, excluding the steps and unenclosed porches, and the street line, and
extending for the full width of a lot.  FRONT YARD shall be measured to the
front property line less any area taken for public right-of-way purposes.  On a
corner lot, the lot shall have two front yards along any public or private
street or right-of-way.
   IMPOUNDMENT.  Removal of a vehicle to a storage facility by an officer or
other person authorized by the City of the Village of Douglas.
   INOPERABLE CURV.  Any CURV vehicle which by reason of dismantling,
disrepair, or other causes whatsoever is incapable of being propelled or moved
under its own power, or which does not display or have affixed thereto current
license plates or tabs as required by the state for the purpose of operating
the vehicle upon public roads or streets.
   LOT.  Has the same meaning as lot in § 2.12 of the City of the Village of
Douglas Zoning Ordinance.
   PARK or PARKING.  Halting an occupied or unoccupied vehicle, other than
temporarily, for the purpose of, and while engaging in, loading or unloading of
contents, merchandise, or passengers.
   REAR YARD.  A space unoccupied, except by an accessory building or use as
permitted by this subchapter, extending for the full width of the lot between
any building other than a building of accessory use and the rear lot line.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.  Any vehicle used, or so constructed as to permit its
being used, as a dwelling or sleeping place, which is or may be mounted on
wheels, and is or may be propelled either by its own power of by another
vehicle to which it may be attached.
   SNOWMOBILE.  Any motorized vehicle designed for travel primarily on snow or
ice, whether steered by wheels, skis, or runners, including motorized vehicles
known as all-terrain vehicles.
   STORAGE.  Parking a vehicle continuously upon any lot in the same or an
approximately similar location for more than ten days.
(Ord. 169, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 70.51  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   CURVs may be parked in the R-1 Residential District, R-2 Residential
District, R-3 Neighborhood Conservation District, R-4 Harbor Residential
District, R-5 Multiple Family District, and R-6 Mobile Home Park District,
subject to the requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   The parking, storage, loading, and unloading of a CURV shall comply
with all of the following requirements of this division (B).
      (1)   CURVs shall be parked or stored within the rear yard of a lot.
      (2)   CURVs shall be parked at least three feet from the closest lot
line.
      (3)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, CURVs may be
parked anywhere on a lot solely for the purpose of loading and unloading up to
a period of 48 consecutive hours.
      (4)   CURVS shall not be parked closer than 20 feet to the shoreline. 
Notwithstanding, a jet ski and boat may be parked adjacent to a dock or within
20 feet of the shoreline.
      (5)   All vehicles which are CURVs shall carry a current license plate
and/or registration.
      (6)   Notwithstanding divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above, all inoperable
CURVs shall be parked inside a fully enclosed structure.
      (7)   Any repairs, maintenance, or improvements performed on a CURV that
exceeds a period of 48 consecutive hours or requires a CURV to be inoperable in
excess of that time shall be performed within a fully enclosed structure.
      (8)   No CURV shall be used for living or housekeeping purposes on a lot,
nor be connected to water or sanitary facilities.
      (9)   Only the owner of record or an occupant of a lot who has registered
or licensed a CURV may park the CURV on that lot.
      (10)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (B), vehicles
intended and/or used for a commercial purpose and weighing in excess of 2,000
pounds shall not be parked on any residentially zoned lot, except for the
purpose of loading, delivering, or unloading of materials, goods, or
merchandise.  This shall not prohibit the driving of the vehicle to and from a
residence.
(Ord. 169, passed 7-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.52  REQUIREMENTS FOR RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park, or cause to be parked, any recreational vehicle
overnight on any street, highway, or alley.
   (B)   No recreational vehicle shall be parked at any time in the front yard
of a lot.
   (C)   No recreational vehicle shall be used or occupied unless there is a
clear, unoccupied space of at least ten feet on all sides of the recreational
vehicle.
   (D)   No person shall use or occupy a recreational vehicle, or permit the
use and occupancy of a recreational vehicle on any lot for a period in excess
of two weeks in any one year, and then only if the recreational vehicle is
either connected to the public water system or connected to a private water
system, and then only if the recreational vehicle is also connected to a
functioning septic tank or comparable sewage disposal system.
   (E)   No recreational vehicle shall at any time be parked on any lot with
the wheels removed and supported by blocks or other supports, except for the
purpose of repair, nor shall any person elevate, block, or stabilize any
recreational vehicle other than with jacks designed, provided, and intended for
that purpose.
   (F)   Only one recreational vehicle may be parked on any one lot, whether
the recreational vehicle is occupied or merely parked for storage.
(Ord. 169, passed 7-7-2003)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.53  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Civil infraction.  A person who violates or fails to comply with the
requirements of this subchapter is responsible for a class three municipal
civil infraction and subject to the civil fines set forth in the schedule of
civil fines of the City of the Village of Douglas ordinance code and any other
relief that may be imposed by the court.
   (B)   Grounds for impounding; removal and conveyance of CURVs; redemption of
impounded CURVs; payment of fees under protest.
      (1)   In the event a CURV or the owner or operator of a CURV has been
issued two or more civil infractions in two consecutive years, a CURV violating
the requirements of this section may be removed and impounded by or under the
direction of a person authorized by the City of the Village of Douglas by means
of towing the same or otherwise.  Before any owner or person in charge of any
CURV towed by the City of the Village of Douglas is permitted to remove the
same from the custody of the duly authorized department of the City of the
Village of Douglas enforcing this subchapter, he or she shall furnish evidence
of his or her identity and ownership, sign a receipt, and pay the cost of
removal plus the cost of storage for the time the CURV is stored.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the duly authorized officer or person of
the City of the Village of Douglas in charge of any impounded CURV to inform,
in writing, the owner, or person claiming an impounded CURV, of the nature and
circumstances of the violation on account of which the CURV has been
impounded.  In case protest is made against the payment of any impounding or
storage fee, the officer or person in charge shall note upon the receipt
evidencing payment of the impounding and storage fees the words “paid under
protest.”  In that case, it shall thereupon be the duty of the duly authorized
officer of the City of the Village of Douglas having knowledge of the facts
forthwith to inform the City Manager, who shall institute proceedings in the
court having jurisdiction for the City of the Village of Douglas, by charging
the owner or driver of the CURV with that violation of this section of which
the CURV was impounded.  On the disposition of the cause in the court having
jurisdiction for the City of the Village of Douglas, if the defendant is found
not guilty, it shall be the duty of the City Treasurer to refund to the person
the fees paid under protest.
(Ord. 169, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 70.54  RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   Any member of the City Police Department shall have the authority to enter
upon and inspect at any reasonable time any premises upon which a recreational
vehicle or CURV is parked, used, or occupied, for the purpose of ascertaining
that the owner or occupant thereof is complying with all statutes, ordinances,
rules, and regulations governing the same.
(Ord. 169, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 70.55  EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to any licensed mobile
home park.
(Ord. 169, passed 7-7-2003)
§ 70.56  VEHICLES IN USE PRIOR TO EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not prevent the uninterrupted,
continued use and occupancy of any recreational vehicle being used and occupied
as such on 7-25-1956, provided that if the use is discontinued, then the
resumption of the use or occupancy shall be subject to the provisions of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 169, passed 7-7-2003)
CHAPTER 71:  BICYCLES; MOTORCYCLES
Section
   
71.01   Use on sidewalks
   
71.02   Use of bells or gongs required
   
71.03   Lamps
   
71.04   Following rules of road; observing speed limits
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  USE ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall ride any bicycle, motorcycle or other motorized vehicle on
any of the sidewalks within the limits of the city.  Bicycles may be ridden on
any trail, pathway or section of sidewalk that has been posted as “multi-use”,
including the Blue Star Trail and the Beach to Bayou Trail.
(1995 Code, § 54-151)  (Ord. 2, passed 2-10-1919; Am. Ord. 03-2014, passed 8-
18-2014)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.02  USE OF BELLS OR GONGS REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride, use, or propel any bicycle or motorcycle on any of the
streets of the city, unless the bicycle or motorcycle has attached to it a
bicycle or motorcycle bell or gong, which bell shall be rung on approaching any
crosswalk and before entering upon any cross street in the city, if at the time
of approaching the cross street or crosswalk, one or more persons are standing,
walking, riding, or moving upon the sidewalk of the street crossings.
(1995 Code, § 54-152)  (Ord. 2, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.03  LAMPS.
   Every bicycle or motorcycle used upon any of the public streets during a
period of one hour after sunset to one hour before sunrise, shall display one
headlight or headlamp, the light to be placed on front of the bicycle or
motorcycle so that it shall be visible 100 feet in the direction in which it is
proceeding.
(1995 Code, § 54-153)  (Ord. 2, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.04  FOLLOWING RULES OF ROAD; OBSERVING SPEED LIMITS.
   It shall be the duty of every person riding on a bicycle, motorcycle, or
other vehicle, when meeting, overtaking, or passing any other person or
vehicle, to keep to the right and in all respects to obey the laws of the
road.  No person shall ride, drive, or propel any bicycle or motorcycle in,
upon, or through the streets of the city, at an unreasonable rate of speed, and
in no event at a faster rate than 15 mph.
(1995 Code, § 54-154)  (Ord. 2, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, upon
conviction thereof, shall be punished as prescribed in §
10.99.
(1995 Code, § 54-155)  (Ord. 2, passed 2-10-1919)
CHAPTER 72:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Uniform Traffic Code for Michigan Cities, Townships, and Villages
   
72.01   Amendments
Michigan Motor Vehicle Code
   
72.15   Adoption of Chapters VI and VIII of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code
Waterways
   
72.30   Display of light required in darkness or low visibility
   
72.31   Speed regulation
 
   
72.99   Penalty
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE FOR MICHIGAN CITIES, TOWNSHIPS, AND VILLAGES
§ 72.01  AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections and subsections of the Uniform Traffic Code for
Michigan Cities, Townships, and Villages adopted in this subchapter are hereby
amended as set forth and additional sections and subsections are added as
indicated.  Section numbers shall refer to the like-numbered sections in the
Uniform Traffic Code.
“Sec. 1.001a. Ambulance.
   “Ambulance” means a privately or publicly owned motor vehicle for highway
use which is specially designed or constructed and equipped, which is intended
to be used for, and is maintained or operated for, the transportation of
persons who are sick, injured, wounded, or otherwise incapacitated or helpless,
including dual purpose police patrol cars and funeral coaches or hearses, and
which is equipped according to Part 203 of the Public Health Code, Act 368 of
1978 (MCL 333.20301 et seq., MSA 14.15(20301) et seq.), as amended.
Sec. 1. 002a. Autocycle.
   “Autocycle” means an enclosed motorcycle that is equipped with safety belts,
rollbar, windshield, wipers, steering wheel, and equipment otherwise required
on a motorcycle, and which has not more than three (3) wheels in contact with
the roadway at any one (1) time.
Sec. 1.004. Bus.
   “Bus” means a motor vehicle which is designed to carry more than ten (10)
passengers and which is used for the transportation of persons and also means a
motor vehicle, other than a taxicab, which is designed and used for the
transportation of persons for compensation.  The term does not include a school
bus or a bus that is equipped and used for living or camping purposes, or a
motor vehicle which is used in a carpool, vanpool, or a family passenger
vehicle and which is designed to carry fifteen (15) persons or less.
Sec. 1.007a. Controlled Substance.
   “Controlled substance” means a controlled substance as defined by article 7
of the Public Health Code, Act No. 368 of 1978 (MCL 333.7101 et seq., MSA 14.
15(7101) et seq.), as amended.
Sec. 1.012c. Implement of Husbandry.
   “Implement of husbandry”’ means a vehicle which is either a farm tractor, a
vehicle designed to be drawn by a farm tractor or an animal, a vehicle which
directly harvests farm products, or a vehicle which directly applies
fertilizer, spray, or seeds to a farm field.
Sec. 1.016. Moped.
   “Moped” means a two- or three-wheeled vehicle which is equipped with a motor
that does not exceed fifty (50) cubic centimeters piston displacement, produces
two (2) brake horsepower or less, and cannot propel the vehicle at a speed
greater than thirty (30) miles per hour on a level surface.  The power drive
system shall not require the operator to shift gears.
Sec. 1.018a. Operate or Operating.
   “Operate” or “operating” means being in actual physical control of the
vehicle regardless of whether or not the person is licensed under the motor
vehicle code as an operator or chauffeur.
Sec. 1.018b. Operator.
   “Operator” means every person, other than a chauffeur, who is in actual
physical control of a motor vehicle on a highway.
Sec. 1.024. Police Officer.
   “Police officer” means every sheriff or sheriffs deputy; village or township
marshal; officer of the police department of any city, village or township; any
officer of the Michigan state police; or any peace officer who is trained and
certified pursuant to Act No. 203 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1965 (MCL
28.601 et seq., MSA 4.450(1) et seq.), as amended.
Sec. 1.031a. School Bus.
   “School bus” means every motor vehicle, except for a station wagon, with a
manufacturer’s rated seating capacity of seventeen (17) or more children which
is owned by a public, private or governmental agency and which is operated for
the transportation of children to or from school.  The term also means a motor
vehicle, except for a station wagon, that is privately owned and operated for
compensation for the transportation of children to or from school.  The terms
does not include a bus that is operated by a municipally owned transportation
system or by a common passenger carrier ar certificated by the state public
service commission.
Sec. 2.5a. “Abandoned vehicle,” defined; taking abandoned vehicles into
custody; authority; procedure; public sale.
   (1)   As used in this section, “abandoned vehicle” means a vehicle, which
has remained on public property or private property for a period of forty-eight
(48) hours after a police agency, or other governmental agency designated by
the police agency has affixed a written notice to the vehicle.
   (2)   If a vehicle has remained on public or private property for a period
of time so that it appears to the police agency to be abandoned, the police
agency shall do all of the following:
      (a)   Determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (b)   Affix a written notice to the vehicle. The written notice shall
contain the following information:
         (i)   The date and time the notice was affixed;
         (ii)   The name and address of the police agency taking the action;
         (iii)   The name and badge number of the police officer affixing the
notice;
         (iv)   The date and time the vehicle may be taken into custody and
stored at the owner’s expense or scrapped if the vehicle is not removed;
         (v)   The year, make, and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, if available.
   (3)   If a vehicle is not removed within forty-eight (48) hours after the
date the notice was affixed, the vehicle is deemed abandoned and the police
agency may have the vehicle taken into custody.
   (4)   A police agency which has a vehicle taken into custody shall do all of
the following:
      (a)   Recheck to determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (b)   Within twenty-four (24) hours after taking the vehicle into
custody, enter the vehicle as abandoned into the law enforcement information
network.
      (c)   Within seven (7) days after taking the vehicle into custody, send
to the registered owner and secured party, as shown by the records of the
secretary of state, by first class mail or personal service, notice that the
vehicle has been deemed abandoned.  The form for the notice shall be furnished
by the secretary of state.  Each notice form shall contain the following
information:
         (i)   The year, make, and vehicle identification number of the
vehicle, if available.
         (ii)   The location from which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         (iii)   The date on which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         (iv)   The name and address of the police agency which had the vehicle
taken into custody.
         (v)   The business address of the custodian of the vehicle.
         (vi)   The procedure to redeem the vehicle.
         (vii)   The procedure to contest the fact that the vehicle has been
deemed abandoned or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage
fees.
         (viii)   A form petition, which the owner may file in person or by
mail with a specified court which requests a hearing on the police agency’s
action.
         (ix)   A warning that the failure to redeem the vehicle or to request
a hearing within twenty (20) days after the date of the notice may result in
the sale of the vehicle and the determination of all rights of the owner and
the secured party to the vehicle or the proceeds of the sale.
   (5)   The registered owner may contest the fact that the vehicle has been
deemed abandoned or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage
fees by requesting a hearing.  A request for a hearing shall be made by filing
a petition with the court specified in the notice within twenty (20) days after
the date of the notice.  If the owner requests a hearing, the matter shall be
resolved after a hearing conducted pursuant to sections 2.7b and 2.7c.  An
owner who requests a hearing may obtain release of the vehicle by posting a
towing and storage bond in an amount equal to the accrued towing and storage
fees with the court.  The owner of the vehicle who requests a hearing may
obtain release of the vehicle by paying the towing and storage fees instead of
paying the towing and storage bond.  If the court finds that the vehicle was
not properly deemed abandoned, the police agency shall reimburse the owner of
the vehicle for the accrued towing and storage fees.
   (6)   If the owner does not request a hearing, he or she may obtain the
release of the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the
vehicle.
   (7)   If the owner does not redeem the vehicle or request a hearing within
twenty (20) days after the date of the notice, the secured party may obtain the
release of the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the
vehicle, and the police agency for its accrued costs.
   (8)   Not less than twenty (20) days after the disposition of the hearing
described in subsection (5), or if a hearing is not requested, not less than
twenty (20) days after the date of the notice, the police agency shall offer
the vehicle for sale at a public sale pursuant to section 2.7b.
   (9)   If the ownership of a vehicle which has been deemed abandoned under
this section cannot be determined, either because of the condition of the
vehicle identification numbers or because a check with the records of the
secretary of state does not reveal ownership, the police agency may sell the
vehicle at public sale pursuant to section 2.7b, not less than thirty (30) days
after public notice of the sale has been published.
Sec. 2.6. “Abandoned scrap vehicle” defined; taking abandoned scrap vehicles
into custody; authority; procedure; scrapping vehicles.
   (1)   As used in this section:
      (a)   “Registered abandoned scrap vehicle” means a vehicle, which meets
all of the following requirements:
         (i)   Is on public or private property.
         (ii)   Is seven (7) or more years old.
         (iii)   Is apparently inoperable or is extensively damaged, to the
extent that the cost of repairing the vehicle so that it is operational and
safe would exceed the fair market value of that vehicle.
         (iv)   Is currently registered in the State of Michigan or displays
current year registration plates from another state.
         (v)   Is not removed within forty-eight (48) hours after a written
notice as described in section 2.5a(2)(b) is affixed to the vehicle.
      (b)   “Unregistered abandoned scrap vehicle” means a vehicle which meets
all of the following requirements:
         (i)   Is on public or private property.
         (ii)   Is seven (7) or more years old.
         (iii)   Is apparently inoperable or is extensively damaged, to the
extent that the cost of repairing the vehicle so that it is operational and
safe would exceed the fair market value of that vehicle.
         (iv)   Is not currently registered in this state and does not display
current year registration plates from another state.
      (c)   Is not removed within forty-eight (48) hours after a written notice
as described in section 2.5a(2)(b) is affixed to the vehicle.
   (2)   A police agency may have an unregistered abandoned scrap vehicle taken
into custody, in which case the police agency shall do all of the following:
      (a)   Determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (b)   Take two (2) photographs of the vehicle.
      (c)   Make a report to substantiate the vehicle as an unregistered
abandoned scrap vehicle.  The report shall contain the following information:
         (i)   The year, make, and vehicle identification number, if available.
         (ii)   The date of abandonment.
         (iii)   The location of abandonment.
         (iv)   A detailed listing of the damage or the missing equipment.
         (v)   The reporting officer’s name and title.
         (vi)   The location where the vehicle is being held.
      (d)   Within twenty-four (24) hours after taking the vehicle into
custody, enter the vehicle into the law enforcement information network.
   (3)   Within twenty-four (24) hours, excluding Saturday, Sunday, and legal
holidays, after taking the vehicle into custody, the police agency shall
complete a release form and release the vehicle to the towing service or the
used vehicle parts dealer or vehicle scrap metal processor, who shall then
transmit that release form to the secretary of state and apply for a
certificate of the title or certificate of scrapping:  Upon receipt of the
release form and application, the secretary of state shall issue a certificate
of title or certificate of scrapping.
   (4)   The release form described in subsection (3) shall be furnished by the
secretary of state and shall include a certification executed by the applicable
police agency when the abandoned scrap vehicle is released.  The certification
shall state that the police agency has complied with all of the requirements of
subsection (2)(b) and (c).
   (5)   The secretary of state shall retain the records relating to an
abandoned scrap vehicle for not less than two (2) years.  Two (2) photographs
taken pursuant to subsection (2)(b) shall be retained by the police agency for
not less than two (2) years.  After the certificate of scrapping has been
issued, a certificate of title for the vehicle shall not be issued again.
   (6)   A police agency may have a registered abandoned scrap vehicle taken
into custody, in which case the police agency shall do all of the following:
      (a)   Determine if the vehicle has been stolen.
      (b)   Take two (2) photographs of the vehicle.
      (c)   Make a report to substantiate the vehicle as a registered abandoned
scrap vehicle.  The report shall contain the following information:
         (i)   The year, make and vehicle identification number, if available.
         (ii)   The date of abandonment.
         (iii)   The location of abandonment.
         (iv)   A detailed listing of the damage or the missing equipment.
         (v)   The reporting officer’s name and title.
         (vi)   The location where the vehicle is being held.
      (d)   Within twenty-four (24) hours after taking the vehicle into
custody, enter the vehicle into the law enforcement information network.
      (e)   Within seven (7) days after taking the vehicle into custody, send
to the registered owner and secured party, as shown by the records of the
secretary of state, by first class mail or personal service, notice that the
vehicle has been deemed abandoned.  The form for the notice shall be furnished
by the secretary of state.  Each notice form shall contain the following
information:
         (i)   The year, make, and vehicle identification number, if available.
         (ii)   The location from which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         (iii)   The date on which the vehicle was taken into custody.
         (iv)   The name and address of the police agency which had the vehicle
taken into custody.
         (v)   The business address of the custodian of the vehicle.
         (vi)   The procedure to redeem the vehicle.
         (vii)   The procedure to contest the fact that the vehicle has been
deemed abandoned or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage
fees.
         (viii)   A form petition which the owner may file in person or by mail
with a specified court which requests a hearing on the police agency’s action.
         (ix)   A warning that the failure to redeem the vehicle or to request
a hearing within twenty (20) days after the notice may result in the
termination of all rights of the owner and the secured party to the vehicle.
   (7)   The registered owner of a registered abandoned scrap vehicle may
contest the fact that the vehicle has been deemed abandoned or the
reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage fees by requesting a
hearing.  A request for a hearing shall be made by filing a petition with the
court specified in the notice within twenty (20) days after the date of the
notice.  If the owner requests a hearing, the matter shall be resolved after a
hearing conducted pursuant to sections 2.7b and 2.7c.  An owner who requests a
hearing may obtain release of the vehicle by posting a towing and storage bona
with the court in an amount as determined by the court.  The owner of the
vehicle who requests a hearing may obtain release of the vehicle by paying the
towing and storage fees instead of posting the towing and storage bond.  If the
court finds that the vehicle was not properly deemed abandoned, the police
agency shall reimburse the owner of the vehicle for the accrued towing and
storage fees.
   (8)   If the owner does not request a hearing, he may obtain the release of
the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the vehicle.
   (9)   If the owner does not redeem the vehicle or request a hearing within
twenty (20) days after the date of the notice, the secured party may obtain the
release of the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the
vehicle.
   (10)   No less than twenty (20) days after the disposition of the hearing
described in subsection (7), or if a hearing is not requested, not less than
twenty (20) days after the date of the notice described in subsection (6)(e),
the police agency shall follow the procedures established in subsection (3) to
(5).
Sec. 2.7. Notifying local police agency upon removal of a vehicle from private
property; police agency duties upon notification; unclaimed vehicle.
   (1)   When a vehicle is removed from private property at the direction of a
person other than a registered owner of the vehicle or a police agency, the
custodian of the vehicle immediately shall notify the police agency in whose
jurisdiction the vehicle was towed.  The custodian shall supply that
information which is necessary for the police agency to enter the vehicle into
the law enforcement information network.
   (2)   Upon receipt of the notification described in subsection (1), the
police agency immediately shall do all of the following:
      (a)   Determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (b)   Enter the vehicle into the law enforcement information network.
   (3)   The owner of the vehicle removed as described in subsection (1) may
obtain release of the vehicle by paying the accrued towing and storage fees to
the custodian of the vehicle.  Upon release of the vehicle, the custodian shall
notify the police agency of the disposition of the vehicle.
   (4)   If the vehicle described in subsection (1) is not claimed by the owner
within seven (7) days after the police agency has been notified by the
custodian that it has been taken into custody, the vehicle is deemed abandoned
and the procedures prescribed in section 2.5 a(4)(c) and 2.5a(5) through (9)
shall apply.
Sec. 2. 7a. Impounding of vehicles; authority; procedure.
   (1)   A police agency or a governmental agency designated by the police
agency may provide for the immediate removal of a vehicle from public or
private property to a place of safekeeping at the expense of the registered
owner of the vehicle in any of the following circumstances:
      (a)   If the vehicle is in such a condition that the continued operation
of the vehicle upon the highway would constitute an immediate hazard to the
public.
      (b)   If the vehicle is parked or standing upon the highway in such a
manner as to create an immediate public hazard or an obstruction to traffic.
      (c)   If a vehicle is parked in a posted tow away zone.
      (d)   If there is reasonable cause to believe that the vehicle or any
part of the vehicle is stolen.
      (e)   If the vehicle must be seized to preserve evidence of a crime, or
when there is a reasonable cause to believe that the vehicle was used in the
commission of a crime.
      (f)   If removal is necessary in the interest of public safety because of
fire, flood, storm, snow, natural or manmade disaster or other emergency.
      (g)   If the vehicle is hampering the use of private property by the
owner or person in charge of that property or is parked in a manner which
impedes the movement of another vehicle.
      (h)   When a vehicle is left unattended on a bridge, viaduct, causeway,
subway, tube, or tunnel where the vehicle constitutes an obstruction to
traffic.
      (i)   When a disabled vehicle on a street constitutes an obstruction to
traffic and the person in charge of the vehicle is, by reason of physical
injury, incapacitated and unable to provide for the vehicle’s custody or
removal.
      (j)   When a vehicle is left unattended on a street and is parked in a
manner which constitutes a definite hazard or obstruction to the normal
movement of traffic.
      (k)   When a vehicle is found being driven on the streets or highways in
an unsafe condition which endangers persons or property.
      (l)   When a vehicle is left continuously unattended on a street for more
than forty-eight (48) hours and may be presumed to be abandoned.
      (m)   When the driver of a vehicle is taken into custody by the police
department and the vehicle would thereby be left unattended on the street.
      (n)   When the owner of a vehicle has failed to answer six (6) or more
parking violation notices or citations regarding illegal parking issued or
served after March 31, 1981.
   (2)   A police agency which authorizes the removal of a vehicle under
subsection (1) shall do all of the following:
      (a)   Check to determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (b)   Within twenty-four (24) hours after removing the vehicle, enter the
vehicle into the law enforcement information network if the vehicle has not
been redeemed.  This subdivision does not apply to a vehicle that has been
removed from the scene of a motor vehicle traffic accident.
      (c)   If the vehicle has not been redeemed within ten (10) days after
moving the vehicle, send to the registered owner and the secured party as shown
by the records of the secretary of state, by first class mail or personal
service a notice that the vehicle has been removed; however, if the police
agency informs the owner or operator of the vehicle of the removal and the
location of the vehicle within twenty-four (24) hours after the removal, and if
the vehicle has not been redeemed within thirty (30) days and upon complaint
from a towing service, the police agency shall send a notice within thirty (30)
days after the removal.  The notice shall be, by a form furnished by the
secretary of state.
   (3)   The registered owner may contest the fact that the vehicle was
properly removed or the reasonableness of the towing fees and daily storage
fees by requesting a hearing.  A request for a hearing shall be made by filing
a petition with the court specified in the notice within twenty (20) days after
the date of the notice.  If the owner requests a hearing, the matter shall be
resolved after a hearing conducted pursuant to sections 2.7b and 2.7c.  An
owner who requests a hearing may obtain release of the vehicle by posting a
towing and storage bond with the court in an amount equal to the accrued towing
and storage fees.  The owner of a vehicle who requests a hearing may obtain
release of the vehicle by paying the towing and storage fees instead of posting
the towing and storage bond.  If the court finds that the vehicle was not
properly removed, the police agency shall reimburse the owner of the vehicle
for the accrued towing and storage fees.
   (4)   If the owner does not request a hearing, he may obtain the release of
the vehicle by paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the vehicle.
   (5)   If the owner does not redeem the vehicle or request a hearing within
twenty (20) days, the secured party may obtain the release of the vehicle by
paying the accrued charges to the custodian of the vehicle prior to the date of
the sale.
   (6)   Not less than twenty (20) days after the disposition of the hearing
described in subsection (3), or if a hearing is not requested, not less than
twenty (20) days after the date of the notice described in subsection (2)(c),
the police agency shall offer the vehicle for sale at a public sale unless the
vehicle is redeemed.  The public sale shall be held pursuant to section 2.7d.
   (7)   If the ownership of a vehicle which has been removed under this
section cannot be determined either because of the condition of the vehicle
identification numbers, or because a check with the records of the secretary of
state does not reveal ownership, the police agency may sell the public the
vehicle at public sale pursuant to section 2.7b, not less than thirty (30) days
after public notice of the sale has been published.
Sec. 2.7b. Venue; fees.
   (1)   The district court shall have jurisdiction to determine if a police
agency has acted properly in the processing of a vehicle under this code.
   (2)   The court specified in the notice prescribed in section 2.5a, 2.6,
2.7, or 2.7a shall be the court which has territorial jurisdiction at the
location from where the vehicle was removed or deemed abandoned.  Venue in the
district court shall be governed by section 8312 of Act No. 236 of the Public
Acts of Michigan of 1961 (MCL 600.8312, MSA 27A.83 12), as amended.
   (3)   If the owner fails to pay the accrued towing and storage fees, the
towing and storage bond posted with the court to secure release of the vehicle
shall be used to pay the towing and storage fees.
Sec. 2.7c. Hearing; procedure.
   (1)   Upon receipt of a petition prescribed in section 2.5a, 2.6, 2.7, or
2.7a signed by the owner of the vehicle which has been taken into custody, the
court shall do both of the following:
      (a)   Schedule a hearing within thirty (30) days for the purpose of
determining whether the police agency acted properly.
      (b)   Notify the owner and the police agency of the time and place of the
hearing.
   (2)   At the hearing specified in subsection (1), the police agency shall
have the burden of showing by a preponderance of the evidence that it has
complied with the requirements of this article in processing the abandoned
vehicle or vehicle removed pursuant to section 2.7a.
   (3)   After the hearing, the court shall make a decision which shall include
one (1) or more of the following:
      (a)   A finding that the police agency complied with the procedures
established for the processing of an abandoned vehicle or a vehicle removed
under section 2.7a, and an order providing a period of twenty (20) days after
the decision for the owner to redeem the vehicle.  If the owner does not redeem
the vehicle within twenty (20) days, the police agency shall dispose of the
vehicle pursuant to section 2.6 or 2.7d.
      (b)   A finding that the police agency did not comply with the procedures
established for the processing of an abandoned vehicle or a vehicle removed
pursuant to section 2.7a.  After making such a finding, the court shall issue
an order directing that the vehicle immediately be released to the owner, and
that the police agency is responsible for the accrued towing and storage
charges.
      (c)   A finding that the towing and daily storage fees were reasonable.
      (d)   A finding that the towing and daily storage fees were unreasonable
and issue an order directing an appropriate reduction.
Sec. 2.7d. Public sale.
   (1)   A public sale for a vehicle which has been deemed abandoned under
section 2.Sa or 2.7 or removed under section 2.7a shall be conducted in the
following manner:
      (a)   It shall be under the control of the police agency or agent of the
police agency.
      (b)   It shall be open to the public and consist of open auction bidding
or bidding by sealed bids.  If sealed bids are received, the person submitting
the bid shall receive a receipt for the bid from the police agency or agent of
the police agency.
      (c)   Except as provided by sections 2.5a(9) and 2.7a(7), it shall be
held not less than five (5) days after public notice of the sale has been
published.
      (d)   The public notice shall be published at least once in a newspaper
having a general circulation within the county in which the vehicle was
abandoned.  The public notice shall give a description of the vehicle for sale
and shall state the time, date, and location of the sale.
   (2)   The money received from the public sale of the vehicle shall be
applied in the following order of priority:
      (a)   Towing and storage charges.
      (b)   Expenses incurred by the police agency.
      (c)   To the secured party, if any, in the amount of the debt outstanding
on the vehicle.
      (d)   Remainder to the owner.  A reasonable attempt shall be made to mail
the remainder to the registered owner.  If delivery of the remainder cannot be
accomplished, the remainder shall become the property of the unit of government
that the police agency represents.
   (3)   If there are no bidders on the vehicle, the police agency may do one
(1) of the following:
      (a)   Turn the vehicle over to the towing firm to satisfy any charges
against the vehicle.
      (b)   Obtain title to the vehicle for the police agency or the unit of
government the police agency represents, by doing the following:
         (i)   Paying the towing and storage charges; and
         (ii)   Applying for title to the vehicle.
      (c)   Hold another public sale pursuant to subsection (1).
   (4)   A person who acquires ownership of the vehicle under subsection (1) or
(3), which vehicle has been designated as a distressed vehicle, shall make
application for a salvage certificate of title within fifteen (15) days after
obtaining the vehicle.
   (5)   Upon disposition of the vehicle, the police agency shall cancel the
entry into the law enforcement information network.
Sec. 2.8. “Citation” defined; numbering; form.
   (1)   As used in the following sections, “citation” means a complaint or
notice upon which a police officer shall record an occurrence which involves
one (1) or more vehicle law violations by the person cited.  Each citation
shall be numbered consecutively, shall be in a form determined by the secretary
of state, the attorney general, the state court administrator, and the director
of the department of state police, and shall consist of the following parts:
      (a)   The original copy which shall be a complaint or notice to appear
issued by the officer and which shall be filed with the court in which the
appearance is to be made;
      (b)   The first copy which shall be retained by the police department;
      (c)   The second copy which shall be delivered to the alleged violator if
the violation is a misdemeanor;
      (d)   The third copy which shall be delivered to the alleged violator if
the violation is a civil infraction.
   (2)   With the prior approval of the state officials listed in subsection
(1), the citation may be appropriately modified as to content or number of
copies to accommodate law enforcement and local court procedures and
practices.  Use of a citation for other than moving violations is optional.
   (3)   For purposes of the act, a complaint signed by a police officer shall
be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in the complaint is
either a civil infraction of a minor offense as defined in section 1 of chapter
I of Act No. 175 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1927 (MCL 761.1, MSA
28.843), as amended, and occurred or was committed in the signing officer’s
presence or under circumstances permitting the officer’s issuance of a citation
under sections 2.14 and 5.15 of this code, and if the complaint contains the
following statement immediately above the date and signature of the officer:
“I declare under the penalties of perjury that the statements above are true to
the best of my information, knowledge, and belief.”
Sec. 2.10. Issuance of citation for misdemeanor.
   (1)   When a person is arrested without a warrant for any violation of the
act which is punishable as a misdemeanor, or for a violation of a provision of
this code which substantially corresponds to any provision of the act, under
conditions not referred to in sections 5.4, 5.4a and 5.15, or sections 617,
619, and 727(1), (2), (3) of the act (MCL 257.617, 257.619, 257.727(1), (2),
(3); MSA 9.2317, 9.2319, 9.2427(1), (2), (3)), the arresting officer shall
prepare, as soon as possible and as completely as possible, an original and
three (3) copies of a written citation to appear in court which shall contain
the name and address of such person, the offense charged, and the time and
place when and where such person shall appear in court.  The officer shall
inform the offender of the violation and shall give the second copy of the
citation to the alleged offender.  If such arrested person so demands, rather
than being given a citation, the arrested person shall be taken before a
magistrate or probate court which has jurisdiction.
   (2)   The time to appear in court which is specified in the citation shall
be within a reasonable time after the arrest, unless the person arrested
demands an earlier hearing.
   (3)   The place to appear in court which is specified in the citation shall
be before a magistrate who has jurisdiction over the alleged offense charged in
the citation.
   (4)   When an appearance is made by representation or mail, the magistrate
may accept the plea of guilty or not guilty for purposes of arraignment with
the same effect as though the person personally appeared before him.  The
magistrate, by giving five (5) days’ notice of the date of appearance, may
require an appearance in person at the time and place designated in the
citation.
   (5)   When a person who is not a resident of this state is arrested without
warrant for a violation of the act punishable as a misdemeanor, under
conditions not referred to in section 727 of the act (MCL 257.727, MSA 9.2427),
the arresting officer, upon demand of the arrested person, immediately shall
take the person before a magistrate of the vicinity to answer to the complaint
made against the person.  If a magistrate is not available or an immediate
trial cannot be had, the person arrested may recognize to the officer for his
appearance by leaving with the officer a guaranteed appearance certificate or a
sum of money not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00), in which case the
following provisions apply:
      (a)   The officer making the arrest shall give a receipt to the person
arrested for the guaranteed appearance certificate or the moneys deposited
together with a written citation as provided in subsection (1).
      (b)   If the offender fails to appear as required in the citation, the
guaranteed appearance certificate or deposit shall be forfeited as in other
cases of default in bail in addition to any other penalty provided in this
code.
      (c)   The officer taking a certificate or deposit within forty-eight (48)
hours thereafter, excluding Sundays, legal holidays and Saturdays when court is
closed, shall deliver the certificate or deposit to the magistrate named in the
citation together with a report of the facts relating to the arrest.  Failure
to make a report and deliver the deposit shall be embezzlement of public money.
      (d)   “Guaranteed appearance certificate” means a card or certificate
containing a printed statement that a surety company authorized to do business
in this state guarantees the appearance of the person whose signature appears
on the card or certificate, and that the company, if the person fails to appear
in court at the time of trial or sentencing or to pay any fines or costs
imposed pursuant to the act, will pay any fine, costs, or bond forfeitures
imposed on the person in a total amount not to exceed two hundred dollars
($200.00).
Sec. 2.10b. Police officer witnessing civil infraction; stop and detention,
citation, purpose; pursuit outside jurisdiction.
   (1)   A police officer who witnesses a person violating the act or a local
ordinance substantially corresponding to the act, which violation is a civil
infraction, may stop the person, detain the person temporarily for purposes of
making a record or vehicle check, and prepare and subscribe, as soon as
possible and as completely as possible, an original and three (3) copies of a
written citation, which shall be a notice to appear in court for one (1) or
more civil infractions.  If a police officer witnesses a person violating the
act or a local ordinance substantially corresponding to the act and that
violation is a civil infraction, that police officer may pursue, stop, and
detain the person outside the township for the purpose of exercising the
authority and performing the duties prescribed in this section and section 2.
10i, as applicable.
   (2)   Any police officer, having reason to believe that the load, weight,
height, length, or width of a vehicle or load are in violation of the
provisions of sections 717, 719, 719a, 722, 724, 725, or 726 of the act which
violation is a civil infraction, may require the driver of the vehicle to stop,
and the officer may investigate, weigh, or measure the vehicle or load.  If,
after personally investigating, weighing, or measuring the vehicle or load, the
officer determines that the load, weight, height, length, or width of the
vehicle or load is in violation of the provisions of sections 717, 719, 719a,
722, 724, 725, or 726 of the act, the officer may temporarily detain the driver
of the vehicle for purposes of making a record or vehicle check and issue a
citation to the driver or owner of the vehicle as provided in those sections.
   (3)   A police officer may issue a citation to person who is a driver of a
motor vehicle involved in an accident when, based upon personal investigation,
the officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for
a civil infraction in connection with the accident.  A police officer may issue
a citation to a person who is a driver of a motor vehicle when, based upon
personal investigation by the police officer of a complaint by someone who
witnessed the person violating the act or a local ordinance substantially
corresponding to the act, which violation is a civil infraction, the officer
has reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for a civil
infraction and if the prosecuting attorney or attorney for the political
subdivision approves in writing the issuance of the citation.
   (4)   The form of a citation issued under subsection (1), (2), or (3) shall
be as prescribed in sections 2.8 and 2.10c.
   (5)   The officer shall inform the person of the alleged civil infraction or
infractions and shall deliver the third copy of the citation to the alleged
offender.
   (6)   In a civil infraction action involving the parking or standing of a
motor vehicle, a copy of the citation need not be served personally upon the
defendant but may be served upon the registered owner by attaching the copy to
the vehicle.
   (7)   If a parking violation notice other than a citation is attached to a
motor vehicle, and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the civil
fine and costs, if any, prescribed by ordinance for the violation are not paid
at the parking violations bureau, a citation may be filed with the court in
compliance with section 2.10 and a copy of the citation may be served by first-
class mail upon the registered owner of the vehicle at the owner’s last known
address.  A parking violation notice may be issued by a police officer,
including a limited duty officer, or other personnel duly authorized by the
township to issue such a notice.  The citation filed with the court pursuant to
this subsection need not comply in all particulars with sections 2.8 and 2.10c
but shall consist of a sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the
parking violation notice and shall fairly inform the defendant how to respond
to the citation.
   (8)   A citation issued under subsection (6) or (7) for a parking or
standing violation shall be processed in the same manner as a citation issued
personally to a defendant pursuant to subsection (1) or (3).
   (9)   As used in subsection (7):
      (a)   “Parking violation notice” means a notice, other than a citation,
directing a person to appear at a parking violations bureau in the township to
pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed by ordinance for the parking or
standing of a motor vehicle in violation of the ordinance.
      (b)   “Parking violations bureau” means a parking violations bureau
established pursuant to section 8395 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of
Michigan of 1961 (MCL 600.8395, MSA 27A.8395), as amended.
Sec. 2.10g. Civil infraction; formal hearings; procedure; fees; counsel;
judgment.
   (1)   A formal hearing shall be conducted only by a judge of a court which
has jurisdiction over civil infraction actions under section 2.10a.
   (2)   In a formal hearing, the person cited may be represented by an
attorney, but is not entitled to appointed counsel at public expense.
   (3)   Notice of a formal hearing shall be given to the prosecuting attorney
or township attorney who represents the plaintiff.  That attorney shall appear
in court for a formal hearing and that attorney shall be responsible for the
issuance of a subpoena to each witness for the plaintiff.  The defendant may
also subpoena witnesses.  Witness fees need not be paid to a witness in advance
of a formal hearing.
   (4)   There shall not be a jury trial in a formal hearing.
   (5)   If the judge determines by a preponderance of the evidence that the
person cited is responsible for a civil infraction, the judge shall enter an
order against the person as provided in section 907 of the act (MCL 257.907,
MSA 9.2607).  Otherwise, a judgment shall be entered for the defendant, but the
defendant shall not be entitled to costs of the action.
Sec. 2.10i. Compelling person to appear; additional costs.
   (1)   When a person who is not a resident of this state is stopped for a
civil infraction pursuant to section 2.10b of this code, the police officer
making the stop shall take that person’s driver’s license as security for the
nonresident’s appearance in court and satisfaction of any order which May be
issued under section 907 of the act and shall issue to that person a citation
as provided in sections 2.8 and 2. 10b.  At or before the completion of his
tour of duty a police officer taking the driver’s license shall deliver the
driver’s license either to the court named in the citation or to the police
chief or person authorized by the police chief to receive citations and
drivers’ licenses.  The police chief or person authorized shall deposit the
driver’s license and citation with the court in the same manner as prescribed
for citations in section 2.15 of this code.  Failure to deliver the license
shall be considered contempt of court.  If the person does not have a license
in immediate possession in violation of section 301 of the act or a license or
the receipt described in section 311a ,of the act in violation of section 311
of the act, the officer shall arrest that person pursuant to section 727(4) of
the act.
   (2)   In lieu of the officer’s taking of the license under subsection (1) or
before appearance in court, the person stopped may recognize to the officer or
to the court for his appearance by leaving with the officer or court a
guaranteed appearance certificate or a sum of money not to exceed one hundred
dollars ($100.00).
   (3)   If a magistrate is available for an immediate appearance, upon demand
of the person stopped, the officer immediately shall take the nonresident
driver before the magistrate to answer to the civil infraction alleged.  Upon
entry of an admission of responsibility for the civil infraction, with or
without explanation, or upon completion of an informal hearing, the defendant’s
license shall be returned if judgment is entered for the defendant, if any
adverse judgment entered against the defendant is satisfied, or if the
defendant leaves with the court a guaranteed appearance certificate or a sum of
money not to exceed one hundred dollars ($100.00) as security for payment of
any fines or costs ordered.  If the nonresident defendant requests a formal
hearing, the hearing shall be scheduled as provided in section 2.10g of this
code but the defendant’s license shall be retained by the court until final
resolution of the matter unless the defendant leaves with the court the
guaranteed appearance certificate or deposit as provided in subsection (2) as
security for appearance at the scheduled formal hearing.
   (4)   The officer receiving a guaranteed appearance certificate or deposit
of money under subsection (2) shall give a receipt to the person stopped for
the guaranteed appearance certificate or the money deposited together with the
written citation required under subsection (1).
   (5)   At or before the completion of his tour of duty a police officer
taking a certificate or deposit of money shall deliver the certificate or
deposit of money and the citation either to the court named in the citation, or
to the police chief or person authorized by the police chief to receive
certificates or deposits.  The police chief or person authorized shall deposit
the certificate or the money deposited and the citation with the court in the
same manner as prescribed for citations in section 2.15 of this code.  Failure
to deliver the money deposited shall be embezzlement of public money.
   (6)   If the person who posts a certificate or deposit fails to appear as
required in the citation or for a scheduled formal hearing, the court having
jurisdiction and venue over the civil infraction shall enter a default judgment
against the person, and the guaranteed appearance certificate or money
deposited shall be forfeited and applied to any civil fine or costs ordered
pursuant to section 907 of the act.
   (7)   For purposes of this section, “guaranteed appearance certificate”
means a card or certificate containing a printed statement that a surety
company authorized to do business in this state guarantees the appearance of
the person whose signature appears on the card or certificate, and that the
company, if the person fails to appear in court at the time of a scheduled
informal or formal hearing or to pay any fine or costs imposed pursuant to
section 907 of the act, will pay any fine, costs, or bond forfeiture imposed on
the person in a total amount not to exceed two hundred dollars ($200.00).
Sec. 2.12. Fees.
   An officer making an arrest under this code for a misdemeanor without a
warrant shall not be entitled to any fees for making the arrest or the issuance
of a citation.
Sec. 2.15. Citations; disposition of copies.
   (1)   At or before the completion of his tour of duty a police officer to
whom a citation book has been issued and who has recorded the occurrence of a
vehicle law violation upon a citation shall deliver to his police chief or to a
person duly authorized by the police chief to receive citations all copies of
such citation duly signed.  The police chief or a person duly authorized by the
police chief shall deposit the original of the citation with the court having
jurisdiction over the offense not later than three (3) days after the date of
the citation, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays.
   (2)   The citation shall be considered to have been deposited with the court
as required under subsection (1) if the original of the citation is mailed not
later than two (2) days after the date of the citation as specified under this
subsection.  Mailing shall be accomplished by enclosing the original of the
citation in a sealed envelope with first class postage fully prepaid, addressed
to the court, and depositing the envelope and contents in the United States
government mail.
   (3)   If a citation is spoiled, mutilated, or voided, it shall be endorsed
with a full explanation thereof by the police officer voiding the citation, and
shall be accounted for to the police officer’s police chief or an authorized
designee of the police chief.
   (4)   Nothing in the act shall prevent a person other than a police officer
from applying for criminal complaint for a vehicle law violation which is not a
civil infraction, and that person need not show that the alleged offender has
been issued a citation in connection with the offense.
Sec. 2.17a. Falsification or illegal disposition of citations; penalties.
   Whoever knowingly falsifies a citation, copies of a citation, or a record of
the issuance of a citation; disposes of a citation, copy, or record in a manner
other than as required in this code; attempts to falsify or dispose of a
citation, copy, or record; or attempts to incite or procure another to falsify
or dispose of a citation, copy, or record shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 2.17c. Procedure upon arrest for certain offenses.
   When a person is arrested without a warrant in any of the following cases,
the arrested person shall, without unreasonable delay, be taken before a
magistrate who is nearest or most accessible within the judicial district as
provided in section 13 of chapter IV of the code of criminal procedure, Act No.
175 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1927 (MCL 764.13, MSA 28.871(1)), or, if
a minor, taken before the probate court
   (1)   When the person is arrested under section 5.15.
   (2)   When a person is arrested under section 5.14.  If under the existing
circumstances it does not appear that releasing the person pending the issuance
of a warrant will constitute a public menace, the arresting officer may proceed
in such cases as provided by section 2.10.
   (3)   When a person arrested does not have in his immediate possession a
valid operator’s or chauffeur’s license or the receipt described in section
311a of the act (MCL 257.311a, MSA 9.2011(1)).  If the arresting officer
otherwise satisfactorily determines the identity of the person and the
practicability of subsequent apprehension in the event of the person’s failure
to voluntarily appear before a designated magistrate or probate court as
directed, the officer may release the person from custody with instructions to
appear in court, given in the form of a citation as prescribed by section 2.10.
Sec. 2.35a. Parking in a clear vision area; violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   A vehicle shall not be parked in an area purchased, acquired, or used
as a clear vision area adjacent to or on a highway right-of-way.  A person
shall not conduct vending or other commercial enterprises in a clear vision
area.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 2.35b. Standing on a highway; violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   A vehicle shall not be allowed to stand on a highway unattended
without the brakes being set and the motor of the vehicle being stopped.  If
the vehicle is standing upon a grade, the front wheels of the vehicle shall be
turned to the curb or side of the highway.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 2.36. No stopping, standing, or parking zones.
   The traffic engineer may determine and designate zones where stopping,
standing, or parking is prohibited due to hazardous conditions which may exist
or where conditions exist which would cause undue delay to traffic.  Such zones
shall be designated by posting signs at such locations.  The distance between
any two (2) such signs shall be that distance determined by the traffic
engineer as an appropriate distance.  Such zones shall be designated by posting
signs reading “Tow-Away Zone.”  Such signs shall be posted independently or as
an extra panel attached below the posted sign prohibiting stopping, standing,
or parking at the location.  The distance between any two (2) such signs shall
be that distance determined by the traffic engineer as an appropriate distance.
Sec. 2.59. Current regulations.
   All intersection stops and yield right-of-way requirements, regulations on
stopping, standing, or parking; one-way streets, roadways and alleys;
crosswalks, restricted turns; through streets; play streets; annual parking
zones; all night parking restrictions; curb loading zones; public carrier
stands; parking meter zones and spaces; weight restrictions; no passing zones;
speed limits and traffic-control devices heretofore established and effective
on the effective date of this code, shall be deemed established hereunder and
shall remain effective until rescinded or modified as herein provided.
Sec. 3.2b. False police report; violation as misdemeanor.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly make to
any police officer a fictitious report giving false information relating to a
traffic accident or violation of a city traffic or code violation, knowing the
same to be false.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 5.15 Operating motor vehicle while under influence of intoxicating liquor
or controlled substance; operating motor vehicle when visibly impaired;
operation of motor vehicle by person less than 21 years of age; sanctions;
costs; guilty plea or nolo contendere; special verdict; public record; burden
of proving religious service or ceremony.
   (1)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within the Village of Douglas if either of the following applies:
      (a)   The person is under the influence of intoxicating liquor, a
controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance.
      (b)   The person has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
   (2)   The owner of a vehicle or a person in charge or in control of a
vehicle shall not authorize or knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of motor vehicles,
within the Village of Douglas by a person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor, a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating
liquor and a controlled substance or who has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams
or more per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine (or whose ability to operate the motor vehicle is visibly
impaired due to the consumption of intoxicating liquor, a controlled substance,
or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance).
   (3)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon a
highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within the Village of Douglas when, due to the consumption of intoxicating
liquor, a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a
controlled substance, the person’s ability to operate the vehicle is visibly
impaired.  If a person is charged with violating subsection (1), a finding of
guilty under this subsection may be rendered.
   (4)   A person who is less than 21 years of age, whether licensed or not,
shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles, within the Village of Douglas if the person has
any bodily alcohol content.  As used in this subsection “any bodily alcohol
content” means either of the following:
      (a)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more than 0.07
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
      (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person’s body resulting from the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
   (5)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle in
violation of subsections (1), (3) or (4) while another person who is less than
16 years of age is occupying the vehicle.  A person who violates this
subdivision is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the
following:
      (a)   Community service for not more than 60 days.
      (b)   A fine of not more than $500.
      (c)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
   In the judgment of sentence under this section, the court may, unless the
vehicle is ordered forfeited under MCL 257.625b, order vehicle immobilization
as provided by MCL 257.904d.
   (6)   If a person is convicted for violating subsection (1), the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
      (a)   Community service for not more than 45 days.
      (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
      (c)   A fine of not less than $100 or more than $500.
   (7)   A person who is convicted of violating subsection (2) is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of
not less than $100 or more than $500, or both.
   (8)   A person who is convicted of violating subsection (3), is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
      (a)   Community service for not more than 45 days.
      (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
      (c)   A fine of not more than $300.
   (9)   If a person is convicted of violating subsection (4), all of the
following apply:
      (a)   Except as otherwise provided in subdivision(b), the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
         (i)   Community service for not more than 45 days.
         (ii)   A fine of not more than $250.
      (b)   If the violation occurs within seven years of one or more prior
convictions, the person may be sentenced to one or more of the following:
         (i)   Community service for not more than 60 days.
         (ii)   A fine of not more than $500.
         (iii)   Imprisonment of not more than 93 days.
   A prior conviction shall be established at sentencing by one or more of the
following:
      (a)   An abstract of conviction.
      (b)   A copy of the defendant’s driving record.
      (c)   An admission by the defendant.
   (10)   In addition to imposing the sanctions prescribed under this section,
the court may order he person to pay the costs of the prosecution under the
code of criminal procedure, 1927 PA 175, CL 760.1 to 776.22.
   (11)   A person sentenced to perform community service under this section
shall not receive compensation and shall reimburse the state or appropriate
local unit of government for the cost of supervision incurred by the state or
local unit of government as a result of the person’s activities in that
service.
   (12)   If a person is charged with a violation of subsection (1), (3), or
(5), the court shall not permit the defendant to enter a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere to a charge of violating subsection (4) in exchange for dismissal of
the original charge.  This subsection does not prohibit the court from
dismissing the charge upon the city attorney’s motion.
   (13)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (15), if a person is
charged with operating a vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance in
violation of subsection (1), the court shall require the jury to return a
special verdict in the form of a written finding or, if the court convicts the
person without a jury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court
shall make a finding as to whether the person was under the influence of a
controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance at the time of the violation.
   (14)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (15), if a person is
charged with operating a vehicle while his or her ability to operate the
vehicle was visibly impaired due to his or her consumption of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance in
violation of subsection (3), the court shall require the jury to return a
special verdict in the form of a written finding or, if the court convicts the
person without a jury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court
shall make a finding as to whether, due to the consumption of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance,
the person’s ability to operate a motor vehicle was visibly impaired at the
time of the violation.
   (15)   A special verdict described in subsections (13) and (14) is not
required if a jury is instructed to make a finding solely as to either of the
following:
      (a)   Whether the defendant was under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance at
the time of the violation.
      (b)   Whether the defendant was visibly impaired due to his or her
consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor
and a controlled substance at the time of the violation.
   (16)   If a jury or court finds under subsection (13), (14), or (15) that
the defendant operated a motor vehicle under the influence of or while impaired
due to the consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of a
controlled substance and an intoxicating liquor, the court shall do both of the
following:
      (a)   Report the finding to the secretary of state.
      (b)   On a form or forms prescribed by the state court administrator,
forward to the department of state police a record that specifies the penalties
imposed by the court, including any term of imprisonment, and any sanction
imposed under MCL 257.625n or MCL 257.904d.
   (17)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a record described in subsection
(16)(b) is a public record and the department of state police shall retain the
information contained on that record for not less than seven years.
   (18)   In a prosecution for a violation of subsection (4), the defendant
bears the burden of proving that the consumption of intoxicating liquor was a
part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony by a preponderance
of the evidence.
Sec. 5.15a Arrest without warrant; circumstances; preliminary chemical breath
analysis; operator ordered out-of-service; refusal of commercial motor vehicle
operator to submit to breath analysis as misdemeanor; provisions applicable to
chemical tests and analysis; evidence; availability of test results;
presumptions; admissibility of refusal to submit to chemical test.
   (1)   A peace officer may arrest a person without a warrant under either of
the following circumstances:
      (a)   The peace officer has reasonable cause to believe the person was,
at the time of an accident in the Village of Douglas, the operator of a vehicle
involved in the accident and was operating the vehicle in violation of section
5.15.
      (b)   The person is found in the driver’s seat of a vehicle parked or
stopped on a highway or street within the Village of Douglas if any part of the
vehicle intrudes into the roadway and the peace officer has reasonable cause to
believe the person was operating the vehicle in violation of Section 5.15.
   (2)   A peace officer who has reasonable cause to believe that a person was
operating a vehicle upon a public highway or other place open to the public or
generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles, within the Village of Douglas and that the person by the
consumption of intoxicating liquor may have affected his or her ability to
operate a vehicle, or reasonable cause to believe that a person was operating a
commercial motor vehicle within the Village of Douglas while the person’s
blood, breath, or urine contained any measurable amount of alcohol or while the
person had any detectable presence of intoxicating liquor, or reasonable cause
to believe that a person who is less than 21 years of age was operating a
vehicle upon a public highway or other place open to the public or generally
accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of
vehicles, within the Village of Douglas while the person had any bodily alcohol
content as that term is defined in section 5.15(4), may require the person to
submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis.  The following provisions
apply with respect to a preliminary chemical breath analysis administered under
this subsection:
      (a)   A peace officer may arrest a person based in whole or in part upon
the results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis.
      (b)   The results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis are
admissible in a criminal prosecution for a crime enumerated in section 5.15c(1)
or in an administrative hearing for 1 or more of the following purposes:
         (i)   To assist the court or hearing officer in determining a
challenge to the validity of an arrest.  This subparagraph does pot limit the
introduction of other competent evidence offered to establish the validity of
an arrest.
         (ii)   As evidence of the defendant’s breath alcohol content, if
offered by the defendant to rebut testimony elicited on cross-examination of a
defense witness that the defendant’s breath alcohol content was higher at the
time of the charged offense than when a chemical test was administered under
subsection (6).
         (iii)   As evidence of the defendant’s breath alcohol content, if
offered by the prosecution to rebut testimony elicited on cross-examination of
a prosecution witness that the defendant’s breath alcohol content was lower at
the time of the charged offense than when a chemical test was administered
under subsection (6).
      (c)   A person who submits to a preliminary chemical breath analysis
remains subject to the requirements of sections 5.15c, 5.15d, 5.15e and 5.15f
for purposes of chemical tests described in those sections.
      (d)   Except as provided in subsection (5), a person who refuses to
submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis upon a lawful request by a
peace officer is responsible for a civil infraction.
   (3)   A peace officer shall use the results of a preliminary chemical breath
analysis conducted pursuant to this section to determine whether to order a
person out-of-service under MCL 257.319d.  A peace officer shall order out-of-
service as required under MCL 367. 319d a person who was operating a commercial
motor vehicle and who refuses to submit to a preliminary chemical breath
analysis as provided in this section.  This section does not limit use of other
competent evidence by the peace officer to determine whether to order a person
out-of-service under MCL 257.319d.
   (4)   A person who was operating a commercial motor vehicle and who is
requested to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis under this
section shall be advised that refusing a peace officer’s request to take a test
described in this section is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not
more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $100.00, or both, and will result
in the issuance of a 24-hour out-of-service order.
   (5)   A person who was operating a commercial motor vehicle and who refuses
to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis upon a peace officer’s
lawful request is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not
more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $100.00, or both.
   (6)   The following provisions apply with respect to chemical tests and
analysis of a person’s blood, urine, or breath, other than preliminary chemical
breath analysis:
      (a)   The amount of alcohol or presence of a controlled substance or both
in a driver’s blood or urine or the amount of alcohol in a person’s breath at
the time alleged as shown by chemical analysis of the person’s blood, urine, or
breath is admissible into evidence in any civil or criminal proceeding.
      (b)   A person arrested for a crime described in section 5.15c(1) shall
be advised of all of the following:
         (i)   If he or she takes a chemical test of his or her blood, urine,
or breath administered at the request of a peace officer, he or she has the
right to demand that a person of his or her own choosing administer 1 of the
chemical tests.
         (ii)   The results of the test are admissible in a judicial proceeding
as provided under this ordinance and will be considered with other admissible
evidence in determining the defendant’s innocence or guilt.
         (iii)   He or she is responsible for obtaining a chemical analysis of
a test sample obtained pursuant to his or her own request.
         (iv)   If he or she refuses the request of a peace officer to take a
test described in subparagraph (i), a test shall not be given without a court
order, but, the peace officer may seek to obtain a court order.
         (v)   Refusing a peace officer’s request to take a test described in
subparagraph (i) will result in the suspension of his or her operator’s or
chauffeur’s license and vehicle group designation or operating privilege and in
the addition of 6 points to his or her driver record.
      (c)   A sample or specimen of urine or breath shall be taken and
collected in a reasonable manner.  Only a licensed physician, or an individual
operating under the delegation of a licensed physician under section 16215 of
the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.16215, qualified to withdraw blood
and acting in a medical environment, may withdraw blood at a peace officer’s
request to determine the amount of alcohol or presence of a controlled
substance or both in the person’s blood, as provided in this subsection. 
Liability for a crime or civil damages predicated on the act of withdrawing or
analyzing blood and related procedures does not attach to a licensed physician
or individual operating under the delegation of a licensed physician who
withdraws or analyzes blood or assists in the withdrawal or analysis in
accordance with this act unless the withdrawal or analysis is performed in a
negligent manner.
      (d)   A chemical test described in this subsection shall be administered
at the request of a peace officer having reasonable grounds to believe the
person has committed a crime described in section 515c(1).  A person who takes
a chemical test administered at a peace officer’s request as provided in this
section shall be given a reasonable opportunity to have a person of his’ or her
own choosing administer 1 of the chemical tests described in this subsection
within a reasonable time after his or her detention.  The test results are
admissible and shall be considered with other admissible evidence in
determining the defendant’s innocence or guilt.  If the person charged is
administered a chemical test by a person of his or her own choosing, the person
charged is responsible for obtaining a chemical analysis of the test sample.
      (e)   If, after an accident, the driver of a vehicle involved in the
accident is transported to a medical facility and a sample of the driver’s
blood is withdrawn at that time for medical treatment, the results of a
chemical analysis of that sample are admissible in any civil or criminal
proceeding to show the amount of alcohol or presence of a controlled substance
or both in the person’s blood at the time alleged, regardless of whether the
person had been offered or had refused a chemical test.  The medical facility
or person performing the chemical analysis shall disclose the results of the
analysis to a city attorney who requests the results for use in a criminal
prosecution as provided in this subdivision.  A medical facility or person
disclosing information in compliance with this subsection is not civilly or
criminally liable for making the disclosure.
      (f)   If, after an accident, the driver of a vehicle involved in the
accident is deceased, a sample of the decedent’s blood shall be withdrawn in a
manner directed by the medical examiner to determine the amount of alcohol or
the presence of a controlled substance, or both, in the decedent’s blood.  The
medical examiner shall give the results of the chemical analysis of the sample
to the law enforcement agency investigating the accident and that agency shall
forward the results to the department of state police.
      (g)   The department of state police shall promulgate uniform rules in
compliance with the administrative procedures act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, MCL
24.201 to 24.328, for the administration of chemical tests for the purposes of
this section.  An instrument used for a preliminary chemical breath analysis
may be used for a chemical test described in this subsection if approved under
rules promulgated by the department of state police.
   (7)   The provisions of subsection (6) relating to chemical testing do not
limit the introduction of any other admissible evidence bearing upon the
question of whether a person was impaired by, or under the influence of,
intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating
liquor and a controlled substance, or whether the person had an alcohol content
of 0.10 grams or more per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath,
or per 67 milliliters of urine, or if the person is less than 21 years of age,
whether the person had any bodily alcohol content within his or her body.  As
used in this section, “any bodily alcohol content” means either of the
following:
      (a)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more than 0.07
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
      (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person’s body resulting from the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
   (8)   If a chemical test described in subsection (6) is administered, the
test results shall be made available to the person charged or the person’s
attorney upon written request to the prosecution, with a copy of the request
filed with the court.  The prosecution shall furnish the results at least 2
days before the day of the trial.  The prosecution shall offer the test results
as evidence in that trial.  Failure to fully comply with the request bars the
admission of the results into evidence by the prosecution.
   (9)   Except in a prosecution relating solely to a violation of section 5.15
(1)(b) or (4), the amount of alcohol in the driver’s blood, breath, or urine at
the time alleged as shown by chemical analysis of the person’s blood, breath,
or urine gives rise to the following presumptions:
      (a)   If there were at the time 0.07 grams or less of alcohol per 100
milliliters of the defendant’s blood, per 210 liters of the defendant’s breath,
or per 67 milliliters of the defendant’s urine, it is presumed that the
defendant’s ability to operate a motor vehicle was not impaired due to the
consumption of intoxicating liquor and that the defendant was not under the
influence of intoxicating liquor.
      (b)   If there were at the time more than 0.07 grams but less than 0.10
grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the defendant’s blood, per 210 liters
of the defendant’s breath, or per 67 milliliters of the defendant’s urine, it
is presumed that the defendant’s ability to operate a vehicle was impaired
within the provisions of section 515(3) due to the consumption of intoxicating
liquor.
      (c)   If there were at the time 0.10 grams or more of alcohol per 100
milliliters of the defendant’s blood, per 210 liters of the breath, or per 67
milliliters of the defendant’s urine, it is presumed that the defendant was
under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
   (10)   A person’s refusal to submit to a chemical test as provided in
subsection (6) is admissible in a criminal prosecution for a crime described in
section 515c(1) only to show that a test was offered to the defendant, but not
as evidence in determining the defendant’s innocence or guilt.  The jury shall
be instructed accordingly.
New Sec. 5.15b. is added and reserved.
Sec. 5.15c Implied Consent.
   (1)   A person who operates a vehicle upon a public highway or other place
open to the general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including
an area designated for the parking of vehicles, within the Village of Douglas
is considered to have given consent to chemical tests of his or her blood,
breath, or urine for the purpose of determining the amount of alcohol or
presence of a controlled substance or both in his or her blood or urine or the
amount of alcohol in his or her breath in all of the following circumstances:
      (a)   If the person is arrested for a violation of section 5.15(1), (3),
(4) or (5) or section 5.15a(5), or section 5.15m.
   (2)   A person who is afflicted with hemophilia, diabetes, or a condition
requiring the use of an anticoagulant under the direction of a physician is not
considered to have given consent to the withdrawal of blood.
   (3)   The tests shall be administered as provided in section 5.15a(6).
Sec. 5.15d Refusal to submit to chemical test; court order; report to secretary
of state; form.
   (1)   If a person refuses the request of a peace officer to submit to a
chemical test offered pursuant to section 5.15a(6), a test shall not be given
without a court order, but the officer may seek to obtain the court order.
   (2)   A written report shall immediately be forwarded to the secretary of
state by the peace officer.  The report shall state that the officer had
reasonable grounds to believe that the person had committed a crime described
in section 5.15c(1), and that the person had refused to submit to the test upon
the request of the peace officer and had been advised of the consequences of
the refusal.  The form of the report shall be prescribed and furnished by the
secretary of state.
Sec. 5.15e Notice of receipt of report; request for hearing; contents; failure
to request hearing consequences; counsel.
   (1)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test pursuant to section
5.15d, the peace officer shall immediately notify the person in writing that
within 14 days of the date of the notice the person may request a hearing as
provided in section 5.15f. The form of the notice shall be prescribed and
furnished by the secretary of state.
   (2)   The notice shall specifically state that failure to request a hearing
within 14 days will result in the suspension of the person’s license or permit
to drive.  The notice shall also state that there is not a requirement that the
person retain counsel for the hearing, though counsel would permitted to
represent the person at the hearing.
Sec. 5.15f Effect of failure to request hearing; hearing procedure; notice;
authority of hearing. officer; scope of hearing; finding; record; licensing;
sanctions; judicial review; notice  to motor vehicle administrator of another
state.
   (1)   If a person who refuses to submit to a chemical test pursuant to
section 5.15d does not request a hearing within 14 days after the date of
notice pursuant to section 515e, the secretary of state shall impose the
following license sanctions:
      (a)   If the person was operating a vehicle other than a commercial motor
vehicle, suspend or deny the person’s operator’s or chauffeur’s license or
permit to drive, or nonresident operating privilege, for 6 months or, for a
second or subsequent refusal within 7 years, for 1 year.  If the person is a
resident without a license or permit to operate a vehicle in the state, the
secretary of state shall not issue the person a license or permit for 6 months
or, for a second or subsequent refusal within 7 years, for 1 year.
      (b)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle, for the
first refusal, suspend all vehicle group designations on the person’s
operator’s or chauffeur’s license or permit or nonresident privilege to operate
a commercial motor vehicle or, if the person is a resident without a license or
permit to operate a commercial motor vehicle in the state, not issue the person
an operator’s or chauffeur’s license with vehicle group designations, for one
year.
      (c)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle, for a
second or subsequent refusal that occurred in a separate incident from and
within 10 years of a prior refusal, revoke all vehicle group designations on
the person’s operator’s or chauffeur’s license or permit or nonresident
privilege to operate a commercial motor vehicle or , if the person is a
resident without a license or permit to operate a commercial motor vehicle in
the state, not issue the person an operator’s or chauffeur’s license with
vehicle group designations, for not less than 10 years and until the person is
approved for the issuance of a vehicle group designation.
      (d)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle and was
arrested for an offense enumerated in section 5.15c other than a violation of
section 5.15m, impose the license sanction described in subdivision (a) and the
license sanction described in subdivision (b) or (c), as applicable.
   (2)   If a hearing is requested, the secretary of state shall hold the
hearing in the same manner and under the same conditions as provided in MCL
257.322.  Not less than 5 days’ notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the
person requesting the hearing, to the peace officer who filed the report under
section 5.15d, and if the city attorney requests receipt of the notice, to the
city attorney.  The hearing officer may administer oaths, issue subpoenas for
the attendance of necessary witnesses, and grant a, reasonable request for an
adjournment.  Not more than one adjournment shall be granted to a party and the
length of an adjournment shall not exceed 14 days.  A hearing under this
subsection shall be scheduled to be held within 45 days after the date of
arrest for the violation.  The hearing officer shall not impose any sanction
for a failure to comply with these time limits.
   (3)   Except for delay attributable to the unavailability of the defendant,
a witness, or material evidence, or due to an interlocutory appeal or
exceptional circumstances, but not a delay caused by docket congestion, a
hearing shall be finally adjudicated within 77 days after the date of arrest. 
The hearing officer shall not impose any sanction for a failure to comply with
this time limit.
   (4)   The hearing shall cover only the following issues:
      (a)   Whether the peace officer had reasonable grounds to believe that
the person had committed a crime described in section 5.15c(1).
      (b)   Whether the person was placed under arrest for a crime described in
section 5.15c(1).
      (c)   If the person refused to submit to the test upon the request of the
officer, whether the refusal was reasonable.
      (d)   Whether the person was advised of the rights under section 5.15a
(6).
   (5)   A person shall not order a hearing officer to make a particular
finding on any issue enumerated in subsection (4)(a) to (d).
   (6)   The hearing officer shall make a record of a hearing held pursuant to
this section.  The record shall be prepared and transcribed in accordance with
section 86 of the administrative 1111.procedures act of 1969, Act No. 306 of
the Public Acts of 1969, being section 24.286 of the Michigan Compiled Laws. 
Upon notification of the filing of a petition for judicial review pursuant to
MCL 257.323 and not less than 10 days before the matter is set for review, the
hearing officer shall transmit to the court in which the petition was filed the
original or a certified copy of the official record of the proceedings. 
Proceedings at which evidence was presented need not be transcribed and
transmitted if the sole, reason for review is to determine whether the court
will order the issuance of a restricted license.  The parties to the
proceedings for judicial review may stipulate that the record be shortened.  A
party unreasonably refusing to stipulate to a shortened record may be taxed by
the court in which the petition is filed for the additional costs.  The court
may permit subsequent corrections to the record.
   (7)   If the person who requested a hearing does not prevail, the secretary
of state shall impose the following license sanctions after the hearing:
      (a)   If the person was operating a vehicle other than a commercial motor
vehicle, suspend or deny issuance of a license or driving permit or a
nonresident operating privilege of the person for 6 months or, for a second or
subsequent refusal within 7 years, for 1 year.  If the person is a resident
without a license or permit to operate a vehicle in the state, the secretary of
state shall not issue the person a license or permit for 6 months or, for a
second or subsequent refusal within 7 years, for 1 year.  The person may file a
petition in the circuit court of the county in which the arrest was made to
review the suspension or denial as provided in MCL 257.323.
      (b)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle, impose the
sanction prescribed under subsection (1)(b) or (1)(c), as applicable.  The
person may file a petition in the circuit court of the county in which the
arrest was made to review the suspension or denial as provided in MCL 257.323.
      (c)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle and was
arrested for an offense enumerated in section 5.15c other than a violation of
section 5.15m, impose the license sanctions described in subdivisions (a) and
(b).
   (8)   If the person who requested the hearing prevails, the peace officer
who filed the report under section 5.15d may, with the consent of the city
attorney, file a petition in the circuit court of the county in which the
arrest was made to review the determination of the hearing officer as provided
in MCL 257.323.
   (9)   When it has been finally determined that a nonresident’s privilege to
operate a vehicle in the state has been suspended or denied, the department
shall give notice in writing of the action taken to the motor vehicle
administrator of the state of the person’s residence and of each state in which
he or she has a license to operate a motor vehicle.
Sec. 5.15g Confiscation and destruction of license; notification of secretary
of state.
   (1)   If a person refuses a chemical test offered pursuant to section 5.15a
(6) or submits to the chemical test or a chemical test is performed pursuant to
a court order and test reveals an unlawful alcohol content, the peace officer
who requested the person to submit to the test shall do all of the following:
      (a)   On behalf of the secretary of state, immediately confiscate the
person’s license or permit to operate a motor vehicle and, if the person is
otherwise eligible for a license or permit, issue a temporary license or permit
to the person.  The temporary license or permit shall be on a form provided by
the secretary of state.
      (b)   Except as provided in subsection (2), immediately do all of the
following:
         (i)   Forward a copy of the written report of the person’s refusal to
submit to a chemical test required under section 5.15d to the secretary of
state.
         (ii)   Notify the secretary of state by means of the law enforcement
information network that a temporary license or permit was issued to the
person.
         (iii)   Destroy the person’s driver’s license or permit.
   (2)   If a person submits to a chemical test offered pursuant to section
5.15a(6) that requires an analysis of blood or urine and a report of the
results of that chemical test is not immediately available, the peace officer
who requested the person to submit to the test shall comply with subsection (1)
(a) pending receipt of the test report.  If the report reveals an unlawful
alcohol content, the peace officer who requested the person to submit to the
test shall immediately comply with subsection (1)(b).  If the report does not
reveal an unlawful alcohol content, the peace officer who requested the person
to submit to the test shall immediately notify the person of the test results
and immediately return the person’s license or permit by first-class mail to
the address given at the time of arrest.
   (3)   A temporary license or permit issued under this section is valid for
one of the following time periods:
      (a)   If the case is not prosecuted, for 90 days after issuance or until
the person’s license or permit is suspended pursuant to section 5.15f,
whichever occurs earlier.  The City Attorney shall notify the secretary of
state if a case referred to the City Attorney is not prosecuted.  The arresting
law enforcement agency shall notify the secretary of state if a case is not
referred to the City Attorney for prosecution.
      (b)   If the case is prosecuted, until the criminal charges against the
person are dismissed, the person is acquitted of those charges, or the person’s
license or permit is suspended, restricted or revoked.
   (4)   As used in this section, “unlawful alcohol content” means any of the
following, as applicable:
      (a)   If the person tested is less than 21 years of age, 0.02 grams or
more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per
67 milliliters of urine.
      (b)   If the person tested was operating a commercial motor vehicle
within this state, 0.04 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood,
per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
      (c)   If the person tested is not a person described in subdivision (a)
or (b), 0.10 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210
liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
New Sec. 5.15h-5.151 are added and reserved.
Sec. 5.15m Commercial Motor Vehicles.
   (1)   A person, whether licensed or not, who has an alcohol content of 0.04
grams or more but not more than 0.07 grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per
210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine shall not operate a
commercial motor vehicle within the Village of Douglas.
   (2)   A peace officer may arrest a person without a warrant under either of
the following 11 circumstances:
      (a)   The peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person
was, at the time of an accident, the driver of a commercial motor vehicle
involved in the accident and was operating the vehicle in violation of this
section.
      (b)   The person is found in the driver’s seat of a commercial motor
vehicle parked or stopped on a highway or street within the Village of Douglas
if any part of the vehicle intrudes into the roadway and the peace officer has
reasonable cause to believe the person was operating the vehicle in violation
of this section.
   (3)   A person who is convicted of a violation of this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of
not more than $300.33, or both, together with costs of the prosecution.
New Sec. 5.15n-5.15y are added and reserved.
Sec. 5.15z. Tampering with court-ordered immobilized vehicle; violation as
misdemeanor.
   (1)   A person shall not remove, tamper with, or bypass or attempt to
remove, tamper with; or bypass a device that he or she knows or has reason to
know has been installed on a vehicle by court order pursuant to section 904d
(MCL 257.904d) for vehicle immobilization or attempt to operate a vehicle that
he or she knows or has reason to know has been ordered immobilized pursuant to
section 904d of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 Public Act 300, as added by
1998 Public Act 358.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine or not more than
$100.00, or both (MCL 257.904e).
Sec. 5.16. Transporting or possession of alcoholic liquor in motor vehicle by
person under 21 years of age.
   (1)   A person less than 21 years of age shall not knowingly transport or
possess alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle as an operator or occupant unless
the person is employed by a licensee under the Michigan liquor control code of
1998, 1998 PA 58, MCL 436.1101 to 436.2303, a common carrier designated by the
liquor control commission under the Michigan liquor control code of 1998. 1998
PA 58, MCL 436.1101 to 436.2303, the liquor, control commission, or an agent of
the liquor control commission and is transporting or having the alcoholic
liquor in a motor vehicle under the person’s control during regular working
hours and in the course of the person’s employment.  This section does not
prevent a person less than 21 years of age from knowingly transporting
alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle if a person at least 21 years of age is
present inside the motor vehicle.  A person who violates this subsection is
guilty of a misdemeanor.  As part of the sentence, the person may be ordered to
perform community service and undergo substance abuse screening and assessment
at his or her own expense as described in section 703(1) of the Michigan liquor
control code of 1998, 1998 PA 58, MCL 436.1703.
   (2)   Within 30 days after the conviction for a violation of subsection (1)
by the operator a motor vehicle, which conviction has become final, the
arresting law enforcement officer or the officer’s superior may make a
complaint before the court from which the warrant was issued.  The complaint
shall be under oath and shall describe the motor vehicle in which alcoholic
liquor was possessed or transported by the operator, who is less than 21 years
of age, in committing the violation and requesting that the motor vehicle be
impounded as provided in this section.  Upon the filing of the complaint, the
court shall issue to the owner of the motor vehicle an order to show cause why
the motor vehicle should not be impounded.  The order to show cause shall fix a
date and time for a hearing, which shall not be less than 10 days after the
issuance of the order.  The order shall be served by delivering a true copy to
the owner not less than three full days before the date of hearing or, if the
owner cannot be located, by sending a true copy by certified mail to the last-
known address of the owner.  If the owner is a nonresident of the state,
service may be made upon the secretary of state as provided in section 403.
   (3)   If the court determines upon the hearing of the order to show cause,
from competent and relevant evidence, that at the time of the commission of the
violation the motor vehicle was being driven by a person less than 21 years of
age with the express or implied consent or knowledge of the owner in violation
of subsection (1), and that the use of the motor vehicle is not needed by the
owner in the direct pursuit of the owner’s employment or the actual operation
of the owner’s business, the court may authorize the impounding of the vehicle
for a period of not less than 15 days or more than 30 days.  The court’s order
authorizing the impounding of the vehicle shall authorize a law enforcement
officer to take possession without other process of the motor vehicle wherever
located and to store the vehicle in a public or private garage at the expense
and risk of the owner of the vehicle.  The owner of the vehicle may appeal the
order to the circuit court and the provisions of governing the taking of
appeals from judgments for damages apply to the appeal.  This section does not
prevent a bona fide lienholder from exercising rights under a lien.
   (4)   A person who knowingly transfers title to a motor vehicle for the
purpose of avoiding this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (5)   A law enforcement agency, upon determining that a person less than 18
years of age allegedly violated this section, shall notify the parent or
parents, custodian, or guardian of the person as to the nature of the violation
if the name of a parent, guardian, or custodian is reasonably ascertainable by
the law enforcement agency.  The notice required by this subsection shall be
made not later than 48 hours after the law enforcement agency determines that
the person who allegedly violated this section is less than 18 years of age and
may be made in person, by telephone, or by first-class mail.
   (6)   As used in this section, “alcoholic liquor” means that term as defined
in section 105 of the Michigan liquor control code of 1998, 1998 PA 58, MCL
436.1105 (MCL 257.624b).
Sec. 5.16a. Purchase, consumption or possession of alcoholic liquor by person
under 21 years of age; attempts, furnishing or use of fraudulent identification
to purchase alcoholic liquor.
   (1)   A minor shall not purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor,
consume or attempt to consume alcoholic liquor, or possess or attempt to
possess alcoholic liquor, except as provided in this section.  Notwithstanding
section 909, a minor who violates this subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by the following fines and sanctions, and is not subject to the
penalties prescribed in section 909:
      (a)   For the first violation a fine of not more than $100.00, and may be
ordered to participate in substance abuse prevention or substance abuse
treatment and rehabilitation services as defined in section 6107 of the Public
Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.6107, and designated by the administrator of
substance abuse services, and may be ordered to perform community service and
to undergo substance abuse screening and assessment at his or her own expense
as described in subsection (3).
   (b)   For a violation of this subsection following a prior violation of this
subsection or section 33b(1) of former 1933 (Ex Sess) PA 8, a fine of not more
than $200.00, and may be ordered to participate in substance abuse prevention
or substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation services as defined in section
6107 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.6107, and designated by
the administrator of substance abuse services, to perform community service,
and to undergo substance abuse screening and assessment at his or her own
expense as described in subsection (3).
   (c)   For a violation of this subsection following two or more prior
violations of this subsection or section 33b(1) of former 1933 (Ex Sess) PA 8,
a fine of not more than 5530.00, and may be ordered to participate in substance
abuse prevention or substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation services as
defined in section 6107 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCI, 333.6107,
and designated by the administrator of substance abuse services, to perform
community service, and to undergo substance abuse screening and assessment at
his or her own expense as described in subsection (3).
   (2)   A person who furnishes fraudulent identification to a minor, or
notwithstanding subsection (1) a minor who uses fraudulent identification to
purchase alcoholic liquor, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $100.00, or
both.
   (3)   The court may order the person convicted of violating subsection (1)
to undergo screening and assessment by a person or agency as designated by the
substance abuse coordinating agency as defined in section 6103 of the Public
Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.6103, in order to determine whether the
person is likely to benefit from rehabilitative services, including alcohol or
drug education and alcohol or drug treatment programs.
   (4)   The secretary of state shall suspend the operator’s or chauffeur’s
license of an individual convicted of violating subsection (1) or (2) as
provided in section 319 of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, MCL 257.319.
   (5)   A peace officer who has reasonable cause to believe a minor has
consumed alcoholic liquor may require the person to submit to a preliminary
chemical breath analysis.  A peace officer may arrest a person based in whole
or in part upon the results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis.  The
results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis or other acceptable blood
alcohol test are admissible in a criminal prosecution to determine whether the
minor has consumed or possessed alcoholic liquor.  A minor who refuses to
submit to a preliminary chemical breath, test analysis as required in this
subsection is responsible for a state civil infraction and may be ordered to
pay a civil fine of not more than $100.00.
   (6)   A law enforcement agency, upon determining that a person less than 18
years of age who is not emancipated pursuant to 1968 PA 293, MCL 722.1 to 722.6
allegedly consumed, possessed, purchased, or attempted to consume, possess, or
purchase alcoholic liquor in violation of subsection (1) shall notify the
parent or parents, custodian or guardian of person as to the nature of the
violation if the name of a parent, guardian or custodian is reasonably
ascertainable by the law enforcement agency.  The notice required by this
subsection shall be made not later than 48 hours after the law enforcement
agency determines that the person who allegedly violated subsection (1) is less
than 18 years of age and not emancipated under 1968 PA 293, MCL 722.1 to
722.6.  The notice may be made by any means reasonably calculated to give
prompt actual notice including, but not limited to, notice in person, by
telephone, or by first-class mail.  If an individual less than 17 years of age
is incarcerated for violating subsection (1), his or her parents or legal
guardian shall be notified immediately as provided in this subsection.
   (7)   This section does not prohibit a minor from possessing alcoholic
liquor during regular working hours and in the course of his or her employment
if employed by a person licensed by the act, by the commission, or by an agent
of the commission, if the alcoholic liquor is not possessed for his or her
personal consumption.
   (8)   This section does not limit the civil or criminal liability of the
vendor or the vendor’s clerk, servant, agent, or employee for a violation of
this act.
   (9)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by a minor who is enrolled in a
course offered by an accredited postsecondary educational institution in an
academic building of the institution under the supervision of a faculty member
is not prohibited by this act if the purpose of the consumption is solely
educational and is a requirement of the course.
   (10)   The consumption by a minor of sacramental wine in connection with
religious services at a church, synagogue, or temple is not prohibited by this
act.
   (11)   Subsection (1) does not apply to a minor who participates in either
or both of the following:
      (a)   An undercover operation in which the minor purchases or receives
alcoholic liquor under the direction of the person’s employer and with the
prior approval of the local prosecutor’s office as a part of an employer-
sponsored internal enforcement action.
      (b)   An undercover operation in which the minor purchases or receives
alcoholic liquor under the direction of the state police, the commission, or a
local police agency as part of an enforcement action unless the initial or
contemporaneous purchase or receipt of alcoholic liquor by the minor was not
under the direction of the state police, the commission, or the local police
agency and was not part of the undercover operation.
   (12)   The state police, the commission, or a local police agency shall not
recruit or attempt to recruit a minor for participation in an undercover
operation at the scene of a violation of subsection (1), section 80(2) or
section 701(1).
   (13)   As used in this section:
      (a)   “Probate court disposition” means an order of disposition of the
probate court or the family division of the circuit court for a child found to
be within the provisions of Chapter XIIA of 1939 PA 288, MCL 712A.1 to 712A.32.
      (b)   “Work location” means, as applicable, either the specific place or
places of employment, or the territory or territories regularly visited by the
person in pursuance of the person’s occupation, or both (MCL 436.1703).
Sec. 5.16b. Transportation or possession of alcoholic liquor in container open
or uncapped or upon which seal broken; violation as misdemeanor; exception.
   (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2), a person who is an operator or
occupant shall not transport or possess alcoholic liquor in a container that is
open or uncapped or upon which the seal is broken within the passenger
compartment of a vehicle upon a highway, or within the passenger compartment of
a moving vehicle in any place open to the general public or generally
accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of
vehicles, in the Village of Douglas.
   (2)   A person may transport or possess alcoholic liquor in a container that
is open or uncapped or upon which the seal is broken within the passenger
compartment of a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles in the Village of Douglas, if the vehicle does not
have a trunk or compartment separate from the passenger compartment, the
container is enclosed or encased, and the container is not readily accessible
to the occupants of the vehicle.
   (3)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.  As
part of the sentence, the person may be ordered to perform community service
and undergo substance abuse screening and assessment at his or her own expense
as described in section 703(1) of the Michigan Liquor Control Code of 1998,
1998 PA 58, MCL 436.1703.  A court shall not accept a plea of guilty or nolo
contendere for a violation of this section from a person charged solely with a
violation of section 515(4).
   (4)   This section does not apply to a passenger in a chartered vehicle
authorized to operate by the state transportation department.
Sec. 5.16c. Consumption of liquor prohibited on public highways and other
public places.
   (1)   Alcoholic liquor shall not be consumed on the public highways.
   (2)   Alcoholic liquor shall not be possessed or consumed in public parks,
public places of amusement, or a publicly owned area (an area under the
jurisdiction of the township) not licensed to sell for consumption on the
premises, except as may be specifically allowed by other ordinance, order, or
resolution of the Township Board (MCL 436.34).
   (3)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
Sec. 5.16d Transport or possession of alcoholic liquor by person less than 21
years of age.
   (1)   A person less than 21 years of age shall not knowingly transport or
possess alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle as an operator or occupant unless
the person is employed by a licensee under the Michigan Liquor Control Code of
1098, 1998 PA 58, MCL 436.1101 to 436.2303, a common carrier designated by the
Liquor Control Commission under the Michigan Liquor Control Code of 1998, 1998
PA 58, MCL 436.1101 to 436.2303, the Liquor Control Commission, or an agent of
the Liquor Control Commission and is transporting or having the alcoholic
liquor in a motor vehicle under the person’s control during regular working
hours and in the course of the person’s employment.  This section does not
prevent a person less than 21 years of age from knowingly transporting
alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle if a person at least 21 years of age is
present inside the motor vehicle.  A person who violates this subsection is
guilty of a misdemeanor.  As part of the sentence, the person may be ordered to
perform community service and undergo substance abuse screening and assessment
at his or her own expense as described in section 703(1) of the Michigan Liquor
Control Code of 1998, 1998 PA 58, MCL 436.1703.
   (2)   Within 30 days after the conviction for a violation of subsection (1)
by the operator of a motor vehicle, which conviction has become final, the
arresting law enforcement officer or the officer’s superior may make a
complaint before the court from which the warrant was issued.  The complaint
shall be under oath and shall describe the motor vehicle in which alcoholic
liquor was possessed or transported by the operator, who is less than 21 years
of age, in committing the violation and requesting that the motor vehicle be
impounded as provided in this section.  Upon the filing of the complaint, the
court shall issue to the owner of the motor vehicle an order to show cause why
the motor vehicle should not be impounded.  The order to show cause shall fix a
date and time for a hearing, which shall not be less than 10 days after the
issuance of the order.  The order shall be served by delivering a true copy to
the owner not less than 3 full days before the date of hearing or, if the owner
cannot be located, by sending a true copy by certified mail to the last known
address of the owner.  If the owner is a nonresident of the state, service may
be made upon the secretary of state as provided in MCL 257.403.
   (3)   If the court determines upon the hearing of the order to show cause,
from competent and relevant evidence, that at the time of the commission of the
violation the motor vehicle was being driven by the person less than 21 years
of age with the express or implied consent or knowledge of the owner in
violation of subsection (1), and that the use of the motor vehicle is not
needed by the owner in the direct pursuit of the owner’s employment or the
actual operation of the owner’s business, the court may authorize the
impounding of the vehicle for a period of not less than 15 days or more than 30
days.  The court’s order authorizing the impounding of the vehicle shall
authorize a law enforcement officer to take possession without other process of
the motor vehicle wherever located and to store the vehicle in a public or
private garage at the expense and risk of the owner of the vehicle.  The owner
of the vehicle may appeal the order to the circuit court and the provisions
governing the taking of appeals from judgments for damages apply to the
appeal.  This section does not prevent a bona fide lienholder from exercising
rights under a lien.
   (4)   A person who knowingly transfers title to a motor vehicle for the
purpose of avoiding this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (5)   A law enforcement agency, upon determining that a person less than 18
years of age allegedly violated this section, shall notify the parent or
parents, custodian, or guardian of the person as to the nature of the violation
if the name of a parent, guardian, or custodian is reasonably ascertainable by
the law enforcement agency.  The notice required by this subsection shall be
made not later than 48 hours after the law enforcement agency determines that
the person who allegedly violated this section is less than 18 years of age and
may be made in person, by telephone, or by first-class mail.
   (6)   As used in this section, “alcoholic liquor” means that term as defined
in section 105 of the Michigan Liquor Control Code of 1998, 1998 PA 58, MCL
436.1105.
Sec. 5.26a. Driving in a left turn only lane; violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   On streets where a center lane is clearly indicated by signs as being
reserved for the exclusive use of vehicles desiring to turn left, it shall be
unlawful to make such a left turn movement from any other lane, and it shall be
further unlawful for any vehicle to enter such lane except to make such a left
turn movement and then only within the block immediately preceding the
intersection at which the turn is made; provided that this section shall not
prohibit a left turn movement from this lane to a driveway, when such turn can
be made in safety and without interfering with the vehicles lawfully in such
lane to make an intersection turn.  Provided further that such vehicles shall
enter the left turn lane only in the block in which the left turn is to be
made.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 5.31a. Required position and method of turning from a roadway at other
than an intersection; violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   Turns from a roadway at other than an intersection, where lawful,
shall be made in the same manner and from the same lane as specified in section
5.31 for turns at an intersection.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 5.51. Boarding or alighting from vehicles; hitching to vehicles; violation
as civil infraction.
   (1)   No person shall board or alight from any vehicle while such vehicle is
in motion.  No person shall climb onto or hitch on any moving vehicle with or
without operator’s consent and no operator shall knowingly permit such action.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 5.54. Splashing prohibited; violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   No driver of a motor vehicle shall operate his vehicle in such manner
as to splash snow, water, mud, dirt, or debris on any person lawfully upon the
street or highway nor to operate his vehicle in such manner as to splash or
throw mud, dirt, gravel, or debris upon any other automobile.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 5.57a. Vehicle operation causing litter; violation as misdemeanor.
   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to drive or move any vehicle or
truck within the city, the wheels or tires of which are carrying onto or
depositing in any street, alley or public place mud, dirt, clay, sticky
substances, litter or, foreign matter of any kind, unless such person violating
this section shall remove such material immediately from the street, alley or
other public place.
   (2)   The violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
Sec. 5.60a. Riding outside of confines of a moving vehicle; violation as civil
infraction.
   (1)   No person shall ride in or operate any motor vehicle unless all
portions of such person s body are entirely within that portion of the vehicle
designed for the carrying of passengers or merchandise or as otherwise
permitted by this Code; provided, however, that this section does not apply to
any person whose employment makes it necessary to ride otherwise.
   (2)   It shall be unlawful for the operator of a vehicle to allow any person
to ride in the same motor vehicle unless all portions of such person’s body are
entirely within that portion of the vehicle designed for the carrying of
passengers or merchandise; provided, however, that this section does not apply
to the operator of a motor vehicle whose business makes it necessary to ride
otherwise.
   (3)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 5.62a Operating vehicle if license, registration certificate, or
designation suspended, revoked, or denied; penalty.
   (1)   A person whose operator’s or chauffeur’s license or registration
certificate has been suspended or revoked and who has been notified as provided
in MCL 257.212 of that suspension or revocation, whose application for license
has been denied, or who has never applied for a license, shall not operate a
motor vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general public or
generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of motor vehicles, within the Village of Douglas.
   (2)   A person shall not knowingly permit a motor vehicle owned by the
person to be operated upon a highway or other place open to the general public
or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles, within the Village of Douglas by a person whose license or
registration certificate is suspended or revoked, whose application for license
has been denied, or who has never applied for a license, except as permitted by
this section.
   (3)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, a person who violates
subsection (1) or (2) is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable as follows:  For a
first violation, by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of not
more than $500, or both.  Unless the vehicle was stolen or used with the
permission of a person who did not knowingly permit an unlicensed driver to
operate the vehicle, the registration plates of the vehicle shall be canceled
by the secretary of state upon notification by a peace officer.
   (4)   Before a person is arraigned before a district court magistrate or
judge on a charge of violating this section, the arresting officer shall obtain
the person’s driving record from the secretary of state and shall furnish the
record to the court.  The driving record of the person may be obtained from the
secretary of state’s computer information network.
   (5)   This section does not apply to a person who operates a vehicle solely
for the purpose of protecting human life or property if the life or property is
endangered and summoning prompt aid is essential.
   (6)   A person whose vehicle group designation is suspended or revoked and
who has been notified as provided in MCL 257.212 of that suspension or
revocation, or whose application for a vehicle group designation has been
denied as provided in this section, or who has never applied for a vehicle
group designation and who operates a commercial motor vehicle within this
state, except as permitted under this act, while any of those conditions
existing is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable, except as otherwise provided in
this section, by imprisonment for not more than 3 days or less than 93 days or
a fine of not more than $100, or both.
   (7)   This section does not apply to a person who has one currently
effective suspension or denial on his or her Michigan driving record under MCL
257.321a and has never been convicted of or received a civil infraction
determination for a violation that occurred during that suspension or denial.
   (8)   For purposes of this section, a person who never applied for a license
includes a person who applied for a license, was denied, and never applied
again.
Sec. 5.62b Vehicle Immobilization Required; Duties of Police Officer; Validity
of Temporary Vehicle Registration; Duration.
   (1)   When a peace officer detains the driver of a motor vehicle for a
violation of an ordinance for which vehicle immobilization is required, the
peace officer shall do all of the following:
      (a)   Immediately confiscate the vehicle’s registration plate and destroy
it.
      (b)   Issue a temporary vehicle registration plate for the vehicle in the
same form prescribed by the secretary of state for temporary registration
plates issued under MCL 257.226a or .226b.
      (c)   Place the temporary vehicle registration plate on the vehicle in
the manner required by the secretary of state.
      (d)   Notify the secretary of state through the law enforcement
information network in a form prescribed by the secretary of state that the
registration plate was confiscated and destroyed, and a temporary plate was
issued.
   (2)   A temporary vehicle registration plate issued under this section is
valid until the charges against the person are dismissed, the person pleads
guilty or nolo contendere to those charges, or the person is found guilty of or
is acquitted of those charges.
Sec. 5.62c Vehicle immobilization; manner; storage; removal.
   (1)   A court shall order a vehicle immobilized under MCL 257.904d by the
use of any available technology approved by the court that locks the ignition,
wheels, or steering of the vehicle or otherwise prevents any person from
operating the vehicle or that prevents the defendant from operating the
vehicle.  If a vehicle is immobilized under this section, the court may order
the vehicle stored at a location and in a manner considered appropriate by the
court.  The court may order the person convicted of violating section 5.15 or a
suspension, revocation, or denial under section 5.62a to pay the cost of
immobilizing and storing the vehicle.
   (2)   A vehicle subject to immobilization under this section may be sold
during the period of immobilization, but shall not be sold to a person who is
exempt from paying a use tax under section 3(3)(a) of the use tax act, 1937 PA
94, MCL 205.93 without a court order.
   (3)   A defendant who is prohibited from operating a motor vehicle by
vehicle immobilization shall not purchase, lease, or otherwise obtain a motor
vehicle during this immobilization period.
   (4)   A person shall not remove, tamper with, or bypass or attempt to
remove, tamper with, or bypass a device that he or she knows or has reason to
know has been installed on a vehicle by court order by vehicle immobilization
or operate or attempt to operate a vehicle that he or she knows or has reason
to know has been ordered immobilized.
   (5)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor
punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of not more than
$100.00, or both.
   (6)   To the extent that any provision herein regarding the storage or
removal of vehicles conflicts with an order of immobilization issued by the
court, the ordinance is preempted.
   (7)   If a peace officer stops a vehicle that is being operated in violation
of an immobilization order, the vehicle shall be impounded, pending an order of
a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (8)   The court shall require the defendant or a person who provides
immobilization services to the court under this section to certify that a
vehicle ordered immobilized by the court is immobilized as required.
Sec. 5.63. Possession and display of license; violation as misdemeanor.
   (1)   Every driver shall have his operator’s or chauffeur’s license, or the
receipt described in section 311a of the act (MCL 257.311a, MSA 9.2011(1)), in
his immediate possession at all times when operating a motor vehicle and shall
display the license on demand of any police officer, who shall identify himself
as such.
   (2)   The violation of this section is punishable as a misdemeanor.
Sec. 5.66a. Misrepresentation of identity to police officer.
   (1)   A person shall not furnish to a peace officer false, forged,
fictitious, or misleading verbal or written information identifying the person
as another person, if the person is detailed for a violation of the Act or of a
local ordinance substantially corresponding to a provision of the Act.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. 
Further, upon conviction for a violation of this section, the secretary of
state shall suspend the license of an operator or chauffeur for 90 days.  A
second violation within a period of seven years shall result in a suspension
for one year.
Sec. 5.66b. False or fictitious license application.
   (1)   A person shall not use a false or fictitious name or give a false or
fictitious address in an application for an operator’s or Chauffeur’s license,
or any renewal or duplicate of an operator’s or chauffeur’s license, or
knowingly make a false statement or knowingly conceal a material fact or
otherwise commit a fraud in making an application.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor. 
Further, upon conviction for a violation of this section, the secretary of
state shall suspend the license of an operator or chauffeur for 90 days.  A
second violation within a period of seven years shall result in a suspension
for one year (MCLA 257.324).
Sec. 5.70a. Change of address; notice; violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   If a person, after making application for or obtaining the
registration of a vehicle or certificate of title, moves from the address named
in the application as shown on a registration certificate or certificate of
title, the person, within ten days after moving, shall notify the secretary of
state in writing of the old and new addresses.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 5.70b. Operation of vehicle by nonresident owner without registration,
commercial vehicle, pleasure vehicle; nonresidents carrying on business within
state.
   (1)   A nonresident owner, except as otherwise provided in this section,
owning any foreign vehicle of a type otherwise subjected to registration
hereunder may operate or permit the operation of such vehicle within this state
without registering such vehicle in, or paying any fees to, this state subject
to the condition that such vehicle at all times when operated in this state is
duly registered in, and displays upon it a valid registration certificate and
registration plate or plates issued for such vehicle in the place of residence
of such owner.
   (2)   A nonresident owner of a foreign vehicle operated within this state
for the transportation of persons or property for compensation, shall register
such vehicle and pay the same fees therefore as is required with reference to
like vehicles owned by residents of this state, except that the department may
issue to the nonresident owners a temporary permit authorizing the operation of
the foreign vehicle within this state for a period of ten days, without
registering the vehicle, on the payment of a fee as provided in section 802a of
the Act.  The temporary permit may be in such form as prescribed by, and shall
be displayed on such foreign vehicle in a manner determined by the secretary of
state.
   (3)   A nonresident owner of a pleasure vehicle otherwise subject to
registration under the Act shall not operate the same for a period exceeding 90
days without securing registration in this state.
   (4)   Every nonresident, including any foreign corporation carrying on
business within this state and owning and operating in such business any
vehicle subject to registration as provided in Chapter II of the Act, shall be
required to register each such vehicle and pay the same fee therefore as is
required with reference to like vehicles owned by residents of this state,
except as otherwise provided by law.
   (5)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor (MCL
257.243).
Sec. 5.70c. Producing evidence of vehicle insurance upon request of police
officer.
   (1)   The owner of a motor vehicle who operates or permits the operation of
the motor vehicle upon the highways of this state or the operator of the motor
vehicle shall produce, pursuant to subsection (2), upon the request of a police
officer, evidence that the motor vehicle is insured under Chapter 31 of Act No.
218 of the Public Acts of 1956, as amended, being sections 500.3101 to 500.3179
of the Michigan Complied Laws.
   (2)   An owner or operator of a motor vehicle who fails to produce evidence
under subsection (1) when requested to produce that evidence is responsible for
a civil infraction.
   (3)   A certificate of insurance, if issued by an insurance company, which
certificate states that security which meets the requirements of section 3101
and 3102 of Act No. 218 of the Public Acts of 1956, as amended, being section
500.3101 and 500.3102 of the Michigan Compiled Laws, is in force shall be
accepted as prima facie evidence that insurance is in force for the motor
vehicle described in the certificate of insurance until the expiration date
shown on the certificate.  The certificate, in addition to describing the motor
vehicles for which insurance is in effect, shall state the name of each person
named on the policy, policy declaration, or a declaration certificate whose
operation of the vehicle would cause the liability coverage of that insurance
to become void.
   (4)   If an owner of a motor vehicle is determined to be responsible for a
violation of subsection (1), the court in which the civil infraction
determination is entered may require the person to surrender his or her
operator’s or chauffeur’s license unless proof that the vehicle has insurance
meeting the requirements of section 3102 of Act. No. 218 of the Public Acts of
1956, as amended, is submitted to the court.  If the court requires the license
to be surrendered, the court shall order the secretary of state to suspend the
person’s license and shall forward the surrendered license and a certificate of
civil infraction to the secretary of state.  Upon receipt of the certificate of
civil infraction and the surrendered license, the secretary of state shall
suspend the person’s license beginning with the date on which a person is
determined to be responsible for the civil infraction for a period of 30 days
or until proof of insurance which meets the requirements of section 3102 of Act
No. 218
of the Public Acts of 1956, as amended, is submitted to the secretary of state,
whichever occurs later.  If the license is not forwarded, an explanation of the
reason why it is not forwarded shall be attached.  A person who submits proof
of insurance to the secretary of state under this subsection shall pay a
service fee of $10.00 to the secretary of state.  The person shall not be
required to be examined as set forth in section 320c of the Act.
   (5)   An owner or operator of a motor vehicle who knowingly produces false
evidence under this section is guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or a fine of not more than $50.00, or
both.
   (6)   Points shall not be entered on a driver’s record pursuant to section
320a of the Act for a violation of this section.
   (7)   This section does not apply to the owner or operator of a motor
vehicle that is registered in a state other than this state or a foreign
country or province (MCL 257.318).
Sec. 5.70d. Operation of a vehicle without security.
   (1)   An owner or registrant of a motor vehicle or motorcycle with respect
to which security is required shall not operate the motor vehicle or motorcycle
or permit it to be operated upon a public highway in this state without having
in full force and effect security complying with this section 3101 or 3103 of
the Act.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.  Any
other person who operates a motor vehicle or motorcycle upon a public highway
in this state with the knowledge that the owner or registrant does not have
security in full force and effect is guilty of a misdemeanor.  A person
convicted of a misdemeanor under this section shall be fined not less than
$200.00 nor more than $500.00, imprisoned for not more than 90 days, or both.
   (3)   A nonresident owner or registrant of a motor vehicle or motorcycle not
registered in this state shall not operate or permit the motor vehicle or
motorcycle to be operated in this state for an aggregate of more than 30 days
in any calendar year unless he or she continuously maintains security for the
payment of benefits pursuant to Chapter 31 of 1956 Public Act 218, as amended
(MCL 500.3102).
Sec. 5.76. Cowl or fender lamps; running board, courtesy lamps; backing lights;
lamps or reflectors; flashing, rotating or oscillating lights; warning lamps;
violation as civil infraction or misdemeanor.
   (1)   A motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than two (2) side cowl
or fender lamps which shall emit an amber or white light without glare.
   (2)   A motor vehicle may be equipped with not more than one (1) running
board courtesy lamp on each side which shall emit a white or amber light
without glare.
   (3)   Backing lights of red, amber or white may be mounted on the rear of a
motor vehicle if the switch controlling the light is so arranged that the light
may be turned on only if the vehicle is in reverse gear.  The backing, lights
when unlighted shall be covered or otherwise arranged so as not to reflect
objectionable glare in the eyes of a driver of a vehicle approaching from the
rear.
   (4)   A lamp or reflector on a vehicle, other than those expressly required
or permitted by this code, if visible from the front, shall display or, reflect
a white or amber light; if visible from either side, shall display or reflect
an amber or red light; and if visible from the rear, shall display or reflect a
red light, except as otherwise provided by law.
   (5)   The use or possession of flashing, oscillating or rotating red, blue
or amber lights is prohibited except under the following circumstances:
      (a)   A police vehicle shall be equipped with flashing, rotating or
oscillating rd or blue lights, for use in the performance of police duties.
      (b)   A fire vehicle or ambulance available for public use or for use of
the United States, the state, or any unit of the state, whether publicly or
privately owned, shall be equipped with flashing, rotating or oscillating red
lights and used as required for safety.
      (c)   A school bus shall be equipped with flashing red lights which shall
be actuated by the driver only when the school bus is stopped or stopping on a
highway pursuant to section 682 of the act (MCL 257.682, MSA 9.2382).  A school
bus may also be equipped with a flashing, oscillating or rotating light mounted
on the roof of the bus approximately six (6) feet from the rear of the vehicle
which displays a white light to the front, side and rear of the bus, which
light may be actuated by the driver for use only in inclement weather such as
fog, rain or snow, or when the school bus is stopped or stopping on a highway
pursuant to section 682 (MCL 257.682, MSA 9.2382), or where conditions hinder
the visibility of the school bus.
      (d)   If authorized by the department of state police, a private motor
vehicle owned by a volunteer or paid firefighter, a volunteer ambulance driver,
or a licensed ambulance driver or attendant, or an emergency support vehicle
used exclusively for emergencies and owned and operated by a federally
recognized nonprofit charitable organization may be equipped with flashing,
rotating or oscillating red lights for use when responding to an emergency call
if when in use he flashing, rotating or oscillating red lights are mounted on
the roof section of the vehicle, either as a permanent installation or by means
of suction cups or magnets and are clearly visible in a three-hundred-sixty-
degree arc from a distance of five hundred (500) feet when in use.  A person
operating lights governed by this subdivision, at any time other than when
responding to an emergency call, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (e)   Flashing, rotating or oscillating amber lights, placed in a
position as to be .visible throughout an arc of three hundred sixty (360)
degrees, shall be used by a state, county or municipal vehicle engaged in the
removal of ice, snow or other material from the highway and in other operations
designed to control ice and snow.
      (f)   A vehicle used to perform public utility service, an automobile
service car or wrecker, a vehicle engaged in authorized highway repair or
maintenance, a vehicle of a police officer, a vehicle operated by a rural
letter carrier, a vehicle utilized for snow removal, a private security guard
vehicle as authorized in subsection (7), or a farm tractor may be equipped with
flashing, rotating or oscillating amber lights.  However, a wrecker may be
equipped with flashing, rotating or oscillating red lights which shall be
activated only when the wrecker is engaged in removing or assisting a vehicle
at the scene of a traffic accident or disablement.  The flashing, rotating or
oscillating amber lights shall not be activated except in those circumstances
that the warning produced by the lights is required for public safety.
      (g)   A police vehicle, an ambulance or a fire vehicle may display a
flashing, rotating or oscillating white light in conjunction with an authorized
emergency light as prescribed in this section.
      (h)   A private motor vehicle of a physician responding to an emergency
call may be equipped with and the physician may use flashing, rotating or
oscillating red lights mounted on the roof section of the vehicle either as a
permanent installation or by means of magnets or section cups and clearly
visible in a three-hundred-sixty-degree arc from a distance of five hundred
(500) feet when in use.  The physician shall first obtain written authorization
from the county sheriff.
      (i)   A person engaged in the manufacture, sale or repair of flashing,
rotating or oscillating lights governed by this subdivision may possess the
lights for the purpose of employment, but shall not activate the lights upon
the highway unless authorized to do so under subsection (6).
   (6)   A person shall not sell, loan or otherwise furnish a flashing,
rotating or oscillating blue or red light designed primarily for installation
on an authorized emergency vehicle to a person except a police officer,
sheriff, deputy sheriff, authorized physician, volunteer or paid firefighter,
volunteer ambulance driver, licensed ambulance driver or attendant of the
state, a county or municipality within the state, a person engaged in the
business of operating an ambulance or wrecker service, or a federally
recognized nonprofit charitable organization which owns and operates an
emergency support vehicle used exclusively for emergencies.  This subsection
does not prohibit an authorized vehicle, equipped with flashing, rotating or
oscillating blue or red lights, from being operated by a person other than a
person described in this section if the person receives authorization to
operate the emergency vehicle from a police officer, sheriff, deputy sheriff,
authorized physician, volunteer or paid firefighter, volunteer ambulance
driver, licensed ambulance driver or attendant, a person operating an ambulance
or wrecker service, or a federally recognized nonprofit charitable organization
which owns and operates an emergency support vehicle used exclusively for
emergencies, except that the authorization shall not permit the person to
operate lights as described in subsection (5)(a), (b), (d), (g) or (h), or to
exercise the privileges described in section 3.7.  A person who operates an
authorized emergency vehicle in violation of the terms of an authorization is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (7)   A private motor vehicle of a security guard agency or alarm company
licensed pursuant to Act No. 330 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1968 (MCL
338.105(1) et seq., MSA 18.185(1) et seq.), as amended, may display flashing,
rotating or oscillating amber lights.  The flashing, rotating or oscillating
amber lights shall not be activated on a public highway when a vehicle is in
motion.
   (8)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit, restrict or limit the
use of lights authorized or required under sections 697, 697a, and 698a of the
act (MCL 257.697, 257.697a and 257.698a, MSA 9.2397, 9.2397(1) and 9.2398(1)),
as amended.
   (9)   A person who violates subsection (1), (2), (3) or (4) is responsible
for a civil infraction.
Sec. 5.81. Windshield; obstructions; cleaning devices; wipers; additional
equipment violations as civil infraction.
   No person shall drive any motor vehicle with the window so damaged or with
any sign, poster, or other nontransparent material upon the front windshield,
side wings or side or rear windows of such vehicle so as to obstruct the
driver’s clear view of the street, or any intersecting street, or with any
dangling ornament or other suspended object, except as authorized by law, which
in any way obstructs the vision of the driver of the vehicle.  No person shall
drive any motor vehicle without first removing snow, ice, or frost from the
front windshield or side or rear windows of such vehicle.
Sec. 5.82. Mandatory child restraints; violation or civil infraction.
   (1)   Except as provided in this section, or as otherwise provided by law, a
rule promulgated pursuant to Act No. 306 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1969
(MCL 24.201 et seq., MSA 3.560(101) et seq), as amended, or federal regulation,
each driver transporting a child in a motor vehicle shall properly secure each
child in a child restraint system as follows:
      (a)   Any child less than one (1) year of age in a child restraint system
which meets the standards prescribed in 49 C.F.R. 571.213.
      (b)   Any child one (1) year of age or more but less than four (4) years
of age, when transported in the front seat, in a child restraint system which
meets the standards prescribed in 49 C.FR. 571.213.
      (c)   Any child one (1) year of age or more but less than four (4) years
of age, when transported in the rear seat, in a child restraint system which
meets the standards prescribed in 49 C.F.R. 571.213, unless the child is
secured by a safety belt provided in the motor vehicle.
   (2)   This section does not apply to a nonresident driver transporting a
child in this state or to any child being nursed.
   (3)   This section does not apply if the motor vehicle being driven is a
bus, school bus, taxicab, moped, motorcycle, or other motor vehicle not
required to be equipped with safety belts under section 710b of the act (MCL
257.710b, MSA 9.2410(2)) or federal law or regulations.
   (4)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
   (5)   Points shall not be assessed for a violation of this section.
   (6)   The secretary of state may exempt by rules promulgated pursuant to Act
No. 306 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1969 (MCL 24.201 et seq., MSA 3.560
(101) et seq.), as amended, a class of children from the requirements of this
section, if the secretary of state determines that the use of the child
restraint system required under subsection (1) is impractical because of
physical unfitness, a medical problem, or body size.  The secretary of state
may specify alternate means of protection for children exempted under this
subsection.
Sec. 5.83. Safety belts; exceptions; requirements.
   (1)   This section shall not apply to a driver or passenger of:
      (a)   A motor vehicle manufactured before January 1, 1965.
      (b)   A bus.
      (c)   A motorcycle.
      (d)   A moped.
      (e)   A motor vehicle if the driver or passenger possesses a written
verification from a physician that the driver or passenger is unable to wear a
safety belt for physical or medical reasons.
      (f)   A motor vehicle which is not required to be equipped with safety
belts under federal law.
      (g)   A commercial or United States Postal Service vehicle which makes
frequent stops for the purpose of pickup or delivery of goods or services.
      (h)   A motor vehicle operated by a rural carrier of the United States
Postal Service while serving his rural postal route.
   (2)   This section shall not apply to a passenger of a school bus.
   (3)   Each driver and front seat passenger of a motor vehicle operated on a
street or highway in this city shall wear a properly adjusted and fastened seat
belt, except that a child less than four (4) years of age shall be protected as
required in section 5.82.  Each driver of a motor vehicle transporting a child
four (4) years of age or more but less than sixteen (16) years of age in the
front seat of the motor vehicle shall secure the child in a properly adjusted
and fastened safety belt.
   (4)   Enforcement of this section by law enforcement agencies shall be
accomplished only as a secondary action when a driver of a motor vehicle has
been detained for a suspected violation of another section of the act.
   (5)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
   (6)   Points shall not be assessed for a violation of this section.
   (7)   This section shall not apply after April 1, 1989, if, on that date or
anytime thereafter, the United States government requires the installation of
passive passenger restraints in new automobiles, whether that requirement is by
statute, administrative rule, court decision, or in, any other way.
Sec. 5.97. School buses; signs; overtaking, meeting, or passing; violation as
misdemeanor; discharge of passengers; signal lights; mirror; evidence of
violation; violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   A school bus shall be painted and shall contain signs on the back and
front of the school bus, as approved by the state transportation department and
the superintendent of public instruction.
   (2)   The driver of a vehicle that overtakes or meets a school bus which has
stopped and which is displaying two (2) alternately flashing red lights located
at the same level shall bring the vehicle to a full stop not less than twenty
(20) feet from the school bus and shall not proceed until the school bus
resumes motion or the visual signals are no longer actuated.  The driver of the
school bus, before resuming motion, shall deactivate flashing lights, shall
permit stopped traffic to proceed, and shall, when resuming motion, proceed in
a manner that will allow congested traffic to disperse by keeping the bus as
near to the right side of the road as can be done with safety.
   (3)   Passengers who cross a road upon being discharged from a school bus
shall cross in front of the stopped school bus.
   (4)   At an intersection where traffic is controlled by an officer or a
traffic stop-and-go signal, a vehicle need not be brought to a full stop before
passing a stopped school bus, but may proceed past the school bus at a speed
not greater than is reasonable and proper, but not more than ten (10) miles an
hour, and shall proceed with due caution for the safety of passengers being
received or discharged from the school bus.
   (5)   This section shall be enforceable if signs giving notice of the local
traffic regulations are posted on or at the entrance to the area, or part of
the area, affected as may be most appropriate or sufficiently legible as to be
seen by an ordinarily observant person.
   (6)   The driver of a vehicle who fails to stop for a school bus as required
by subsections (2) to (5), who passes a school bus in violation of subsections
(2) to (5) is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (7)   A school bus driver shall not stop the bus for the purpose of
receiving or discharging passengers unless the bus is completely visible in its
stopped position to approaching or overtaking drivers of vehicles for a
distance of at least four hundred (400) feet.
   (8)   The driver of a vehicle on a highway that has been divided into two
(2) roadways by leaving, an intervening space, by a physical barrier, or by
clearly indicated dividing sections constructed so as to impede vehicular
traffic need not stop upon meeting a school bus which has stopped across the
dividing space, barrier or section.
   (9)   A school bus, in addition to other equipment and distinctive marking
required by law, shall be equipped with signal lamps mounted as high and as
widely spaced laterally as practicable.  The lamps shall be capable of
displaying to the front two (2) alternately flashing red lights located at the
same level and to the rear two (2) alternately flashing red lights located at
the same level.  The lights shall have sufficient intensity to be visible from
a distance of not less than five hundred (500) feet in normal sunlight and
shall be actuated by the driver of the school bus when, but only when, the
vehicle is stopped and for a distance of not less than two hundred (200) feet
in advance of a stop for the purpose of receiving or discharging school-
children.
   (10)   A school bus shall be equipped with a mirror, convex in shape, which
is not less than seven and one-half (71/2) inches in diameter and which is
firmly mounted at hood or fender top height in front of the bus.  The mirror
shall be located on either the left or right side of the bus in a manner so
that the seated driver may observe the road from the front bumper forward to
the point where direct observation is possible.
   (11)   In a proceeding for a violation of subsection (2), proof that the
particular vehicle described in the citation, complaint or warrant was in
violation of subsection (2), together with proof that the defendant named in
the citation, complaint or warrant was, at the time of the violation, the
registered owner of the vehicle, shall constitute in evidence a presumption
that the registered owner of the vehicle was the driver of the vehicle at the
time of the violation.
   (12)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (2), a person who violates
this section is responsible for a civil infraction.  A violation of subsection
(2) is a misdemeanor.
Sec. 5.100. Freeways, entry, use, stopping restricted; violation as civil
infraction.
   (1)   No person shall stop a vehicle on the paved road of an expressway or
on the paved portions of any ramp connecting such expressway to any other
street or highway, for the purpose of boarding or discharging passengers or
pedestrians.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 6.10. Riding on the roadways and bicycle paths; violation as civil
infraction.
   (1)   Every person operating a bicycle, motorcycle, or motor-driven cycle
upon a roadway, shall ride as near to the right-hand side of the roadway as
practical, exercising due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction.
   (2)   All motorcycles are entitled to a full use of a lane and no motor
vehicle shall be driven in such a manner as to deprive any motorcycle of the
full use of the lane.
   (3)   No person operating a motor-driven cycle, a motorcycle, or bicycle,
shall pass between lanes of traffic, but may pass on the left of traffic moving
in his direction in the case of a two-way street, or on the left or right of
traffic in the case of a one-way street, in an unoccupied lane.
   (4)   This section shall not apply to police officers in the performance of
their official duties.
   (5)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 6.10a. Pedaled bicycle with help of motor; limitation on age of operator;
violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   A pedaled bicycle with help of a motor rated less than one (1) brake
horsepower transmitted by friction and not by gear or chain, which produces
only ordinary pedaling speeds up to a maximum of twenty (20) mph shall not be
operated by a person under fifteen (15) years of age.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 6.10b. Traveling on pedestrian/bicycle paths; violation as civil
infraction.
   (1)   Lanes, trails, and paths designed and/or designated for the use of
pedestrians and/or bicycles shall be used exclusively by pedestrians, bicycles
and other forms of human-powered transportation.
   (2)   Motorized vehicles, including but not limited to automobiles,
motorcycles; mopeds, and motor-driven cycles, but excepting motorized
wheelchairs, are expressly prohibited on all such pedestrian/bicycle lanes,
trails and paths.
   (3)   Livestock and livestock-propelled vehicles, including but not limited
to horses, horse-drawn carriages, and ox carts, are also expressly prohibited
on all such pedestrian/bicycle lanes, paths, and trails.
   (4)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 6.23. Motorcycles; protective helmet required; violation as civil
infraction.
   (1)   A person operating or riding on a motorcycle, and any person less than
nineteen (19) years of age operating a moped on a public thoroughfare shall
wear a brash helmet on his head.  Crash helmets shall be approved by the
department of state police.  This section does not apply to a person operating
or riding in an autocycle if the vehicle is equipped with a roof, which meets
or exceeds standards for a crash helmet.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 8.10. Parking prohibited in specified places.
   (1)   A vehicle shall not be parked, except if necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the law or the directions of a police
officer or traffic-control device, in any of the following places:
      (a)   On a sidewalk;
      (b)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (c)   Within an intersection;
      (d)   Within fifteen (15) feet of a fire hydrant;
      (e)   On a crosswalk;
      (f)   Within twenty (20) feet of a crosswalk, or if there is not a
crosswalk, then fifteen (15) feet of the intersection of property lines at an
intersection of highways;
      (g)   Within thirty (30) feet of the approach to a flashing beacon, stop
sign, or traffic-control signal located at the side of a highway;
      (h)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within thirty (30)
feet of on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by an official sign or marking;
      (i)   Within fifty (50) feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (j)   Within twenty (20) feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station
and on the side of a street opposite the entrance to a fire station within
seventy-five (75) feet of the entrance if properly marked by an official sign;
      (k)   Alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction, if the
stopping, standing, or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (l)   On the roadway side of a vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (m)   Upon a bridge or other elevated highway structure or within a
highway tunnel;
      (n)   At a place where an official sign prohibits stopping or parking;
      (o)   Within two hundred (200) feet of an accident at which a police
officer is in attendance;
      (p)   In front of a theater;
      (q)   In a place or in a manner which blocks immediate egress from an
emergency exit conspicuously marked as an emergency exit of a building;
      (r)   In a place or in a manner which blocks or hampers the immediate use
of an immediate egress from a fire escape conspicuously marked as a fire escape
providing an emergency means of egress from a building;
      (s)   In a parking space clearly identified by an official sign as being
reserved for use by handicappers which is on public property or private
property available for public use, unless the person is a handicapper as
described in section 1.012b of this code or unless the person is parking the
vehicle for the benefit of a handicapper.  In order for the vehicle to be
parked in the parking space the vehicle shall display one (1) of the following:
         (i)   A certificate of identification issued under section 675(5) of
the act (MCL 257.675(5), MSA 9.2375(5)) to a handicapper on the lower left
corner of the front windshield;
         (ii)   A special registration plate issued under section 803d of the
act (MCL 257.803d, MSA 9.2503(4)) to a handicapper;
         (iii)   A similar certificate of identification issued by another
state to a handicapper;
         (iv)   A similar special registration plate issued by another state to
a handicapper.
      (t)   In violation of an official sign restricting the period of time for
or manner of parking;
      (u)   In a space controlled or regulated by a meter on a public highway
or in a publicly owned parking area or structure, if the allowable time for
parking indicated on the meter has expired;
      (v)   On a street in such a way as to obstruct the delivery of mail to a
rural mailbox by a carrier of the United States Postal Service.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 8.25. Parking on private property; violation as civil infraction.
   (1)   No person shall park any motor vehicle on any private property in this
governmental unit without the express or implied consent, authorization or
ratification of the owner, holder, occupant, lessee, agent, or trustee of such
property.  Complaint for the violation of this section shall be made by the
owner, holder, occupant, lessee, agent, or trustee of such property.
   (2)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
Sec. 9.3. Penalties, civil infraction and misdemeanor.
   (1)   It is a misdemeanor for a person to violate this code unless that
violation is, by this code or other law of this state, declared to be a civil
infraction.
   (2)   Unless another penalty is provided in this code or by the laws of this
state, a person convicted of a misdemeanor for the violation of this code shall
be punished by a fine of not more than five hundred dollars ($500.00), or by
imprisonment for not more than ninety (90) days, or both.
   (3)   A violation of this code which is designated a civil infraction is not
a crime and shall not be punishable by imprisonment or a penal fine.  A civil
infraction shall not be considered a lesser-included offense of any criminal
offense.
   (4)   If a person is determined pursuant to this code to be responsible or
responsible “with explanation” for a civil infraction under this code, the
judge or district court magistrate may order the person to pay a civil fine of
not more than one hundred dollars ($100.00) and costs as provided in subsection
(5).  Permission may be granted for payment of a civil fine and costs to be
made within the specified period of time, or in specified installments, but in
the absence of permission being included in the order or judgment, the civil
fine and costs shall be payable immediately.
   (5)   If a civil fine is ordered paid under subsection (4), the judge,
referee, or magistrate shall summarily tax and determine the costs of the
action, which shall not be limited to the costs taxable in ordinary civil
actions, and may include all expenses, direct or indirect, to which the
plaintiff has been put in connection with the civil infraction, up to the entry
of judgment.  Except in a civil infraction for parking violation, costs of not
less than five dollars ($5.00) shall be ordered.  Costs shall not be ordered in
excess of one hundred dollars ($100.00).  Except as otherwise provided by law;
costs shall be payable to the general fund of the plaintiff.
   (6)   In addition to any civil fine and costs ordered under subsection (4),
the judge, referee, or magistrate may order the person to attend and complete a
program of treatment, education, or rehabilitation.
   (7)   A district court magistrate shall impose the sanctions permitted under
subsections (4) and (6) only to the extent expressly authorized by the chief
judge, presiding judge, or only judge of the district court district.
   (8)   When a person has received a civil infraction citation for defective
safely equipment on a vehicle, the court shall waive any civil fine or costs,
upon receipt of certification by a law enforcement agency that repair of the
defective equipment was made before the appearance date on a citation.
   (9)   A default in the payment of a civil fine or costs ordered under
subsection (4) or an installment thereof may be corrected by any means
authorized for the enforcement of the judgment under Chapter 40 of Act No: 236
of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1961 (MCL 600.4001 et seq., MSA 27A.4001 et
seq.), as amended, or under Chapter 60 of Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of
Michigan of 1961 (MCL 600.6001 et seq., MSA 27A.6001 et seq.), as amended.
   (10)   If a person fails to comply with an order or judgment issued pursuant
to this section, within the time prescribed by the court, the driver’s license
of that person shall be suspended pursuant to section 321a of the act (MCL
257.321a, MSA 9.2021(1)), until full compliance with that order or judgment
occurs.  In addition to this suspension, the court may also proceed under
section 9.3a.
Sec. 9.3a. Default in payment.
   (1)   If a defendant defaults in the payment of a civil fine, costs, or
both, or any installment, as ordered pursuant to section 9.3(4), the court,
upon the motion of the plaintiff, or upon its own motion, may require the
defendant to show cause why the default should not be treated as a civil
contempt and may issue a summons or order to show cause and a bench warrant for
the arrest of the defendant.
   (2)   When a corporation or association is ordered to pay a civil fine or
costs, the person authorized to make disbursement shall pay the fine or costs,
and the failure to do so s fall be civil contempt unless they make the showing
required in this section.
   (3)   Unless the defendant shows that the default was not attributable to an
intentional refusal to obey the order of the court or failure on his part to
make a good faith effort to obtain the funds required for payment, the court
shall find that the default constitutes a civil contempt and may order the
defendant committed until the civil fine, costs, or both, or specified part
thereof is paid.
   (4)   If it appears that the default in the payment of a civil fine or costs
does not constitute civil contempt, the court may enter an order allowing the
defendants additional time for payment, reducing the amount of payment, or of
each installment, or revoking the fine or costs or the unpaid portion thereof
in whole or in part.
   (5)   The term of imprisonment on civil contempt for nonpayment of a civil
fine or costs shall be specified in the order of commitment, and shall not
exceed one (1) day for each ten dollars ($10.00) of the fine and costs.  A
person committed for nonpayment of a civil fine or costs shall be given credit
towards payment for each day of imprisonment and each day of detention in
default of recognizance before judgment at the rate of ten dollars ($10.00) per
day.
   (6)   A defendant committed to imprisonment for civil contempt for
nonpayment of a civil fine or costs shall not be discharged from custody until
one (1) of the following occurs:
      (a)   The defendant has been credited with the amount due pursuant to
subsection (5).
      (b)   The amount due has actually been collected through execution of
process or otherwise.
      (c)   The amount due has been satisfied pursuant to a combination of
subdivisions (a), (b).
   (7)   The civil contempt shall be purged upon discharge of the defendant
pursuant to subsection (6).
Sec. 10.14. Operation of snowmobile registered in another state or Canada. 
Repealed.
Sec. 10.32. Time and conditions of operation.
   A person shall not operate a snowmobile:
   (a)   To hunt, pursue, worry, or kill a wild bird or animal.
   (b)   In any forest, nursery, planting area, or public lands posted or
reasonably identifiable as the area of forest reproduction, or in a natural
dedicated area when growing stock may be damaged.
   (c)   On the frozen surface of public waters within one hundred (100) feet
of a person, including but not limited to a skater, not in or upon a
snowmobile, or within one hundred (100) feet of a fishing shanty or shelter
except at the minimum speed required to maintain forward movement of the
snowmobile, or on an area which has been cleared of snow for skating purposes,
unless the area is necessary for access to the public water.
   (d)   In or upon private property without written permission of the
landowner, when required by the Recreational Trespass Act.
   (e)   While transporting thereon a bow, unless unstrung, or a firearm,
unless securely encased or equipped with or made inoperative by a manufactured
key lock trigger closing mechanism.
   (f)   Within one hundred (100) feet of a slide, ski, or skating area.  A
snowmobile may enter such an area for the purpose of servicing the area for
medical emergencies.
   (g)   On a railroad or railroad right-of-way, except railroad, public
utility, or law enforcement personnel while in the performance of their duties.
Sec. 10. 32a. Restricted areas and times of operation.
   The governing body of this governmental unit may by resolution restrict
certain areas, except on frozen surface of public waters or on land owned by or
under the control of the snowmobilers, and in the event such area or a time is
restricted and posted, the use and operation of snowmobiles in such restricted
area and/or during such restricted time periods shall be deemed a violation of
this code.
Sec. 10.34a. Arrest without warrant.
   If a police officer has reasonable cause to believe that a person was, at
the time of an accident, the driver of a snowmobile involved in an accident and
was driving the snowmobile under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a
controlled substance, or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled
substance, the police officer may arrest the alleged driver of the snowmobile
without a warrant.
Sec. 10.39. Operation on roadway prohibited; exceptions.
   Section 10.39 is amended in part to add new subparagraphs (d), (e) and (f)
as follows:
   (d)   A person may operate a snowmobile when it is otherwise impossible to
gain immediate access to an area adjacent to a public highway, and the right-
of-way adjacent and parallel to the roadway for the sole purpose of gaining
access to and from the area of operation by the most direct route.  Loading or
unloading of the snowmobile shall be accomplished with due regard to safety at
the nearest possible point to the area of operation.
   (e)   A person may operate a snowmobile across a public highway, other than
a limited access highway, at right angles to the highway, for the purpose of
getting from one (1) area to the other when the operation can be done in safety
and another vehicle is not crossing the highway at the same time and in the
same general area.  Such person shall bring his snowmobile to a complete stop
before proceeding across a public highway and shall yield the right-of-way to
all oncoming traffic.
   (f)   A person may operate a snowmobile on a highway in a county road
system, which is not normally snowplowed for vehicular traffic, and on any
snowplowed highway in the county road system which is designated and marked for
snowmobile use by the county road commission having jurisdiction.
Sec. 10.41. Operation by persons twelve to sixteen years of age.
   Section 10.41 is amended to add new paragraph (d) as follows:
   (d)   Any person who operates a snowmobile who is less than sixteen (16)
years of age in violation of this code shall, upon reporting of such violation
of the director of natural resources of the state by any judge of a juvenile
court after trial or acceptance by plea of guilty, has his snowmobile safety
certificate forthwith suspended by such director.  No owner of a snowmobile or
parent or legal guardian of a person under the age of sixteen (16) shall permit
the use of a snowmobile by such person in violation of this code.
Sec. 10.41a. Operation by persons twelve to sixteen years of age, crossing
roadways.
   Notwithstanding section 10.39(1)(b), an operator who is at least twelve (12)
years of age but less than sixteen (16) years of age may cross a highway or
street only if he has a valid snowmobile safety certificate in his immediate
possession.”
(Ord. 159, passed 11-22-1999)
MICHIGAN MOTOR VEHICLE CODE
§ 72.15  ADOPTION OF CHAPTERS VI AND VIII OF THE MICHIGAN MOTOR VEHICLE CODE.
   Chapter VI (Obedience to and Effect of Traffic Laws) and Chapter VIII
(Penalties) of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code (Public Act 300 of 1949, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923), as amended from time to time and as may be
amended hereafter, are adopted by reference as if fully set forth herein and
shall be applicable in the City of the Village of Douglas as part of the
Douglas City Code to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 158, passed 10-25-1999)
WATERWAYS
§ 72.30  DISPLAY OF LIGHT REQUIRED IN DARKNESS OR LOW VISIBILITY.
   All watercraft, other than vessels whose lighting requirements are presently
covered by existing state or federal laws or regulations, used on the waters of
Saugatuck Harbor shall, during hours of darkness or low visibility, display one
white light visible through an arc of 360 degrees and of such intensity as to
be visible on a dark night with a clear atmosphere at a distance of at least
one mile.
(1995 Code, § 62-1)  (Ord. 32, passed 6-3-1963)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.31  SPEED REGULATION.
   (A)   Definitions.  All words and phrases used in this chapter shall be
construed and have the same meanings as those words and phrases defined in
Public Act 303 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.80119 to 324.80322, as amended.
   (B)   Rules.  To provide for the safe use of city waters, the following
state rules are adopted:
      (1)   Regulation No. 3, Allegan County;
      (2)   R 281.703.12 Kalamazoo River; slow, no wake speed; and
      (3)   Rule 12.  On the waters of the Kalamazoo River, City of the Village
of Douglas, Allegan County, from the Blue Star Bridge upstream to a point where
Center Street, as extended, intersects the water’s edge, thence northeast (45
degrees true) to where that line intersects with the city limits, it is
unlawful for the operator of a vessel to exceed a slow, no wake speed.
(1995 Code, § 62-2)  (Ord. 96, passed 11-5-1984)  Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Violations of §
72.31 are a misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine not to exceed $100,
together with costs of prosecution or imprisonment in the County Jail or such
other place of detention as the court may prescribe, for a period not to exceed
90 days, or such fine, costs of prosecution, and imprisonment, at the
discretion of the court.
(1995 Code, § 62-2)  (Ord. 96, passed 11-5-1984)
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
91.   HUMAN RELATIONS
      
92.   ANIMALS
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
95.   HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
      
96.   CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
      
97.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
98.   TREES
CHAPTER 90:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
International Fire Code
   
90.01   Adoption of code
   
90.02   Revisions in text code
   
90.03   Geographic limits
   
90.04   References to other codes
   
90.05   State law; conflicts
   
90.06   Existing rights
   
90.07   Publication; effective date
Open Burning
   
90.20   Purpose
   
90.21   Prohibited fires
   
90.22   Exceptions
   
90.23   Permits and permission
 
   
90.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Crimes related to explosives and bombs, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.200 et seq.
   Crimes related to fires, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.240 et seq.
   Fires and fire departments, see M.C.L.A.§ 117.3(k)
   State Fire Prevention Act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 29.1 et seq.
INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE
§ 90.01  ADOPTION OF CODE.
   Pursuant to authority granted by § 3(k) of the Home Rule Cities Act,
Michigan Public Act 279 of 1909, being M.C.L.A. §§ 117.1 et seq., as amended,
the International Fire Code, 2015 Edition (the "Code"), including all
appendices, as published by the International Code Council, a copy of which is
on file in the office of the City Clerk, is adopted as the Fire Code of the
City of Douglas and all of the regulations, provisions, terms, conditions and
penalties of the Code are hereby adopted and made a part hereof, as if fully
set out in this subchapter, together with any additions, deletions and changes
stated in this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-2008, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 04-2015, passed 5-18-2015; Am. Ord.
03-2017, passed 7-3-2017)
§ 90.02  REVISIONS IN TEXT CODE.
   (A)   Section 103.2. Shall read: Appointment. As used in this Code, the term
“code official” shall refer to the Fire Chief of the Saugatuck Township Fire
District, or such other individual as the City Council of the City of Douglas
may from time to time appoint by resolution.
   (B)   Section 108.1. Shall read: Board of Appeals established. In order to
hear and decide appeals of orders, decisions or determinations made by the fire
code official relative to the application and interpretation of this code,
there is hereby created a Board of Appeals comprised of three members of the
Fire Administrative Board. Elected or non-elected officials may be appointed to
serve as members of the Board of Appeals in any capacity. Each jurisdiction
which is a constituent member of the Saugatuck Township Fire District shall
appoint one regular member to the Board of Appeals consistent with this code.
Each jurisdiction shall also appoint one alternate member who will be called to
serve in the absence or disqualification of the jurisdiction's regular member.
Members appointed to the Board of Appeals shall serve at the pleasure of the
appointing jurisdiction's governing body; provided, however, that a Board of
Appeals member must also be a member of the Fire Administrative Board. The fire
code official shall be an ex officio member of the Board of Appeals but shall
have no vote on any matter before the Board. The Board of Appeals shall adopt
rules of procedure for conducting its business, and shall render all decisions
and findings in writing to the appellant with a duplicate copy to the fire code
official.
   (C)   Section 108.2. Shall read: Limitations on authority. An application
for appeal shall be based on a claim that the intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this code do not fully apply, or an equivalent method of protection or safety
is proposed. The Board shall have no authority to waive requirements of this
code.
   (D)   Section 108.3 Shall read: Qualifications. The Board of Appeals shall
consist of members who are qualified by experience and training to pass on
matters pertaining to hazards of fire, explosions, hazardous conditions or fire
protection systems.
   (E)   Section 108.4 Shall read: Meetings. The Board shall meet at regular
intervals, to be determined by the chairman. In any event, the Board shall meet
within ten days after notice of appeal has been received.
   (F)   Section 108.5 Shall read: Decisions. Every decision shall be promptly
filed in writing in the office of the fire code official, and shall be open to
public inspection. A certified copy shall be sent by mail or otherwise to the
appellant, and a copy shall be kept publicly posted in the office of the fire
code official for two weeks after filing.
   (G)   Section 109.3.Shall read: Violation Penalties. Except as provided by
Michigan law, a violation of this Code is a municipal civil infraction, for
which the fine shall be not less than $250 for the first offense, not less than
$500 for a second offense and not more than $1,000 for a subsequent offense, in
the discretion of the court, in addition to all other costs, damages,
attorneys’ fees and expenses. Each day during which any violation continues
shall be deemed a separate offense. The foregoing penalties shall not prohibit
the city from seeking injunctive relief against a violator or such other
appropriate relief as may be provided by law.
   (H)   Section 109.3.3.Shall read: Violations. If the notice of violation is
not complied with within the time prescribed by the fire code official, the
fire code official may proceed as follows:
      (1)   He or she may issue municipal civil infractions (directing alleged
violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction notices (directing
alleged violators to appear at the municipal ordinance violations bureau); or
      (2)   He may request that legal counsel for the city institute
appropriate proceedings at law or equity to restrain, correct or abate such
violation or to require the removal or termination of the unlawful use of a
building or structure in violation of the provisions of this Code or the order
of direction made pursuant thereto.
   (I)   Section 111.4. Shall read: Failure to comply. Any person who shall
continue any work after having been served with a stop work order, except such
work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe
condition shall be in violation of this Code. Such violation shall be a
municipal civil infraction in accordance with §
30.01.
(Ord. 06-2008, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 04-2015, passed 5-18-2015; Am. Ord.
03-2018, passed 8-6-2018)
§ 90.03  GEOGRAPHIC LIMITS.
   Section 3204.3.1.1, 3404.2.9.5.1, 3406.2.4.4 and 3804.2 of the Code are
amended to state that the entire territory of the City of Douglas is the
geographic area within which the storage of the stated hazardous and flammable
fluids, liquids and gases is prohibited.
(Ord. 06-2008, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 04-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 90.04  REFERENCES TO OTHER CODES.
   Any references in the Code to building, mechanical and plumbing codes, or
other such codes, shall be deemed to refer to those respective codes adopted by
and currently effective in the city.
(Ord. 04-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 90.05  STATE LAW; CONFLICTS.
   (A)   In the event of any conflict between fire codes as adopted and amended
in Ch. 90 of the city code and the State Construction Code promulgated pursuant
to the Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code Act (Act No. 230 of
1972 as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.) and enforced by the city
pursuant to Ch. 90 of the city code, the State Construction Code shall control
as to all matters within the scope of the State Construction Code.
   (B)   In the event of any conflict between the fire codes as adopted and
amended in Ch. 90 of the city code and the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act (Act
No. 256 of 2011, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq.) the Fireworks Safety
Act shall control as to all matters within the scope of the Fireworks Safety
Act.
(Ord. 04-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 90.06  EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Nothing in this subchapter, or the fire codes adopted and amended by this
subchapter, shall be construed to affect any pending court proceedings for
violators of prior versions of the fire codes which were previously adopted
under Ch. 90 of the city code but which are no longer in effect upon the
effective date of this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-2008, passed 8-19-2008; Am. Ord. 04-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 90.07  PUBLICATION; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective 20 days after its publication, or a
publication of a summary thereof, in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city.
(Ord. 04-2015, passed 5-18-2015)
OPEN BURNING
§ 90.20  PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is intended to control and regulate the burning of human-
made and naturally occurring combustible substances in the city.
(1995 Code, § 34-31)  (Ord. 127, passed 10-2-1989)
§ 90.21  PROHIBITED FIRES.
   (A)   Applicability.  Fires include all fires started or maintained on or in
any public street, right-of-way, easement, alley, or other public ground, as
well as fires started or maintained on any private land.
   (B)   Rubbish fires.  No person shall start or maintain any fire intended to
burn rubbish, garbage, or other refuse.
   (C)   Leaf, brush, and natural refuse fires.  No person shall start or
maintain any fire intended to dispose of leaves, brush, or other natural refuse
by burning.
   (D)   Building debris, construction material, and automobiles.  No person
shall start or maintain any fire intended to dispose of building demolition
debris and excess construction material or burning of automobiles, tires,
rubber, plastics, or other similar materials.
   (E)   Other fires.  No person shall start or maintain any fire which creates
enough smoke or other combustion related nuisance to cause respiratory or skin
irritation.  All fires, both inside and outside of structures which are not
confined, are prohibited.
(1995 Code, § 34-33)  (Ord. 127, passed 10-2-1989)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.22  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Fires for outdoor cooking.  Fires for outdoor cooking shall include
the burning of wood, charcoal, or other accepted fuel for the preparation of
food in any form, in an approved container or utensil manufactured for the
preparation, when used in accordance with accepted safety standards.
   (B)   Fires for building and construction operations.  These fires shall
include the use of approved gaseous or liquid-fired salamander commonly
employed in conjunction with building and construction operations, when used in
accordance with accepted safety standards.
   (C)   Fires for roofers, tinners, and plumbers.  These fires may be utilized
by roofers, tinners, plumbers, or other mechanics pursuing a business requiring
the use of fire for the purpose of boiling tar, pitch, or oil used in the
regular course of an appropriate business or trade, while being used in a safe
and sanitary manner and conforming to all other applicable codes.
(1995 Code, § 34-34)  (Ord. 127, passed 10-2-1989)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.23  PERMITS AND PERMISSION.
   (A)   Burning by Fire Department and civil defense.  Open burning will be
allowed that is specifically permitted, in writing by the Fire Chief for Fire
Department and civil defense purposes, after a determination by the Fire Chief
that the open burning will occur under the following circumstances.
      (1)   The area is adequately protected by firefighters or Fire Department
trainees.
      (2)   The fire will be of short duration.
      (3)   The atmosphere is relatively free of pollutants.
   (B)   Fires in times of disaster or emergency.  Fires deemed necessary in
times of disaster or emergency pursuant to the Fire Chief’s emergency order
shall be allowed.
   (C)   Bonfires and campfires.  Bonfires and campfires which are made from
wood, trees, branches, kindling, wood chips, boxes, compressed wood, or any
other wood products shall be allowed.  Bonfires and campfires shall be allowed
in approved containers in authorized areas in approved campgrounds.  A bonfire
or campfire shall be constantly attended by a competent adult of at least 18
years or older until the fire is extinguished.
   (D)   Permits and permission.  A certificate of approval must be obtained
from the Saugatuck Township Fire District and the City Department of Public
Works in advance of starting any fire.  Consideration will be given to the day
and time of burning, the location of surrounding buildings and improvements,
the materials to be burned, the size of the fire, the burning container, the
wind and humidity at the time of burning, and supervision by an attendant.  In
addition, a site plan must be submitted to the Department of Public Works as
part of the certificate of approval.  The site plan form can be obtained from
the City Department of Public Works during regular business hours and must
indicate minimally the specific burning location, approximation to water
source, and estimated duration of time needed for the fire.
   (E)   Revoking of permission or permit.  A permit or permission may be
revoked at any time.  The Fire Chief may prohibit any and all bonfires and
campfires when atmospheric conditions or circumstances make the fire hazardous
or when, in the opinion of the Fire Chief, the bonfire or campfire would
constitute a fire hazard or will endanger the life or property of any person.
   (F)   Appeal of a denial or revocation.  Any person who believes they have
been unjustly denied a permit or permission to burn may appeal to the City
Council.  The City Council shall promptly give further consideration to their
request.
(1995 Code, § 34-35)  (Ord. 127, passed 10-2-1989; Am. Ord. 127-A, passed 9-27-
1993)  Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of §§
90.20et seq. is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the
civil fines set forth in the schedule of civil fines in §
34.06 and any other relief that may be imposed by the court.  Each act of
violation and each day upon which the violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation.
(1995 Code, § 34-32)  (Ord. 127, passed 10-2-1989; Am. Ord. 152, passed 8-10-
1998)
CHAPTER 91:  HUMAN RELATIONS
Section
Fair Housing
   
91.01   Discrimination in sale, lease, or rental
   
91.02   Discrimination in lending
   
91.03   Discrimination by real estate brokers or salespersons
   
91.04   Discrimination in terms and privileges
   
91.05   Publications indicating certain preferences
   
91.06   False or substantially misleading statements
   
91.07   Inducing others to violate subchapter provisions
   
91.08   Exclusions from subchapter provisions
   
91.09   Permissible transactions
Civil Rights
   
91.20   Finding of necessity
   
91.21   Definitions
   
91.22   Community Relations Commission
   
91.23   Investigation
   
91.24   Violations
 
   
91.99   Penalty
FAIR HOUSING
§ 91.01  DISCRIMINATION IN SALE, LEASE, OR RENTAL.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner, lessee, or sublessee of real property, or
any agent or representative thereof, to refuse to sell, exchange, rent, or
lease any housing accommodation or living quarters of any sort within the city
because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation or preference,
national origin, or ancestry.
(1995 Code, § 40-41)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980; Am. Ord. 69-A, passed 12-29-
1994)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02  DISCRIMINATION IN LENDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to discriminate in the lending of money,
guaranteeing of loans, accepting of mortgages, or otherwise making available
funds for the purchase, acquisition, construction, rehabilitation, repair, or
maintenance of any housing accommodations or living quarters of any sort within
the city because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation or
preference, national origin, or ancestry.
(1995 Code, § 40-42)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980; Am. Ord. 69-A, passed 12-29-
1994)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03  DISCRIMINATION BY REAL ESTATE BROKERS OR SALESPERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any real estate broker or salesperson to refuse to
make available for inspection or to refuse to accept offers to purchase, offers
to lease, or any other proposed agreements with reference to sale, exchange, or
lease of real property because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual
orientation or preference, national origin, or ancestry.
(1995 Code, § 40-43)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980; Am. Ord. 69-A, passed 12-29-
1994)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04  DISCRIMINATION IN TERMS AND PRIVILEGES.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, or sublessee of real property or
any other person concerned with transactions in real property to discriminate
because of race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation or preference,
national origin, or ancestry with reference to the terms, conditions, or
privileges of the sale, rental, or lease of any housing accommodations or
living quarters of any sort within the city, or in the furnishing of facilities
or services in connection therewith.
(1995 Code, § 40-44)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980; Am. Ord. 69-A, passed 12-29-
1994)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05  PUBLICATIONS INDICATING CERTAIN PREFERENCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to publish, circulate, issue, or
display, or cause to be published, circulated, issued, or displayed, any
communication, notice, advertisement, or sign of any kind relating to the sale,
rental, or lease of real property within the city indicating exclusion of or
preference for any person or group of persons based upon color, race, religion,
sex, sexual orientation or preference, national origin, or ancestry.
(1995 Code, § 40-45)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980; Am. Ord. 69-A, passed 12-29-
1994)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06  FALSE OR SUBSTANTIALLY MISLEADING STATEMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly or unintentionally present
false or substantially misleading statements to the authorities charged with
enforcement of this subchapter or to sign a complaint for violation of this
subchapter based upon false or substantially misleading information.
(1995 Code, § 40-46)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07  INDUCING OTHERS TO VIOLATE SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, by threats, intimidation, coercion,
extortion, or conspiracy, to induce or attempt to induce any person owning an
interest in real property in the city to violate the provisions of this
subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 40-47)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980)  Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.08  EXCLUSIONS FROM SUBCHAPTER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed as barring any religious or
denominational institution or organization, or any charitable or educational
organization which is operated, supervised, or controlled by or in connection
with a religious organization, from limiting admission to or giving preference
to persons of the same religion or denomination, or from making selections for
the purpose of promoting the religious principles for which it is established
or maintained.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the owner of a
dwelling house, apartment building, or multiple housing facility of any sort in
which the owner or members of his or her immediate family reside, who rents or
leases five or less housing units in the dwelling house, apartment building, or
multiple housing facility.
(1995 Code, § 40-48)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980)
§ 91.09  PERMISSIBLE TRANSACTIONS.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as prohibiting any person from
imposing any and all conditions and requirements relative to any of the
transactions hereinabove described, provided the conditions do not concern
race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation or preference, national origin,
or ancestry.  Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as prohibiting the
owner, lessee, or sublessee of real property or any person concerned in real
estate transactions from exercising absolute discretion in establishing the
terms and conditions of the sale, exchange, lease, or rental of real property,
provided the terms and conditions do not concern race, color, religion, sex,
sexual orientation or preference, national origin, or ancestry.  Nothing in
this subchapter shall be construed as requiring an owner, lessee, or sublessee
of real property to offer the property to the public at large before selling or
renting the same.
(1995 Code, § 40-49)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980; Am. Ord. 69-A, passed 12-29-
1994)
CIVIL RIGHTS
§ 91.20  FINDING OF NECESSITY.
   (A)   The city has declared that for any person to deny any other person the
enjoyment of his or her civil rights or for any person to discriminate against
any other person in the exercise of his or her civil rights because of race,
color, religion, sex, marital status, national origin, sexual orientation, age,
height, weight, or handicap is contrary to keeping peace, good order, and
harmony among its citizens.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to prohibit any
affirmative action or handicap laws passed by any level of government.
(1995 Code, § 40-71)  (Ord. 139, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 91.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGE.  Chronological age, except as otherwise provided by law.
   CIVIL RIGHTS.  Includes rights to employment, housing, and public
accommodations as defined in this section.
   COLOR.  Skin pigmentation.
   DISCRIMINATE.  To make a decision, offer to make a decision, or refrain from
making a decision based in whole or in part on the race, color, religion, sex,
marital status, national origin, sexual orientation, age, or handicap of
another person or that person’s relatives or associates.  Discrimination based
on sex includes sexual harassment, which means unwelcome sexual advances,
requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or physical conduct or
communication of a sexual nature when concerning employment, housing, or public
accommodation.
   EMPLOYMENT.  Includes the opportunity to obtain employment without
discrimination because of race, color, religion, sex, marital status, national
origin, sexual orientation, age, or handicap is hereby recognized and declared
to be a civil right.
   HANDICAP.  A limitation of physical and/or mental capabilities.  HANDICAP
includes, but is not limited to, blindness or partial sightedness, deafness or
hearing impairment, muteness, partial or total absence of a physical member,
speech impairment and motor impairment, and mental impairment.  HANDICAP does
not include current use of nonprescription drugs or substances.
   HOUSING.  The opportunity to purchase, lease, sell, hold, use, and convey
dwelling houses or dwelling units without discrimination because of race,
color, religion, sex, marital status, national origin, sexual orientation, age,
or handicap is hereby recognized and declared to be a civil right.  It shall
not be a violation of the public policy declared by this subchapter for the
owner of an owner-occupied one-family or two-family dwelling to restrict
occupancy.
   MARITAL STATUS.  Includes the state of being married, single, separated,
divorced, or widowed.
   NATIONAL ORIGIN.  Includes the national origin of an ancestor.
   PERSON.  An individual, agent, association.
   PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS.  The opportunity to enjoy full and equal access to
all goods and services, accommodations, advantages, and facilities in all
places of public accommodation, service, amusement, and recreation, including,
but not limited to, inns, hotels, motels, government housing, restaurants and
eating places, barber shops, stores, public transportation and conveyances,
theaters, and educational institutions without discrimination because of race,
color, religion, sex, marital status, national origin, sexual orientation, age,
height, weight, or handicap is hereby recognized and declared to be a civil
right.
   RACE.  A division of humankind possessing traits that are transmissible by
descent and sufficient to characterize it as a distinct human type.
   RELIGION.  A personal set or institutionalized system of religious
attitudes, beliefs, and practices.
   SEX.  Gender.  SEX includes, but is not limited to, pregnancy, childbirth,
and medical conditions related to pregnancy or childbirth.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION.  Male or female heterosexuality, homosexuality, or
bisexuality, by conduct or preference.
(1995 Code, § 40-72)  (Ord. 139, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 91.22  COMMUNITY RELATIONS COMMISSION.
   There is hereby created a commission to be known as the Community Relations
Commission, consisting of three members to be appointed by the City President,
with the approval of the Council.  The members of the Commission shall be city
residents chosen so as to be broadly representative of the community at large. 
The members shall serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for
expenses necessarily incurred in connection with their duties as members of the
Commission.  All terms of members of the Commission shall be for three years. 
In the event of death or resignation of any member, his or her successor shall
be appointed to serve for the unexpired term for which the member has been
appointed.
(1995 Code, § 40-73)  (Ord. 139, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 91.23  INVESTIGATION.
   Upon complaint the police will investigate and report to the designated
Community Relations Commission as appointed by the City President with consent
of Council.  The appointed Commission will review the alleged violation and, if
deemed necessary, hold a mediation hearing to seek a resolution satisfactory to
all parties.  Mediation hearings shall be public, unless either party requests
a particular hearing be private.
(1995 Code, § 40-74)  (Ord. 139, passed 7-10-1995)
§ 91.24  VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of this subchapter shall not constitute a misdemeanor, but shall
be subject to the provisions of §
91.23.
(1995 Code, § 40-75)  (Ord. 139-A, passed 9-25-1995)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
90.01et seq. shall, upon conviction thereof, be sentenced to pay a fine of not
exceeding $300 or to imprisonment for not more than 90 days in the County Jail,
or both fined and imprisoned, in the discretion of the court.
(1995 Code, § 40-50)  (Ord. 69, passed 8-4-1980)
CHAPTER 92:  ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Violation deemed nuisance
   
92.02   Keeping of animals
   
92.03   Animals running at large
   
92.04   Keeping certain animals prohibited
   
92.05   Determination of ownership
   
92.06   Accumulation of wastes
   
92.07   Permitting animals to soil public or private property
   
92.08   Cruelty to animals
Dogs
   
92.20   License required
   
92.21   Identification tag required
Chickens
   
92.30   Generally
   
92.31   Definitions
   
92.32   Chicken permits
   
92.33   Licensing and inspections
   
92.34   Structures
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt animal control ordinance, see M.C.L.A. § 287.290
   Crimes relating to animals and birds, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.49 et seq. and §§
750.50 et seq.
   Dog law, see M.C.L.A. §§ 287.261 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01  VIOLATION DEEMED NUISANCE.
   The violation of any provision contained in §§
92.03,
92.04, or
92.06 shall be deemed to be a nuisance per se and shall constitute a basis for
the abatement thereof by city officials or for the obtaining of injunctive
relief in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(1995 Code, § 14-2)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.02  KEEPING OF ANIMALS.
   No person shall keep or house any animal or fowl within the city except
dogs, cats, canaries, or other animals which are commonly kept and housed
inside dwellings as household pets, provided that not more than four dogs of
licensable age shall be kept in any household and provided further that this
section shall not apply to the following: animals or fowl kept or housed on
premises used and occupied as one parcel of land regularly devoted to
agricultural purposes and consisting of not less than four acres, if the
animals or fowl are kept or housed not less than 150 feet from each boundary of
the property in question.
(1995 Code, § 14-3)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969; Am. Ord. 03-2016, passed 8-15-
2016)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.03  ANIMALS RUNNING AT LARGE.
   No person shall permit any domestic animal, except a cat, or any goose,
chicken, or other fowl to run or be at large in the public streets, lanes,
alleys, vacant lots, or other open or public place; nor upon any private
premises other than the premises of the owner or occupant of the domestic
animal or fowl, without the consent of the owner or occupant of the private
premises; provided, however, that any such domestic animal may be led about
outside the premises of the owner thereof on a suitable leash, in the immediate
control of a competent person.
(1995 Code, § 14-4)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04  KEEPING CERTAIN ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Vicious animals.  No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have charge of
any animal or bird, either licensed or unlicensed, which has an ugly or vicious
disposition or is dangerous to persons or property.  Any animal or bird shall
be deemed vicious which has bitten a person or domestic animal without having
been first molested, or which by its actions, gives indications that it is
likely to bite any person or domestic animal without having been first
molested.
   (B)   Destroyers of property.  No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have
charge of any animal or bird, either licensed or unlicensed, which, by the
destruction of property or trespassing on the property of others, becomes a
nuisance in the vicinity where kept.
   (C)   Noisy animals.  No person shall own, keep, harbor, or have charge of
any animal or bird, either licensed or unlicensed, which, by the loud and
frequent emission of noise, disturbs the comfort or repose of persons in the
vicinity or otherwise becomes a nuisance in the neighborhood in which the
animal or bird is kept.
(1995 Code, § 14-5)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.05  DETERMINATION OF OWNERSHIP.
   Every person in possession of any animal, who shall suffer the animal to
remain about his or her premises for a period of five days, shall be deemed to
be the owner thereof for purposes of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 14-6)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969)
§ 92.06  ACCUMULATION OF WASTES.
   No person who owns, keeps, harbors, or has charge of one or more animals
shall permit the accumulation of wastes from the animals to the extent that the
wastes render the persons’ premises unsanitary, noxious, unhealthful, or
otherwise a nuisance, by reason of odor or as an attraction to or breeding
place for rats or other vermin, flies, mosquitoes, or other disease-bearing
insects.
(1995 Code, § 14-7)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.07  PERMITTING ANIMALS TO SOIL PUBLIC OR PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or having charge, care or control
of any dog or animal to allow, or permit the dog or animal to soil any public
property or other improved private property other than that of the owner,
keeper or custodian or person having control of the animal. However, this
section shall not apply if the excrement is promptly removed from the public or
private property and is properly disposed of in a sanitary manner.
(Ord. 03-2016, passed 8-15-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.08  CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   In accordance with this section and the laws of the state, no person shall:
   (A)   Fail to provide adequate care to any animal including the provision of
sufficient food, water, shelter, sanitary conditions, exercise, and veterinary
medical attention in order to maintain an animal in a state of good health;
   (B)   Fail to provide adequate shelter and protection from the elements and
weather conditions suitable for the age, species and physical condition of the
animal so as to maintain the animal in a state of good health; or
   (C)   Neglect any animal or fail to sufficiently and properly care for an
animal to the extent that the animal’s health is jeopardized.
(Ord. 05-2016, passed 9-19-2016) Penalty, see §
92.99
DOGS
§ 92.20  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, keep, or harbor any dog within the city unless the
person shall have complied with the laws of the state providing for the
licensing and registration of the dog, and unless the person shall have
furnished, as a condition precedent to obtaining the state dog license, proof
of vaccination or injection for rabies performed within one year prior to the
date of issuance of the license.
(1995 Code, § 14-36)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969)  Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.21  IDENTIFICATION TAG REQUIRED.
   No person shall own, harbor, or possess any dog four months old, or over,
that does not at all times, when the dog is off the premises of the owner, wear
a collar or harness with a license tag attached, issued pursuant to the laws of
the state.
(1995 Code, § 14-37)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969)  Penalty, see §
92.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 287.269
CHICKENS
§ 92.30  GENERALLY.
   (A)   Any one applicant residing in a single-family detached structure in a
residentially zoned district, after obtaining a permit from the city, may keep
not more than six hen (female) chickens for personal use only and not for any
business or commercial use. No chickens are allowed on a multi-family dwelling
lot.
   (B)   Notwithstanding this section, private restrictions on the use of
property shall remain enforceable. Private restrictions include, but are not
limited to, deed restrictions, neighborhood association by-laws, and covenant
deeds.
   (C)   Chickens may be kept as family pets, to lay eggs or for meat for
personal consumption only.
   (D)   Slaughtering of any chickens on the property is prohibited.
(Ord. 04-2017, passed 1-15-2018; Am. Ord. 05-2020, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 92.31  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHICKEN. Gallus gallus domesticus. This definition does not include roosters
or other fowl, such as, but not limited to, peacocks, turkeys, or waterfowl.
   CHICKEN COOP. An enclosed structure for housing chickens that provides
shelter from the elements.
   CHICKEN PEN. An enclosed outside yard for keeping chickens.
   ROOSTER. A male chicken.
(Ord. 04-2017, passed 1-15-2018; Am. Ord. 05-2020, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 92.32  CHICKEN PERMITS.
   Any person wanting to keep chickens within the city shall first apply for
and obtain a permit from the City Clerk or their designee, before that person
may legally keep chickens within the city. Regulations pertaining to permits
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Any person applying for a permit to keep chickens within the city
shall submit a permit application on a form promulgated by the City Clerk or
their designee, and shall pay an application fee established by resolution of
the City Council. Application components shall include applicant/owner’s name,
address, phone number, email, zoning review application with site plan,
confirmation of receipt of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Center for Disease Control (CDC) and Prevention's "Healthy Families and Flocks"
publication (# CS274178A), and other relevant information.
   (B)   If the applicant is not the owner of the real property on which he or
she wants to keep chickens, the applicant must provide the written consent of
the owner of the real property and a copy of the signed lease. The lease term
must be a minimum of one year. Without such written consent, the permit
application may not be granted.
   (C)   Once a completed application form, application fee, and written
consent of the owner of the real property have been submitted to the City Clerk
or their designee, the city shall within ten business days send written notice
of the application for a permit to keep chickens to the following:
      (1)   The physical property address of all adjacent real properties. For
purposes of this division, "adjacent real properties" shall include all
properties sharing a common lot line with the real property on which chickens
are proposed to be kept, but shall not include properties sharing only a common
corner point, without footage on a common lot line.
      (2)   The address of record for the owner of all adjacent real
properties, if that address of record is different from the physical property
address.
   (D)   If the City Clerk or their designee receives an objection to the
issuance of a permit from any person required to be notified of the permit
application, within 21 days from mailing the written notice of the permit
application, then the permit shall not be granted, with no right of appeal.
   (E)   If the City Clerk or their designee receives no objections to the
issuance of a permit from any person required to be notified of the permit
application, within the appropriate time period as specified above, he or she
shall review the permit application in light of the following factors:
      (1)   The size of the lot on which chickens are proposed to be kept;
      (2)   The adequacy of the applicant's plans for housing and confining the
chickens; and
      (3)   Other factors relevant to the applicant's particular circumstances.
   (F)   If the City Clerk or their designee grants the request for the permit,
he or she shall do so in writing, which writing shall state the property
address at which chickens may be kept, as well as the number of chickens
allowed to be kept, and any other conditions of the permit to keep chickens.
   (G)   If the City Clerk or their designee denies the request for the permit,
he or she shall do so in writing, and shall state the reasons for such denial.
   (H)   If the City Clerk or their designee denies the request for the permit,
the provisions of § 29.08 of the zoning ordinance regarding appeals shall
apply. If the denial was due to an objection from a neighboring property owner,
then no appeal process is available.
   (I)   An initial permit shall be valid for a period of one year. If, in the
judgment of the City Clerk or their designee, the permittee has abided by all
subchapter provisions and permit conditions, and has not created a nuisance to
the owners or occupants of adjacent properties or the neighborhood, the permit
may be renewed for multiple one-year periods. Each renewal may include an on-
site inspection and neighbor notification. If objections to a permit request
are received from neighbors in subsequent years after the first year,
objections must be substantiated and be in violation of the subchapter to
trigger a permit denial. No permit issued pursuant to this subchapter shall
remain valid past the date on which this subchapter either expires or is
repealed, whichever is earlier.
   (J)   Any permit may be suspended or revoked by the City Clerk or their
designee, by written notice to the permit holder, upon a finding that the
permittee has violated applicable city ordinance provisions or permit
conditions.
   (K)   A permit as described above is personal to the applicant. Such a
permit may not be transferred to another individual. If ownership of the
underlying real property on which the chickens are kept is transferred, the
permit does not run with the land, and a person desiring to keep chickens on
the property must apply for a new permit.
(Ord. 04-2017, passed 1-15-2018; Am. Ord. 05-2020, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 92.33  LICENSING AND INSPECTIONS.
   Completed applications shall be submitted to Douglas City Hall along with
the fee which shall be set by resolution of the City Council and made a part of
the regular fee schedule of the city. Approved permit holders shall schedule an
inspection within 30 days of permit issuance. Failure to schedule an inspection
shall result in an automatic revocation of the permit. If an inspection
identifies noncompliance with any of the requirements set forth in this
subchapter, the permit holder shall have 15 days to achieve compliance with the
requirements or the Zoning Administrator may revoke the permit or issue a civil
infraction under the City of the Village of Douglas Code. The city may perform
reasonable and periodic inspections.
(Ord. 04-2017, passed 1-15-2018; Am. Ord. 05-2020, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 92.34  STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Chickens shall be contained and kept in a fully enclosed structure,
known as a “coop” or a fenced enclosure, known as a “pen,” at all times. Fenced
enclosures shall conform to all of the requirements of Article 21, Section
21.01, Subsection 12, a), regulations 2 and 3 of the zoning ordinance,
permitting that the fence material be wire mesh with openings no larger than
one inch. A chicken coop shall be constructed of durable materials and shall be
properly maintained.
   (B)   A chicken "coop" will be considered to be an accessory structure and
must meet the requirements of Article 16, Section 16.13, regulations 2 through
4, 7, 8 and 10 of the zoning ordinance. Permit applications shall include a
structural or plat drawing and any or other required information be on file
with the Planning and Zoning Administrator for approval. Prior to construction,
the city shall issue a permit where the application is in compliance with all
requirements, regulations, and ordinances.
   (C)   A “coop” or “pen” shall be detached from the residential dwelling and
be designed to provide safe and healthy living conditions for chickens while
minimizing adverse impacts on other residents and the neighborhood. The fully
enclosed structure and fenced enclosure shall meet the following additional
requirements:
      (1)   The coop and fenced enclosure shall be set back a minimum of 23
feet from the nearest setback of any neighboring dwelling.
      (2)   Chickens shall be kept in the backyard. For purposes of this
section, "backyard" means that portion of a lot enclosed by the property's rear
lot line setback and the side lot line setback to the points where the setback
lines intersect. A side yard will be allowed if all of the pens and/or coops
are screened from any street or adjacent properties. An adjacent neighbor can
waive the screening requirement if the request is put in writing to the city.
      (3)   No enclosed structure “coop” or fenced enclosure “pen” shall be
located within any side or rear yard setback area.
      (4)   Any enclosed structure shall be a maximum of eight feet in height
and shall not exceed a total of 80 square feet.
      (5)   The use of corrugated metal/fiberglass, sheet metal, plastic tarps,
scrap lumber or similar materials are prohibited.
   (D)   All structures and enclosures for the keeping of chickens shall be
constructed with a rat wall or similar block foundation to prevent rats, mice,
or other rodents or vermin from being harbored underneath or within the walls
of the structure or enclosure. If the coop is mobile, the structural design
must be approved by city staff.
   (E)   All feed and other items associated with the keeping of chickens
likely to attract rats, mice, or other rodents or vermin shall be secured and
protected in sealed containers.
   (F)   No offensive odors shall be allowed to emanate more than ten feet from
a coop or pen.
   (G)   Any portable coops must meet the same performance, size and placement
standards as stationary coops.
(Ord. 04-2017, passed 1-15-2018; Am. Ord. 05-2020, passed 5-18-2020)
§ 92.99  PENALTY.
   A person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of this chapter
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the civil fines
set forth in the schedule of civil fines in §
34.06 and any other relief that may be imposed by the court. Each act of
violation and each day upon which the violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation.
(1995 Code, § 14-1)  (Ord. 45, passed 4-21-1969; Am. Ord. 149, passed 8-10-
1998; Am. Ord. 04-2017, passed 1-15-2018)
CHAPTER 93:  STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Sidewalks
   
93.001   Definitions
   
93.002   Specifications and permits
   
93.003   Sidewalk inspection
   
93.004   Permit revocation
   
93.005   Construction by agreement
   
93.006   Ordering construction
   
93.007   Construction by city
   
93.008   Sidewalk maintenance
   
93.009   Trees and shrubs obstructing sidewalks; minimum heights; removal;
costs.
Streets
   
93.020   Definitions
   
93.021   Damage and obstruction prohibited
   
93.022   Private installations
   
93.023   Temporary street closings
   
93.024   Permits; exception
   
93.025   Liability insurance
   
93.026   Deposits for permit; refund; additional payment
   
93.027   Permit required for obstructions caused by construction
   
93.028   Permit required for street openings; prerequisites
   
93.029   Emergency openings; prerequisites
   
93.030   Openings to be barricaded and lighted
   
93.031   Shoring excavations
   
93.032   Backfilling required; standards
   
93.033   Curb cuts: permit required; standards
   
93.034   Obstructions
   
93.035   Construction by agreement
Acceptance of Private Roads
   
93.050   Intent
   
93.051   Definitions
   
93.052   Public street requirements
   
93.053   General standards
   
93.054   Turnarounds
   
93.055   Public street grade
   
93.056   Second access; emergency access
   
93.057   Existing, nonconforming private streets
   
93.058   Exceptions
   
93.059   Application procedure
   
93.060   Maintenance and improvements
   
93.061   Acceptance by City Council
   
93.062   Reconsideration
Street Performers
   
93.070   Intent
   
93.071   Definitions
   
93.072   Prohibition of performing
   
93.073   Street performer application; fee
   
93.074   Review of application
   
93.075   Street performer permits; conditions for issuance
   
93.076   Rules and regulations
   
93.077   Revocation of permits
   
93.078   Complaints; appeals
   
93.079   Appearance tickets
   
93.080   Civil infraction
 
   
93.999   Penalty
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.001  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APRONS FOR DRIVES.  The area between the curb and the sidewalk over which
vehicles may be driven when entering or leaving the driveway.
   CONTRACTION JOINT.  A place of weakness caused by scribing the concrete
sidewalk to a sufficient depth to control the location of cracking.
   EXPANSION JOINT.  A complete separation in the concrete sidewalk filled with
a bituminous premolded joint filler.
   PRESIDENT.  The President of the city.
   SIDEWALK.  Any concrete or bituminous walkway, or walkway of other materials
constructed in that portion of the public right-of-way designed particularly
for pedestrian travel.
   SUPERINTENDENT.  The Superintendent of Streets of the city, or its
designated agent.
(1995 Code, § 50-26)  (Ord. 121, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 93.002  SPECIFICATIONS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required; display; fee.  No person shall construct, rebuild, or
repair any sidewalk except in accordance with the line, grade, slope, and
specifications approved by the Superintendent, nor without first obtaining a
written permit from the City Clerk, except that sidewalk repairs of less than
50 square feet may be made without a permit.  The written permit shall be
prominently displayed on the construction site.  The fee for the permit shall
be established in the schedule of fees.
   (B)   Sidewalk specifications.  Sidewalks shall be a minimum of five feet
wide.  Sidewalks shall not be less than four inches in thickness or less than
six inches at driveway crossings.  Expansion joints shall be placed at
intervals not exceeding 50 feet, and at all driveways, curb crossing or
parallel, and adjacent to the proposed sidewalk and any rigid structures. 
Contraction joints shall be placed at uniform intervals, normally five feet,
between expansion joints.  Contraction joints shall be constructed with a
double edger having a radius not exceeding 1/4 of an inch.  All concrete used
in sidewalk construction shall, 28 days after placement, be capable of
resisting a pressure of 2,500 pounds per square inch without failure.
   (C)   Brooming and stamping of surface.  The concrete surface shall then be
broom to slightly rough the surface.  Every contractor building sidewalks shall
stamp at each end of the walk constructed by him or her, his or her name and
the year in which the walk was constructed.
   (D)   Expansion joints.  Expansion joints shall consist of a nonextruding
bituminous material 1/2 inch thick, with a width equal to the sidewalk
thickness, and a length equal to the sidewalk width.  All crosswalks shall have
barrier free ramps at curbs.
   (E)   Drive aprons.  Drive aprons shall have a minimum thickness of six
inches.  Expansion joints shall be placed at the interface of drive apron with
public sidewalk and street curb.  Control joints shall be placed so as to
divide aprons into squares not larger than ten feet by ten feet1.
   (F)   Fixed forms; backfill.  After the concrete has gained sufficient
strength, the fixed forms shall be removed without damaging the concrete.  The
spaces on both sides of the concrete shall be backfilled with sound earth.  The
backfill shall be compacted and leveled to a grade one inch below the surface
of sidewalks, drive aprons, and driveways and left in a neat, workmanlike
condition.  Backfilling shall immediately follow removal of forms so as to
prevent undercutting and erosion under the concrete.
(1995 Code, § 50-28)  (Ord. 121, passed 5-2-1988)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.003  SIDEWALK INSPECTION.
   The owner of each lot will be responsible to see that the Superintendent is
notified at least 24 hours in advance of the pouring of any sidewalk.  The work
shall not proceed until the Superintendent shall have inspected the rails and
subgrade and passed the work as suitable and in conformance with the grade and
specifications.  The sidewalk shall also be subject to a final inspection after
all work has been completed.
(1995 Code, § 50-29)  (Ord. 121, passed 5-2-1988)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.004  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   The Superintendent may suspend any permit issued under the terms of this
subchapter for incompetency or failure to comply with the terms of this
subchapter, or the rules, regulations, plans, and specifications established
under the provisions of this subchapter for the construction, reconstruction,
or repair of any sidewalk.  The Superintendent may cause work to be stopped
under any permit granted for the construction, reconstruction, or repair of any
sidewalk for any causes enumerated in this section, which stop-work order shall
be effective until the next regular meeting of the City Council, and, if
confirmed by the Council at its next regular meeting, the stop order shall be
permanent and shall constitute a revocation of the permit.
(1995 Code, § 50-30)  (Ord. 121, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 93.005  CONSTRUCTION BY AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The City Council may, when requested by any property owner, construct,
change, or repair any sidewalk upon the terms and conditions as agreed upon by
the property owner and the City Council without setting up a special assessment
district.  The expense to be paid by the property owner, if not paid on demand
or as agreed, shall be levied as a special assessment upon the land adjacent or
abutting thereon, together with a collection charge of 10% of the share, shall
be a lien upon the property and shall be collected according to law and in the
same manner as other city taxes, including interest.
   (B)   The property owner may elect to pay his or her assessment at the rate
of 20% per year over a period of five years.  The installation payments,
however, shall be subjected to an interest charge on the unpaid balance at the
rate of 9% per annum.
   (C)   In addition to the provisions set forth in divisions (A) and (B)
above, the property owner may request the City Council to provide for a
matching co-pay for 1/2 the amount of replacement costs for the construction,
change, or repair of any sidewalk.  The City Council will then budget annually
for the co-pay amount and a property owner would be considered and accepted on
a first-come basis unless a situation exists endangering public safety whereby
the City Council would give preferential consideration to the dangerous
sidewalk conditions.  New construction costs of sidewalks, however, will be
totally the responsibility of the owner.  The terms and provisions of divisions
(A) and (B) above remain fully intact, and if the remaining co-pay amount of
the owner remains unpaid, after demand is made as agreed, the terms and
provisions set forth in divisions (A) and (B) above shall take effect.
(1995 Code, § 50-31)  (Ord. 121-B, passed 6-3-1991)
§ 93.006  ORDERING CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The City Council may, by resolution, require the owners of lots and
premises to construct or repair sidewalks in the public streets adjacent to and
abutting upon the lots and premises.  Prior to the passage of the resolution,
the City Council shall set a date for a public hearing on the question of
whether such a resolution shall be passed, and the property owner who would be
affected by the resolution shall be given not less than ten-days’ written
notice of the public hearing, and shall be advised that they may attend the
public hearing in person or may submit written comments regarding the proposed
sidewalk repairs.  The written notice shall further describe the nature of the
repairs or construction which is being contemplated by the City Council.
   (B)   Following the public hearing, the City Council may pass a resolution
requiring the construction or repair of the sidewalk in question.  The
resolution shall contain the name and address of the property owner required to
perform the construction or repairs, the address of the sidewalk proposed for
construction or repair, and the specifications for construction or repair of
the sidewalk.  The resolution will further provide that the property owner
shall have the period of time as designated by the Council to accomplish the
required construction or repairs, provided that the time shall be made not less
than 30 days from the date of service of the resolution upon the property
owner.  Service of the resolution shall be made upon the property owner by the
City Clerk by mailing the same by first-class mail, and obtaining a proof of
mailing from the post office, with the resolution mailed to the address of the
property owner as it appears on the tax rolls of the city; or delivering the
resolution in person to the property owner.  The time for construction or
repair shall commence running from the next day following the date of service
of the resolution upon the property owner.
(1995 Code, § 50-32)  (Ord. 121, passed 5-2-1988)
§ 93.007  CONSTRUCTION BY CITY.
   (A)   If the owner of any lot or premises shall fail to build any particular
sidewalk, as described in the notice, and within the time and manner required
thereby, the City Council shall direct the Superintendent of Streets, who may
contract or hire the work done.
   (B)   After the work has been completed, the Superintendent shall file a
statement of costs and expenses with the City Council, and the Council shall
direct the City Clerk to send notice to the owner setting forth the premises
affected, the basis for the assessment, the cost thereof and notify the owner
that the costs and expenses must be paid within 30 days.  If no payment is
received within 30 days, the cost of construction or repair plus a charge for
collection of 10% of the same shall be assessed against the property which is
adjacent to or abuts the sidewalk.  The city shall assess the costs, expenses,
and collection fee upon the property abutting or adjacent to the sidewalks, and
the assessment shall be a lien upon the property and shall be collected
according to law in the same manner as other city taxes, including interest.
   (C)   The property owner may elect to pay his or her assessment at the rate
of 20% per year over a period of five years.  The installation payments,
however, shall be subjected to an interest charge on the unpaid balance at the
rate of 9% per annum.
(1995 Code, § 50-33)  (Ord. 121-A, passed 7-11-1988)
§ 93.008  SIDEWALK MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All sidewalks within the city shall be kept and maintained in good
repair by the owner of the land adjacent to and abutting upon the sidewalks,
and if any owner shall neglect to keep and maintain the sidewalk along the
front, rear, or side of the land owned by him or her in good repair and safe
for the use of the public, the owner shall be liable to the city for any
damages received against the city sustained by any person by reason of the
sidewalk being unsafe and out of repair.
   (B)   Disrepair of a sidewalk shall include, but shall not be limited to,
the following conditions:
      (1)   Potholes of one inch or more in depth;
      (2)   Loosened, crumbling, or breaking surfaces;
      (3)   Difference of two inches or more in heights of adjoining sections
of sidewalk;
      (4)   Insufficient slope to adequately drain water; and/or
      (5)   The accumulation of ice or snow making the sidewalk unsafe for use
by the public.
   (C)   Hereafter, when any sidewalk becomes out of repair within the city,
the Superintendent of Streets shall give the owner of the premises in front of
or adjacent to which the sidewalk is located, notice to repair the sidewalk
within 30 days; provided, however, that during the period of 30 days; the owner
may request that the notice of repair be reviewed by the Street Administrator
within 30 days from receiving a request for review, shall make his or her
recommendation.  The Street Administrator shall forward the recommendation to
the City President and Council for final decision.  The City President and
Council shall take the action thereon as it deems in the best interest of the
city and of the safety of the public.  If no review of the Superintendent of
Streets’ notice is requested within 30 days of the date of the notice, the
decision of the Superintendent of Streets shall be final.
   (D)   The notice, in addition to specifying the time in which the sidewalk
shall be repaired, shall also state that work must be done in accordance with
specifications for new work furnished by the Superintendent of Streets in
repairing the sidewalk and shall also inform the owner of the right of review
of the determination of the Superintendent, as provided in this section.
   (E)   If any person so notified shall not have repaired or reconstructed the
sidewalk after final determination by the Superintendent or the City President
and Council, it shall be the duty of the Superintendent, who may contract or
hire the work done.  The cost and expense of the repairs or reconstruction of
the sidewalk shall be charged to the owner.
(1995 Code, § 50-34)  (Ord. 121, passed 5-2-1988; Am. Ord. 06-2011, passed 9-6-
2011)
§ 93.009  TREES AND SHRUBS OBSTRUCTING SIDEWALKS; MINIMUM HEIGHTS; REMOVAL;
COSTS.
   (A)   No person shall permit the limbs or foliage of any trees or shrubs
located on premises owned by him or her to grow over or upon any sidewalk less
than eight feet above the surface of the sidewalk. Every such owner shall
remove all dead, diseased or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which
constitute a menace to the safety of the public.
   (B)   Any owner of property failing to trim any trees, shrubs or bushes in
conformity with this section shall be notified by the Zoning Administrator to
do so, and the notice shall require trimming in conformity with this section
within five days after the date of the notice. Upon the expiration of such
period, the Zoning Administrator may cause the trimming to be done and the cost
thereof may be collected from the owner of the property in the manner specified
in §
94.28.
   (C)   Upon the expiration of the five-day period as set forth in division
(B) of this section, the owner shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine as set forth in Chapter 34.
Repeat offenses shall be subject to increased fines as set forth in
Chapter 34.
(Ord. 07-2011, passed 9-6-2011)
STREETS
§ 93.020  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK.  The portion of the street right-of-way designed for pedestrian
travel.
   STREET.  All of the land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, alleys and boulevards in the city, and includes lawn extensions and
sidewalks and the area reserved therefore where the same are not yet
constructed.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The City Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 93.021  DAMAGE AND OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall make any excavation in, or cause any damage to any
street in the city, except under the conditions and in the manner permitted in
this subchapter.
   (B)   No person shall place any article, thing or obstruction in any street,
except under the conditions and in the manner permitted in this subchapter.
   (C)   This section shall not be deemed to prohibit such temporary
obstructions as may be incidental to the expeditious movement of articles and
things to and from abutting premises, nor to the lawful parking of vehicles
within the part of the street reserved for vehicular traffic.
   (D)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine as set forth in Chapter
34. Repeat offenses shall be subject to increased fines as set forth in Chapter
34.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 93.022  PRIVATE INSTALLATIONS.
   Every owner of, and every person in control of any premises hereafter
maintaining any excavation, post, pole, sign, awning, wire, pipe, conduit or
other structure in, under, over or upon any street which is adjacent to or a
part of his or her premises shall do so only on condition that such maintenance
shall be considered as an agreement on his or her part with the city to keep
the same and the covers thereof, and any gas and electric boxes and tubes
thereon, in good repair and condition at all times during his or her ownership
or control thereof and to indemnify and save harmless the city against all
damages or actions at law that may arise or be brought by reason of the
excavation or structure being under, over, in or upon the street, or being
unfastened, out of repair or defective during such ownership or control.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 93.023  TEMPORARY STREET CLOSINGS.
   (A)   The City Manager or the Director of Public Works shall have authority
to temporarily close any street, or portion thereof, when he or she shall deem
the street to be unsafe or temporarily unsuitable for use for any reason.
   (B)   The City Manager or Director of Public Works shall cause suitable
barriers and signs to be erected on any street, which is closed to public
travel.
   (C)   When any street or portion thereof has been closed to public travel,
no person shall drive any vehicle upon or over the street except when necessary
to any street repair or construction work being done in the area closed to
public travel.
   (D)   No person shall move or interfere with any sign or barrier erected
pursuant to this section without authority from the Building Inspector.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.024  PERMITS; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   Where permits are required by this subchapter, they shall be obtained
upon application to the city clerk upon such forms as she shall prescribe, and
there shall be a charge for each such permit as established by resolution of
the City Council.
   (B)   The permit shall be revocable by the Zoning Administrator for failure
to comply with this subchapter, rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto,
and the lawful orders of the Building Inspector or his or her duly authorized
representative, and shall be valid only for the period of time endorsed
thereon.
   (C)   Application for a permit under the provisions of this subchapter shall
be deemed an agreement by the applicant to promptly complete the work
permitted, observe all pertinent laws and regulations of the city in connection
therewith, repair all damage done to the street or sidewalk surface and
installations on, over or within such street or sidewalk, including trees, and
protect and save harmless the city from all damages or actions at law that may
arise or may be brought on account of injury to persons or property resulting
from the work done under the permit or in connection therewith.
   (D)   No permit shall be required under the provisions of this subchapter
for any operations or work done by a city employee under the supervision of the
city superintendent or by any contractor operating by virtue of a contract with
the city.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 93.025  LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   (A)   Where liability insurance policies are required to be filed in making
an application for any permit required by this subchapter, they shall be as
determined by the city council, but shall in no event be less than the
following amounts, except as otherwise specified in this subchapter.
      (1)   On account of injury to, or death of, any person in any one
accident, the sum of $20,000.
      (2)   On account of any one accident resulting in injury to, or death of,
more than one person, the sum of $40,000.
      (3)   On account of damage to property in any one accident, the sum of
$10,000.
   (B)   Every liability insurance policy required by this section shall be
maintained by the permittee permanently in force. Every such insurance policy
shall contain a clause obligating the insurer to give the city clerk, by
registered or certified mail, at least ten days’ written notice before the
cancellation, expiration, lapse or other termination of the insurance and the
liability policy shall name the city as an additional named insured.
   (C)   A duplicate executed copy or photostatic copy of the original of any
insurance policy required by this section shall be filed with the city clerk.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 93.026  DEPOSITS FOR PERMIT; REFUND; ADDITIONAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   Where cash deposits are required with the application for any permit
required by this subchapter, the minimum amount to be deposited shall be
established by the Director of Public Works, but in no case shall an escrow
deposit be an amount less than $500, except as otherwise specified in this
subchapter. Such deposit shall be kept by the City Treasurer in an escrow
account and used to defray all expenses to the city arising out of the granting
of the permit and work done under the permit or in connection therewith.
   (B)   Three months after completion of the work done under the permit, any
balance of such cash deposit unexpended shall be refunded. In any case where
the deposit does not cover all costs and expenses of the city, the deficit
shall be paid by the applicant.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 93.027  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR OBSTRUCTIONS CAUSED BY CONSTRUCTION.
   No person shall occupy any street or sidewalk with any materials or
machinery incidental to the construction, demolition or repair of any building
adjacent to said street, or for any other purpose, without first obtaining a
permit from the City Clerk. No permit shall be granted until the applicant
shall post a cash deposit and file a liability insurance policy as required by
this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.028  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR STREET OPENINGS; PREREQUISITES.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening in or under any street
without first obtaining a written permit from the City Clerk. No permit shall
be granted until the applicant shall post the cash deposit and file the
liability insurance policy required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.029  EMERGENCY OPENINGS; PREREQUISITES.
   The Building Inspector may, if the public safety requires immediate action,
grant permission to make a necessary street opening in an emergency, provided
that a permit shall be obtained on the following business day and the other
provisions of this subchapter shall be complied with.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)
§ 93.030  OPENINGS TO BE BARRICADED AND LIGHTED.
   All openings, excavations and obstructions shall be barricaded, railed and
provided with warning lights in accordance with the regulations of the state
highway department.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.031  SHORING EXCAVATIONS.
   All openings and excavations shall be sheeted and braced in accordance with
the regulations of the state highway department.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.032  BACKFILLING REQUIRED; STANDARDS.
   All trenches in a public street or other public place shall be backfilled in
accordance with the regulations of the state highway department.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.033  CURB CUTS: PERMIT REQUIRED; STANDARDS.
   (A)   No opening in or through any curb of any street shall be made without
first obtaining a written permit from the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Curb cuts and sidewalk driveway crossings to provide access to private
property shall comply with the regulations of the city zoning ordinance and
shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   The necessary adjustments to utility poles, light standards, fire
hydrants, catch basins, street or railway signs, signals or other public
improvements or installations shall be accomplished without cost to the city;
and
      (2)   All construction shall be in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the zoning administrator and Director of Public
Works.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.034  OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No permanent building shall be erected so as to block or cut off the use of
an easement, and no trees shall be planted nor permanently installed fences of
the steel or hurricane variety shall be erected in such a manner as to hinder
or obstruct the passage of city equipment or vehicles used to properly maintain
the utilities thereon.
(Ord. 03-2011, passed 4-25-2011)  Penalty, see §
93.999
§ 93.035  CONSTRUCTION BY AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The City Council may, when requested by any property owner, construct,
change, or repair any street or appurtenance abutting their property upon the
terms and conditions as agreed upon by the property owner and the City Council
without setting up a special assessment district. The expense to be paid by the
property owner, if not paid on demand or as agreed, shall be levied as a
special assessment upon the land adjacent or abutting thereon, together with a
collection charge of 10% of the share, shall be a lien upon the property and
shall be collected according to law and in the same manner as other city taxes,
including interest.
   (B)   The property owner may elect to pay his or her assessment at the rate
of 20% per year over a period of five years. The installation payments,
however, shall be subject to an interest charge on the unpaid balance at a rate
set by the City Council but not to exceed 9% per annum.
   (C)   In addition to the provisions set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of
this section, the property owner may request the City Council to provide for a
portion of the cost of the amount of replacement costs for the construction,
change, or repair to be paid by the city-at-large. The terms and provisions of
divisions (A) and (B) of this section remain fully intact and if the remaining
co-payment amount of the owner remains unpaid, after demand is made as agreed,
the terms and provisions set forth in divisions (A) and (B) of this section
shall take effect.
(Ord. 08-2015, passed 10-19-2015)
ACCEPTANCE OF PRIVATE ROADS
§ 93.050  INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to provide for a clear and efficient
process for the evaluation and consideration of the acceptance of private roads
into the public street network. It is expected that, while some private roads
may be eligible for acceptance into the public system, other private roads may
not have been designed to a standard that complies with the local minimum
threshold for acceptance into the public system and, therefore, may not be
eligible for acceptance. The Planning Commission and City Council are expected
to consider all factors effecting petition for acceptance of a private road and
whether each individual street can be incorporated into the public system
without causing undue burden on the city and the health, safety and welfare of
the general public.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.051  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them below, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning.
   LOT.  Any subdivision LOT, meets and bounds LOT, or site condominium unit
that has been recorded.
   PRIVATE DRIVEWAY.  An improved or unimproved path, road or ground surface
extending from a public street or private road, which provides vehicular
ingress and egress to no more than one improved lot, parcel or principal
building.
   PRIVATE STREET.  A privately owned (or controlled) and maintained drive,
street, road, lane, or any improved or unimproved surface, not dedicated to the
city as a public road, which provides the primary means of vehicular ingress
and egress from a public road to two or more dwelling units, lots, parcels or
principal buildings, whether created by a private right-of way, easement or
other device. A PRIVATE STREET shall also include the following:
      (1)   An access other than a private driveway or public road;
      (2)   Where two or more lots or dwellings share or utilize a common
access drive or device, even if each lot has the required frontage on a public
road;
      (3)   Any and all extensions, additions or branches of or to a PRIVATE
STREET, which shall be considered part of the PRIVATE STREET that abuts the
public road.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.052  PUBLIC STREET REQUIREMENTS.
   The standards and requirements of this subchapter shall apply to all streets
proposed for acceptance into the public road network after the date of adoption
of this subchapter. Furthermore, the standards and requirements of this
subchapter shall also apply to existing public streets when any of the
following occurs.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.053  GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following standards are required for acceptance of all public streets.
   (A)   All streets to be accepted as public shall have a recorded permanent
right-of-way with a minimum width of 66 feet, including 66 feet of frontage at
the intersection with a public road. The right-of-way shall also expressly
permit public and private utilities to be installed within the right-of-way.
The minimum right-of-way radius for a turnaround shall be of such size that is
able to encompass the required turnaround and utilities. Public streets that
are strictly residential in nature and that service 15 or fewer residential
dwelling units may be approved for no less than 50 feet of right-of-way, upon
the City Council's consideration and the City Engineer’s recommendation.
   (B)   All public streets shall have a paved surface in compliance with the
following standards.
      (1)   Streets serving commercial or industrial property shall be a
minimum 22 feet in paved width. Where the City Engineer recommends that a third
lane be provided, this requirement may be increased to 33 feet.
      (2)   Streets serving primarily residential properties and providing
direct access to 50 or more dwelling units shall be a minimum of 20 feet in
paved width, with a minimum-three-foot, compact-gravel or hardy-grass shoulder
on both sides of the street, capable of supporting emergency vehicles.
      (3)   Streets serving primarily residential properties and providing
direct access to between eight and 49 dwelling units shall be a minimum of 18
feet in paved width, with a minimum-three-foot, compact-gravel or hardy-grass
shoulder on both sides of the street, capable of supporting emergency vehicles.
      (4)   Streets serving primarily residential properties and providing
direct access to seven or fewer dwelling units shall be a minimum of 16 feet in
paved width.
   (C)   Streets shall be constructed and maintained in accordance with County
Road Commission standards, including but not limited to, grading, compaction
and drainage, unless an alternative design is recommended by the City Engineer
to accommodate unique circumstances of the roadway and/or development area in
question.
   (D)   The area in which the public street is to be located shall have a
minimum cleared width of at least three feet from the edge of the pavement, and
no street shall have a cleared width of less than 26 feet.
   (E)   All streets shall be constructed with such stormwater drainage
easements, stormwater runoff, culverts, and drainage contours as is reasonably
required by the City Engineer to ensure adequate drainage and runoff. A
preliminary meeting with the City Engineer is required prior to submission of
an application for construction or acceptance of a private street into the
public street system.
   (F)   If a street crosses a natural drainage course, stream or other natural
body of water, the method of crossing (bridge, culvert or other structure) must
meet the standards set forth by the County Road Commission and such
specifications as may be reasonably required by the City Engineer.
   (G)   All residential streets shall be serviced by adequate sewer and water
utilities.
   (H)   Each street shall be given a street name that is not the same as any
other street name in the county, as determined by the County Road Commission. A
visible street sign, which can be seen easily in an emergency at all times, and
a stop sign shall be erected and maintained at all times at the intersection of
the proposed street with all public roads.
   (I)   All streets serving more than ten residential dwelling units shall
incorporate a minimum-five-foot-wide sidewalk on at least one side of the
street. Where more than 24 dwelling units are directly or indirectly serviced
by a street, the City Council may require sidewalks to be constructed on both
sides of the street
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.054  TURNAROUNDS.
   (A)   Any single means of access serving more than two lots or dwelling
units shall include one of the following at the end of a public street:
      (1)   A turnaround with a 30-foot turning radius;
      (2)   A hammerhead “T” turn;
      (3)   A continuous loop layout.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/8565069eac2e2f48e039c00830257fd5056b27bd/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2021.jpg]
 
   (B)   Relevant design standards are reprinted on the right side of  the
page:
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.055  PUBLIC STREET GRADE.
   (A)   Public streets shall not exceed a maximum grade of 6%. In no case
shall a 6% grade extend more than 1,000 feet in length.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the preceding, the City Council, upon recommendation
of the City Engineer, may allow a maximum grade of up to 8% for a public
street, if it is reasonably determined that such increased grade meets all of
the following standards:
      (1)   The public street will be safe;
      (2)   The increased grade will not hinder the ability of firefighting
equipment, ambulances and other emergency vehicles and personnel to reach all
portions of the development; and
      (3)   The petitioner demonstrates that automobile traffic will be able to
easily and safely go up and down the grade at all times of the year, including
when ice and snow are present.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.056  SECOND ACCESS; EMERGENCY ACCESS.
   Any public street that will serve or permit access to 25 or more lots or
dwelling units shall have two means of direct access to the existing public
street system. The second means of access may be used for emergency access
purposes only with approval from the City Council, and such access shall be
maintained by the petitioner for year-round access. Each access shall be built
and maintained per the standards of a public road, but the surface material may
be permitted to be a material other than bituminous paving, provided that the
City Engineer recommends the use of the proposed alternate material.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.057  EXISTING, NONCONFORMING PRIVATE STREETS.
   (A)   The city recognizes that there exist private streets that were lawful
prior to the adoption of this subchapter, but that do not fully conform with
the standards herein. Such streets are declared by this subchapter to be legal,
nonconforming private streets.
   (B)   The city also recognizes the importance of having these streets
upgraded if and when one or more of the following situations occurs. Any
developer or property owners’ association that desires to engage in one or more
of the situations listed in divisions (1), (2) or (3) below, shall be required
to upgrade the entire private street to conform with the standards for new
public streets:
      (1)   One or more lots are added to an existing, nonconforming private
street;
      (2)   The division or splitting of a lot occurs on an existing,
nonconforming private street;
      (3)   The addition of an extension, addition or branch to or from an
existing, nonconforming private street.
   (C)   Any developer or property owners’ association that desires to engage
in one or more of the situations listed above in division (B), shall be
required to submit an application for acceptance as a public road signed by a
minimum of 60% of the property owners having property that fronts upon the
nonconforming private street.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.058  EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to a PUD approval, the City Council may modify the standards
for new public streets for a given project for good cause shown.
   (B)   The City Council reserves the right to place higher design
requirements and standards on a development that provides access by means of a
public street should it be in the best interests of the city and for the
protection of the health, safety and general welfare of its residents. Such
additional requirements and standards shall be recognized and accepted by
professional associations and engineering societies, including but not limited
to: the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, the
American Society of Civil Engineers, the Institute of Transportation Engineers,
the Building Officials and Code Administrators International (BOCA) and the
National Fire Protection Association.
   (C)   For situations involving existing nonconforming private streets, the
City Council may grant design modifications should it determine that the design
requirements and standards sited herein cannot reasonably be met due to a
physical hardship. Should the City Council grant design modifications, it may
impose reasonable conditions upon the affected property and public street that
protect the public health, safety and general welfare of all city residents.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.059  APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An application for acceptance of a private street shall be submitted
to the Planning Department, on a form for that purpose together with an
application fee, as determined by the City Council.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a complete application, a preliminary meeting of the
applicant with the City Manager and the City Engineer shall be required. The
purpose of this meeting shall include discussion of all known items of concern
related to the existing private street, including but not limited to, drainage,
construction, sidewalks, lighting and all underground utilities.
   (C)   Following the preliminary meeting, the applicant shall submit a
detailed engineering plan that specifies the proposed construction or
reconstruction of all necessary improvements required to bring the road into
compliance with the standards of this subchapter. The proposed plan shall
include an accurate and up-to-date cost estimate for all proposed improvements,
as well as a signed statement from at least 60% of the property owners having
direct access to the private street, which verifies their knowledge and support
for the acceptance of the street into the public network, as well as the
potential costs associated with any required improvements to bring the road
into compliance with city standards.
   (D)   Upon determining that the application and plans are complete, the City
Manager shall direct the Clerk to provide notice, to all property owners within
300 feet of the private street being requested for such acceptance, that the
Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on the application.
   (E)   In addition, any property owner who lives on or uses the private
street as access to their property will be notified of the hearing.
   (F)   Within a reasonable amount of time after the public hearing, the
Planning Commission shall give a recommendation to the City Council on whether
to deny, approve or approve with conditions the request. The recommendation
shall include an evaluation of the proposed street design and construction, as
well as a review from the City Engineer.
   (G)   The City Council shall then hold a meeting within a reasonable period
of time to make a decision.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.060  MAINTENANCE AND IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Once accepted as a public street, all necessary maintenance and
improvements shall be carried out as part of the public street system.
   (B)   Where significant improvements are required to bring the road up to
current standards, the city, at its sole option and discretion, may choose to
finance the necessary improvements by special assessment to the property owner
(s) with frontage upon the street proposed for acceptance, and in accordance
with the procedures for special assessment contained within the city code.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.061  ACCEPTANCE BY THE CITY COUNCIL.
   No private street shall be accepted into the public system by the city until
the petitioner has presented the city with evidence that a full 60% of the
property owners having property with frontage upon the existing private road
are in favor of the proposed acceptance of the street, and the physical and
financial requirements associated with such acceptance. Such evidence should be
supplied in the form of a signed petition.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
§ 93.062  RECONSIDERATION.
   If the Council should determine that a private street is not eligible for
acceptance into the public street system, the applicant may reapply no sooner
than six months following the date a decision is made by the City Council. In
such cases where an application is submitted for reconsideration, the applicant
shall be required to submit a written statement, explaining how the revised
application has been amended from the original application and/or shall be
required to describe any circumstances that may have changed and that would
warrant the reconsideration. The original procedures described in this
subchapter shall apply.
(Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
STREET PERFORMERS
§ 93.070  INTENT.
   The city hereby finds and declares: Street performers provide a public
amenity that enhances the character of the city; however, the city also
recognizes that street performers affect the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents of the city and certain activities create congestion, excessive
noise, illegal activity, and diminished aesthetics. The city acknowledges that
its interest in regulating street performers must be accommodated within the
parameters of the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution and Article 1,
Section 5 of the Michigan Constitution. This subchapter seeks to impose
reasonable time, place and manner restrictions on street performers to the
extent necessary to ensure the safety of performers with residents' enjoyment
of peace and quiet in their homes or the ability of businesses to conduct
business.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.071  DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases shall be interpreted and construed in
accordance with the following definitions.
   CONTEMPORARY COMMUNITY STANDARDS.  The customary limits of candor and
decency in the city at or near the time of the alleged actions or speech.
   DESIGNATED PUBLIC AREA. An area on public property designated for street
performances.
   EXTRAORDINARY ACTIVITIES. Performances that include any of the following:
tumbling, stilt walking, cycling, aerobatics; or any activities using fire.
   OBSCENE. Any action or speech that meets all of the following criteria:
      (1)   The average individual, applying contemporary community standards,
would find the action, taken as a whole, appeals to the prurient interest;
      (2)   The reasonable person would find the actions or speech, taken as a
whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value; and
      (3)   The actions or speech describes sexual conduct in a patently
offensive way.
   PERFORM. Includes, but is not limited to, the following activities; acting,
singing, playing musical instruments, juggling, dancing, demonstrating
pantomime, exhibiting magic, tumbling, stilt walking, cycling, acrobatics,
certain activities using fire, exhibiting puppetry, or other similar activity.
   PERFORMER. A person who has obtained a permit pursuant to this section.
   PRURIENT INTEREST. A shameful, morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion.
   SEXUAL CONDUCT. One of more of the following:
      (1)   Representations of ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted,
actual or simulated; or
      (2)   Representations or descriptions of masturbation, excretory
functions, or a lewd exhibition of the genitals.
   SIMULATED. The explicit description of any types of conduct set forth in the
definition of SEXUAL CONDUCT, which creates the appearance of such conduct.
   ULTIMATE SEXUAL ACT. Sexual intercourse, fellatio, cunnilingus, and
intercourse, or any other inference, however slight, of any part of a person's
body, or description of sexual bestiality, sadomasochism, masturbation, or
excretory functions.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.072  PROHIBITION OF PERFORMING.
   No person shall perform in the streets, parks or rights-of-way in the city
without obtaining a permit and complying with the provisions of this subchapter
and the city code.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.073  STREET PERFORMER APPLICATION; FEE.
   The City Clerk shall issue street performer permits. Every person desiring
to perform is required to make written application for a permit to the City
Clerk. The City Council may, by resolution, establish a fee to defray the
administrative cost of issuing a permit. Each member of the group of performers
shall apply separately. The applicant shall truthfully and fully state the
information requested on the application.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.074  REVIEW OF APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon filing of the application for a permit, the City Clerk shall
review and evaluate the application and approve, deny, or approve with
conditions an application for a street performer's permit within ten business
days of it being filed. In determining whether a permit should be issued, the
City Clerk shall evaluate whether the application and the applicant meet all of
the following:
      (1)   Whether the proposed activities comply with all of the provisions
of this subchapter and the city code;
      (2)   Whether the proposed activities involve the safe use of the streets
by the public for vehicles and pedestrians;
      (3)   Whether the proposed activities would be obscene; and
      (4)   Whether the applicant has not previously violated two or more
provisions of this subchapter or the city code.
   (B)   For applications that include any extraordinary activities, the Chief
of Police shall review and approve as to whether the extraordinary activities
satisfy division (A)(2) of this section.
   (C)   An applicant must be 18 years or older to obtain a permit.
Notwithstanding, a permit may be approved for a minor if that minor is
performing in a group with other performers who are 18 years or older.
   (D)   The Coordinator shall not approve a permit unless all previous year's
tickets for violation of this subchapter are paid.
   (E)   If the applicant is a corporation, limited liability company, co-
partnership, or other such business entity, the person who will act as the
principal in charge of the business is to meet all of the requirements for
individual applicants.
   (F)   If the permit is not approved, the applicant may file an appeal as
provided in §
93.078.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.075  STREET PERFORMER PERMITS; CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   (A)   Upon approval by the City Clerk, the permit shall be issued. If the
approval includes conditions, all conditions shall be met prior to the issuance
of the permit.
   (B)   Prior to the issuance of a permit, a street performer shall agree to
indemnify the city, its officials, employees, and agents from any liability
arising out of the performer's street performance.
   (C)   Permits granted shall be issued upon payment of any fee required and
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (D)   For a permit that involves any extraordinary activities, the applicant
will provide a certificate of insurance for general liability insurance in an
amount determined by the City Council and name the city, its officials,
employees, and agents as additional insured's. Further, the permit may impose
reasonable conditions on the time, place, or manner of the performance of
extraordinary activities to the extent that they may be harmful to the health,
safety, or welfare of pedestrians or surrounding property.
   (E)   The permit shall bear the name and address of the person performing,
the term of the permit, the type of performance and the location of performing,
and a statement that the permit does not constitute an endorsement by the city
of the purpose of the performing or of the person or group conducting the
performance.
   (F)   A permit shall be valid from the date on which it is issued through
December 31, or for the specific duration noted on the permit. A permit shall
be nontransferable.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.076  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Performances shall only take place in designated locations within the
Downtown Development Authority District. The city may reasonably designate (and
subsequently revoke) in writing additional locations for performances.
   (B)   Except as otherwise approved in the permit, the city may establish
time, place and manner of restrictions on performances or may prohibit
performances when events sponsored by the Downtown Development Authority are in
progress.
   (C)   A performer shall clearly display his or her permit while performing
and shall allow inspection of the permit by any police officer or the City
Clerk upon request.
   (D)   A performer may request contributions or money or property at a
performance. Contributions may be received in any receptacle, such as an open
musical instrument case, box or hat.
   (E)   A person who is under the age of 15 shall not perform unless
accompanied at all times by a responsible adult who is 18 years of age or
older. A person who is 15 years of age or older may perform without a
responsible adult who is 18 years of age or older. Notwithstanding, the city
may prohibit a person who is under the age of 18 from performing extraordinary
activities if that person is not accompanied by a responsible adult who is 18
years of age or older and the extraordinary activities are determined to be
unsafe for surrounding property and pedestrians.
   (F)   A performer shall be responsible for cleanup of all litter at the
performance site.
   (G)   No performer shall:
      (1)   Perform within ten feet of the outer edge of any entrance of any
business, including, but not limited to, doors, vestibules, driveways, outdoor
dining area entries, sidewalk cafes, and emergency exits during the hours that
any business on the premises is open to the public or to persons having or
conducting lawful business within those premises;
      (2)   Perform in any areas not designated by the city or perform in any
area prohibited by the City Manager, his or her designee, or the Chief of
Police in the case of an emergency;
      (3)   Use any of the following:
         (a)   Any knife, sword, torch, flame, axe, saw or other object that
can cause serious bodily injury to any person, or engage in any activity,
including, but not limited to, acrobatics, tumbling or cycling that can cause
serious bodily injury to any person;
         (b)   Any amplification device; or public safety hazard; or
         (c)   Any connection to or maintenance of an electrical cord to an
adjacent building or to a city power source;
      (4)   Utilize or prevent the public from utilizing any public benches,
waste receptacles, or other street furniture during the performance;
      (5)   Place any object on a public sidewalk or physically occupy the
sidewalk in any way which causes less than a six foot contiguous sidewalk width
being kept clear for pedestrian passage.
      (6)   Perform with more instruments, props, equipment, merchandise or
other items than the performer can reasonably transport or remove at one time;
      (7)   Place his or her instruments, props, equipment, or other items on a
public sidewalk, public street, or public right-of-way for more than two hours
without performing in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter;
      (8)   Offer for sale or make available for a price or donation any items
or merchandise;
      (9)   Display any sign other than the street performer permit;
      (10)   Violate the applicable provisions of the code regarding noise;
      (11)   Block or obstruct a curb cut;
      (12)   Block or obstruct the free and safe movement of pedestrians. If a
sufficient crowd gathers to observe a performer such that the passage of the
public through a public area is blocked or obstructed, a police officer or fire
official may disperse that portion of the crowd that is blocking or obstructing
the passage of the public. If a performer cannot conduct a performance in a
location without blocking or obstructing the passage of the public, a police
officer or fire official may cause the performer to leave the location, but
shall not prevent the performer from occupying another location in compliance
with this subchapter;
      (13)   Obstruct the visibility of a motorist;
      (14)   Perform in a manner that is obscene as defined by §
93.071; or
      (15)   Except as expressly permitted in this subchapter, perform in any
way that violates any other provisions of the city code.
   (H)   The City Council authorizes the City Manager the authority to
promulgate rules and regulations relating to the time, place, and manner of
performances and to establish the necessary forms, rules and regulations to
implement this subchapter.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.077  REVOCATION OF PERMITS.
   (A)   The City Clerk, City Manager or his/her designee or an officer of the
Police Department may immediately and without notice revoke a street performer
permit if the underlying violation poses an immediate danger to the public
health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (A) of this section, the City
Clerk may revoke a street performer permit if, upon receipt of written
information or investigation, the City Clerk has reason to believe a performer:
         (a)   Has provided a false statement in the application; or
         (b)   Has violated a provision of this subchapter or the code in a
manner that is materially adverse to the protection of the public health,
safety or welfare of the city.
      (2)   Upon such determination, the City Clerk shall send written notice
to the street performer at the address set forth in the application. The street
performer shall have the right to a hearing before the City Clerk. Such
hearing, shall be set within 15 days of the written notice to the performer. If
after a hearing, the City Clerk finds that the violation is supported by a
preponderance of evidence, the permit shall be revoked. The permit shall be
null and void upon sending notice to the street performer. The street performer
shall shave the right to appeal as provided in §
93.078.
   (C)   If a written complaint is filed alleging that a performer has violated
any provisions of this subchapter, the City Clerk shall promptly send a copy of
the written complaint to the performer, together with a notice that an
investigation will be made as to the truth of the complaint. The performer
shall have the right to respond to evidence produced by the investigation. Such
hearing shall be held within 15 days of the complaint being sent to the street
performer. If after a hearing, the City Clerk finds that the complaint is
supported by a preponderance of evidence, the permit shall be revoked. The
permit shall be null and void upon sending notice to the street performer. The
street performer shall have the right to appeal as provided in §
93.078.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.078  COMPLAINTS; APPEALS.
   (A)   If an applicant for a street performer permit is denied or if a permit
is revoked, the applicant or holder of a permit may appeal to and have a
hearing before the City Manager. The appeal must be filed within ten days of
the denial or the revocation and the hearing shall be held within 15 days of
the denial of the application or the revocation of the permit. The City Manager
shall make a written determination, after presentation by the applicant, as to
whether or not the grounds for denial, revocation or complaint are true and, if
determined that such grounds are supported by a preponderance of evidence, the
initial determination shall be sustained.
   (B)   If a permit is revoked as provided for in division (A) of this
section, the applicant or holder of a permit may appeal to and have a hearing
before the City Council. The appeal must be filed within ten days of the denial
or the revocation. The hearing shall be held within 15 days of the denial of
the application or the revocation of the permit. The City Council shall make a
written determination, after presentation by the applicant, as to whether or
not the grounds for denial, revocation or complaint are true. If the City
Council determines that such grounds are supported by a preponderance of
evidence, the initial determination shall be sustained. If the denial is
affirmed, the City Council's decision may be promptly reviewed by a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.079  APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The Police Chief, the appointed officers of the Police Department, or such
other officials as are designated by the Police Chief are hereby authorized to
issue and serve appearance tickets with respect to a violation of this
subchapter pursuant to § 1 of Act 147 of the Public Acts of 1968, as amended
[M.C.L.A. § 764.9c(2)]. Appearance tickets shall be in such form as determined
by the City Attorney and shall be in conformity with all statutory
requirements.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.080  CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Separately from any other remedies of the city, a person who violates this
subchapter is responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a fine.
(Ord. 05-2015, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 93.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of §§
93.001et seq., or who shall hamper, impede, or interfere with the performance
of the enforcing official under the provisions of §§
93.001et seq., is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to
the civil fines set forth in the schedule of civil fines in §
34.06 and any other relief that may be imposed by the court.  Each act of
violation and each day upon which the violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, trust, governmental unit, partnership
or other legal entity that violates or refuses to comply with any provision of
§§
93.050et seq. shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall
be punished by a civil fine of $50 for a first violation, $250 for a second
violation, and $500 for a third or subsequent violation, as well as other
applicable civil infraction remedies. Any person who violates any of the
provisions of §§
93.050et seq. shall also be subject to civil action seeking invalidation of the
land division and appropriate injunctive or other relief.
(1995 Code, § 50-27)  (Ord. 121, passed 5-2-1988; Am. Ord. 153, passed 8-10-
1998; Am. Ord. 06-2013, passed 4-15-2013)
CHAPTER 94:  SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
94.01   Definitions
   
94.02   Authority to assess
   
94.03   Initiation of special assessment projects
   
94.04   Initiation by petition
   
94.05   Survey and report
   
94.06   Tentative determination; assessment roll
   
94.07   Deviation from plans and specifications
   
94.08   Limitations on preliminary expenses
   
94.09   Roll
   
94.10   Assessor to file assessment roll
   
94.11   Hearing to determine necessity and review roll; objections in writing
   
94.12   Changes and corrections in assessment roll
   
94.13   Objection to assessment
   
94.14   Due date
   
94.15   Installment payments; due date
   
94.16   Delinquency
   
94.17   Creation of lien
   
94.18   Additional assessments; refunds
   
94.19   Additional procedures
   
94.20   Collection
   
94.21   Accounts
   
94.22   Contested assessments
   
94.23   Reassessment for benefits
   
94.24   Combination of projects
   
94.25   Division of parcels
   
94.26   Deferred payments
   
94.27   Reconsideration of petitions
   
94.28   Hazards and nuisances
Statutory reference:
   Deferment for older persons, see M.C.L.A. §§ 211.761 et seq.
   Notices and hearings, see M.C.L.A. §§ 211.741 et seq.
   Special assessments for public improvements, see M.C.L.A.§ 117.4d and City
Charter §§
11.1 to
11.3
§ 94.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST.  The cost of services, plans, condemnation, spreading of rules,
notices, advertising, financing, construction, legal fees, interest on special
assessment bonds for not to exceed one year, and all other costs incident to
the making of the improvement, the special assessments therefor and the
financing thereof.
   LOCAL PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT.  Any public improvement which is of such a nature
as to benefit especially any real property or properties within a district in
the vicinity of the improvement.
(1995 Code, § 46-1)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.02  AUTHORITY TO ASSESS.
   The whole cost or any part thereof of any local public improvement may be
defrayed by special assessment upon the lands specially benefitted by the
improvement in the manner provided in this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 46-2)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.03  INITIATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS.
   Proceedings for the making of local public improvements within the city, the
tentative necessity thereof, and the determination that the whole or any part
of the expense thereof shall be defrayed by special assessment upon the
property especially benefitted, provided that all special assessments levied
shall be in proportion to the benefits derived from the improvements, may be
commenced by resolution of the City Council, with or without petition.
(1995 Code, § 46-3)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.04  INITIATION BY PETITION.
   Local public improvements may be initiated by petition signed by property
owners whose aggregate property in the proposed district was assessed for not
less than 51% of the total assessed value of the privately owned real property
located therein, all shown by the last preceding general tax records of the
city.  The petition shall contain a brief description of the property owned by
the respective signatories thereof, and if it shall appear that the petition is
signed by at least 51%, the Clerk shall certify same to the City Council.  The
petition shall be addressed to the Council and filed with the Clerk and shall
in no event be considered directory but is advisory only.
(1995 Code, § 46-4)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.05  SURVEY AND REPORT.
   Before the City Council shall consider the making of any local improvement,
the Council shall cause to be prepared a report which shall include necessary
plans, profiles, specifications, and detailed estimates of cost, an estimate of
the life of the improvement, a description of the assessment district, and any
other pertinent information as will permit the Council to decide the cost,
extent, and necessity of the improvement proposed and what part or proportion
thereof should be paid by special assessments upon the property especially
benefitted, and what part, if any, should be paid by the city-at-large.  The
Council shall not finally determine to proceed with the makings of any local
improvement until the report has been filed nor until after a public hearing
has beep held by the Council for the purpose of hearing objections to the
making of the improvement.
(1995 Code, § 46-5)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.06  TENTATIVE DETERMINATION; ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Upon receipt of the report required in §
94.05, if the City Council shall decide to proceed with the improvement, it
shall, by resolution, order the report filed with the Clerk.  In addition, by
that resolution, the Council shall tentatively determine the necessity thereof,
set forth the nature thereof, designate the limits of the special assessment
district to be affected and describe the lands to be assessed, the part or
portion of the cost of the public improvement to be paid by the lands specially
benefitted thereby and the part or portion, if any to be paid by the city-at-
large for benefit to the city-at-large, and shall direct the assessor to make a
special assessment roll of the part or the proportion of the cost to be borne
by the lands specially benefitted according to the benefits received and to
report the same to the Council.
(1995 Code, § 46-6)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.07  DEVIATION FROM PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   No deviation from original plans or specifications, as adopted, shall be
permitted by any officer or employee of the city without authority of the City
Council by resolution.  A copy of the resolution authorizing the changes or
deviation shall be certified by the Clerk and attached to the original plans
and specifications on file in his or her office.
(1995 Code, § 46-7)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.08  LIMITATIONS ON PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
   The City Council shall specify the provisions and procedures for financing a
local public improvement.  No contract or expenditure, except for the cost of
preparing necessary profiles, plans, specifications, and estimates of cost,
shall be made for the improvement, nor shall any improvement be commenced until
the special assessment roll to defray the costs of the same shall have been
made and confirmed.
(1995 Code, § 46-8)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.09  ROLL.
   The Assessor shall make a special assessment roll of all lots and parcels of
land within the designated district benefitted by the proposed improvement and
assess to each lot or parcel of land the proportionate amount benefitted
thereby.  The amount spread in each case shall be based upon the detailed
estimate of cost as approved by the City Council.
(1995 Code, § 46-9)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.10  ASSESSOR TO FILE ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   When the Assessor shall have completed the assessment roll, he or she shall
file the same with the City Clerk for presentation to the City Council for
review and certification by it.
(1995 Code, § 46-10)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.11  HEARING TO DETERMINE NECESSITY AND REVIEW ROLL; OBJECTIONS IN WRITING.
   Upon receipt of the special assessment roll, the City Council, by
resolution, shall accept the assessment roll and order it to be filed in the
office of the Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time and place the
Council will meet to hear objections to the improvement and review the special
assessment roll and direct the Clerk to give notice of a public hearing for the
purpose of affording an opportunity for interested persons to be heard.  The
notice shall be given by publication once at least ten full days prior to the
date of the hearing in a newspaper published or circulated within the city and
by first-class mail addressed to each owner of or person in interest in
property to be assessed, as shown by the last general tax assessment roll of
the city, mailed at least ten days prior to the date of the hearing.  The
hearing required by this section may be held at any regular, adjourned, or
special meeting of the Council.  At the hearing, all interested persons or
parties shall present, in writing, their objections, if any, to the improvement
and the assessments against them.  The Assessor shall be present at every
meeting of the Council at which a special assessment is to be reviewed.  The
notice shall include a statement that appearance and protest at the hearing in
the special assessment proceedings is required in order to appeal the amount of
the special assessment to the State Tax Tribunal, and that an owner or party in
interest, or his or her agent, may appear in person at the hearing to protest
the special assessment or may file his or her appearance or protest by letter
and his or her personal appearance shall not be required.  The notice shall
further include a statement that the owner or any party having an interest in
the real property may file a written appeal of the special assessment with the
State Tax Tribunal within 30 days after the confirmation of the special
assessment roll if that special assessment was protested at the hearing held
for the purpose of confirming the roll.
(1995 Code, § 46-11)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.12  CHANGES AND CORRECTIONS IN ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The City Council shall meet at the time and place designated for the hearing
on the improvements and review of the special assessment roll, and at the
meeting, or a proper adjournment thereof, shall consider all objections thereto
submitted in writing.  The City Council may correct the roll as to any special
assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land or other errors
appearing therein; or it may, by resolution, annul the assessment roll and
direct that new proceedings be instituted.  The same proceedings shall be
followed in making a new roll as in the making of the original roll.  If after
the hearing all objections and making a record of the changes as the Council
deems justified, the Council may, by resolution, determine to proceed with the
public improvement, determine the necessity thereof and set forth the nature
thereof, designate the limits of the special assessment district to be affected
and describe the lands to be assessed, finally determine the part or proportion
of the cost of the public improvement to be paid by the lands specially
benefitted thereby and the part or portion, if any, to be paid by the city-at-
large for benefit to the city-at-large.  If the Council determines that it is
satisfied with the special assessment roll and that assessments are in
proportion to the benefits received, it shall thereupon pass a resolution
reciting the determinations, confirming the roll, placing it on file in the
office of the Clerk and directing the Clerk to attach his or her warrant to a
certified copy thereof within ten days, therein commanding the Assessor to
spread and the Treasurer to collect the various sums and amounts appearing
thereon as directed by the Council.  The roll shall have the date of
confirmation endorsed thereon and shall from that date be final and conclusive
for the purpose of the improvement to which it applies unless contested, and
subject to adjustment to conform to the actual cost of the improvement, as
provided in §
94.18 of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 46-12)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.13  OBJECTION TO ASSESSMENT.
   If at or prior to the final confirmation of any special assessments the
owners of privately owned real property to be assessed for more than 50% of the
cost of an improvement or in the case of paving or similar improvements the
owners of more than 50% of the frontage to be assessed for any such improvement
shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the improvement shall not
be made by proceedings delineated by this chapter without a 2/3 vote of the
members-elect of the Council.  This section shall not apply to sidewalk
construction.
(1995 Code, § 46-13)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.14  DUE DATE.
   All special assessments, except the installments thereof as the City Council
make payable at a future time as provided in this chapter, shall be due and
payable upon confirmation of the special assessment roll.
(1995 Code, § 46-14)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.15  INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS; DUE DATE.
   The City Council may provide for the payment of special assessments in
installments.  The installments shall not exceed 30 in number, the first
installment being due upon confirmation of the roll or on the date as the
Council may determine and the deferred installments shall be due annually
thereafter, or, in the discretion of the Council, shall be due annually on the
other date as the Council may fix or may be spread upon and made a part of each
annual city tax roll thereafter until all are paid.  Interest shall be charged
on all deferred installments at a rate not to exceed 9% per annum commencing on
the date on or after the confirmation as may be fixed by the Council and
payable with each installment.  The full amount of all or any deferred
installments, with interest accrued thereon to the date of payment, may be paid
in advance of the due dates thereof.  If the full assessment or the first
installment thereof shall be due upon confirmation, each property owner shall
have 30 days from the date of confirmation to pay the full amount of the
assessment or the full amount of any installments thereof without penalty or
interest.  Following the 30-day period, the assessment or first installment
thereof shall, if unpaid, be considered delinquent and the same penalties shall
be collected on the unpaid assessments or first installments thereof as are
provided by law to be collected on delinquent general city taxes.  Deferred
installments shall be collected without penalty until 30 days after the due
date thereof, after which time the installments shall be considered as
delinquent and the penalties on the installments shall be collected as are
provided by law to be collected on delinquent general city takes.  After the
City Council has confirmed the roll, the City Treasurer shall notify by mail
each property owner on the roll that the roll has been filed, stating the
amount assessed and the terms of payment.  Failure on the part of the City
Treasurer to give the notice or of the owner to receive the notice shall not
invalidate any special assessment roll of the city or any assessment thereon,
nor excuse the payment of interest or penalties.
(1995 Code, § 46-15)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.16  DELINQUENCY.
   Any assessment, or part thereof, remaining unpaid on the first Monday of
October following the date when the same became delinquent shall be reported as
unpaid by the Treasurer to the City Council.  Any such delinquent assessment,
together with all accrued interest, shall be transferred and reassessed on the
next annual city tax roll in a column headed “special assessments,” with a
penalty of 4% upon the total amount added thereto, and when so transferred and
reassessed upon the tax roll shall be collected in all respects as provided for
the collection of city taxes.
(1995 Code, § 46-16)  (Ord. 65-A, passed 6-4-1990)
§ 94.17  CREATION OF LIEN.
   Special assessments and all interests, penalties, and charges thereon from
the date of confirmation of the roll shall become a debt to the city from the
persons to whom they are assessed, and, until paid, shall be and remain a lien
upon the property assessed, of the same character and effect as the lien
created by general law for state, county, and city taxes, and the lands upon
which the same are a lien shall be subject to sale therefor the same as are
lands upon which delinquent city taxes constitute a lien.
(1995 Code, § 46-17)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.18  ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   The Clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each local or
special public improvement, compile the actual cost thereof and certify the
same to the Assessor, who shall adjust the special assessment roll to
correspond therewith.  Should the assessment prove larger than necessary by
less than 5%, the same shall be reported to the Council, which may place the
excess in the city treasury or make a refund thereof pro rata according to the
assessment.  If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by 5% or more, the
entire excess shall be credited to owners of property as shown by the city
assessment roll upon which the assessment has been levied, pro rata according
to the assessment.  No refunds of special assessments may be made which impair
or contravene the provision of any outstanding obligation or bond secured, in
whole or in part, by the special assessments.  In the case of assessments due
in installments, the Council may order the refund given by credit against the
installments last coming due.  When any special assessment roll shall prove
insufficient to meet the cost of the improvement for which it was made, the
Council may make an additional pro rata assessment, but the total amount
assessed against any one parcel of land shall not exceed the benefits received
by the lot or parcel of land.
(1995 Code, § 46-18)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.19  ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this chapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry out fully the making of any special assessment, the
Council shall provide by ordinance any additional steps or procedures required.
(1995 Code, § 46-19)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.20  COLLECTION.
   If bonds are issued in anticipation of the collection of special assessments
as provided in this chapter, all collections on each special assessment roll,
or combination of rolls, shall be set in a separate fund for the payment of the
principal and interest on the bonds so issued in anticipation of the payment of
the special assessments, and shall be used for no other purpose.
(1995 Code, § 46-20)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.21  ACCOUNTS.
   Moneys raised by special assessment to pay the cost of any local
improvements shall be held in a special fund to pay the cost or to repay any
money borrowed therefor.  Each special assessment account may be used only for
the improvement project for which the assessment was levied, expenses
incidental thereto, including the repayment of the principal and interest on
money borrowed therefor, and to refund excessive assessments, if refunds are
authorized.
(1995 Code, § 46-21)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.22  CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   An action may not be instituted for the purpose of contesting or enjoining
the collection of a special assessment unless:
   (A)   Within 45 days after the confirmation of the special assessment roll,
written notice is given to the City Council indicating an intention to file the
action and stating the grounds on which it is claimed that the assessment is
illegal; and
   (B)   The action is commenced within 90 days after the confirmation of the
roll.
(1995 Code, § 46-22)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.23  REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   Whenever the City Council shall deem any special assessment invalid or
defective for any reason whatever, in whole or in part, the City Council shall
have the power to cause a new assessment to be made for the same purpose for
which the former assessment was made, whether the improvement or any part
thereof has been completed and whether any part of the assessment has been
collected or not.  All proceedings on the reassessment and for the collection
thereof shall be made in the manner as provided for the original assessment. 
If any portion of the original assessment shall have been collected and not
refunded, it shall be applied upon the reassessment, and the reassessment
shall, to that extent, be deemed satisfied.  If more than the amount reassessed
shall have been collected, the balance shall be refunded to the person making
the payment.
(1995 Code, § 46-23)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.24  COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The City Council may combine several districts into one project for the
purpose of effecting a saving in the costs.  There shall be established for
each district separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the same.
(1995 Code, § 46-24)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.25  DIVISION OF PARCELS.
   Should any lots or lands be divided after a special assessment thereon has
been confirmed and divided into installments, the Assessor shall apportion the
uncollected amounts upon the several lots and lands so divided, and shall enter
the several amounts as amendments upon the special assessment roll.  The City
Treasurer shall, within ten days after the apportionment, send a notice of the
action to the persons concerned at their last known address by first-class
mail.  The apportionment shall be final and conclusive on all parties unless
protest, in writing, is received by the City Treasurer within 20 days of the
mailing of the notice.
(1995 Code, § 46-25)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.26  DEFERRED PAYMENTS.
   The City Council may provide for the deferred payment of special assessments
from persons by reason of correcting for existing non-conforming connections to
the water system, or from persons who, in the opinion of the Council and the
Assessor, by reason of hardship are unable to contribute toward the cost
thereof.  In all the cases, as a condition to the granting of the deferred
payments, the city shall require mortgage security on the real property of the
beneficiary payable on or before his or her death, or in any event on the sale
or transfer of the property, or for property vacant at the time of deferment,
upon construction requiring connection to the water system.
(1995 Code, § 46-26)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979; Ord. 06-2018, passed 11-5-
2018)
§ 94.27  RECONSIDERATION OF PETITIONS.
   If the City Council shall fail to make any public improvement petitioned for
under the provisions of §
94.04 during the calendar year during which any petition is filed, the petition
shall be reconsidered by the Council prior to March 1 of the succeeding
calendar year for the purpose of determining whether the improvement should be
made during the calendar year.
(1995 Code, § 46-27)  (Ord. 65, passed 11-5-1979)
§ 94.28  HAZARDS AND NUISANCES.
   When any lot, building, or structure within the city, because of the
accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontrolled growing of weeds, or age or
dilapidation, or because of any other condition or happening, becomes, in the
opinion of the City Council, a public hazard or nuisance which is dangerous to
the health or safety of the inhabitants of the city or those of them residing
or habitually going near the lot, building, or structure, the Council may,
after investigation, give notice to the owner of the land upon which the hazard
or nuisance exists or the owner of the building or structure itself, specifying
the nature of the hazard and requiring the owner to alter, repair, tear down,
or remove same promptly and within a time to be specified by the Council, which
shall be commensurate with the nature of the hazard or nuisance.  If, at the
expiration of the time limit in the notice, the owner has not complied with the
requirements thereof, or in any case where the owner of the land or of the
building or structure itself is not known, the Council may order such a hazard
or nuisance abated by the proper department or agency of the city which is
qualified to do the work required, and the costs of the work shall become a
lien on the real property upon which the hazard or nuisance was located, and
shall be collected in accordance with §
94.17.
(1995 Code, § 46-28)  (Ord. 65-A, passed 6-4-1990)
CHAPTER 95:  HEALTH AND SAFETY; NUISANCES
Section
Noise
   
95.01   Findings; application of title
   
95.02   Definitions
   
95.03   Anti-noise regulations generally
   
95.04   Exceptions
   
95.05   Anti-noise regulations based upon dB(A) criteria
   
95.06   Validity
Groundwater Protection
   
95.20   Purpose
   
95.21   Definitions
   
95.22   Applicability
   
95.23   Prohibitions within ten-year time-of-travel (TOT) wellhead protection
area
   
95.24   Criteria for review
   
95.25   Professional review of proposed development
   
95.26   Exemptions and waivers
   
95.27   Abandoned operations
   
95.28   Enforcement
   
95.29   Abatement/remedial activities
   
95.30   Injunctive relief
   
95.31   Appeals
   
95.32   Remedies not exclusive
   
95.33   Conflicting regulations
Nuisances
   
95.35   Definition
   
95.36   Illustrative enumeration
   
95.37   Notice to abate
   
95.38   Contents of notice
   
95.39   Service of notice
   
95.40   Abatement by the city
   
95.41   Emergency abatement by the city
   
95.42   City’s costs
Grass and Noxious Weeds
   
95.55   Weeds and noxious vegetation; prohibited in certain places
   
95.56   Exceptions to prohibition
   
95.57   Additional prohibitions
   
95.58   Abatement
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Air Pollution Act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 324.5501 et seq.
   Environmental Protection Act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 to 324.90106
NOISE
§ 95.01  FINDINGS; APPLICATION OF TITLE.
   Excessive sound and vibration are a serious hazard to the public health,
welfare, safety, and quality of life, and a substantial body of science and
technology exists by which excessive sound and vibration may be substantially
abated. The people have a right to and should be ensured an environment free
from excessive sound and vibration that may jeopardize their health, welfare,
or safety or degrade the quality of life. The damage and discomfort caused to
the people arises both from stationary and non-stationary sound and vibration
and this division shall apply to both.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 95.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DECIBEL (dBA).  The sound pressure level in decibels measured on the “A”
scale of a standard sound level meter having characteristics defined by the
American National Standards Institute, Publication ANSI sl.4-1971.
   DISTRICT.  The land use zone to which the provisions of this chapter are
applied. For the purposes of this chapter:
      (1)   COMMERCIAL DISTRICT include all C and L classified zones.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT includes all R classified zones and the Public
Lands classification.
   MOTOR VEHICLE.  Any vehicle which is self-propelled, used primarily for
transporting persons or property upon public highways. Aircraft, watercraft,
and vehicles used exclusively on stationary rails or track are not motor
vehicles as that term is used herein. It includes motorcycles unless
distinction is made in the context of use.
   NOISE CONTROL OFFICER.  The Chief of Police and his or her agents who have
the responsibility for the enforcement of this subchapter.
   PERSON.  Any individual, firm, association, partnership, limited liability
corporation or any other entity, public or private.
   REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY.  The imaginary line which represents the legal
limits of property (including an apartment, condominium, room, or other
dwelling unit) owned, leased, or otherwise occupied by a person, business,
corporation, or institution. In cases involving sound from an activity on a
public street or other public right-of-way, the REAL PROPERTY BOUNDARY shall be
the nearest boundary of the public right-of-way.
   RECEIVING LAND.  The real property within which sound originating from
outside the property is received.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 95.03  ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS GENERALLY.
   (A)   No person shall cause or create any unreasonable or unnecessarily loud
noise or disturbance, injurious to the health, peace, or quiet of the residents
and property owners of the city.
   (B)   The following noises and disturbances are hereby declared to be a
violation of this subchapter; provided, however, that the specification of the
same is not thereby to be construed to exclude other violations of this
ordinance not specifically enumerated:
      (1)   The playing of any radio, phonograph, television, or other
electronic or mechanical sound-producing device, including any musical
instrument in such a manner or with such volume as to unreasonably upset or
disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of other persons;
      (2)   Yelling, shouting, hooting or singing on the public streets between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to
unreasonably upset or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity;
      (3)   The emission or creation of any excessive noise which unreasonably
interferes with the operation of any school, church, or hospital;
      (4)   The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl, which emanates frequent or
extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
any person in the vicinity; such as allowing or permitting any dog to bark
repeatedly in an area where such barking can be clearly heard from nearby
residential property;
      (5)   The operation of any motorcycle so out of repair or so loaded or
constructed as to cause loud and unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling, or
other unreasonable noise including the noise resulting from exhaust, which is
clearly audible from nearby properties and unreasonably disturbing to the
quiet, comfort or repose of other persons;
      (6)   The sounding of any horn or other device on any motor vehicle
unless necessary to operate the vehicle safely or as required by the Michigan
Motor Vehicle Code;
      (7)   The discharging outside of any enclosed building of the exhaust of
any steam engine, internal combustion engine, motor vehicle, or motor boat
engine except through a muffler or other similar device which will effectively
prevent loud or explosive noises;
      (8)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repair of any
building or premises in any part of the city, and including the streets and
highways, in such a manner as to emanate noise or disturbance unreasonably
annoying to other persons, other than between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 9:
00p.m. on any day, except in cases of urgent necessity in the interest of
public health and safety;
      (9)   The creation of a loud or excessive noise unreasonably disturbing
to other persons in the vicinity in connection with the operation, loading or
unloading of any vehicle, trailer, railroad car, or other carrier or in
connection with the repairing of any such vehicle in or near residential areas;
      (10)   The use of any drum, loudspeaker or other instrument or device for
the purpose of attracting attention to any performance, show, sale, display or
other commercial purpose which, by the creation of such noise, shall be
unreasonably disturbing to other persons in the vicinity; and
      (11)   The operation of any machinery, equipment or mechanical device so
as to emit unreasonably loud noise which is disturbing to the quiet, comfort or
repose of any person.
   (C)   Violations of this section are independent of the maximum decibel
limitations provided for under §
95.05.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 5-6-2008)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.04  EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the prohibitions hereinbefore enumerated shall apply to the
following:
   (A)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine or emergency vehicle while
engaged in necessary emergency activities;
   (B)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets or highways or other property
by or on behalf of the State of Michigan, the city, or Allegan County
(including, but not limited to private contractors of these governmental
entities), between 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. when the public welfare, safety and
convenience render it impossible to perform such work during other hours;
   (C)   Warning devices emitting sound for warning purposes as authorized by
law;
   (D)   Any organized public events sponsored or endorsed by the City of the
Village of Douglas;
   (E)   Any bells, chimes, or other musical devices used by religious
institutions or churches;
   (F)   Any bands for celebrations, events, or activities sponsored or
endorsed by the City of the Village of Douglas; and
   (G)   Any ordinary and customary activities conducted at schools or other
educational institutions involving playground activities which are conducted
during normal school hours.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 95.05  ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS BASED UPON dB(A) CRITERIA.
   (A)   Maximum permissible sound levels by receiving land use. No person on
private property shall create a continuous sound which exceeds the limits set
forth for the receiving land category in the following table when measured at
or within the property boundary of the receiving land which source of sound
shall be deemed prima facie to be a noise disturbance. CONTINUOUS SOUND means
any sound having a duration of one second or more. The maximum sound levels are
as follows.
 
Maximum Sound Levels Table
Land Category                Receiving              Sound Limit dBA
Residential Zoning Districts 10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 65 dBA
                             7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 70 dBA
Commercial Zoning Districts  10:00 p.m. - 7:00 a.m. 65 dBA
                             7:00 a.m. - 10:00 p.m. 70 dBA
 
   (B)   Impulse sounds.  Impulse sounds may exceed the permissible limits in
the above table by ten decibels if they occur less than ten times in any hour
between 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. or less than four times in any hour between
10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. If any impulse sound exceeds these frequencies, then
the permissible limits in the table apply. IMPULSE SOUND means any sound having
a duration of less than one second.
   (C)   All noise emitted from motor vehicles upon public roads shall be
measured whenever possible at a distance of a least 50 feet (or 15 meters) from
a noise source located within the public right-of-way. If measurement at 50
feet (15 meters) is not feasible, measurement may be made at 25 feet (7 1/
2 meters) and if this is done, six dBA shall be added to the limits provided
below. All such noises in excess of the dBA as provided herein shall be prima
facie evidence that such noise unreasonably disturbs the comfort, quiet and
repose of persons in the area and is therefore in violation of this subchapter.
 
Vehicle                            Weight                           dBA
Trucks and buses                   Over 10,000 pounds gross weight  82 dBA
                                   under 10,000 pounds gross weight 74 dBA.
Passenger cars                     Any weight                       74 dBA.
Motorcycles, snowmobiles and mini- Any weight                       82 dBA
bikes
All other self-propelled motor     Any weight                       74 dBA
vehicles
 
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 5-6-2008)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06  VALIDITY.
   The several provisions of this subchapter are declared to be separate; if
any court of law shall hold that any section or provision thereof is invalid,
such holding shall not affect or impair the validity of any other section or
provision of this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-2008, passed 5-6-2008)
GROUNDWATER PROTECTION
§ 95.20  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City of the Village of Douglas has determined that certain
groundwater underlying areas including the city is, or may be in the future,
the source of water supplied by the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority.
Groundwater aquifers are integrally connected with the surface water, lakes and
streams that constitute significant public health, recreational and economic
resources of the city and surrounding area. Spills and discharges of hazardous
substances threaten the quality of the groundwater supplies and other water
related resources, posing potential public health and safety hazards and
threatening economic losses.
   (B)   This subchapter is intended to protect existing and potential
groundwater supplies, aquifers, and groundwater recharge areas of the sources
of water supplied by the Kalamazoo Lake Sewer and Water Authority.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.21  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED OPERATIONS.
      (1)   Any property that is unoccupied for at least 30 days and to which
one or more of the following applies:
         (a)   Is open to casual entry;
         (b)   Has one or more windows boarded;
         (c)   Has utilities disconnected;
         (d)   Is unsafe for occupancy or the general public, or is a visual
blight adversely affecting the general welfare of the area; or
         (e)   Is the subject of indebtedness to the city for more than one
year.
      (2)   ABANDONED OPERATIONS do not include a property that is actively
listed by a licensed real estate broker.
   AQUIFER. A geological formation, group of formations, or part of a formation
capable of storing and yielding a significant amount of groundwater to wells
and springs.
   CHEMICAL ABSTRACT SERVICE (CAS) NUMBER. This is a unique number for every
chemical established by a Columbus, Ohio organization which indexes information
published in "Chemical Abstracts" by the American Chemical Society.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. A chemical or other material that is or may become
injurious to the public health, safety, or welfare, or to the environment. The
term HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE includes, but is not limited to, any of the following
which are stored or generated.
      (1)   Hazardous substances as defined in the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980, Public Law 96.510,
94 State. 2767;
      (2)   Hazardous waste as defined in Part 111 of the State of Michigan
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 Public Act 451, as
amended;
      (3)   Regulated substance as defined in Part 213 of the State of Michigan
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 Public Act 451, as
amended;
      (4)   Hazardous substance as defined in Part 201 of the State of Michigan
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 Public Act 451, as
amended;
      (5)   Used oil;
      (6)   Radiological materials.
   POLLUTION INCIDENT PREVENTION PLAN (PIPP). A PIPP includes a polluting
material inventory, a site diagram depicting the locations of the polluting
materials, emergency response procedures, and secondary-containment details.
Sites are subject to Michigan's Part 5 Rules if they store oils and other
polluting materials above established threshold management quantities (TMQs),
which are:
      (1)   Salt in solid form at quantities of five tons (10,000 pounds) or
more.
      (2)   Salt in liquid form at 1,000 gallons or more.
      (3)   Petroleum products in an AST or container with a capacity of 660
gallons or greater or an aggregate aboveground storage capacity of 1,320
gallons.
      (4)   All other polluting materials specified in Part 5 that are used,
stored, or otherwise managed in a discrete outdoor location, with a total
storage quantity of 200 kilograms (kg) (440 pounds) or more.
      (5)   All other polluting materials specified in Part 5 that are used,
stored, or otherwise maintained at a discrete indoor location, with a total
storage quantity of 1,000 kg (2,200 pounds) or more.
   PROPERLY PLUGGED ABANDONED WELL. A well that has been closed in accordance
with regulations and procedures of the Department of Environment Great Lakes
and Energy (EGLE) and the local Health Department. A properly plugged abandoned
well requires a permit to be brought back into service.
   SECONDARY CONTAINMENT. A second tank, catchment pit, pipe, or vessel that
limits and contains liquid or chemical leaking or leaching from a primary
containment area; monitoring and recovery are required.
   SPILL PREVENTION CONTROL AND COUNTERMEASURE (SPCC) PLAN. As detailed in 40
CFR Part 112, sites are subject to the SPCC rules if (1) they store either more
than 1,320 gallons of petroleum products aboveground; and (2) they present a
reasonable risk to a navigable water of the United States property (including
via storm water and groundwater). An SPCC plan details site oil storage, spill
potential, and emergency response and notification procedures. The SPCC plan is
required to be certified by a registered professional engineer.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN (SWPPP). As detailed in 40 CFR Part
122, sites that are required to have a storm water permit are also required to
have SWPPPs that detail hazardous substance exposed to storm water and controls
to prevent releases.
   UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK. A tank or combination of tanks, including
underground pipes connected to the tank or tanks, which is, was, or may have
been used to contain an accumulation of hazardous substances, as defined in
Part 211 of the State of Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, 1994 Public Act 451, as amended.
   UNPLUGGED ABANDONED WELL. A well which has not been used for one year or
more.
   WELL. As defined in the Michigan Water Well Construction and Pump
Installation Code, Part 127, Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, as amended,
and rules; or a permanent or temporary opening in the surface of the earth for
the purpose of removing water, or testing water quality, or measuring water
characteristics, or measuring liquid recharge, or measuring liquid levels, or
oil and gas exploration or production, or waste disposal, or dewatering
purposes; or geothermal heat exchange purposes, or a cistern of a depth of four
feet or more and with a top width of 12 inches or more.
   WELLHEAD PROTECTION AREA (WHPA). The area which has been approved by EGLE in
accordance with the State of Michigan Wellhead Protection Program, which
represents the surface and subsurface area surrounding a water well or well
field, which supplies a public water system, and through which contaminants are
reasonably likely to move toward and reach the water well or well field within
a ten-year time-of-travel. Where the line defining the WHPA intersects a
parcel, the entire parcel shall be subject to this subchapter.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.22  APPLICABILITY.
   Except as provided in §
95.26, Exemptions and Waivers, this subchapter applies to all zoning permit
requests within the WHPA for uses that generate, use or store hazardous
substances.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.23  PROHIBITIONS WITHIN TEN-YEAR TIME-OF-TRAVEL (TOT) WELLHEAD PROTECTION
AREA.
   For any parcel of land in whole or in part, within a ten-year WHPA, the
following activities are prohibited at any location on the parcel:
   (A)   Operations of a scrap and recycling yard.
   (B)   Operations of a State of Michigan Type II or Type III solid waste
landfill.
   (C)   Use of oil, waste oil, or similar liquid petroleum-type products for
dust suppression.
   (D)   Excavation, extraction, or mining of sand, gravel, bedrock, or any
other type of earth if a permit is required.
   (E)   Unplugged abandoned wells.
   (F)   Improper use, storage and disposal of hazardous substances.
   (G)   New wells used for irrigation that would be classified as large
quantity withdrawals.
   (H)   Drilling for natural gas or petroleum, whether for exploration or
production.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§  95.24  CRITERIA FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   Site plan review procedures. Applications for projects subject to this
subchapter shall include the following information in addition to what is
required under Article 24 of the zoning ordinance:
      (1)   Existing and proposed land use deed restrictions, if any.
      (2)   Location and outline of all existing septic tanks and drain fields.
      (3)   Location of any floor drains in proposed structures on the site.
The point of discharge for all drains and pipes shall be specified on the site
plan.
      (4)   Location of existing and proposed public and private drinking water
wells, monitoring wells, irrigation wells, test wells, wells used for
industrial processes or wells that have no identified use.
      (5)   Inventory of hazardous substances to be stored, used or generated
on-site, including CAS numbers.
      (6)   Description and drawings showing size and location for any existing
or proposed aboveground and underground storage tanks, piping lines and
dispensers.
      (7)   Descriptions of type of operations proposed for the project and
drawings showing size, location, and description of any proposed interior or
exterior areas of structures for storing, using, loading or unloading of
hazardous substances.
      (8)   Reported delineation of areas on the site which are known or
suspected to be contaminated, together with a report on the status of cleanup
or closure.
      (9)   Completion of the EGLE environmental permits checklist.
   (B)   The project and related improvements shall be designed to protect land
and water resources from pollution, including pollution of soils, groundwater,
rivers, streams, lakes, ponds, and wetlands.
   (C)   If required by state or federal law, properties using hazardous
substances are required to have a spill prevention control and countermeasure
(SPCC) plan, a pollution incident prevention plan (PIPP), and/or a storm water
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP). Sites that at any time use, store or
generate hazardous substances shall be designed to prevent spills and
unpermitted discharges to air, surface of the ground, groundwater, lakes,
streams, rivers or wetlands.
   (D)   Hazardous substances stored on the site before, during, or after site
construction, shall be stored in a location and manner designed to prevent
spills and unpermitted discharges to air, surface of the ground, groundwater,
lakes, streams, rivers, or wetlands.
   (E)   Secondary containment facilities shall be provided for aboveground
storage of hazardous substances in accordance with state and federal
requirements. Aboveground secondary containment facilities shall be designed
and constructed so that the potentially polluting material cannot escape from
the unit by gravity through sewers, drains, or other means, directly or
indirectly into a sewer system, or to the waters of the state (including
groundwater).
   (F)   Unplugged abandoned wells and cisterns shall be plugged in accordance
with regulations and procedures of the EGLE and the County Health Department.
General purpose floor drains shall be connected to a public sewer system, and
on-site holding tank, or a system authorized through a state surface or
groundwater discharge permit. If connected to a public sewer system, then the
volume and concentration of waste discharged to the floor drain shall be in
compliance with all state, county and local industrial pretreatment
requirements.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§  95.25  PROFESSIONAL REVIEW OF PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT.
   Fees in escrow for professional reviews. Any application for site plan
approval as required under this subchapter may require the deposit of fees to
be held in escrow in the name of the applicant. An escrow fee shall be required
by the Zoning Administrator unless waived by the Zoning Administrator or the
City Council. Waiver shall be based on a written conclusion that there is no
substantial information or analysis benefit to accrue as a result of the
application of this section. An escrow fee may be requested to obtain a
professional review of any other project which may, at the discretion of the
Zoning Administrator, create an identifiable and potentially negative impact on
public infrastructure or services, or on adjacent properties and because of
which, professional input is desired before a decision to approve, deny or
approve with conditions is made.
   (A)   The escrow shall be used to pay professional review expenses of
engineers, community planners, and any other professionals whose expertise the
city values to review the proposed application and/or site plan of an
applicant. Professional review will result in a report to the city indicating
the extent of conformance or nonconformance with this subchapter and to
identify any problems that may create a threat to public health, safety or the
general welfare. Mitigation measures or alterations to a proposed design may be
identified where they would serve to lessen or eliminate identified impacts.
The applicant will receive a copy of any professional review hired by the city
and a copy of the statement of expenses for the professional services rendered.
   (B)   No application for approval for which an escrow fee is requested will
be processed until the escrow fee is deposited with the City Clerk. The amount
of the escrow fee shall be established based on an estimate of the cost of the
services to be rendered by the professionals contacted by the Building
Official. The applicant is entitled to a refund of any unused escrow fees at
the time a permit is either issued or denied in response to the applicant's
request.
   (C)   If actual professional review costs exceed the amount of an escrow,
the applicant shall pay the balance due prior to receipt of any land use or
other permit issued by the city in response to the applicant's request.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.26  EXEMPTIONS AND WAIVERS.
   A limited exclusion from this subchapter is hereby authorized as follows:
   (A)   The site plan review criteria do not apply to hazardous substances
packaged for personal or household use or present in the same form and
concentration as a product packaged for use by the general public.
   (B)   The site plan review requirements do not apply to products held in
containers with a volume of less than 40 gallons and packaged for retail use.
   (C)   The total excluded substances containing hazardous substances may not
exceed the lesser of 200 gallons or 1,000 pounds at any time.
   (D)   Substances in parked or stopped vehicle in transit, provided that a
commercial vehicle is stopped or parked for less than 72 hours.
   (E)   Substances, such as gasoline or oil, in operable motor vehicles or
boats if used solely for the operation of the vehicle, but not the tanker
portion of a tank truck.
   (F)   Pressurized gases in storage tanks.
   (G)   All parcels outside of the WHPA.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.27  ABANDONED OPERATIONS.
   This section applies to residences, businesses or other operations. Those
who own or control abandoned operations shall do the following:
   (A)   Within seven days of becoming an abandoned operation, take such steps
as necessary to secure the site such that natural elements such as water, wind
and ice or vandals and all other persons cannot gain access to the hazardous
substances.
   (B)   Within 30 days of becoming inactive, provide to the City Manager or
their designee, a document that identifies the site, the date of inactivity,
the hazardous substances that exist on site, and the name, address, and
telephone number of both the owner and the person in control of the site.
   (C)   Within 60 days of becoming inactive, remove all hazardous substances
from the site. This does not include those substances used for heating,
cooling, and/or electrical lighting.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.28  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the city determines that a person has violated a provision of
§
95.23, the City Manager or their designee shall issue a written notice of
violation. The notice shall be directed to the owner or party in interest of
the building in whose name the property appears on the last local tax
assessment records of the city.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
are required, the notice shall set forth a deadline by which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. The notice shall further advise that, should
the responsible party fail to remediate or restore within the established
deadline, the work may be done by the city, with the expense thereof charged to
the property owner and possibly assessed as a lien against the property.
   (C)   All notices required by §
95.27 shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to whom they are
directed personally, or in lieu of personal service, may be mailed by certified
mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in interest at
the address shown on the tax records, at least ten days before the date of the
hearing described in the notice. If any person to whom a notice is directed is
not personally served, in addition to mailing the notice, a copy thereof shall
be posted upon a conspicuous part of the building or structure at least ten
days prior to the hearing date.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.29  ABATEMENT/REMEDIAL ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The city is authorized to take or contract with others to take
reasonable and necessary abatement or remedial activities whenever the city
determines a violation of this chapter has occurred and that the responsible
party cannot or will not correct the violation in a timely manner, or when no
known responsible party exists. The responsible party shall reimburse the city
for all reasonable expenses thus incurred by the city. A lien may be placed on
the property for the reimbursement of all reasonable expenses to the extent
permitted by law.
   (B)   If the city desires the responsible party to reimburse it for
reasonable abatement activity expenses, the city shall, within 90 days of the
completion of the activities, mail to that person a notice of claim outlining
the expenses incurred, including reasonable administrative costs, and the
amounts thereof. The person billed shall pay the sum in full within 30 days of
receipt of the claim. If the person billed desires to object to all or some of
the amount sought by the city, the person may file, within the same 30 day
period, a written objection so stating. The city shall, within 30 days of its
receipt of the objection, provide an opportunity for the objecting party to
present facts or arguments supporting the objection. If the city determines
that some or the entire amount originally billed is appropriate, the person
shall pay the sum within 30 days of receipt of that determination. If the
amount due is not paid, the city may cause the charges to become a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.30  INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   If a person has violated or continues to violate the provisions of this
subchapter, the city may petition the appropriate court for injunctive relief
restraining the person from activities that would create further violations, or
compelling the person to perform necessary abatement or remediation.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.31  APPEALS.
   (A)   Right of appeal. Any person has the right to appeal the basis for any
charges, permits, orders, or other action developed in accordance with this
subchapter. Appeals shall be directed to the City Clerk along with any
supporting documentation for amendment of the charges in question. The sitting
Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby designated to hear appeals regarding any
requirements of this chapter. Any additional information that may be required
to resolve the appeal, as directed by the City Manager or their designee, shall
be obtained by the user at his or her expense.
   (B)   Formal hearing.
      (1)   Appeals from orders of the City Manager or their designee may be
made within 30 days from the date of any citation, order, charge, fee,
surcharge, penalty or other action. The appeal may be taken by any person
aggrieved. The appellant shall file a written notice of appeal with the City
Clerk and with the Zoning Board of Appeals, specifying the grounds therefor.
Prior to a hearing, the City Manager or their designee shall transmit to the
Zoning Board of Appeals, a summary report of all previous action taken. The
Board of Appeals may, at its discretion, call upon the City Manager or their
designee to explain the action. The final disposition of the appeal shall be in
the form of a resolution, either reversing, modifying, or affirming, in whole
or in part, the appealed decision or determination.
      (2)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the appeal, give notice thereof to property owners within 300 feet
of the affected parcel, and decide the appeal within 45 days. Within the limits
of its jurisdiction, the Zoning Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm, in
whole or in part, or may make such order, requirements, decisions, or
determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made in the case under
consideration, and to that end shall have all the powers of the official from
whom the appeal is taken using the following standards:
         (a)   There is a hardship or unnecessary burden in compliance with the
subchapter;
         (b)   The applicant proposes alternate methods to protect the
groundwater from potential contamination by methods proven or engineered by a
professional acceptable to the Board.
         (c)   The decision of the Groundwater Protection Board of Appeals
shall be final.
   (C)   Charges outstanding during appeal process. All charges for service,
penalties, fees, or surcharges outstanding during any appeal process shall be
due and payable to the city. Upon resolution of any appeal, the city shall
adjust such amounts accordingly.
   (D)   Administrative action. If an informal or formal hearing is not
demanded within the periods specified in this section, the administrative
action shall be deemed final. In the event either or both hearings are
demanded, the action shall be suspended until a final determination has been
made, except for immediate cease and desist orders or any emergency or judicial
action.
   (E)   Appeals from determinations of Groundwater Protection Board of
Appeals. Appeals from the determinations of the Groundwater Protection Board of
Appeals may be made to the circuit court for the county as provided by law. The
appeals shall be governed procedurally by the Administrative Procedures Act of
1969 (M.C.L.A §§ 24.201 et seq.). All findings of fact, if supported by the
evidence, made by the Board shall be conclusive upon the court.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.32  REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state, or local law, and it is
within the discretion of the city to seek cumulative remedies.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
§ 95.33  CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Whenever any provision of this subchapter imposes more stringent
requirements, regulations, restrictions or limitations than are imposed or
required by the provisions of any other law or chapter, then the provisions of
this subchapter shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other law or
chapter impose more stringent requirements than are imposed or required by this
subchapter, then the provision of such chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
NUISANCES
§ 95.35  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE.  Any person doing an unlawful act or omitting to perform a duty,
or suffering or permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act,
omission, condition, or thing:
      (1)   Injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, or safety of
others;
      (2)   Is offensive to the senses as described in §
95.36;
      (3)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs, or tends to obstruct, or
renders dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk,
stream, ditch, or drainage;
      (4)   In any way renders other persons insecure in life or the use of
property; or
      (5)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(1995 Code, § 30-111)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 95.36  ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving, or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions, or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, that this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting, or restrictive:
   (A)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation, to include trees and brush
cut for construction purposes;
   (B)   The storage of building materials upon any property unless there is in
force a valid building permit issued by the city for construction upon the
property, and the building materials are intended for use in connection with
the construction.  Building materials shall include, but shall not be limited
to, lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing materials, electrical
wiring or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws, or
any other materials used in constructing any structure. All unused building
materials shall be removed from the premises by the contractor prior to
issuance of any occupancy permit or final acceptance by the Building Inspector,
unless the materials are stored upon a commercial property engaged in retail
sales and duly licensed by the city;
   (C)   The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish, or refuse of any
kind, except domestic refuse stored in such a manner as not to create a
nuisance.  The term JUNK shall include parts of machinery or motor vehicles,
unused stoves, or other appliances stored in the open, remnants of wood, metal,
or any other material or other cast-off material of any kind whether or not the
same could be put to any reasonable use;
   (D)   Storage on any property of junk vehicles except in a completely
enclosed building.  For the purposes of this subchapter, the term JUNK VEHICLES
shall include any motor vehicle which is inoperative for any reason such as
being in a state of disassembly, disrepair, stripped, dismantled, unregistered,
or unlicensed, or parts thereof.  In this regard, such a vehicle if licensed
may be stored for not more than 14 days while awaiting repairs at a licensed
garage and the vehicle or parts thereof may be stored in a licensed junkyard;
   (E)   The existence of any structure or damaged partial structure which
because of fire, wind, or other natural disaster, or physical deterioration is
no longer habitable, if a dwelling, nor useful for any other purpose for which
it may have been intended;
   (F)   The existence of any vacant building, garage, or other outbuilding,
unless the buildings are kept securely locked, windows kept glazed or neatly
boarded up, and otherwise protected to prevent entrance thereto by vandals;
   (G)   The existence of any incomplete structures unless the structure is in
the course of construction in accordance with a valid and subsisting building
permit issued by the city and unless the construction is completed within a
reasonable time;
   (H)   No building or structure, the major portion of which consists of a
basement, shall be occupied by any person for living or sleeping purposes;
   (I)   No garage shall be occupied for dwelling purposes;
   (J)   Any building, structure, or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state, or federal law is conducted, performed,
or maintained;
   (K)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes, and
other vermin;
   (L)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances, or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of the odors and stenches;
   (M)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot, or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities;
   (N)   The carcasses of animals or fowls not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (O)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground which shall harbor mosquitoes, larva, or disease carrying
insects or which shall emanate obnoxious odors; and/or
   (P)   It shall be unlawful to permit wastewater from sump pumps or other
similar drains to drain onto land, yards, or other spaces from dwellings,
business places of all types, and accessory buildings thereto, and to throw any
such wastewater onto the land.  A property owner shall provide underground
catchbasins with adequate drain fields for this purpose.  Fifty-five-gallon
drums shall be sufficient and are recognized as such by the Public Health
Department, providing they have not previously been used for hazardous material
storage.  Plans for the wastewater disposal shall be submitted to the City
Building Inspector or his or her designated agent for approval prior to
construction.
(1995 Code, § 30-113)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.37  NOTICE TO ABATE.
   Whenever a nuisance is found to exist within the city, an agent of the city
shall give 30-days’ written notice to the owner or occupant of the property
upon which the nuisance exists or upon the person causing or maintaining the
nuisance.
(1995 Code, § 30-114)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 95.38  CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this
subchapter shall contain:
   (A)   An order to abate the nuisance or to submit a written appeal request
to the city, stating the reasons the 30-day limit cannot be met;
   (B)   The location of the nuisance, if the nuisance is stationary;
   (C)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
   (D)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
   (E)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for appeal is made within the prescribed time, the city will abate the
nuisance and assess the cost thereof against the person.
(1995 Code, § 30-115)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 95.39  SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice to abate a nuisance shall be served as any other legal process
may be served pursuant to the law.
(1995 Code, § 30-116)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 95.40  ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   Upon the failure of the person upon whom notice to abate a nuisance was
served, pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter to abate the nuisance,
the city shall proceed to abate the nuisance and shall prepare a statement of
costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(1995 Code, § 30-117)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 95.41  EMERGENCY ABATEMENT BY THE CITY.
   When, in the opinion of the city, or its designated agent, there is actual
and immediate danger to the public or occupants of a particular premises caused
by a nuisance on the premises, the city agent is hereby authorized and
empowered, without any notice or hearing, to order and require the premises to
be vacated.  The agent shall immediately post the premises warning of the
dangerous condition, and shall then abate the nuisance and prepare a statement
of costs incurred in the abatement thereof.
(1995 Code, § 30-118)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987)
§ 95.42  CITY’S COSTS.
   Any and all costs incurred by the city in the abatement of a nuisance under
the provisions of this subchapter shall constitute a lien against the property
upon which the nuisance existed, which costs shall be collected as ad valorem
taxes.
(1995 Code, § 30-119)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987)
GRASS AND NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 95.55  WEEDS AND NOXIOUS VEGETATION; PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   (A)   No owner, occupant, or agent in charge of any lot or parcel of land
located within the city shall permit or maintain thereon any growth of weeds,
grass or rank, poisonous or noxious vegetation (not including landscaping) on
any part of a lot or parcel of land to a greater average height than 12 inches
within 200 feet of the center line of a public street right-of-way or upon the
untraveled portion of the public right-of-way lying between the road and
sidewalk which abuts any such any lot or parcel of land.
   (B)   AVERAGE HEIGHT shall mean an average taken for the area of the lot or
parcel of land within 200 feet of the centerline of any street which is not
occupied by structures, pavement, gardens, agricultural plantings, or deciduous
plant growth, or any portion of this area as determined by the Planning and
Zoning Administrator (the “Administrator”) or his or her designee. With respect
to the untraveled portion of a right-of-way, the AVERAGE HEIGHT shall be
determined only with respect to the untraveled portion of the public right-of-
way.
(Ord. 04-2008, passed 5-6-2008)  Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.56  EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Lands in the L1 zone district will be exempt if all the following
conditions apply:
      (1)   The parcel exceeds five acres of developed land or two acres of
undeveloped land; and
      (2)   The parcel is not adjacent to a residential zone district, or a
residentially used premises.
   (B)   Lands located in natural wetlands or flood plains.
   (C)   Lands determined to be exempt from the application of this ordinance
based upon the parcel’s location, topography, configuration, or other factors
deemed relevant based upon the recommendation of the Administrator and the
approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 04-2008, passed 5-6-2008)
§ 95.57  ADDITIONAL PROHIBITIONS.
   An owner, occupant or agent shall not cause, suffer or allow Canada thistle,
dodders, mustards, wild carrot, perennial sow thistle, hoary alyssum, bindweed,
ragweed, poison ivy, poison sumac or other noxious weeds or plants detrimental
to health to grow on any premises, or allow any accumulation of dead weeds,
grass or brush thereon.
(Ord. 04-2008, passed 5-6-2008)  Penalty, see
95.99
§ 95.58  ABATEMENT.
   (A)   Prior to the enforcement of this subchapter in any calendar year, the
Administrator is authorized to notify the owner, occupant, or agent in charge
of property located in the city to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter by the publication of a notice in a newspaper of general circulation
of the duties and obligations of §
95.56 or §
95.57.
   (B)   If at any time during a period commencing ten days after the
publication of notice and October 15 next following, the Administrator shall
find that any owner, occupant, or agent in charge has failed to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, the Administrator shall send a seven-day notice
of violation by certified mail and posting of the property with the notice of
violation requiring that such conditions under §
95.56 be abated. Within the seven-day notice period, the owner, occupant, or
agent in charge may request an administrative appeal with the Administrator
regarding compliance with the notice of violation. The Administrator shall make
a determination based upon the administrative appeal and if the owner,
occupant, agent in charge disagrees with the determination of the
Administrator, an appeal may be filed with the City Council within three
business days after the determination of the Administrator. The City Council
shall hear the appeal at its next regularly scheduled meeting or, at the
discretion of the Council, a special meeting called for such purpose. Upon
failure to comply with the notice of violation and the exhaustion of any
appeals, if applicable, the Administrator shall have the right to enter on the
property and cause such material and vegetation to be cut, destroyed and/or
removed and bill the owner for the cost. The Administrator shall have the right
to remove such trash or refuse located on the property in abating the nuisance
pursuant to §
95.56 or §
95.57. The cost to abate the first violation shall be the standard hourly rate
for labor and machine use for the city or the reasonable cost incurred by a
private contractor hired by the city, whichever is appropriate, plus an
administrative fee as provided by a resolution adopted by the City Council from
time to time. Abatement of subsequent violations occurring in the same calendar
year shall be billed as follows: second violation: two times the standard
hourly rate for labor and machinery, more than two violations: three times the
standard hourly rate for labor and machinery.
   (C)   Such unpaid charges shall become a lien upon the any lot or parcel of
land in which such work has been done or upon the property abutting or
adjoining the alley, street or sidewalk upon which such work has been done upon
the completion of the work. Payment shall be due to the city within 30 days of
the bill being sent to the owner, occupant or agent in charge for the
performance of such services. An owner assessed for abatement costs may appeal
the assessment to the Administrator. On appeal, the Administrator shall
determine whether:
      (1)   The lot or parcel of land was in violation of this subchapter;
      (2)   Whether the owner, occupant or agent in charge were mailed notices
of the violation at least seven days before the city abated the condition
(except for emergency abatements); and
      (3)   Whether the costs assessed against the owner were properly
calculated. An appeal shall be filed within 21 days after the city mails notice
to the owner, occupant or agent in charge that the costs will be assessed. In
the event the owner, occupant, or agent in charge disagrees with the
determination of the Administrator, an appeal may be filed with the City
Council within three business days after the determination of the
Administrator. The City Council shall hear the appeal at its next regularly
scheduled meeting or, at the discretion of the Council, a special meeting
called for such purpose. Except as otherwise determined by the Administrator,
if payment is not received by the city within 30 days after such billing, the
City Treasurer shall add an additional penalty of 1% per month to the
delinquent bill. The City Treasurer shall annually, on May 1, certify any
delinquent billing, or any part thereof, together with all accrued interest in
penalty, to the Council; and, it shall be transferred and reassess, with an
additional 15% penalty, on the next annual city tax roll. Such charges so says
shall be collected in the same manner as general city taxes.
   (D)   An Administrator may abate a public nuisance under this subchapter,
without giving notice, if the public health or safety requires immediate
abatement. The cost of abating the nuisance may be charged against the lot or
parcel of land and the owner in accordance with the provisions above.
   (E)   The Administrator or his or her authorized representative is hereby
empowered to enter upon any lot or parcel of land in the city for the purpose
of determining or requiring compliance with this subchapter.
(Ord. 04-2008, passed 5-6-2008; Am. Ord. 01-2016, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of §§
95.01et seq. is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the
civil fines set forth in the schedule of civil fines in §
34.06 and any other relief that may be imposed by the court.  Each act of
violation and each day upon which the violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation.
(1995 Code, § 30-31)  (Ord. 100, passed 11-5-1984; Am. Ord. 151, passed 8-10-
1998)
   (B)   Violation of §§ 95.20 through 95.33 shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction and a responsible party shall be subject to such fines and costs as
provided for in §
34.06.
   (C)   A person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of §§
95.35et seq. is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the
civil fines set forth in the schedule of civil fines in §
34.06 and any other relief that may be imposed by the court.  Each act of
violation and each day upon which the violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation.
   (D)   Upon a reasonable cause determination that a violation has occurred,
the Noise Control Officer shall require reduction or modification of the source
of the noise. If a violation continues, the Noise Control Officer shall order
an immediate halt to any sound which exposes any person, except those excluded
pursuant to §
95.04 hereof, to continuous sound levels or to impulse sound levels which
endangers or injures a person’s health or safety based upon the criteria set
forth in §
95.05. In requiring an immediate halt to the noise, the Noise Control Officer
may remove or require the owner or agent of the owner to cease and desist the
source of the noise. For purposes of this section, a violation shall be
calculated for a business day between the hours of 7:00 a.m. of the day prior
to the offense and ending at 7:00 a.m. of the day subsequent to the offense.
   (E)   Any person failing to comply with the provisions of this §§
95.01 through
95.06 shall constitute a municipal civil infraction under
Chapter 34 of the code and be subject to a fine under these provisions.
Provisions of §§
95.01 through
95.06 may also be enforced by suit for injunction, damages or other appropriate
legal action. If the city takes action to enforce the provisions of this §§
95.01 through
95.06, it shall be entitled to recover its costs (including the cost of
administrative time) and reasonable attorney fees incurred to investigate and
abate a violation of §§
95.01 through
95.06, whether incurred before or after the commencement of litigation.
   (F)   The City of the Village of Douglas determines that continuous and
impulse sounds which disturb the quiet peace and enjoyment of its citizens are
subject to enforcement. The city will prosecute and enforce complaints for
violating the provisions of §§
95.01 through
95.06 if they are made by residents or property owners of the city.
(1995 Code, § 30-112)  (Ord. 114, passed 6-1-1987; Am. Ord. 03-2008, passed 5-
6-2008; Am. Ord. 03-2020, passed 3-16-2020)
CHAPTER 96:  CABLE COMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
96.03   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
96.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
96.05   Proprietary information
   
96.06   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
96.07   Tolling order
   
96.08   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
96.09   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
96.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
96.11   Refunds; notice
   
96.12   Written decisions; public notice
   
96.13   Rules and regulations
   
96.14   Failure to give notice
   
96.15   Additional hearings
   
96.16   Additional powers
   
96.17   Failure to comply; remedies
§ 96.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.  All
other words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined in the Act and FCC rules.
   ACT.  The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as
amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, Pub. L. No. 102-385), and as may be amended from time to time.
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT.  All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE.  Means BASIC SERVICE as the term is defined in FCC
rules and any other cable television service which is subject to rate
regulation by the city pursuant to the Act and FCC rules.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC RULES.  All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
   INCREASE IN RATES.  An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
(1995 Code, § 26-1)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.02  PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt regulations consistent with the Act
and FCC rules with respect to basic cable service rate regulation and prescribe
procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for consideration of the views
of interested parties in connection with basic cable service rate regulation by
the city.  This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with
the Act and FCC rules.
(1995 Code, § 26-2)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.03  RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the city shall follow all FCC rules.
(1995 Code, § 26-3)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.04  FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in the rates in
accordance with the Act and FCC rules.  The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission the information as necessary to show that its schedule
of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and FCC
rules.  The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or proposed
increase with the City Clerk.  For purposes of this chapter, the filing of the
cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least ten copies have
been received by each clerk.  The City Council may, by resolution or otherwise,
adopt rules and regulations prescribing the information, data, and calculations
which must be included as part of the cable operator’s filing of the schedule
of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the city to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide all
information requested by the city in connection with the Council’s review and
regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier and associated
equipment or a proposed increase in these rates.  The city may establish
deadlines for submission of the requested information and the cable operator
shall comply with the deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
the rates complies with the Act and FCC rules including, without limitation, 47
U.S.C. and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(1995 Code, § 26-4)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.05  PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the city pursuant
to §
96.04(A), or any request for information pursuant to §
96.04(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable operator
shall produce the information.  However, at the time the allegedly proprietary
information is submitted, a cable operator may request that specific,
identified portions of its response be treated as confidential and withheld
from public disclosure.  The request must state the reason why the information
should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those reasons.  The
request for confidentiality will be granted if the city determines that the
preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure is consistent with the
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552.  The city shall
place in a public file for inspection any decision that results in information
being withheld.  If the cable operator requests confidentiality and the request
is denied, where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary information will
be returned to it; or the cable operator may seek review within five working
days of the denial in any appropriate forum.  Release of the information will
be stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the city.  The city shall weigh the policy considerations
favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting inspection in
light of the facts of the particular case.  It will then promptly notify the
requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the information as to
the disposition of the request.  It may grant, deny, or condition a request. 
The requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the decision by
filing an appeal with any appropriate forum.  Disclosure will be stayed pending
resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality, including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. pt. 0.459.
(1995 Code, § 26-5)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.06  PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or, the
proposed increase in rates pursuant to section §
96.04(A), the city shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of general
circulation which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Clerk and, except those parts
which may be withheld as proprietary, is available for public inspection and
copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice is
published.
   (B)   The Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date, time,
and place of the meeting at which the Council shall first consider the schedule
of rates or the proposed increase.  This notice shall be mailed by first-class
mail at least three days before the meeting.  In addition, if a written staff
or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the proposed increase is
prepared for consideration of Council, then the Clerk shall mail a copy of the
report by first-class mail to the cable operator at least three days before the
meeting at which the Council shall first consider the schedule of rates or the
proposed increase.
(1995 Code, § 26-6)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.07  TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
96.04(A) unless the Council, or other properly authorized body or official,
tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. pt. 76.933 by issuing a brief
written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the date of
filing.  The Council may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional 90 days in
cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional 150 days in
cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(1995 Code, § 26-7)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.08  PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
96.07 and 47 C.F.R. pt. 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the city any additional information
required or requested pursuant to §
96.04.  In addition, the Council shall hold a public hearing to consider the
comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or 150-day period,
as the case may be.  The Clerk shall publish a public notice of the public
hearing in a newspaper of general circulation which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time, and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at
the hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information, except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary, are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (B)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing.  In addition, the Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy of the
public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the hearing.
(1995 Code, § 26-8)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.09  STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the City Clerk shall cause a report to be
prepared for the Council which shall be based on the filing of the cable
operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s
review, and other appropriate information.  The report shall include a
recommendation for the decision of the Council pursuant to §
96.10.  The Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable operator by
first-class mail not less than 20 days before the Council acts under §
96.10.  The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
Clerk.  If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable operator
with the Clerk within ten days after the report is mailed to the cable
operator, the Clerk shall forward it to the Council.
(1995 Code, § 26-9)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.10  RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise, which
in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment or a proposed increase in the rates, denies the existing
rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a reasonable
rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become effective
subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance with FCC
rules.  If the Council issues an order allowing the existing rates or proposed
increase to become effective subject to refund, it shall also direct the cable
operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47 C.F.R. pt. 76.933.  The order
specified in this section shall be issued within 90 days of the tolling order
under §
96.07 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing.  The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
96.07 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(1995 Code, § 26-10)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.11  REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47 C.F.R. pt.
76.942.  Before the Council orders any refund to subscribers, the Clerk shall
give at least seven-days’ written notice to the cable operator by first-class
mail of the date, time, and place at which the Council shall consider issuing a
refund order and shall provide an opportunity for the cable operator to
comment.  The cable operator may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at
the time for the purpose of submitting comments to the Council.
(1995 Code, § 26-11)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.12  WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   Any order of the Council pursuant to §§
96.10 or
96.11 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the Council, and
shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.  The Clerk shall publish
a public notice of any such written order in a newspaper of general circulation
which shall summarize the written decision and state that copies of the text of
the written decision are available for inspection or copying from the office of
the Clerk.  In addition, the Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the written
decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(1995 Code, § 26-12)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.13  RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
96.04, the Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations
for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings, including, without
limitation, the conduct of hearings, consistent with the Act and FCC rules.
(1995 Code, § 26-13)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.14  FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of reports as
required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or proceedings of
the Council.
(1995 Code, § 26-14)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.15  ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the Council may hold
additional public hearings upon the reasonable notice as the Council, in its
sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(1995 Code, § 26-15)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.16  ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The city shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, FCC rules, the cable
operator’s franchise, and all other applicable law.  The powers exercised
pursuant to the Act, FCC rules, and this chapter shall be in addition to powers
conferred by law or otherwise.  The city may take any action not prohibited by
the Act and FCC rules to protect the public interest in connection with basic
cable service rate regulation.
(1995 Code, § 26-16)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 96.17  FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The city may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator, including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s franchise with the city, for failure to comply with the Act,
the FCC rules, and orders or determinations of the city pursuant to this
chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules or regulations
promulgated under this chapter.  Subject to applicable law, failure to comply
with the Act, the FCC rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant
to this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules and regulations
promulgated under this chapter, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation
or denial of renewal of a cable operator’s franchise.
(1995 Code, § 26-17)  (Ord. 135, passed 9-27-1993)
CHAPTER 97:  TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Conflict
   
97.03   Definitions
   
97.04   Permit required
   
97.05   Issuance of permit
   
97.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
97.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
97.08   Route maps
   
97.09   Repair of damage
   
97.10   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
97.11   Modification of existing fees
   
97.12   Savings clause
   
97.13   Use of funds
   
97.14   Annual report
   
97.15   Cable television operators
   
97.16   Existing rights
   
97.17   Compliance
   
97.18   Reservation of police powers
   
97.19   Authorized city officials
   
97.20   Municipal civil infraction
   
97.21   Effective date
§ 97.01  PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, (Act), being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to
484.3120, and other applicable law, and to providers that the city qualifies
for distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.02  CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT.  The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120,
as amended from time to time.
      CITY.  The City of Douglas.
      CITY COUNCIL.  The City Council of the City of Douglas or its designee. 
This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is
required by law to be made by the City Council.
      CITY MANAGER.  The City Manager or his or her designee.
      PERMIT.  A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including, without limitation, the
following:
      AUTHORITY.  The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC.  The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
COMMISSION in the Act.
      PERSON.  An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.  The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway.  PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state, or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES.  The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals. 
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of Title III of the
Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. pt. 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. 
Those terms as defined in § 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public
Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102.  TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER does
not include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of
the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332,
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. pt. 20.3,
or service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.  For the
purpose of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the
following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   A person providing broadband interne transport access service.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.04  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required.  Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application.  Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act. 
A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
City Clerk, one copy with the City Manager, and one copy with the City
Attorney.  Upon receipt, the City Clerk shall make two copies of the
application and distribute a copy to Kalamazoo Lake and Sewer Water Authority
and Michigan Township Services.  Applications shall be complete and include all
information required by the Act, including, without limitation, a route map
showing the location of the provider’s existing and proposed facilities in
accordance with § 6(5) of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential Information.  If a telecommunications provider claims
that any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 to 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications
provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee.  Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information.  The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit the additional information which the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant.  The applicant shall comply with all the requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for the additional information established
by the City Manager.  If the city and the applicant cannot agree on the
requirement of additional information requested by the city, the city or the
applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits.  Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the city to
telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers.  Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications provider
with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of the date,
that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.  Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this division (G)
is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D)
above.  A provider under this division (G) shall be given up to an additional
180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as
provided in § 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.05  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial.  The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager.  Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act, the City Manager shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under § 4(b) of this chapter for access to a public right-of-way
within the city.  Pursuant to § 6(6) of the Act, the City Manager shall notify
the MPSC when the City Manager has granted or denied a permit, including
information regarding the date on which the application was filed and the date
on which permit was granted or denied.  The City Manager shall not unreasonably
deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit.  If an application for permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2),
and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions.  Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement.  Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may require that a bond be
posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit.  If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.06  CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across, or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under
Chapter 150 of this code, as amended, for construction within the public
rights-of-way.  No fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering
permit.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.07  CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.08  ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
city.  The route maps should be in paper format unless and until the MPSC
determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.09  REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the
street surface and all installations under, over, below, or within the public
right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.10  ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
97.04(D) above, a telecommunications provider with telecommunications
facilities in the city’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance
fee to the Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.11  MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the city hereby
modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to telecommunications
providers after 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, relating to access
and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not exceeding the amounts
of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall be paid to the
Authority.  In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, the city
also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers with
telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city’s
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act.  The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act.  To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications
providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are
otherwise inconsistent with the Act, the imposition is hereby declared to be
contrary to the city’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.12  SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
97.11 above shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.13  USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the city from the
Authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related purposes. 
In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city from the
Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the Local Street
Fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. §§
247.651 to 247.675.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.14  ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the City Manager shall file an annual report
with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually distributed by
the Authority.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.15  CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable television
operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after 11-1-2002, the effective date of this Act, a
franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from charges the
cable operator received for cable modem services provided through broadband
internet transport access services.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.16  EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.17  COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose.
   (B)   The City shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in §
97.04(C) of this chapter;
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
97.04(F) of this chapter;
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing the providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
97.04(G) of this chapter;
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
97.05(A) of this chapter;
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
97.05(A) of this chapter;
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
97.05(A) of this chapter;
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
97.05(B) of this chapter;
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
97.05(C) of this chapter;
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
97.05(D) of this chapter;
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
97.06 of this chapter;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
97.11 of this chapter;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
97.14 of this chapter; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
97.15 of this chapter.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.18  RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the city’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.19  AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal
chapter violations bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by the
city code.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.20  MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to
Chapter 34 of this code.  Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
the remedies available to the city in the event of a violation by a person of
this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
§ 97.21  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on the date which is ten days after its
publication as required by law.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-18-2002)
CHAPTER 98:  TREES
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Tree Board
   
98.04   Trees in the public right-of-way and public property
   
98.05   Protection of trees; permit required for tree removal in public rights-
of-way
   
98.06   Tree protection during construction or development
   
98.07   Tree removal on a vacant lot or parcel
   
98.08   Limited lighting of trees on public rights-of-way
   
98.09   Tree replacement program
 
   
98.99   Penalty
§ 98.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter is intended to regulate the removal of trees from public street
rights-of-way in the city, and to preserve, protect and enhance valuable
resources entrusted to its citizens. To protect the health, safety and welfare
of its citizens, to establish standards limiting the removal of, and insuring
the replacement of trees sufficient to safeguard the ecological and esthetic
environment necessary for the city. To provide protective regulations against
hazardous trees and diseased trees or shrubs; to control activities relative to
trees and plantings within the public street rights-of-way of the city; to
establish regulations and procedures for the removal of trees located on public
street rights-of-way.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 98.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING ENVELOPE.  The ground area of a lot or parcel of land enclosed or
to be enclosed by the exterior walls or perimeter (foot print) of principal and
accessory buildings, and any associated improvements including, but not limited
to; pools, desks, patios, walks, tennis courts, driveways and utility services.
   DESTROY.  To remove (cut down) a protected tree or to perpetrate any
intentional act of negligence which will cause a protected tree to decline or
die within a period of two years. This shall include but not be limited to:
damage inflicted upon the root system of a protected tree by the application of
toxic substances, damage by the operation of equipment and vehicles, damage
caused by excavation or fill within the drip line of a protected tree, or
damage caused by alteration of natural physical conditions.
   DIAMETER BREAST HEIGHT (DBH).  A tree’s diameter in inches measured four and
one-half feet above the ground.
   DRIP LINE.  An imaginary vertical line extending downward from the outermost
tips of a tree’s branches to the ground.
   PROTECTED TREE.  A tree that is six inches DBH or greater in size.
   TREE.  Any self supporting woody plant growing upon the earth which usually
provides one main trunk and produces a distinct head with many branches.
   TREE PROTECTION ZONE (TPZ).  The area between the line extending ten feet
beyond the building envelope and the property line.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 98.03  TREE BOARD.
   (A)   Purpose. A Tree Board is hereby established for the purpose of
regulating the planting, protection, preservation, and removal of trees within
the public rights-of-way, and for the purpose of considering appeals from
denials of tree removal permit applications and to undertake other
responsibilities specified in this chapter,
   (B)   Membership. The Tree Board shall consist of the Mayor of the city or
the Mayor’s designee; one member of the Douglas Advisory Council (DAC) and one
member of the community both to be appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by the
City Council. The members of the Tree Board may be assisted in their official
responsibilities by staff members of the city, including the City Manager, the
Superintendent of the Public Works Department and a licensed arborist appointed
by the City Council or other appropriate city staff members.
   (C)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at least once quarterly at the
discretion of the Committee Chair, with the first meeting held the first full
week of January. Meetings shall be subject to the Open Meetings Act.
   (D)   Duties. To review the policies and suggest changes to City Council or
to Planning Commission, to develop a list of acceptable trees, and to develop
rules and guidelines for administrative approvals.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 98.04  TREES IN THE PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY AND PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   Treatment of protected trees. No tree upon any public right-of-way or
public property shall be destroyed, pruned, girdled, broken, bent, wounded or
have notices or signs tacked upon without the consent of the City Manager under
the direction of the Tree Board.
   (B)   Planting of trees or shrubs. No person shall climb or walk upon the
branches of a protected tree in any public right-of-way or public property
while wearing spurs or other climbing attire unless such person is in the
permitted act of removing or maintaining a tree. No trees or shrubs shall be
planted upon any public right-of-way or public property without the consent of
the City Manager. No trees shall be planted at public expense upon private
property unless a public easement has been granted in a form acceptable to the
city.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.05  PROTECTION OF TREES; PERMIT REQUIRED FOR TREE REMOVAL IN PUBLIC
RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   Purpose. The tree canopy contributes to the visual character of the
city and trees are important natural resources and assets of the city.
Therefore, every effort must be made to ensure that only the minimum numbers of
protected trees are removed prior to construction of new structures, or
alterations/additions to existing structures and in other approved
circumstances. It is the intent of this chapter that a permit should not be
granted for the removal of a protected tree where a reasonable alternative
design solution exists that is consistent with the use of the property.
   (B)   Permit required. A Tree removal permit shall be required for and prior
to the removal, relocation, or destruction of any tree located within any
public street right-of-way; provided, however, that no such permit shall be
required in order for the city to remove or otherwise affect any tree located
within a public street right-of-way, and the city retains its authority with
respect to public street rights-of-way, irrespective of the provisions of this
chapter.
   (C)   Application for permit. A person seeking a tree removal permit for the
removal, relocation or destruction of a tree within a public street right-of-
way, shall complete a tree removal permit application and submit the
application to the Zoning Administrator. The applicant shall also prepare and
submit to the Administrator, a site plan including at least the following
information:
      (1)   The tree or trees that are proposed to be removed, relocated or
destroyed. Such trees shall also be identified by written description or by a
photograph. The location and general description of the other protected trees
within the adjacent street right-of-way that are proposed to remain undisturbed
shall also be stated; and
      (2)   A description of any grade changes or other changes within the
street right-of-way that may occur as a result of the proposed tree removal, if
such changes or results will have an adverse effect on any trees remaining in
that part of the street right-of-way adjacent to the applicant’s property.
   (D)   Approval of permit. The Zoning Administrator shall grant and approve a
tree removal permit upon finding that all of the following requirements are
satisfied:
      (1)   The applicant has submitted a site plan or other information
satisfactorily demonstrating that the number of trees and the particular trees
proposed to be removed are the minimum number needed to be removed in order to
achieve the results sought by the applicant;
      (2)   The applicant has satisfactorily demonstrated that harm or other
negative impacts to the remaining trees on that part of the street right-of-way
adjacent to the applicant’s property will be minimized or avoided;
      (3)   There are no desirable, prudent or reasonably feasible alternatives
whereby the desired results could be achieved, other than the removal,
relocation or destruction of the trees indicated by the applicant;
      (4)   The tree or trees proposed for removal, relocation or destruction
need to be removed for at least one of the following reasons:
         (a)   They are a safety hazard;
         (b)   They are interfering with or obscuring the clear vision of motor
vehicle drivers;
         (c)   They are likely to injure, damage or disrupt persons, property
or utility service; and/or
         (d)   They are preventing or substantially obstructing reasonable
access to a lot or parcel of land;
      (5)   The proposed tree removal would not materially increase the risk of
flooding or erosion on the property or on adjacent property, nor adversely
affect a wetland or watercourse; and
      (6)   In the case of proposed removal of a protected tree for reasonable
access to an existing or proposed building or other improvement, there is no
feasible alternative location for the proposed access without resulting in
unnecessary hardship on the part of the applicant.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator may include reasonable terms and conditions
in any tree removal permit, in order to ensure that the intent of this chapter
will be fulfilled and to minimize damage to, encroachment upon, or interference
with other trees within the public street right-of-way.
   (F)   Appeal of denial of permit. In the event that a permit applicant is
aggrieved by the denial of a tree removal permit, or by the approval of a
permit but with conditions with which the applicant disagrees, the applicant
may appeal such action by the Zoning Administrator to the Tree Board.
      (1)   The applicant shall file such appeal in writing, stating the action
complained of and the reasons and grounds for which the applicant believes that
the action should be reversed, amended or modified.
      (2)   The completed application for the appeal shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator, who shall forward it to the Tree Board. The Tree Board
shall convene within a reasonable time to consider the appeal. Any such meeting
by the Tree Board shall be subject to the provisions of the Michigan Open
Meetings Act.
      (3)   At a meeting, the Tree Board shall consider the appeal filed by the
applicant. The Tree Board shall provide the applicant an opportunity to comment
on the appeal. The Tree Board may consider the matter at subsequent meetings.
      (4)   The appeal shall be determined by majority affirmative vote of the
regular, voting members of the Tree Board who are present and voting. The
decision by the Tree Board in such a case shall constitute the final decision
by the city with respect to the application for the tree removal permit.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 98.06  TREE PROTECTION DURING CONSTRUCTION OR DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   While removing trees for construction or development the owner shall
take all reasonably necessary precautions to protect the remaining protected
trees.
   (B)   Neither a property owner nor its agent shall cause or allow any
construction or development activity to occur within the drip line of a
protected tree, nor shall any solvents, building materials, vehicles,
construction equipment, soil deposits, fill or other harmful materials be
allowed to be placed, kept, parked or stored within the drip line of the trees.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.07  TREE REMOVAL ON A VACANT LOT OR PARCEL.
   On any lot or parcel where construction or development is not proposed, a
tree removal permit shall be required prior to the removal of any protected
tree in accordance with §
98.05.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 98.08  LIMITED LIGHTING OF TREES ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Trees located in the public street rights-of-way or otherwise on public
property shall not be decorated with strings of lights placed or maintained on
or within them, nor shall such trees otherwise be lighted by other types of
lighting placed on or within the trees; provided, however, that during the
annual holiday season lights in observance of the season may be placed on such
trees, in a manner that will not harm or damage the trees, but they shall not
be placed on the trees earlier than November 1 and they shall be removed from
the trees not later than the following March 31; but provided further, that
such lights placed on trees in the public street rights-of-way in observance of
the annual holiday season may remain on the trees after March 31 if approved by
the Tree Board, subject to terms and conditions imposed by the Tree Board, and
if the lights are placed only on or around the tree trunk, not the crown of the
tree, and if the tree will not be harmed or damaged thereby.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)  Penalty, see §
98.99
§ 98.09  TREE REPLACEMENT PROGRAM.
   It is the intent of the city to maintain the numbers and the character of
its trees; therefore, each tree lost in its public right-of-ways or public
properties shall be replaced by an appropriate tree.
   (A)   Replacement trees shall measure no less than three inches in diameter
as measured from six inches above the ground level.
   (B)   Trees lost by age, disease or by acts of nature shall be replaced as
soon as possible under the direction of the Tree Board.
   (C)   Where a tree is lost within the public right-of-way or public property
by negligent or intentional vandalism, the person, vehicle owner, or agent
responsible shall be charged for the value of an equally sized replacement. If
such a replacement is not available locally, the value of the tree will be
computed from the State Forestry and Shade Tree “evaluation formula” and the
responsible person shall be invoiced that amount to compensate for costs of
removal and planting of a replacement.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)
§ 98.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. A violation of any term or provision of
this chapter shall be a municipal civil infraction. The procedures for the
issuance of municipal civil infraction citations and other matters pertaining
to the issuance thereof shall be as stated in §§
34.01 through
34.07 of the city code.
   (B)   The fine payable upon admission or determination of responsibility by
a person served with a municipal civil infraction citation, for a violation of
this chapter, shall be as stated in §
34.06 of the city code.
   (C)   The persons authorized under §
34.02 to issue municipal civil infraction citations shall be authorized to
issue such citations for violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 05-2011, passed 9-6-2011)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   BUSINESS LICENSING
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   MARIHUANA FACILITIES
CHAPTER 110:  BUSINESS LICENSING
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   Registration
   
110.03   Registration procedure
   
110.04   Registration fees
   
110.05   Suspension, refusal and revocation
   
110.06   Hearing required for revocation, notice
   
110.07   Appeal to City Council upon refusal
Motor Scooter Rentals
   
110.20   Definition
   
110.21   License required
   
110.22   Conditions required precedent to issuance
   
110.23   Issuance procedures
   
110.24   Licensee requirements
   
110.25   Expiration
   
110.26   Nontransferability
   
110.27   Suspension and revocation
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS.  Any person, group, partnership, corporation, limited liability
company or other organization which engages in the manufacture, production,
fabrication, development of, or sales, whether retail or wholesale, of goods or
products or provides a service for a fee and is required to have a sales tax
license under state law or is subject to personal property tax within the city.
   TEMPORARY VENDOR.  Any person, business entity, or organization of any kind
offering goods or services at any location within the city on a short-term
basis, periodic basis, or not full-time.
(1995 Code, § 22-1)  (Ord. 108-A, passed 7-6-1992; Am. Ord. 01-2007, passed 5-
21-2007)
§ 110.02  REGISTRATION.
   No business or temporary vendor shall operate or do business within the city
without having registered with the City Clerk. Each business with a separate
location shall be required to be licensed under this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 22-3)  (Ord. 108-A, passed 7-6-1992; Am. Ord. 01-2007, passed 5-
21-2007)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.03  REGISTRATION PROCEDURE.
   The following procedure shall apply to the registration of all businesses
and temporary vendors.
   (A)   All businesses shall register with the City Clerk prior to commencing
business within the city.
   (B)   All businesses shall complete the registration form and pay any
necessary fees by April 1 of each year with the exception of the 2007 license
year. For the 2007 license year, all businesses shall complete the registration
form and pay any necessary fees by July 1, 2007.
   (C)   All temporary vendors shall register prior to commencing business for
any period within a calendar year.
   (D)   Registration shall be on forms available with the City Clerk and
supplied by the city.  The forms shall include the name of the business,
emergency contact person and telephone number, nature of the business, and any
other relevant information as shall be deemed appropriate.
(1995 Code, § 22-4)  (Ord. 108-A, passed 7-6-1992; Am. Ord. 01-2007, passed 5-
21-2007)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04  REGISTRATION FEES.
   Applicable fees shall be set by resolution of the City Council and made a
part of the regular fee schedule of the city.  Renewal dates, if applicable,
shall be included with the fees.
(1995 Code, § 22-5)  (Ord. 108-A, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 110.05 SUSPENSION REFUSAL AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any license required by this code may be suspended or the renewal
thereof refused, by the issuing officer for misrepresentation of any material
fact in the application for the license. Any license may be suspended by the
officer who is responsible for the enforcement thereof for any good cause. The
officer shall notify the issuing officer of each suspension and the
reinstatement of the license upon the termination of the suspension. Any
license may be revoked by the Council for any good cause. No license fee shall
be redefined to any licensee  in case of the revocation or suspension of a
license for good cause.
   (B)   The term GOOD CAUSE, as used in this section, shall mean any act,
omission or the permitting of a condition to exist, with respect to the license
in question, which is:
      (1)   Contrary to the health, morals, safety, or welfare of the public;
      (2)   Unlawful or fraudulent in nature;
      (3)   A violation of this chapter;
      (4)   Beyond the scope of the license issued; or
      (5)    A fact, circumstance or condition which, had it existed or been
known at the time the license was granted, would have been sufficient grounds
for the refusal thereof.
(Am. Ord. 01-2007, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 110.06  HEARING REQUIRED FOR REVOCATION, NOTICE.
   No license under this code shall be revoked except after hearing before the
City Council following not less than ten-days’ written notice to the licensee
stating the time and place of the hearing and setting forth the reasons for
revocation.
(Am. Ord. 01-2007, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 110.07  APPEAL TO CITY COUNCIL UPON REFUSAL.
   An applicant for any license who has been refused a license or the renewal
of a license for any reason by the authorized issuing officer, unless an appeal
is provided to another agency by this code or by state law, may appeal the
refusal to the City Council by setting forth all the facts in a written
petition and filing it with the City Clerk within five days after the refusal.
The Council shall grant a hearing to the applicant. The decision of City
Council the appeal shall be final.
(Am. Ord. 01-2007, passed 5-21-2007)
MOTOR SCOOTER RENTALS
§ 110.20  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR SCOOTER.  Any motorized vehicle having either two or three wheels,
such as a motorcycle, motorbike, or motor scooter, but excluding automobiles.
(1995 Code, § 22-36)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.21  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business, within the city, of renting
out motor scooters without first obtaining a license therefor from the city.
   (B)   No person having a place of business within five miles of the city
shall rent out any motor scooter for operation upon the streets of the city, or
which shall, in fact, be operated upon the streets of the city without first
obtaining a license therefor from the city; provided, however, that any person
engaged in the business whose place of business is outside the city limits, but
is subject to requirements and standards equivalent to or more strict than the
city, shall not be required to obtain a license from the city.
(1995 Code, § 22-61)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.22  CONDITIONS REQUIRED PRECEDENT TO ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be granted or delivered until the applicant therefor has
complied with all of the required conditions precedent to its issuance.
(1995 Code, § 22-62)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.23  ISSUANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submission of application; required information.  The applicant shall
submit an application, under oath, on a form to be provided by the City Clerk,
which application shall disclose the pertinent information about the applicant,
his or her proposed business location and equipment, as the Clerk may require,
and shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Evidence of insurance.  Evidence that the applicant has obtained
public liability insurance with limits of not less than $100,000/$300,000 and
property damage insurance with a limit of not less than $25,000 from a company
approved by the State Commissioner of Insurance, which insurance shall insure
the applicant, his or her employees and agents, against liability for death or
injury to persons or damages to property by reason of the negligent operation
of the equipment rented by the applicant, which policy shall remain in full
force and effect in the specified amounts during the term of this license.  The
evidence of insurance shall include an endorsement to the effect that the
insurance company shall notify the City Clerk, in writing, at least ten days
before the expiration or cancellation of the policy;
      (2)   Bond.  A corporate surety bond in the amount of $10,000 in a form
to be approved by the City Attorney, conditioned upon the applicant’s faithful
compliance with all of the terms and provisions of this subchapter;
      (3)   Color of paint used for identifying applicant’s vehicles.  The
uniform color of fluorescent paint the applicant will use on his or her
equipment and the distinctive lettering to be placed thereon in letters not
less than three inches in height identifying the licensee, his or her address,
and the unit number of the motor scooter;
      (4)   License fee.  A license fee of $50, plus $10 for each unit of
equipment the licensee intends to rent; and
      (5)   List of motor scooters.  A complete list of motor scooters, each of
which shall be registered with the city by the name of the manufacturer, model,
year, serial number, and state motor vehicle license number, and a unit number
shall be assigned to and placed upon each such motor scooter.  The list may be
revised during the license period by supplemental registration, inspection,
approval by the city, and payment of additional license fees.
   (B)   Referring of application to appropriate officials.  The Clerk may
refer the application to the Chief of Police and other affected city officials
for the inspection of equipment, the investigation of a particular portion of
the application, and for a report thereon.
   (C)   Presentation of application and other data to Council for approval or
denial.  The application, supporting data, and reports of the city officials
shall then be presented to the City Council.  In passing on the application,
the Council shall determine whether or not the proposed business meets the
requirements of this subchapter, other applicable city ordinances, the
requirements of the State Motor Vehicle Code, and other applicable state
statutes, and shall approve or deny the license accordingly.  If the license is
denied, the basis for denial shall be specified in the resolution of denial.
(1995 Code, § 22-63)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.24  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.  After issuance of the license, the licensee shall meet the
following requirements.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The insurance and bond required in this subchapter shall continue
in full force and effect until the expiration or termination of the license.
      (2)   He or she shall paint and letter the motor scooters as proposed in
his or her application and approved by the city.
      (3)   He or she shall offer to rent only those motor scooters properly
registered with the city.
      (4)   He or she shall offer to rent only those motor scooters which are
fully equipped as required by the provisions of the State Motor Vehicle Code.
      (5)   He or she shall offer to rent only those motor scooters which are
in all respects in good operating condition.
      (6)   He or she shall permit the Chief of Police or his or her authorized
officer or agent to inspect or cause to be inspected registered motor scooters
at all reasonable times to determine compliance with the requirements of this
subchapter.
      (7)   He or she will maintain a complete list of the users of his or her
motor scooters, showing names, addresses, age, motor vehicle operator’s license
number, number of hours’ experience in operating a motor scooter, all motor
vehicle operating violations by the user within the preceding three years, the
time a motor scooter is delivered to the user, and the time the motor scooter
is returned by the user to the licensee.
      (8)   He or she shall question each prospective user concerning his or
her prior experience in operating a motor scooter.
      (9)   He or she shall determine the fitness of the prospective user to
operate the motor scooter in a safe manner, and shall rent only to a person who
he or she determines to be fit to operate a motor scooter in a safe manner.
      (10)   He or she shall thoroughly instruct inexperienced users in the
safe operation of a motor scooter prior to permitting operation upon the
streets of the city.
      (11)   He or she shall not rent a motor scooter to any person who does
not present for his or her inspection a then valid state motor vehicle
operator’s license.
      (12)   He or she shall instruct each user with respect to the applicable
regulations of motor scooters by the city.
      (13)   He or she shall not authorize the user of a motor scooter to
permit another person to operate the motor scooter, unless the person is also
listed as a user and has complied with the provisions of this section.
      (14)   He or she shall limit the operation of a motor scooter to the
person listed on his or her records as the user thereof.
      (15)   He or she shall not offer to rent any motor scooter not registered
with the city.
      (16)   He or she shall limit use of a motor scooter to the capacity which
the unit is designed to carry.
      (17)   He or she shall post a copy of this subchapter, a copy of motor
scooter speed limits in effect in the city, and a copy of his or her license in
the place of business in a location where they can be read easily by his or her
patrons.
      (18)   He or she shall notify each user that nighttime use of the motor
scooter requires prior written approval from the City Chief of Police.
      (19)   The licensee shall not rent any motor scooter for nighttime use
without first having seen written approval therefor signed by the City Chief of
Police.
      (20)   He or she shall not rent any motor scooter to any person who at
the time is under the influence of intoxicating beverages or of narcotics.
(1995 Code, § 22-64)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966)  Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.25  EXPIRATION.
   Each license granted under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
the next succeeding April 30.
(1995 Code, § 22-65)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.26  NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   A license issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable.
(1995 Code, § 22-66)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.27  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   A license required by this subchapter may be suspended or the renewal
thereof refused by the city for misrepresentation of any material fact in the
application for the license.  Any license may be suspended or revoked by the
city for good cause.  The term GOOD CAUSE shall mean any act, omission, or the
permitting of a condition to exist with respect to the licensee in question
which is contrary to the safety or welfare of the public; unlawful or
fraudulent in nature; a violation of any provision of this subchapter under
which the license was granted; is beyond the scope of the license issued; or a
fact, circumstance or condition which, had it existed or been known to the city
at the time the license was granted, would have been sufficient grounds for the
refusal thereof.  Revocation of a license may take place only after a hearing
before the Council upon at least seven-days’ written notice to the licensee
stating the time and place of the hearing and the reasons for revocation.  A
license issued under this subchapter may be suspended for not more than 20 days
by the City Chief of Police for good cause.
(1995 Code, § 22-67)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966)
§ 110.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any business, temporary vendor, including any partner or officer of
any corporation, partnership, or limited liability company failing to comply
with the provisions of this chapter shall constitute a municipal civil
infraction under Title III of the code and be subject to a $5 fine. The city
shall also have the right to seek injunctive relief to enforce the provisions
of this chapter at its option. The Council may suspend or revoke the license as
provided in §
110.05.
(1995 Code, § 22-2)  (Ord. 108-A, passed 7-6-1992; Am. Ord. 01-2007, passed 5-
21-2007)
   (B)   Any licensee, employee, or agent who violates or fails to comply with
the provisions of §§
110.20 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the civil
fines set forth in the schedule of civil fines in §
34.06 and any other relief that may be imposed by the court.  Each act of
violation and each day upon which the violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation.
(1995 Code, § 22-37)  (Ord. 39, passed 5-2-1966; Am. Ord. 150, passed 8-10-
1998)
CHAPTER 111:  AMUSEMENTS AND ENTERTAINMENTS
Section
License
   
111.01   Required
   
111.02   Exhibition of license to owner of land or building to be used for
business
   
111.03   Compliance with conditions precedent to issuance
   
111.04   Issuance procedures
   
111.05   Waiver of 60-day application period
   
111.06   Waiver of corporate surety bond
   
111.07   Licensee requirements
   
111.08   Expiration
   
111.09   Nontransferability
   
111.10   Suspension and revocation
   
111.99   Penalty
Statutory reference:
   Offenses concerning coin-operated devices, see M.C.L.A. § 752.811
   Offenses relating to public exhibitions and entertainment, see M.C.L.A. §§
750.463 to 750.465a
LICENSE
§ 111.01  REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business within the city of offering a public
amusement, entertainment, exhibition or performance without first having
obtained a license therefor from the city.
(1995 Code, § 10-31)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.02  EXHIBITION OF LICENSE TO OWNER OF LAND OR BUILDING TO BE USED FOR
BUSINESS.
   No person shall knowingly allow or permit any building or land owned or
possessed by him or her to be used for an amusement or entertainment business
unless a city license therefor shall have first been shown to the owner or
possessor.
(1995 Code, § 10-32)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.03  COMPLIANCE WITH CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be granted or delivered until the applicant therefor has
complied with all of the required conditions precedent to its issuance.
(1995 Code, § 10-33)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)
§ 111.04  ISSUANCE PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submission of application; required information.  The applicant shall
submit an application not less than 60 days prior to the proposed commencement
of the business, under oath, on a form to be provided by the City Clerk, which
application shall disclose the pertinent information about the applicant, his
or her proposed business location, facilities, maximum capacity to be admitted,
business history, and responsibility, as the Clerk may require, and shall be
accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Evidence of insurance.  Evidence that the applicant has obtained
public liability insurance with limits of not less than $1,000,000/$3,000,000
and property damage insurance with a limit of not less than $25,000 from a
company or companies approved by the State Commissioner of Insurance, which
insurance shall insure the applicant, his or her employees, and agents against
liability for death or injury to persons or damages to property which may
result from the conduct of the licensed business, which policy shall remain in
full force and effect in the specified amounts during the term of the license. 
The evidence of insurance shall include an endorsement to notify the City
Clerk, in writing, at least ten days before the expiration or cancellation of
the policy;
      (2)   Bond.  A corporate surety bond in the amount of $10,000 in a form
to be approved by the City Attorney, conditioned upon applicants’ faithful
compliance with all of the terms and provisions of this subchapter, and all
applicable provisions of other city ordinances, county ordinances, and state
statutes;
      (3)   License fee.  A license fee of $25 for a business, the approved
capacity of which does not exceed 500 persons, and an additional license fee of
$25 for each additional 1,000 persons or fraction thereof to be admitted to
licensee’s place of business per day of operation; and
      (4)   Designation of agent.  If the applicant is not a resident of or a
corporation licensed to conduct business by the state, he or she shall
designate an agent located in the state for acceptance of service of process.
   (B)   Referring of application to appropriate officials.  The Clerk may
refer the application to the City Building Inspector, the City Police Chief,
the County Health Department, the State Fire Marshal, and any other public
officials as he or she may deem appropriate.
   (C)   Presentation of application and other data to Council for approval or
denial.  The application, supporting data, and reports of governmental
officials shall then be presented to the City Council.  In passing on the
application, the Council shall determine whether or not the proposed business
meets the requirements of this subchapter, other applicable city ordinances,
other county ordinances, and applicable state statutes and shall approve or
deny the license accordingly.  If the license is denied, the basis for denial
shall be specified in the resolution of denial.
   (D)   Advertisement of business prior to issuance; basis for denial. 
Advertising of the applicant’s proposed business prior to the issuance of a
license by the city shall constitute a violation of this chapter by the
applicant and shall constitute a basis for the denial of the license.
   (E)   Expense of police service.  Based upon the maximum number of persons
to be admitted to the licensee’s place of business per day, as disclosed in the
application, if the number exceeds 499 persons, and if the City Council, in its
discretion, determines that the public safety and welfare make it desirable
that police personnel be assigned to the vicinity of the licensee’s place of
business, the applicant shall be charged for the actual expense in providing
the police service to the extent of two officers for the first 500 persons and
one additional officer for each additional 200 persons.
(1995 Code, § 10-34)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)
§ 111.05  WAIVER OF 60-DAY APPLICATION PERIOD.
   The City Council may, in its discretion, waive the 60-day application period
required in §
111.04(A), provided the applicant shows the following:
   (A)   Good cause is shown by the applicant to waive the 60-day application
requirement, including a showing of hardship or practical difficulty in
complying with the 60-day application period set forth in §
111.04(A);
   (B)   All necessary supporting data and reports of governmental officials,
as required in §
111.04(C) can be obtained in less than 60 days; and
   (C)   A waiver of the 60-day period will not be detrimental to the City
Council in passing upon the application, or in fulfilling the intent and
purposes of this subchapter.
(1995 Code, § 10-35)  (Ord. 48-A, passed 8-5-1985)
§ 111.06  WAIVER OF CORPORATE SURETY BOND.
   (A)   A corporate surety bond in the amount of $10,000 in a form to be
approved by the City Attorney, conditioned upon the applicant’s faithful
compliance with all of the terms and provisions of this subchapter, and all
applicable provisions of other city ordinances, county ordinances, and state
statutes.  The City Council may, in its own discretion, waive the requirement
of a corporate surety bond if it finds that the bonding requirement is not
appropriate for the particular activity being considered for a license.
   (B)   In considering a waiver of the corporate surety bond, the Council may
consider the following:
      (1)   The nature, scope, and location of the proposed activity;
      (2)   The status of the applicant as a profit or nonprofit corporation;
      (3)   Whether the activity is for charitable, educational, cultural, or
religious purposes and not likely to interfere with the general health, safety,
and welfare of the residents of the city;
      (4)   Whether the requirement of the corporate surety bond would be an
undue hardship on the applicant in relation to the nature, purpose, and scope
of the proposed activity; and/or
      (5)   Any other circumstances as the City Council may deem relevant in
considering whether or not the requirements of this subchapter will be met
should the surety bond requirement be waived.
(1995 Code, § 10-36)  (Ord. 48-A, passed 8-5-1985)
§ 111.07  LICENSEE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.  After issuance of the license, the licensee shall meet the
following requirements.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   The insurance and bond required in this subchapter shall continue
in full force and effect until the expiration or termination of the license.
      (2)   The licensee shall permit the city, county, and state officials to
enter upon the licensed premises at all reasonable times to determine
compliance with the requirements of this chapter and other applicable city,
county, and state ordinances and statutes.
      (3)   The licensee shall not knowingly permit violations of any city
ordinance, county ordinance, or state statute by any of his or her patrons.
      (4)   The licensee shall provide off-street parking facilities sufficient
to accommodate all persons to be admitted to his or her place of business,
based on the maximum capacity specified in the application.
      (5)   The licensee shall not admit to his or her premises any person who
is then under the influence of intoxicating beverages or of drugs, nor shall he
or she knowingly permit the possession, sale, or consumption of intoxicating
beverages, narcotics, or hallucinogenic drugs on his or her business premises.
      (6)   The licensee shall provide sufficient fences or barriers, or shall
so patrol the boundaries of his or her business premises as to effectively
prevent his or her patrons from directly trespassing on neighboring premises.
      (7)   The licensee shall so conduct his or her business that it shall not
give rise to a nuisance by reason of noise, vibration, smoke, odor, or dust.
      (8)   The licensee shall limit his or her business activities to the
hours specified in his or her license.
      (9)   The licensee shall post a copy of this subchapter and a copy of his
or her license in his or her place of business in a location where they can be
easily read by his or her patrons.
(1995 Code, § 10-37)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)  Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.08  EXPIRATION.
   Each license granted under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire at
the end of the term specified in the application, but, if not so established,
shall expire on the next succeeding March 31.
(1995 Code, § 10-38)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)
§ 111.09  NONTRANSFERABILITY.
   A license issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable to any
other firm or person.
(1995 Code, § 10-39)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)
§ 111.10  SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   A license required by this subchapter may be suspended or the renewal
thereof refused by the city for misrepresentation of any material fact in the
application for the license.  Any license may be suspended or revoked by the
city for good cause.  The term GOOD CAUSE shall mean any act or omission or the
permitting of a condition to exist with respect to the licensee in question
which is contrary to the safety or welfare of the public; unlawful or
fraudulent in nature; a violation of any provision of this subchapter under
which the license was granted; is beyond the scope of the license issued; or a
fact, circumstance, or condition which, had it existed or been known to the
city at the time the license was granted, would have been sufficient grounds
for the refusal thereof.  Revocation of a license may take place only after a
hearing before the City Council upon not less than seven-days’ written notice
to the licensee at the address stated in the application for the license,
stating the time and place of the hearing and the reasons for revocation.  A
license issued under this subchapter may be suspended for not more than 20 days
by the City Chief of Police.
(1995 Code, § 10-40)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any licensee, employee, or agent who violates or fails to comply with
the provisions of §§
111.01et seq. is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to
the civil fines set forth in the schedule of civil fines in §
34.06 and any other relief that may be imposed by the court.  Each act of
violation and each day upon which the violation occurs shall constitute a
separate violation.
(1995 Code, § 10-1)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970; Am. Ord. 148, passed 8-10-
1998)
   (B)   Any violation of any provision of §§
111.01et seq. is hereby declared to be a nuisance per se and enjoinable by
appropriate legal action.
(1995 Code, § 10-2)  (Ord. 48, passed 5-18-1970)
CHAPTER 112:  ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Possession of unsealed container in public place
   
112.04   Consumption prohibited in certain places
   
112.05   Possession and consumption in vehicle
   
112.06   Possession or transportation by minor
   
112.07   Minors’ presence in licensed establishments
Statutory reference:
   Liquor Control Code, see M.C.L.A. §§ 463.1101 to 463.2303
§ 112.01  DEFINITIONS.
   The definitions set forth in M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 to 436.2303 shall apply to
interpret the provisions of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 6-1)  (Ord. 46, passed 7-7-1969)
§ 112.02  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall sell alcoholic liquor in the city unless he or she is a
licensee of the state under the provisions of M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 to 436.2303.
(1995 Code, § 6-2)  (Ord. 46, passed 7-7-1969)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.03  POSSESSION OF UNSEALED CONTAINER IN PUBLIC PLACE.
   No person shall possess or have under his or her control or custody any
unsealed container of any kind which contains alcoholic liquor, in any public
street, building, park, beach, place, or way.
(1995 Code, § 6-3)  (Ord. 46, passed 7-7-1969)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04  CONSUMPTION PROHIBITED IN CERTAIN PLACES.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor while in any public street,
building, park, beach, place, or way, or in or on the premises of any retail or
commercial establishment open to the public, which is not licensed to sell
alcoholic liquor for consumption on the premises.
(1995 Code, § 6-4)  (Ord. 46, passed 7-7-1969)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.05  POSSESSION AND CONSUMPTION IN VEHICLE.
   No person shall have in his or her possession or control any alcoholic
liquor in an unsealed container of any type, or consume any alcoholic liquor,
while in or on a motor vehicle located in a public street, park, beach, way, or
place, nor without the permission of the owner or occupant, on the premises of
any retail or commercial establishment which is open to the public.
(1995 Code, § 6-5)  (Ord. 46, passed 7-7-1969)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.06  POSSESSION OR TRANSPORTATION BY MINOR.
   No person under the age of 21 shall purchase or knowingly possess or
transport any alcoholic liquor or knowingly possess, transport, or have under
his or her control in any motor vehicle or watercraft any alcoholic liquor
unless the person is employed by a person or corporation by the State Liquor
Control Commission and is possessing, transporting, or having the alcoholic
liquor under his or her control during regular working hours and in the course
of his or her employment.  No owner of any motor vehicle or watercraft shall
knowingly allow a person under the age of 21 years to transport or have under
his or her control any alcoholic liquor, subject only to the exception provided
in this section.  Possession or control of an open container of any type
containing alcoholic liquor shall be prima facie evidence of a violation of
this section.
(1995 Code, § 6-6)  (Ord. 46, passed 7-7-1969)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.07  MINORS’ PRESENCE IN LICENSED ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No person or corporation licensed to sell alcoholic liquor for
consumption on the premises shall permit any person under the age of 21 years
to remain in the establishment after 9:00 p.m., subject to the following
exceptions.
      (1)   This section shall not apply to establishments whose primary
business is not the sale of alcoholic liquor.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to persons legally employed by a
licensee.
   (B)   A copy of this chapter shall be posted in all licensed establishments.
(1995 Code, § 6-7)  (Ord. 46, passed 7-7-1969)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113:  MARIHUANA FACILITIES
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Title
   
113.02   Purpose and legislative intent
   
113.03   Definitions
Licensing Requirements
   
113.20   General provisions
   
113.21   Authorized marihuana facilities
   
113.22   Application requirements for and issuance of city permits
   
113.23   Renewal or amendment of existing permits
   
113.24   Issuance of permit and authorization to operate facility under permit
   
113.25   Transfer, sale or purchase of medical marihuana permit not allowed
   
113.26   Conduct of business at a facility
   
113.27   Visibility of activities; signage and advertising
   
113.28   Inspection of premises
   
113.29   Prohibited acts
   
113.30   Permit revocation
   
113.31   Revocation not exclusive penalty
   
113.32   Reports of crime
   
113.33   Other laws remain applicable
   
113.34   Grant of administrative authority
   
113.35   Policy review
   
113.36   Disclaimer
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01  TITLE.
    This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Marihuana Business"
ordinance of the City of the Village of Douglas.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.02  PURPOSE AND LEGISLATIVE INTENT.
   (A)   The city intends to issue permits to regulate marihuana facilities to
the extent they are permitted under the Michigan Medical Marihuana Facilities
Licensing Act and the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act so as
to protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city
by setting forth the manner in which marihuana facilities can be operated in
the city;
      (1)   Protect public health and safety through reasonable limitations on
marihuana facility operations as they relate to noise, air and water quality,
neighborhood and patient safety, security for the facility and its personnel,
and other health and safety concerns;
      (2)   Protect the character of residential neighborhoods by limiting the
location and the concentration of types of marihuana commercial entities to
specific areas of the city; and
      (3)   Impose fees to defray the cost to the city of the administrative
and enforcement costs associated with marihuana facilities.
   (B)   Relationship to other laws. As of the effective date of this chapter,
marihuana is classified as a Schedule 1 controlled substance under federal law
which makes it unlawful to manufacture, distribute, cultivate, produce, possess
dispense or transport marihuana. Nothing in this chapter is intended to grant
immunity from any criminal prosecution under federal law. Nothing in this
chapter is intended to promote or condone the production, distribution, or
possession of marihuana in violation of any applicable law and nothing in in
this chapter is intended to grant immunity from criminal or civil prosecution,
penalty or sanction for the cultivation, manufacture, possession, use, sale,
distribution or transport of marihuana in any form, that is not in strict
compliance with all applicable laws and rules promulgated by the State of
Michigan and the City of the Village of Douglas regarding medical marihuana.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.03  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Words and phrases contained in the Michigan Medical Marihuana
Facilities Licensing Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq., the Medical Marihuana
Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq., the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., and the rules or emergency rules
promulgated pursuant to any of these acts shall have the definitions or
descriptions as set forth in those acts.
   (B)   For purposes of the requirements for obtaining a permit under this
chapter, the terms "facility" and "marihuana facility" are intended to include
both a "marihuana facility" as defined in the MMFLA and a "marihuana
establishment" as defined in the MRTMA.
   (C)   Additionally, the following words as used in this chapter setting
forth the requirements for obtaining a city permit have the following meanings:
      (1)   APPLICANT. A person who applies for a city permit. With respect to
disclosures in an application, or for purposes of eligibility for a permit, the
term applicant includes an officer, director, and managerial employee of the
applicant and a person who holds any direct or indirect ownership interest in
the applicant.
      (2)   AUTHORIZED PERSON.
         (a)   An owner of a facility;
         (b)   The directors, officers, members, partners, and individuals of a
facility that is a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, or sole
proprietorship;
         (c)   Any person who is in charge of and on the premises of the
facility during business hours.
      (3)   CITY PERMIT OR PERMIT. Unless the context requires a different
meaning, means a valid permit that is issued under this chapter.
      (4)   CO-LOCATE. Any combination of marihuana retail facilities or
provisioning centers that may operate as separate marihuana facilities at the
same physical location.
      (5)   MARIHUANA. As defined in section 7106 of the Public Health Code,
1978 PA 368, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7106 et seq., or as defined in the Michigan
Medical Facilities Licensing Act or the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act, as applicable.
      (6)   MARIHUANA FACILITY. A location at which a licensee is licensed to
operate under the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act or the Michigan
Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act and has obtained a permit for the
location issued by the City of the Village of Douglas. The city limits the
marihuana facilities to provisioning centers and retailers as defined in the
MMFLA or in the MRTMA.
      (7)   MARIHUANA RETAILER. A person licensed by LARA to obtain marihuana
from marihuana establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to
marihuana facilities and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
      (8)   MICHIGAN MEDICAL MARIHUANA ACT OR MMMA. The Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq., also referred to as
the MMMA, and the administrative rules authorized by the MMMA.
      (9)   MICHIGAN REGULATION AND TAXATION OF MARIHUANA ACT OR MRTMA. The
Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et
seq., and the rules or emergency rules promulgated pursuant to the MRTMA.
      (10)   PERMITTEE. A person holding a city permit under this chapter.
      (11)   PERSON. The entities included in the definition of "person" in §
15.12 of the City of the Village of Douglas City Code, in addition to the
entities included in the definition of "person" in the MMFLA and the MRTMA.
      (12)   PROVISIONING CENTER. A licensee that is a commercial entity
located in the city that purchases marihuana from a grower or processor and
sells, supplies, or provides marihuana to registered qualifying patients,
directly or through the patients' registered primary caregivers. A
noncommercial location used by a primary caregiver to assist a qualifying
patient connected to the caregiver through LARA's marihuana registration
process in accordance with the MMMA is not a PROVISIONING CENTER for purposes
of this chapter.
      (13)   SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person who operates as a "secure
transporter" as defined in the MMFLA or a "marihuana secure transporter" as
defined in the MRTMA or as both at the same location under common ownership.
      (14)   STATE MARIHUANA LICENSE. As used in the context of marihuana, or
unless the context requires a different meaning, "license" means a state
operating license that is issued under the Medical Marihuana Facilities
Licensing Act or a state license under the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
LICENSING REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.20  GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A permit issued under this chapter is valid only for the location of
the facility and type of facility that is listed on the permit application and
is valid only for the operation of the facility at that location by the permit
applicant.
   (B)   A permit issued under this chapter is valid only if the permit holder
also holds a valid current state license and a copy of the valid current state
license has been provided to the City Clerk by the state license holder and is
in compliance with all other requirements in this chapter.
   (C)   A current city employee or city official is not eligible to apply for
or hold a city permit or to invest in a marihuana facility in the City of
Douglas.
   (D)   The revocation of, suspension of, and placement of restrictions by the
state on a state license apply equally to a permit issued by the city.
   (E)   A permit issued by the city under this chapter shall be conspicuously
posted in the facility where it is easily open to public view.
   (F)   Acceptance of a permit from the city under this chapter constitutes
consent by the permittee, owners, managers and employees to allow the City
Manager or designee to conduct inspections of the facility to ensure compliance
with this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.21  AUTHORIZED MARIHUANA FACILITIES.
   (A)   Pursuant to the MMFLA and the MRTMA, the City of the Village of
Douglas authorizes the operation of the following facilities in the city,
provided they possess a state license or licenses and they comply with the
additional requirements of this chapter,
Chapter 153 (Zoning Ordinance), and all other applicable laws and ordinances:
      (1)   Secure transporter; and
      (2)   Provisioning center/retailer (marihuana facility).
   (B)   Applications for a city permit shall be submitted to the City's Clerk
on an application form to be provided by the city.
   (C)   At the time of application submission, each applicant shall pay the
nonrefundable application fee as established by Council resolution. The fee
will not exceed the state maximum per each license sought. For a co-located
facility, an applicant may apply for multiple licenses using one permit
application that explicitly details the operation of the co-located facility.
Each city permit sought will require an additional application fee per permit.
For purposes of this chapter, a permit issued for a facility at the location
indicated in the application form authorizes the operation of the facility in
compliance with the MMFLA, the MRTMA or both, as applicable.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a completed application and furnishing of all required
information and documentation, the City Clerk shall accept the application for
review and consideration and assign it an application number by facility type
and date it. No application will be accepted until it is determined to be
complete.
   (E)   Upon receipt of a completed application that has been assigned an
application number, the City Clerk may circulate the application to all
affected department heads of the city or their designees to determine whether
the application and premises is in compliance with all applicable laws, rules
and regulations.
   (F)   If the City Clerk identifies a deficiency in an application, the
applicant shall have 15 business days to correct the deficiency after
notification by the City Clerk. If the correction has not been acted upon by
the sixteenth day, the application will be considered withdrawn.
   (G)   Throughout the application process, and while any granted marihuana
permit is in force, the applicant or the marihuana permit holder shall report
any other change in the information provided on the application to the city
within ten days of the change.
   (H)   The City Clerk shall act to approve or deny an application not later
than 15 business days from the date the City Clerk accepts the application as
complete.
      (1)   If the application is approved, the City Clerk shall issue the
applicant a marihuana facility permit.
      (2)   If the application is denied, the City Clerk shall issue a written
notice of denial to the applicant and mail the same by first class mail to the
address for the applicant provided in the application.
      (3)   Denial of license; appeal process. Any person whose application for
a license has been denied shall have the right to petition the City Council for
an appeal. Within 60 days of receipt of a petition for appeal, the City Council
shall set a date for a public hearing. The City Clerk shall send by certified
mail notice of the date, time and location of the public hearing to the
applicant at the address shown on the petition for appeal, at least seven days
prior to the public hearing date. At the public hearing, the applicant shall
have the right to appear and present evidence in support of the application.
Within 60 days after the public hearing, the City Council shall submit to the
applicant its written determination regarding the appeal. The City Council
determination shall be based upon competent, material and substantial evidence.
   (I)   A permit issued under this chapter shall be valid for one year after
the date of issuance by the City Clerk. To renew an existing permit, the
permittee shall submit an application in the same manner as is required to
apply for a new permit no sooner than 90 days before the permit expiration date
and no later than 60 days before the permit expiration date.
   (J)   The permit requirement in this chapter shall be in addition to any
other requirements imposed by any other state or local law, including but not
limited to state or local laws applicable to building, construction, or
commercial entities performing functions similar to the functions performed by
marihuana facilities.
   (K)   The issuance of any permit pursuant to this chapter does not create an
exception, defense or immunity to any person with regard to any potential
criminal or civil liability the person may have under any federal or state law
or city ordinance.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.22  APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR AND ISSUANCE OF CITY PERMIT.
   Application for new annual permit. An application for a new annual permit
for a marihuana facility shall be submitted to the City Clerk on a form
provided by the city. The form shall fulfill all of the requirements of the
application process, including but not limited to:
   (A)   The name and address of the facility and any other contact information
requested on the application form.
   (B)   The name and address of all owners of the real property where the
facility is located.
   (C)   Name and address of all business managers of the facility.
   (D)   A statement with respect to each person named on the application
whether the person has:
      (1)   The applicants' and any stakeholders' names, dates of birth,
mailing address, email address, and phone numbers, including emergency contact
information, and a copy of a government-issued photo identification card of the
applicant and stakeholders.
      (2)   For a privately held corporation, all corporate officers or persons
with equivalent titles and their spouses, all directors and their spouses, and
all stockholders, not including those holding a direct or indirect ownership
interest of 10% or less, and their spouses.
      (3)   For a partnership or limited liability partnership, all partners
and their spouses.
      (4)   For a limited partnership and a limited liability limited
partnership, all general and limited partners, not including a limited partner
holding a direct or indirect ownership interest of 10% or less and who does not
exercise control over or participate in the management of the partnership, and
their spouses.
      (5)   For a limited liability company, all members and managers, not
including a member holding direct or indirect ownership interest of 10% or less
and who does not exercise control over or participate in the management of the
company, and their spouses.
      (6)   If the applicant is not an individual, the articles of
incorporation or organization, Internal Revenue Service SS-4 EIN confirmation
letter, and the operating agreement or bylaws of the applicant, if a limited
liability company or corporation.
      (7)   For the applicant and every stakeholder, affirmation that each is
at least 21 years of age.
      (8)   The name, address, tax identification number, and current zoning
designations of the proposed marihuana facility.
      (9)   The name and address of the current property owner of record.
      (10)   One of the following: (a) proof of ownership of the premises
wherein the marihuana business will be operated; or (b) written consent from
the property owner to use the premises for a marihuana business requiring
licensure under this chapter, together with a copy of any lease for the
premises.
      (11)   The proposed marihuana facility type.
      (12)   A complete list of all marihuana permits and licenses held by the
applicant.
      (13)   A copy of all documents submitted by the applicant to LARA in
connection with the application for a state operating license under the MMFLA
or the MRTMA (including documents submitted for prequalification).
      (14)   A copy of the proposed business plan for the marihuana business,
including, but not limited to:
         (a)   The ownership structure of the business, including percentage
ownership of each person or entity.
         (b)   If co-location of marihuana businesses is proposed, provide an
explanation of the integration of such businesses, including a drawing showing
the relationship between the businesses being co-located, including floor area
and the separation provided between such facilities, including identification
of any points of entry, ingress or egress, and controls at each location.
         (c)   Any community outreach/education plans and strategies.
         (d)   A description of the security system and plan for the marihuana
facility, as detailed in the zoning ordinance, including, but not limited to,
any lighting, alarms, barriers, recording/monitoring devices for the facility
and premises. The security plan must contain the specification details of each
item of security equipment. A security system shall be continuously monitored
with a video surveillance system that includes security cameras. Security
cameras must be placed to monitor all areas of the premises where persons may
gain or attempt to gain access to marihuana or cash. The video recordings shall
be maintained in a secure, offsite location for a minimum period of 30 days.
         (e)   A description of the disposal plan, as detailed in the zoning
ordinance, shall be designed to protect against any marihuana being ingested on
the premises by any person or animal, and indicating how the waste and
byproduct will be stored and disposed.
         (f)   Each marihuana facility shall install and use a safe, as
detailed in the zoning ordinance, for storage of any processed marihuana and
cash on the premises when the business is closed to the public. The application
shall include a description of how the safe shall be incorporated into the
building structure or securely attached thereto. For products that must be kept
refrigerated or frozen, the business may lock the refrigerated container or
freezer in a manner authorized by the city in place of use of a safe so long as
the container is affixed to the building structure. The safe storage in the
facility shall not be used for any other commercial purposes and shall not be
open or accessible to the general public. The safe storage in the facility
shall be maintained and operated so as to comply with all state and local
rules, regulations and ordinances.
         (g)   An affirmation that neither the applicant nor any stakeholder is
in default to the city and that the applicant or stakeholder has not failed to
pay any past-due property taxes, special assessments, fines, fee or other
financial obligation to the city.
      (15)   Any other information reasonably requested by the city relevant to
the processing or consideration of the application.
   (E)   The City Clerk shall reject any application that does not meet the
requirements of the MMFLA, the MRTMA, or this chapter. The City Clerk shall
reject any application that contains any false, misleading or incomplete
information.
   (F)   An applicant is ineligible to receive a marihuana permit under this
chapter, and any issued marihuana permit will be revoked, if it is determined
that the applicant has knowingly submitted an application for a license that
contains false, misleading or fraudulent information, or has intentionally
omitted pertinent information on the application for a license.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.23  RENEWAL OR AMENDMENT OF EXISTING PERMITS.
   The same procedures that apply to applying for a new permit shall apply to
the renewal or amendment of existing permits.
   (A)   An application for renewal of an existing permit shall be submitted no
sooner than 90 days before and no later than 60 days before the existing permit
expires.
   (B)   Subject to the provisions of §
113.30, a valid marihuana facility license may be renewed annually by
completing a renewal application on forms provided by the city, and payment of
the annual license fee(s).
   (C)   Upon the expiration of an existing marihuana permit, a marihuana
permit will be renewed by the City of the Village of Douglas for one year if:
      (1)   There are no uncured administrative and/or legal violations in the
prior year, including no taxes owed;
      (2)   The applicant has paid the annual city permit fee(s) for the
renewal period;
      (3)   Any stakeholder changes have been fully disclosed to the city; and
      (4)   The applicant has received and submitted a copy of the renewal of
its state license.
   (D)   Prior to the issuance of a renewed marihuana facility license by the
city, the premises shall be inspected to assure that it and its systems are in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   An amended application shall be submitted under both of the following
circumstances:
      (1)   When there is a change in any information the permit applicant was
required to provide in the most recent application on file with the city; and
      (2)   When there is a change in any information the permit applicant was
required to provide in the most recent application for a state license on file
with the State of Michigan.
   (F)   Applications for renewal or amendment of existing permits shall be
reviewed and granted or denied before applications for new permits are
considered.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.24  ISSUANCE OF PERMIT AND AUTHORIZATION TO OPERATE FACILITY UNDER
PERMIT.
   If the permit applicant has successfully demonstrated compliance with all
requirements for issuance of a permit, the City Clerk shall issue a new permit
to the applicant if a permit is available, or grant renewal of an existing
permit.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.25  TRANSFER, SALE OR PURCHASE OF MEDICAL MARIHUANA PERMIT NOT ALLOWED.
   (A)   A marihuana permit is valid only for the owner named thereon, the type
of business disclosed on the application for the marihuana permit, and the
location for which the marihuana permit is issued.
   (B)   Each operating marihuana permit is exclusive to the marihuana permit
holder. No transfer, sale, or other conveyance of an interest in a marihuana
permit is allowed.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.26  CONDUCT OF BUSINESS AT A FACILITY.
   (A)   A facility shall be conducted in compliance with the MMFLA, the MRTMA,
the MMMA, the rules promulgated pursuant to any of these acts, and all other
laws, rules, and regulations of the State of Michigan and the city.
   (B)   All marihuana in any form kept at the location of the marihuana
facility shall be kept within an enclosed, secured building and shall not be
visible from any location outside of the building.
   (C)   Marihuana facilities shall be closed for business, and no sale or
other distribution of marihuana in any form shall occur upon the premises or be
delivered to or from the premises, between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
   (D)   All security measures required in this chapter shall be maintained in
good working order. The premises shall be monitored and secured 24 hours per
day.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.27  VISIBILITY OF ACTIVITIES; SIGNAGE AND ADVERTISING.
   All signage and advertising for a marihuana facility shall comply with all
municipal ordinances, state law, and these rules regulating signs and
advertising. Refer to zoning ordinance for additional information.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.28  INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Consent to inspection. Application for or operation of a marihuana
facility, or leasing property to a marihuana facility, constitutes consent by
the applicant, and all owners, managers, and employees of the business, and the
owner of the property to permit the City Manager or his or her designee to
conduct inspections of the marihuana facility to ensure compliance with this
chapter or any other applicable law, rule, or regulation.
   (B)   During all business hours and other times when the premise is occupied
by an authorized person, all permitted premises shall be subject to examination
and inspection by the Douglas Police Department and all other city departments
for the purpose of investigating and determining compliance with the provisions
of this chapter and any other applicable state and local laws or regulations.
   (C)   An authorized person shall not threaten, hinder or obstruct a law
enforcement officer or a city inspector or investigator in the course of making
an examination or inspection of the licensed premises and shall not refuse,
fail, or neglect to cooperate with a law enforcement officer, inspector, or
investigator in the performance of his or her duties to enforce this chapter,
the MMFLA, MRTMA or applicable state administrative rules.
   (D)   Any failure by an authorized person to comply with state laws or rules
or the provisions of this chapter constitutes a violation of this chapter and
grounds for revocation of the marihuana permit under this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.29  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to:
   (A)   Violate any provision of this chapter or any condition of any permit
granted pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Produce, distribute or possess marihuana in violation of this chapter
or any other applicable state or local law.
   (C)   Make any changes or allow any changes to be made in the operation of
the marihuana facility as represented in the permit application, without first
notifying the city by amending its application.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.30  PERMIT REVOCATION.
   A permit issued under this chapter may be suspended or revoked for any of
the following violations:
   (A)   In the event that a marihuana facility does not commence operations
within one year of issuance of a city marihuana permit, the marihuana permit
shall be deemed forfeited; the business may not commence operations and the
marihuana permit is not eligible for renewal.
   (B)   Any person whose name is on or is required to be on the permit
application is convicted of a crime or found responsible for violating any
provision of this chapter.
   (C)   A permit application contains any misrepresentation or omission of any
material fact, or false or misleading information, or the applicant has
provided the city with any other false or misleading information related to the
facility.
   (D)   Marihuana is dispensed on the business premises in violation of this
chapter or any other applicable state or local law, rule or regulation.
   (E)   The facility is operated or is operating in violation of the
specifications of the permit application, any conditions of approval by the
city or any other applicable state or local law, rule or regulation.
   (F)   The city, the county, or any other governmental entity with
jurisdiction, has closed the facility temporarily or permanently or has issued
any sanction for failure to comply with health and safety provisions of this
chapter or other applicable state or local laws related to public health and
safety.
   (G)   The facility is determined by the city to have become a public
nuisance.
   (H)   The facility's state license has been suspended or revoked.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.31  REVOCATION NOT EXCLUSIVE PENALTY.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit the City Manager or
designee from imposing other penalties authorized by the code of ordinances or
to file a public nuisance lawsuit or to take any other legal action authorized
by law.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.32  REPORTS OF CRIME.
   Reports of all criminal activities or attempts of violation of any law at
the marihuana facility or related thereto shall be reported to Douglas Police
Department within 12 hours of occurrence, or its discovery.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.33  OTHER LAWS REMAIN APPLICABLE.
   To the extent the state adopts in the future any additional or stricter law
or regulation governing the sale or distribution of marihuana, the additional
or stricter regulation shall control the establishment or operation of any
marihuana facility in the city. Compliance with any applicable state law or
regulation shall be deemed an additional requirement for issuance or denial of
any marihuana permit under this chapter, and noncompliance with any applicable
state law or regulation shall be grounds for revocation or suspension of any
marihuana facility permit issued hereunder.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.34  GRANT OF ADMINISTRATIVE AUTHORITY.
   The City Clerk is granted the power and duty to fully and effectively
implement and administer the marihuana permit application process and issuance
of marihuana permits under this chapter.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.35  POLICY REVIEW.
   On or before April 1, 2021, city staff shall submit a report to the City
Council regarding the administration of this ordinance and the provisions of
the zoning ordinance pertaining to marihuana businesses, and regarding any
other pertinent information relating to the operation of marihuana facilities
in the city. The report may include proposed ordinance amendments or other
proposed policy changes.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.36  DISCLAIMER.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize any person to
engage in conduct that endangers others or causes a public nuisance, or to
allow use, possession or control of marihuana for lawful purposes or allow any
other activity relating to cultivation, growing, distribution or consumption of
marihuana that is otherwise illegal.
   (B)   Except as may be required by law or regulation, it is not the intent
of this chapter to diminish, abrogate, or restrict the protections for
individual use of marihuana found in the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, the
Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, the Marihuana Tracking Act and the
Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
§ 113.99  PENALTY.
   Any person who violates a provision of this chapter shall be responsible for
a civil infraction punishable by a civil fine of not more than $500.00, plus
costs and all other remedies available by statute. Each day of violation shall
be a separate violation.
(Ord. 01-2020, passed 2-17-2020)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
      
131.   OFFENSES AFFECTING GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
      
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
      
135.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   Window peeping
   
130.02   Begging
   
130.03   Spitting
§ 130.01  WINDOW PEEPING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to look, peer, or peep into, or be found
loitering around, or within view of, any window not on his or her own property,
with the intent of looking through the window in such a manner as would be
likely to interfere with the occupant’s reasonable expectation of privacy,
without the occupant’s express or implied consent.
(1995 Code, § 42-1)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Person defined as a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(c)
§ 130.02  BEGGING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to beg in a public place
from passersby, either by words, gestures, or by the exhibiting of a sign.
(1995 Code, § 42-2)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Persons found begging in a public place defined as disorderly persons, see
M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(h)
§ 130.03  SPITTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to spit on any street or sidewalk or in
any public carrier, public building, or place of public assemblage.
(1995 Code, § 42-4)  (Ord. 6, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 131:  OFFENSES AFFECTING GOVERNMENTAL FUNCTIONS
Section
   
131.01   False alarm of fire
   
131.02   Resisting officer
   
131.03   Impersonation of officers
   
131.04   Obstructing, disobeying firefighters
§ 131.01  FALSE ALARM OF FIRE.
   Any person who shall knowingly and willfully commit any one or more of the
following actions shall be guilty of a misdemeanor:
   (A)   Raise a false alarm of fire at any gathering or in any public place;
   (B)   Ring any bell or operate any mechanical apparatus, electrical
apparatus, or combination thereof, for the purpose of creating a false alarm of
fire; and/or
   (C)   Raise a false alarm of fire orally, by telephone, or in person.
(1995 Code, § 42-36)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.240
§ 131.02  RESISTING OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to resist any police officer or other
law enforcement agent while in the discharge or apparent discharge of his or
her duty, or in any way interfere with or hinder him or her in the discharge of
his or her duty.
(1995 Code, § 42-37)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Resisting officer in discharge of duty, see M.C.L.A. § 750.479
§ 131.03  IMPERSONATION OF OFFICERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely assume or pretend to be an
employee of the city, an employee of the county, an employee of the state, or
an employee of any public utility for the purpose of gaining entry into any
home or business located in the city.
(1995 Code, § 42-38)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   False personation of officers, see M.C.L.A. § 750.215
§ 131.04  OBSTRUCTING, DISOBEYING FIREFIGHTERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to knowingly and
willfully hinder, obstruct, or interfere with any firefighter in the
performance of his or her duties or who shall, while in the vicinity of any
fire, willfully disobey and/or disregard any order, rule, or regulation of the
officer commanding any fire department at the fire.
(1995 Code, § 42-39)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132  OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Malicious destruction of public property
   
132.02   Tampering with utility appurtenances
   
132.03   Trespass
   
132.04   Entering garden or orchard for unlawful purpose
   
132.05   Fraud
   
132.06   Larceny of goods valued up to $100
§ 132.01  MALICIOUS DESTRUCTION OF PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to maliciously destroy,
damage, injure, mar, or deface any building, monument, sign, notice, structure,
fence, tree, shrub, plant, park, or public property of any kind which is owned,
controlled, or managed by the state, county, city, any school district within
the city, or by any other unit or agency of government whose operating budget
is raised in whole or in part by public taxation, or to commit any act of
vandalism on or in any such property.
(1995 Code, § 42-91)  (Ord. 14, passed 2-5-1934)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02  TAMPERING WITH UTILITY APPURTENANCES.
   It shall be unlawful to tamper with, injure, deface, destroy, or remove any
sign, notice, marker, fire alarm box, fire hydrant, topographical survey
instrument, water meter, traffic cone, barricade, water stopbox, or any other
personal property erected or placed by the city, or to make unauthorized taps
into the water lines or any unauthorized use of fire hydrants.
(1995 Code, § 42-92)  (Ord. 14, passed 2-5-1934)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Tampering with property of utility, see M.C.L.A. § 750.383a
§ 132.03  TRESPASS.
   Any person who shall willfully enter upon the lands or premises of another
without lawful authority, after having been forbidden so to do, or after the
lands or premises have been previously posted with a conspicuous notice
forbidding any trespass thereon by the owner or occupant, or agent or servant
of the owner or occupant, or any person being upon the land or premises of
another, upon being notified to depart therefrom by the owner or occupant, or
agent or servant of either, who, without lawful authority, neglects or refuses
to depart therefrom, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(1995 Code, § 42-93)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.552
§ 132.04  ENTERING GARDEN OR ORCHARD FOR UNLAWFUL PURPOSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter any enclosed or unenclosed
vegetable garden or orchard located within the city without the consent of the
owner, or tenant, or his or her agent, and there cut down, injure, damage,
destroy, eat, or carry away any portion of the garden, including any growing
thing, crop, tree, timber, grass, seed, soil, fertilizer, water supply, tool,
implement, fence, or any other protective device or any other thing useful for
the development, cultivation, maintenance, and use of any such garden or
orchard.
(1995 Code, § 42-94)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05  FRAUD.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to engage in any
fraudulent scheme, device, or trick to obtain money or other valuable thing, or
to aid or abet, or in any manner to be concerned therein.
(1995 Code, § 42-95)  (Ord. 5, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Frauds and cheats, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.271 et seq.
§ 132.06  LARCENY OF GOODS VALUED UP TO $100.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to steal or unlawfully
take any money, goods, chattels, or property of any other person, of the value
of $100 or less.
(1995 Code, § 42-96)  (Ord. 5, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.356
CHAPTER 133:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
133.01   Permitting gathering of disorderly persons
   
133.02   Loitering near place of illegal occupation or business
   
133.03   Fighting
   
133.04   Jostling
   
133.05   Disturbing gatherings and meetings
   
133.06   Unlawful assembly
   
133.07   Breach of peace
   
133.08   Disorderly intoxication
   
133.09   Curfew for minors
§ 133.01  PERMITTING GATHERING OF DISORDERLY PERSONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to permit or suffer any
place occupied or controlled by him or her to be a resort of noisy, boisterous,
or disorderly persons.
(1995 Code, § 42-126)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.02  LOITERING NEAR PLACE OF ILLEGAL OCCUPATION OR BUSINESS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to knowingly loiter in
or about any place where an illegal occupation or business is being conducted.
(1995 Code, § 42-127)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Person deemed a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(j)
§ 133.03  FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to engage in any
disturbance, fight, or quarrel in a public place.
(1995 Code, § 42-128)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.04  JOSTLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to be found jostling or
roughly crowding people unnecessarily in a public place.
(1995 Code, § 42-129)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Person defined as a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(l)
§ 133.05  DISTURBING GATHERINGS AND MEETINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to willfully interrupt
or disturb on any day of the week any assembly of people met for the worship of
God within the place of the meeting or out of it, or to make or excite any
disturbance or contention in any tavern, dance hall, beer garden, store or
grocery, manufacturing establishment or any other business place, or in any
street, lane, alley, highway, public building, ground, or park, or at any
election or other public meeting in the city where any persons are peaceably
and lawfully assembled.
(1995 Code, § 42-130)  (Ord. 8, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disturbance of religious worship, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.169 and 752.525
   Disturbing public places, see M.C.L.A. § 750.170
§ 133.06  UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It is unlawful and constitutes an unlawful assembly for a person within the
city to assemble or act in concert with four or more persons for the purpose of
engaging in conduct constituting the crime of riot or to be present at an
assembly that either has or develops such a purpose and to remain there with
intent to advance the purpose.
(1995 Code, § 42-131)  (Ord. 8, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 752.543
§ 133.07  BREACH OF PEACE.
   Any person who shall make or assist in making any noise, disturbance,
trouble, or improper diversion, or any rout or riot, by which the peace and
good order of the city are disturbed, shall be guilty of a breach of the peace,
and disorderly conduct.
(1995 Code, § 42-132)  (Ord. 8, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disturbing public places, see M.C.L.A. § 750.170
§ 133.08  DISORDERLY INTOXICATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of any
controlled substance in any public place, or to be intoxicated in a public
place, to either endanger directly the safety of themselves, another person, or
of property, or in a manner that causes a public disturbance.
(Ord. 04-2014, passed 9-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 133.09  CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   (A)   Purpose.  The people of the city enact this section to:
      (1)   Protect the public from illegal acts of minors committed during the
curfew hours;
      (2)   Protect minors from improper influence that prevails during the
curfew hours;
      (3)   Protect minors from criminal activity that occurs during the curfew
hours; and
      (4)   Require parents to exercise control of their minor children.
   (B)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      MINOR.  Any person under the age of 17 years.
      PARENT.   Means and includes mother, father, legal guardian and any other
person having the care or custody of a minor, or such other adult with whom a
minor may be found residing.
      RESIDENCE.  A home, apartment, condominium or other dwelling unit,
including the curtilage of the dwelling unit.
   (C)   Curfew for minors.
      (1)   Minors 12 years and under.  No minor the age of 12 or under shall
be upon, in or on any public street, highway, alley, park, vacant lot or other
public place between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the following
day, unless subject to the exceptions set forth in division (D) below.
      (2)   Minors 13 to 16 years.  No minor the age of or between the ages of
13 and 16 years shall be upon, in or on any public street, highway, alley,
park, vacant lot or other public place between the hours of 12:00 midnight and
6:00 a.m. of the following day, unless subject to the exceptions set forth in
division (D) below.
   (D)   Exceptions to the operation of the curfew.  A minor shall not be
deemed to violate the provisions of this section if any of the following
provisions are found to exist:
      (1)   Where the minor is accompanied by a parent, guardian or some adult
over 21 years of age delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor
child for a designated period of time and for a specific purpose within a
specified area;
      (2)   Where the minor child is a resident of another municipality or
resident of this city and is in a motor vehicle with parental consent and is
traveling through the city or the city is the origin destination of interstate
travel.  This exception shall not apply to minors sitting in parked vehicles
without parental consent;
      (3)   Where the minor is employed in the course of lawful employment, or
for a period of one-half hour before to one-half hour after work, while
traveling a direct route between the place of employment and his or her
residence, and carries on his or her person a written statement signed by his
or her employer showing the times when the minor left work on that day;
      (4)   Where the minor is carrying out an errand or other lawful activity
directed by a parent, guardian or custodian; or
      (5)   Where the minor is participating in, going to, or returning from a
lawful athletic, educational, entertainment, religious or social event.
   (E)   Parental responsibility for minors violating curfew.  No parent shall
knowingly fail, permit or neglect to supervise a minor from violating the
curfew provisions of division (C) above. A rebuttable presumption of a
violation shall occur if the following is found to exist:
      (1)   The parent of the minor is immediately notified by the Police
Department, advising the parent of the arrest or detention of the minor; the
reason for the detention; and the parent’s responsibility under this section. 
A record of the notification shall be maintained by the Police Department; and
      (2)   Any parent who fails to pick up a minor detained by the Police
Department upon notification by the Police Department, or any parent who has
received two prior notifications regarding curfew of any minor within their
control, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Aiding or abetting violations.  Any person of the age of 17 or over
assisting, aiding, abetting, allowing, permitting or encouraging any minor
under the age of 17 years to violate the curfew provisions of division (C)
above is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 05-2014, passed 9-15-2014)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 134:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
General Provisions
   
134.01   Keeping gambling place and equipment
   
134.02   Lewd acts; acts of prostitution or moral perversion
   
134.03   Keeping or occupying building for gambling
   
134.04   Publication, sale, or distribution of obscene or illegal items
   
134.05   Possession of open container of intoxicating liquor in public
   
134.06   Consumption of intoxicating liquor in public
   
134.07   Gambling and frequenting places where gambling is permitted
   
134.08   Indecent or obscene conduct
   
134.09   Indecent exposure
Drug Paraphernalia
   
134.20   Definitions
   
134.21   Determination by court or other authority
   
134.22   Sale or supply prohibited; exception
Obscene Material Distribution
   
134.35   Definitions
   
134.36   Distributing obscene matter to minor; knowledge of material and
minority
   
134.37   Inapplicability of prohibition against dissemination to minor
   
134.38   Display of obscene matter to minor; knowledge of material and minority
   
134.39   Facilitative misrepresentation as to status as parent, guardian, or
age of minor; knowledge of falsity
   
134.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 134.01  KEEPING GAMBLING PLACE AND EQUIPMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or his or her agent or employee, within
the city, to directly or indirectly keep, maintain, operate, or occupy any
building or room, or any part thereof, or any place with apparatus, books, or
any device for registering bets, or buying or selling pools upon the result of
a game, competition, political competition, appointment, or election, or any
purported event of like character; or to register bets, or buy or sell pools,
or to be concerned in buying or selling pools; or to knowingly permit any
grounds or premises owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her to be used for
any of such purposes.
(1995 Code, § 42-161)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.304
§ 134.02  LEWD ACTS; ACTS OF PROSTITUTION OR MORAL PERVERSION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to commit or offer
or agree to commit a lewd act or an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to secure or offer
another for the purpose of committing a lewd act or an act of prostitution or
moral perversion.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to be in or near
any place frequented by the public or any public place for the purpose of
inducing, enticing, or procuring another to commit a lewd act or an act of
prostitution or moral perversion.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to knowingly
transport any person to any place for the purpose of committing a lewd act or
an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to knowingly
receive or offer to or agree to receive any person into any place or building
for the purpose of performing a lewd act or an act of prostitution or moral
perversion or to knowingly permit any person to remain in any place or building
for any such purpose.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to direct or offer
to direct any person to any place or building for the purpose of committing any
lewd act or act of prostitution or moral perversion.
(1995 Code, § 42-162)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.03  KEEPING OR OCCUPYING BUILDING FOR GAMBLING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, or his or her agent or employee, within
the city, to directly or indirectly keep or occupy, or assist in keeping or
occupying any common gambling house, or any building or room therein, or place
within the city where gaming is permitted or suffered, or to suffer or permit
on any premises owned, occupied, or controlled by him or her, any apparatus
used for gaming or gambling, or to use the apparatus for gaming or gambling in
any place within the city.
(1995 Code, § 42-163)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.302
§ 134.04  PUBLICATION, SALE, OR DISTRIBUTION OF OBSCENE OR ILLEGAL ITEMS.
   No person shall publish, sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit, or
possess for the purpose any obscene, indecent, or illegal book, pamphlet,
paper, picture, statuary, image, or representation.
(1995 Code, § 42-164)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.05  POSSESSION OF OPEN CONTAINER OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to possess intoxicating
liquor in any kind of container which is open or uncapped, or on which the seal
is broken, in any street, alley, park, public building, or other land owned by
the city, unless the possession is authorized under a valid permit issued by
the city or its authorized agent.
(1995 Code, § 42-165)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.06  CONSUMPTION OF INTOXICATING LIQUOR IN PUBLIC.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to consume intoxicating
liquor of any kind in any street, alley, park, public building, or other land
owned by the city, unless the consumption is authorized under a valid permit
issued by the city or its authorized agent.
(1995 Code, § 42-166)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.07  GAMBLING AND FREQUENTING PLACES WHERE GAMBLING IS PERMITTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deal in, play, or engage in gaming
such as faro, roulette, dice, cards, or other device or game of chance, hazard,
or skill, either as bookmaker, dealer, keeper, player, or otherwise for the
purpose of gambling for money or other valuable thing or to knowingly attend or
be found frequenting any place where gambling is permitted or allowed or is
taking place.
(1995 Code, § 42-167)  (Ord. 5, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.08  INDECENT OR OBSCENE CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to engage in any
indecent or obscene conduct in any public place.
(1995 Code, § 42-168)  (Ord. 5, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Person deemed a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)(f)
§ 134.09  INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to knowingly make any
open or indecent exposure of his or her person or of the person of another.
(1995 Code, § 42-169)  (Ord. 5, passed 2-10-1919)  Penalty, see §
134.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.335a
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 134.20  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COCAINE SPOON.  A spoon with a bowl so small that the primary use for which
it is reasonably adapted or designed is to hold or administer cocaine, and
which is so small as to be unsuited for typical, lawful uses of a spoon.  A
COCAINE SPOON may or may not be merchandised on a chain and may or may not be
labeled as a “cocaine spoon” or “coke spoon.”
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE.  Any drug, substance, or immediate precursor
enumerated in Schedules 1-5 of Part 72 of M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7101 et seq., Article
7 of the Public Health Code.
   MARIJUANA OR HASHISH PIPE.  A pipe characterized by a bowl which is so small
that the primary use for which it is reasonably adapted or designed is the
smoking of marijuana or hashish, rather than lawful smoking tobacco, and which
may or may not be equipped with a screen.
   PARAPHERNALIA.  An empty gelatin capsule, hypodermic syringe or needle,
cocaine spoon, marijuana pipe, hashish pipe, or any other instrument,
implement, or device which is primarily adapted or designed for the
administration or use of any controlled substance.
(1995 Code, § 42-191)  (Ord. 120, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 134.21  DETERMINATION BY COURT OR OTHER AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Generally.  In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a
court or other authority should consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, the following.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the objects
concerning its use;
      (2)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control of
the object under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substances;
      (3)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of state law;
      (4)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
      (5)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
      (6)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows
intends to use the object to facilitate a violation of state or local law.  The
innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a direct
violation of state law shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended
for use, or designed for use, as drug paraphernalia;
      (7)   Instruction, oral or written, provided with the object concerning
its use;
      (8)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
      (9)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
      (10)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
      (11)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
      (12)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio or sales of the
object to the total sales of the business enterprise;
      (13)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
      (14)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(1995 Code, § 42-193)  (Ord. 120, passed 3-7-1988)
§ 134.22  SALE OR SUPPLY PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell, offer for sale, display,
furnish, supply, or give away any empty gelatin capsule, hypodermic syringe or
needle, cocaine spoon, marijuana pipe, hashish pipe, or any other instrument,
implement, or device which is primarily adapted or designed for the
administration or use of any controlled substance, as enumerated in Schedules
1-5 of the Public Health Code (M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7101 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   The prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to
manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, licensed medical technicians,
technologists, nurses, hospitals, research teaching institutions, clinical
laboratories, medical doctors, osteopathic physicians, dentists, chiropodists,
veterinarians, pharmacists or embalmers in the normal lawful course of their
respective businesses or professions, nor to common carriers or warehousers or
their employees engaged in the lawful transportation of the paraphernalia, nor
to public officers or employees while engaged in the performance of their
official duties, nor to persons suffering from diabetes, asthma, or any other
medical condition requiring self-injection.
(1995 Code, § 42-194)  (Ord. 120, passed 3-7-1988)  Penalty, see §
134.99
OBSCENE MATERIAL DISTRIBUTION
§ 134.35  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISSEMINATE.  To sell, lend, give, exhibit, or show or to offer or agree to
do the same.
   EROTIC FONDLING.  Touching a person’s clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic
area, buttocks, or, if the person is female, breasts, for the purpose of sexual
gratification or stimulation.
   EXHIBIT.  To do one or more of the following:
      (1)   Present a performance;
      (2)   Sell, give, or offer to agree to sell or give a ticket to a
performance; and/or
      (3)   Admit a minor to premises where a performance is being presented or
is about to be presented.
   HARMFUL TO MINORS.  Sexually explicit matter which meets all of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Considered as a whole, it appeals to the prurient interest of
minors as determined by contemporary local community standards;
      (2)   It is patently offensive to contemporary local community standards
of adults as to what is suitable for minors; and
      (3)   Considered as a whole, it lacks serious literary, artistic,
political, educational, and scientific value for minors.
   LOCAL COMMUNITY.  The city.
   MINOR.  A person under 18 years of age.
   NUDITY.  The lewd display of the human male or female genitals or pubic
area.
   PRURIENT INTEREST.  A lustful interest in sexual stimulation or
gratification.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC ABUSE.  Either of the following:
      (1)   Flagellation or torture for sexual stimulation or gratification by
or upon a person who is nude or clad only in undergarments or in a revealing or
bizarre costume; or
      (2)   The condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically
restrained for sexual stimulation or gratification of a person who is nude or
clad only in undergarments or in a revealing or bizarre costume.
   SEXUAL EXCITEMENT.  The condition of human male or female genitals when in a
state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
   SEXUAL INTERCOURSE.  Intercourse, real or simulated, whether genital-
genital, oral-genital, anal-genital, or oral-anal, whether between persons of
the same or opposite sex or between a human and an animal.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATTER.  Sexually explicit visual material, sexually
explicit verbal material, or sexually explicit performance.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT PERFORMANCE.  A motion picture, exhibition, show,
representation, or other presentation, which, in whole or in part, depicts
nudity, sexual excitement, erotic fondling, sexual intercourse, or
sadomasochistic abuse.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT VERBAL MATERIAL.  A book, pamphlet, magazine, printed
matter reproduced in any manner, or sound recording which contains an explicit
and detailed verbal description or narrative account of sexual excitement,
erotic fondling, sexual intercourse, or sadomasochistic abuse.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT VISUAL MATERIAL.  A picture, photograph, drawing,
sculpture, motion picture film, or similar visual representation which depicts
nudity, sexual excitement, erotic fondling, sexual intercourse, or
sadomasochistic abuse, or a book, magazine, or pamphlet which contains such a
visual representation.  An undeveloped photograph, mold, or similar visual
material may be SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL, notwithstanding that processing or
other acts may be required to make its sexually explicit content apparent.
(1995 Code, § 42-221)  (Ord. 105, passed 6-3-1985)
§ 134.36  DISTRIBUTING OBSCENE MATTER TO MINOR; KNOWLEDGE OF MATERIAL AND
MINORITY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of distributing obscene matter to a minor if that
person does either of the following:
      (1)   Knowingly disseminates to a minor sexually explicit visual or
verbal material that is harmful to minors; or
      (2)   Knowingly exhibits to a minor a sexually explicit performance that
is harmful to minors.
   (B)   A person knowingly disseminates sexually explicit matter to a minor
when the person knows both the nature of the matter and the status of the minor
to whom the matter is disseminated.
   (C)   The word KNOWINGLY means having general knowledge of, or reason to
know, or a belief or ground for belief which warrants further inspection or
inquiry or both:
      (1)   The character and content of any material or performance which is
reasonably susceptible of examination by the defendant; and
      (2)   The age of the minor.  An honest mistake shall constitute an excuse
from liability under this subchapter if the defendant made a reasonable bona
fide attempt to ascertain the true age of the minor.
   (D)   The term REASONABLE BONA FIDE ATTEMPT means an attempt to ascertain
the true age of the minor by requiring production of a driver’s license,
marriage license, birth certificate, or other governmental or educational
identification card or paper and not relying solely on the oral allegations or
apparent age of the minor.
   (E)   A person knows the status of a minor if the person either is aware
that the person to whom the dissemination is made is under 18 years of age or
recklessly disregards a substantial risk that the person to whom the
dissemination is made is under 18 years of age.
(1995 Code, § 42-222)  (Ord. 105, passed 6-3-1985)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.37  INAPPLICABILITY OF PROHIBITION AGAINST DISSEMINATION TO MINOR.
   Section
134.36 does not apply to the dissemination of sexually explicit matter to a
minor by any of the following persons:
   (A)   A parent or guardian who disseminates sexually explicit matter to his
or her child or ward;
   (B)   A teacher or administrator at a public or private elementary or
secondary school which complies with the provisions of Public Act 451 of 1976,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 380.1 et seq., as amended, who disseminates sexually explicit
matter to a student as part of a school program permitted by law;
   (C)   A licensed physician or certified psychologist who disseminates
sexually explicit matter in the treatment of a patient;
   (D)   A librarian employed by a library of a public or private elementary or
secondary school which complies with the provisions of Public Act 451 of 1976,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 380.1 et seq., as amended, or employed by a public library,
who disseminates sexually explicit matter in the course of that person’s
employment; and
   (E)   Any public or private college or university or any other person who
disseminates sexually explicit matter for a legitimate medical, scientific,
governmental, or judicial purposes.
(1995 Code, § 42-223)  (Ord. 105, passed 6-3-1985)
§ 134.38  DISPLAY OF OBSCENE MATTER TO MINOR; KNOWLEDGE OF MATERIAL AND
MINORITY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of displaying obscene matter to a minor if that
person possesses managerial responsibility for a business enterprise selling
visual matter which depicts sexual intercourse or sadomasochistic abuse and
which is harmful to minors, and that person knowingly permits a minor who is
not accompanied by a parent or guardian to examine that matter.
   (B)   A person knowingly permits a minor to examine visual matter which
depicts sexual intercourse or sadomasochistic abuse and which is harmful to
minors, if the person knows both the nature of the matter and the status of the
minor permitted to examine the matter.
   (C)   A person knows the nature of the matter if the person either is aware
of the character and content of the matter or recklessly disregards
circumstances suggesting the character and content of the matter.
   (D)   A person knows the status of a minor if the person either is aware
that the person who is permitted to examine the matter is under 18 years of age
or recklessly disregards a substantial risk that the person who is permitted to
examine the matter is under 18 years of age.
   (E)   No person having custody, control, or supervision of any commercial
establishment shall knowingly:
      (1)   Display material which is harmful to minors in such a way that
minors, as a part of the invited general public, will be exposed to view the
material; provided, however, that a person shall be deemed not to have
displayed material harmful to minors if the material is kept behind devices
commonly known as blinder racks so that the lower 2/3 of the material is not
exposed to view;
      (2)   Sell, furnish, present, distribute, allow to view, or otherwise
disseminate to a minor, with or without consideration, any material which is
harmful to minors; and/or
      (3)   Present to a minor or participate in presenting to a minor, with or
without consideration, any performance which is harmful to a minor.
(1995 Code, § 42-224)  (Ord. 105, passed 6-3-1985)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.39  FACILITATIVE MISREPRESENTATION AS TO STATUS AS PARENT, GUARDIAN, OR
AGE OF MINOR; KNOWLEDGE OF FALSITY.
   (A)   A person is guilty of facilitative misrepresentation when that person
knowingly makes a false representation that he or she is the parent or guardian
of a minor, or that a minor is 18 years of age or older, with the intent to
facilitate the dissemination to the minor of sexually explicit matter that is
harmful to minors.
   (B)   A person knowingly makes a false representation as to the age of a
minor or as to the status of being the parent or guardian of a minor if the
person either is aware that the representation is false or recklessly
disregards a substantial risk that the representation is false.
(1995 Code, § 42-225)  (Ord. 105, passed 6-3-1985)  Penalty, see §
134.99
§ 134.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   A person who violates any provision or provisions of §§
134.20et seq., upon conviction, shall be punished by a fine not exceeding $500
or imprisonment in the County Jail for a period not to exceed 90 days, or both,
in the discretion of the court.  Each day of the violation shall be considered
a separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 42-192)  (Ord. 120, passed 3-7-1988)
   (C)   Distributing obscene matter to a minor is a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days or a fine of not more than $500, or
both.  In imposing the fine authorized for this offense, the court shall
consider the scope of the defendant’s commercial activity in distributing
obscene matter to minors.
(1995 Code, § 42-222)  (Ord. 105, passed 6-3-1985)
   (D)   Displaying obscene matter to a minor is a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or a fine of not more than $500, or
both.
(1995 Code, § 42-224)  (Ord. 105, passed 6-3-1985)
   (E)   Facilitative misrepresentation is a misdemeanor, punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or a fine of not more than $500, or
both.
(1995 Code, § 42-225)  (Ord. 105, passed 6-3-1985)
CHAPTER 135:  OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC SAFETY
Section
Weapons
   
135.01   Discharge of firearms; generally
   
135.02   Discharge of firearms; exception; forfeiture
Fireworks
   
135.15   Definition
   
135.16   Sale to and use by minors
   
135.17   General use restrictions
   
135.18   Fireworks display
   
135.99   Penalty
WEAPONS
§ 135.01  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS; GENERALLY.
   No person in the city shall discharge any firearms, air rifle, or other
dangerous weapon, within or into the city, or have any such dangerous weapon in
his or her possession in any public street, park, or place, unless the firearm
is licensed as required by law or securely wrapped or encased.
(1995 Code, § 42-276)  (Ord. 43, passed 6-5-1961)  Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.02  DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS; EXCEPTION; FORFEITURE.
   (A)   No person, except a police officer or other peace officer in the
discharge of his or her duty, shall fire or discharge a firearm, air rifle, BB
gun, or other dangerous weapons within the limits of the city, without first
obtaining a permit from the City Council.
   (B)   All guns, pistols, or other dangerous weapons carried or used contrary
to division (A) above are hereby declared forfeited to the city and can be
redeemed only at the discretion of the City Council, after all court fines and
costs have been paid.
(1995 Code, § 42-277)  (Ord. 36, passed 10-4-1965)  Penalty, see §
135.99
FIREWORKS
§ 135.15  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREWORKS.  A device made from explosive or flammable compositions used
primarily for the purpose of producing a visible display or audible effect, or
both, by combustion, deflagration, or detonation, and includes Class B
fireworks and Class C fireworks as defined in Public Act 358 of 1968, being
M.C.L.A. § 750.243a, as amended.
(1995 Code, § 42-301)  (Ord. 58, passed 6-5-1978)
§ 135.16  SALE TO AND USE BY MINORS.
   No person, firm, copartnership, corporation, group, or association shall
sell, give, or furnish to any person under the age of 18 years, and no person
under the age of 18 years shall acquire, obtain, purchase, possess, or use, any
fireworks, except for:
   (A)   Flat paper caps containing not more than 0.25 a grain of explosive
content per cap, and in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive
content per cap;
   (B)   Sparklers containing not more than 0.0125 pounds of burning portion
per sparkler;
   (C)   Flitter sparklers and paper tubes not exceeding 1/8 inch in diameter;
and
   (D)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes with
not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sale, and if the manufacturer’s name
and the quantity contained in each box is printed thereon.
(1995 Code, § 42-303)  (Ord. 58, passed 6-5-1978)  Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.17  GENERAL USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks, as
defined in the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, M.C.L.A. 28.451 et seq., except
during the following times:
      (1)   Between 11:00 a.m. on December 31 and 1:00 a.m. on the immediately
following January 1;
      (2)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the Saturday immediately
preceding Memorial Day;
      (3)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the Sunday immediately
preceding Memorial Day;
      (4)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on June 29, June 30, July 1, July
2, July 3, and July 4;
      (5)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the fourth Friday and Saturday
of the month of July; known locally as the Venetian Festival weekend, so long
as it is held;
      (6)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on July 5, if that date is a
Friday or a Saturday;
      (7)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the Saturday immediately
preceding Labor Day; and
      (8)   Between 11:00 a.m. and 11:45 p.m. on the Sunday immediately
preceding Labor Day.
   (B)   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks on
property owned or controlled by the City of the Village of Douglas without
permission granted by resolution of the City Council. Property owned or
controlled by the City of the Village of Douglas includes but in not limited to
public rights-of-way, city beaches, parks, city facilities, municipal marinas,
vacant land and industrial park property owned by the city or its authorities.
   (C)   The council may, upon application in writing on forms provided by the
Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory Affairs and payment of a fee as
set by resolution of City Council, if any, grant a permit for the use of
agricultural or wildlife fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display fireworks,
consumer fireworks, or special effects manufactured for outdoor pest control or
agricultural purposes, or for public or private display within the city by fair
associations, amusement parks, or other organizations or individuals, subject
to the provisions of the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act. A permit granted under
this division is not transferable and shall not be issued to a minor.
   (D)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this code of ordinances, a
violation of this section shall be subject to a civil infraction subject to a
fine of $1,000 for each violation. Pursuant to the Fireworks Safety Act, $500
of the fine shall be remitted to the city's Police Department, which is charged
with the responsibility for enforcing this section.
(1995 Code, § 42-304)  (Ord. 58, passed 6-5-1978; Am. Ord. 03-2019, passed 9-3-
2019)    Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.18  FIREWORKS DISPLAY.
   Before any person, firm, copartnership, corporation, group, or association
shall conduct or sponsor a fireworks display which involves individual
fireworks items of more than two grains of pyrotechnic composition, a written
request must be directed to the City Police Chief and the Fire Chief for a
permit to conduct such a fireworks display, which permit shall be issued, if:
   (A)   The spectators are kept at least 150 feet from the source of the
display; and
   (B)   Aerial fireworks are directed away from spectators, inhabited and
developed areas, and away from other areas where injuries to persons, property,
and combustion from falling live or spent fireworks is probable.
(1995 Code, § 42-305)  (Ord. 58, passed 6-5-1978)  Penalty, see §
135.99
§ 135.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person, firm, copartnership, corporation, group, or association
that shall violate the terms of §§
135.15et seq. shall be liable for prosecution and, upon conviction, shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $100 and/or confinement in the County Jail
not to exceed 90 days.  Violators may be prosecuted as disorderly persons. 
Persons under the age of 17 years shall be subject to the jurisdiction and
sanctions of the State Juvenile Code as administered by the County Probate
Court, Juvenile Division.
(1995 Code, § 42-302)  (Ord. 58, passed 6-5-1978)
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   WATERFRONT CONSTRUCTION
      
152.   FLOODS
      
153.   ZONING ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 150:  BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.01   Adopted
   
150.02   Designation of enforcing agency
Electrical Code
   
150.15   Adopted
   
150.16   Designation of enforcing agency
Mechanical Code
   
150.30   Adopted
   
150.31   Designation of enforcing agency
Plumbing Code
   
150.45   Adopted
   
150.46   Designation of enforcing agency
Numbering of Structures
   
150.60   Naming of thoroughfares; assignment of numbers
   
150.61   All buildings to be numbered
   
150.62   Display of numbers
   
150.63   Naming of thoroughfares
Statutory reference:
   State Construction Code Act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.01  ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1501 to 125.1531, and in particular §§ 8 and 9, the city hereby elects to
adopt by reference the State Building Code, and to enforce the same within the
city limits.  It is further ordained that the enforcement provisions of Public
Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531, hereby are adopted by
the city.  Any subsequent amendments to the code or enforcement provisions will
hereinafter be automatically adopted.
(1995 Code, § 18-31)  (Ord. 89, passed 2-6-1984; Am. Ord. 133, passed 11-4-
1991)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt technical codes by reference, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k)
§ 150.02  DESIGNATION OF ENFORCING AGENCY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Building, Electrical, and
Mechanical Codes, in accordance with § 8b(6) of Act 230 of the Public Acts of
1972 as amended, the Building Official of the city is hereby designated  as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the city under Act 230 of
1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531.  The city assumes responsibility
for the administration and enforcement of the Act throughout its corporate
limits.
(1995 Code, § 18-32)  (Ord. 89-A, passed 6-7-1993; Am. Ord. 160, passed 5-22-
2000)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 150.15  ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1501 to 125.1531, as amended, and in particular §§ 8 and 9, the city hereby
elects to adopt by reference the State Electrical Code, and to enforce the same
within the city limits.  It is further ordained that the enforcement provisions
of the Act hereby are adopted by the city.  Any subsequent amendments to the
code or enforcement provisions will hereinafter be automatically adopted.
(1995 Code, § 18-61)  (Ord. 88, passed 2-6-1984; Am. Ord. 133, passed 11-4-
1991)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt technical codes by reference, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k)
§ 150.16  DESIGNATION OF ENFORCING AGENCY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Building, Electrical, and
Mechanical Codes, in accordance with § 8b(6) of the Public Acts of 1972 as
amended, the Building Official of the city is hereby designated  as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the city under Act 230of
1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531.  The city assumes responsibility
for the administration and enforcement of the Act throughout its corporate
limits.
(1995 Code, § 18-62)  (Ord. 88-A, passed 6-7-1993; Am. Ord. 160, passed 5-22-
2000)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 150.30  ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1501 to 125.1531, and M.S.A. §§ 5.2949(1) et seq., and in particular §§ 8
and 9, the city hereby elects to adopt by reference the State Mechanical Code,
and to enforce the same within the city limits.  It is further ordained that
the enforcement provisions of the Act hereby are adopted by the city.  Any
subsequent amendments to the code or enforcement provisions will hereinafter be
automatically adopted.
(1995 Code, § 18-81)  (Ord. 90, passed 2-6-1984; Am. Ord. 133, passed 11-4-
1991)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt technical codes by reference, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k)
§ 150.31  DESIGNATION OF ENFORCING AGENCY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Building, Electrical, and
Mechanical Codes, in accordance with § 8b(6) of the Public Acts of 1972 as
amended, the Building Official of the city is hereby designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the city under Act 230 of
the Public Acts of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531.  The city
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act
throughout its corporate limits.
(1995 Code, § 18-82)  (Ord. 90-A, passed 6-7-1993; Am. Ord. 160, passed 5-22-
2000)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 150.45  ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1501 to 125.1531, as amended, and in particular §§ 8 and 9, the city hereby
elects to adopt by reference the State Plumbing Code, and to enforce the same
within the city limits.  It is further ordained that the enforcement provisions
of the Act hereby are adopted by the city.  Any subsequent amendments to the
code or enforcement provisions will hereinafter be automatically adopted.
(1995 Code, § 18-101)  (Ord. 91, passed 2-6-1984; Am. Ord. 133, passed 11-4-
1991)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt technical codes by reference, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k)
§ 150.46  DESIGNATION OF ENFORCING AGENCY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Plumbing Code, in accordance with
Public Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531, as amended, the
Plumbing Inspector of the city is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to
discharge the responsibilities of the city under the Act.  The city assumes
responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act throughout its
corporate limits.
(1995 Code, § 18-102)  (Ord. 91-A, passed 6-7-1993)
NUMBERING OF STRUCTURES
§ 150.60  NAMING OF THOROUGHFARES; ASSIGNMENT OF NUMBERS.
   All thoroughfares within the city shall have a name, and all properties
adjacent to any thoroughfare shall be numbered and/or assigned numbers which
are to be displayed on the building or structure.
(1995 Code, § 18-131)  (Ord. 134, passed 3-2-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.61  ALL BUILDINGS TO BE NUMBERED.
   All buildings shall be numbered, including both commercial and single
residential buildings, but not limited to apartment, condominium, or industrial
complex, shopping mall, or any complex of this nature.
(1995 Code, § 18-132)  (Ord. 134, passed 3-2-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.62  DISPLAY OF NUMBERS.
   (A)   Height; location.  The numbers shall be at least three inches in
height and displayed on, at, or near the front door.
   (B)   Multi-family residences.  Multi-family residential buildings shall
have a building address sign on or at the front of the building that will
identify all addresses located within a multi-family residential building.
   (C)   Commercial buildings.  Numbers on commercial buildings shall be
displayed on the front of the building or on a sign at the front of the
building and at the rear of the building if there is an access at the rear to a
hard surfaced area upon which vehicular traffic may maneuver.
   (D)   Visibility to vehicle occupants.  All numbers displayed on or at the
front of the building shall be displayed in such a manner as to be readily
visible to the occupants of vehicles on thoroughfares immediately in front of
the buildings during all hours of normal daylight.
   (E)   Color; contrast.  The color of the numbers for both residential and
commercial buildings shall be in contrast with the immediate background upon
which they are mounted.
   (F)   Obstructions.  If the numbers are hidden by an awning or other
appurtenance, the owner of the building shall comply as described in division
(D) above.
   (G)   Permanent placement.  The numbers shall be permanently affixed at the
time of any inspection of the building.
   (H)   Odd and even numbering.  Numbers on the north and west side of a
thoroughfare will be even.  Numbers on the south and east side of a
thoroughfare will be odd.
   (I)   Correction of numbers; notice.  Any number or incorrect number which
doesn’t meet the necessary requirements shall be corrected within 30 days after
receiving a written notice specifying the violation and the corrective action
that is required.
   (J)   Corner lots.  In the case of a corner lot, the side which has the
narrowest dimension bordering on a street shall be deemed to be the front of
the lot.
(1995 Code, § 18-133)  (Ord. 134, passed 3-2-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.63  NAMING OF THOROUGHFARES.
   (A)   Required.  All thoroughfares, which means any surface which is
designed for vehicular traffic, including, but not limited to, expressways,
limited access highways, streets, roads, avenues, boulevards, courts, terraces,
drives, and lanes, whether public or private, including private thoroughfares
located in any building development, shall be named.
   (B)   Approval by city.  Names must be approved by the city to be proper and
suitable for public display and use and should not be the same as, or similar
to, the name of any existing thoroughfare within the area so as to be confusing
and delay the response time of the fire, police, and other emergency vehicles. 
The owner of any thoroughfare shall erect a sign at each intersection,
displaying the name in accordance with the current standards.
   (C)   Unnamed thoroughfare; correction; notice.  The owner of a private
thoroughfare which is not named shall make the necessary correction within 30
days after receiving a notice specifying any violation and any corrective
action that is required.
   (D)   Direction of thoroughfares.  Thoroughfares will be generally on a
north-south and east-west grid system.  Angular thoroughfares will be reviewed
based on their general direction.
   (E)   City dividing lines.  Center Street will be the dividing line between
the north and south.  Main Street will be the dividing line between the east
and west.  Therefore, the center of the city will be at the intersection of
Main and Center Streets.
(1995 Code, § 18-134)  (Ord. 134, passed 3-2-1992)  Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151:  WATERFRONT CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Purpose
   
151.002   Objectives
   
151.003   Definitions
   
151.004   Other agency permits
Major Construction
   
151.015   Definition
   
151.016   Permit required
   
151.017   Site plan review
   
151.018   Pier/dock construction
   
151.019   Bulkhead construction
   
151.020   Bulkhead location
   
151.021   Backfill and dredging
   
151.022   Spring piles
   
151.023   Wetlands
   
151.024   Permit procedure; contents
   
151.025   Filing fees
   
151.026   Processing of application
   
151.027   Duties of Planning Commission
   
151.028   Notice of hearing
   
151.029   Denial of permit
   
151.030   Modification of plan
   
151.031   Assistance of Building Inspector or engineer
Minor Construction
   
151.045   Definition
   
151.046   Permit required
   
151.047   Pier/dock construction
   
151.048   Number of piers/docks
   
151.049   Bulkheads
   
151.050   Backfill and dredging
   
151.051   Boat lifts
   
151.052   Mooring buoys
   
151.053   Permit procedure
   
151.054   Processing of application
   
151.055   Public hearing
   
151.056   Filing fees
Unsafe Structures
   
151.070   Use
   
151.071   Removal
   
151.072   Notice
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.085   Enforcement
   
151.086   Revocation of permit
   
151.087   Assistance of Building Inspector or engineer
   
151.088   Appeals
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish requirements and procedures for
the construction and location of piers/docks, pilings, bulkheads, and mooring
buoys in and immediately adjacent to the waters of the Kalamazoo River,
Kalamazoo Lake, and Lake Michigan, within the city; to regulate dredging and
backfill below the ordinary high-water mark; to provide for administration and
enforcement of this chapter; to provide for penalties for violation of this
chapter; and to repeal all ordinances which are in conflict with this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 62-31)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.002  OBJECTIVES.
   The objectives of this chapter are to ensure minimal disturbance of the
natural ecology; to ensure minimal interference with the Kalamazoo River,
Kalamazoo Lake, and Lake Michigan, for recreational purposes such as small boat
sailing and racing, canoeing, and fishing; to prevent interference with
riparian rights of other property owners; and to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare.
(1995 Code, § 62-32)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.003  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOAT HOIST.  A mechanism or apparatus used to raise up and hold a boat out
of the water, not to exceed 5,000 pounds in capacity.
   BULKHEAD.  A wall or retaining structure constructed along a waterway to
prevent the earth behind it from sliding or eroding.
   DOCK.  The same as the word PIER.
   DREDGED MATERIAL.  The material which is excavated or dredged from a body of
water or river.
   FINGER PIER.  A pier/dock extending at right angles from the main pier and
often located parallel with the shoreline.
   LITTORAL MATERIAL.  Material existing on shore or in the water which is
subject to erosion and displacement by wave forces.
   MAJOR CONSTRUCTION.  All waterfront construction, as set forth in §§
151.015et seq., requiring a major construction permit.
   MARINA.  A waterfront basin or facility providing secure mooring or berthing
of watercraft for use by the general public, and often offering supplies,
repair, fuel, parking, toilet facilities, and other facilities available to the
general public incidental to the berthing and mooring of watercraft.  Private
yacht clubs offering mooring or berthing facilities, although not necessarily
available to the general public, shall be considered a marina under this
chapter.
   MINOR CONSTRUCTION.  All waterfront construction, as set forth in §§
151.045et seq., requiring a minor construction permit.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE.  Any boat lift, bulkhead, dock, finger pier, pier,
wharf, or other structure that is, because of width, length, location, live-
load capabilities, and the like, not in conformance with the regulations
contained in this chapter.
   ORDINARY HIGH-WATER MARK.  Within and up to two feet of the ordinary mark as
established on June 1 of the current year or June 1 of the previous year,
whichever is applicable, and/or at the discretion of the City Planning
Commission.
   PIER.  A platform extending perpendicular from the shore over water and
supported by piles, pillars, or columns, used to secure and protect
watercraft.  The terms PIER and DOCK as used in this chapter shall be
synonymous.
   SPRING PILES.  A beam of timber, concrete, or steel beams, driven into the
water bottom as a means of securing watercraft, or to facilitate the
maneuvering of watercraft.
   WETLANDS.  Those areas that are inundated or saturated by surface water or
groundwater at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances, do support a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions.  WETLANDS generally include swamp,
marshes, bogs, and similar areas.
   WHARF.  A platform or other flat structure extending shoreward of a bulkhead
running parallel with the shoreline.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.  The person appointed by the City Council pursuant to
the city zoning ordinance to administer the city zoning ordinance and this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 62-33)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.004  OTHER AGENCY PERMITS.
   Prior to the issuance of a permit by the city to an applicant, he or she
shall first apply and seek approval from the Army Corps of Engineers, the State
Department of Natural Resources, and any other federal and state regulatory
agencies when required by federal and state laws.  The applicant will submit
copies of these permits and approvals with his or her application to the city
for approval.  The obtaining of a permit from the Army Corps of Engineers or
any other federal or state agency shall not relieve the applicant from
complying fully with this chapter, and obtaining a permit pursuant to its
provisions.
(1995 Code, § 62-34)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
MAJOR CONSTRUCTION
§ 151.015  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MAJOR CONSTRUCTION.  The construction, reconstruction, repair, or
replacement of bulkheads, docks, piers, boat lifts, or other structures or a
condominium extending into or located on the waters of the Kalamazoo River,
Kalamazoo Lake, or Lake Michigan where the purpose is to rent, lease, or
otherwise make available to the general public, space for the securing or
mooring of watercraft for commercial purposes, or in conjunction with a
commercial establishment.  MAJOR CONSTRUCTION shall also include any pier/dock
whether for commercial or private use, which extends into the waters of the
Kalamazoo River, Kalamazoo Lake, or Lake Michigan which exceeds 45 feet in
length.  A major construction permit shall always be required for waterfront
construction in connection with the establishment of a private commercial
marina where permitted under the city zoning ordinance.
(1995 Code, § 62-51)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.016  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to commencement of any major waterfront construction, a permit shall
be obtained from the city in accordance with the procedures set forth in this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 62-52)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.017  SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   All major waterfront construction shall be subject to site plan review.
(1995 Code, § 62-53)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985; Am. Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-
1987)
§ 151.018  PIER/DOCK CONSTRUCTION.
   Piers/docks constructed pursuant to this chapter shall not extend outboard
more than 100 feet from the bulkhead. The main pier extending perpendicular
from the shoreline shall have a minimum width of four feet. Finger piers
extending from the main pier shall not exceed 60 feet in length, and shall have
a minimum width of three feet. Piers/docks shall allow for the flowage of
littoral materials and water in such a manner as to preclude detrimental impact
in adjacent properties and environments. All piers/docks shall be located so as
not to infringe on the riparian rights of other property owners. Pier/dock
construction must be substantial, and the design and materials must be
consistent with established construction standards as required by the State
Construction Code. All piers/docks constructed under a major construction
permit shall have the capability to carry a live load of 100 pounds per square
foot and shall have located thereon adequate lighting in areas available for
public use in periods of darkness.
(1995 Code, § 62-54)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985; Am. Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-
1987; Am. Ord. 02-2016, passed 5-16-2016)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.019  BULKHEAD CONSTRUCTION.
   The entire property shoreline shall be protected by an impermeable
bulkhead.  Bulkhead design and construction shall be consistent with the
established construction standards.  Bulkheads shall not be less than one foot
higher than the highest water level on record, and the top of the bulkhead
shall not be less than six inches higher than the backfill on adjacent terrain.
(1995 Code, § 62-55)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.020  BULKHEAD LOCATION.
   Bulkheads shall not be located on a line closer toward the water than the
nearest existing structure of a similar nature, or at a location on the bottom
of high water datum (579.8 feet).
(1995 Code, § 62-56)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.021  BACKFILL AND DREDGING.
   Backfill and dredging, if to be performed in connection with major
construction, must be specified in requests for all permits as to:  need,
location, quality, and disposition of spoil.  Only clean backfill may be used.
(1995 Code, § 62-57)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.022  SPRING PILES.
   Spring piles shall be considered part of the basic structure and must be
located within the overall length requirements for piers/docks as set forth in
this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 62-58)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.023  WETLANDS.
   No major construction shall be allowed in wetland areas.
(1995 Code, § 62-59)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.024  PERMIT PROCEDURE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   An application for major construction permits shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator, or his or her designated agent, appointed pursuant to the
city zoning ordinance.
   (B)   The application shall be available at the City Clerk’s office and
shall require the following information:
      (1)   Applicant’s full name, mailing address, and telephone number;
      (2)   Location where proposed construction activity will occur;
      (3)   The legal description of upland property at the waterfront
construction site;
      (4)   Reason for the proposed waterfront construction, its purpose, and
intended use;
      (5)   The name and address of the owner of the upland real property;
      (6)   A statement as to why construction will not cause pollution, impair
or destroy the water or any natural resources;
      (7)   A description of any alternatives to the proposed waterfront
construction, if any have been considered;
      (8)   The names and addresses of adjacent property owners, and a
statement as to whether any objections have been made to the applicant
concerning the proposed waterfront construction;
      (9)   The name, address, and telephone number of the applicant’s
authorized agent, if the application is being handled through an agent,
attorney, or other representative of the applicant;
      (10)   The dates the proposed waterfront construction is intended to
commence and be completed;
      (11)   Whether an application to the other appropriate federal or state
agency, as required by law, has been made, and the date the application has
been submitted;
      (12)   A statement as to whether the proposed construction has been
approved or denied or not acted upon by other state or federal agencies, as
required by law;
      (13)   Plans of the proposed waterfront construction in appropriate form,
as set forth in the permit application;
      (14)   A statement as to whether the facility is to be leased, rented, or
made available to the general public, or is to be used in conjunction with any
other commercial facility available for use by the general public; and
      (15)   Copies or evidence of Corps of Engineers and State Department of
Natural Resources permits.
(1995 Code, § 62-60)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.025  FILING FEES.
   A filing fee, as determined by the City Council and set forth in its
schedule of fees, shall accompany each application.
(1995 Code, § 62-61)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.026  PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   Within ten days from the date of filing the application, the Zoning
Administrator, or his or her designated agent, shall review the application and
forward the same to the City Planning Commission with any comments that the
Zoning Administrator, or his or her designated agent, deems appropriate.  Any
incomplete application filed with the Zoning Administrator or his or her
designated agent shall be returned to the applicant.  However, another filing
fee shall not be required upon resubmission of a prior incomplete application.
(1995 Code, § 62-62)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.027  DUTIES OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall consider the application within 30 days
after receipt of the application from the Zoning Administrator and then
schedule a public hearing unless further time is agreed upon by the parties
concerned.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall approve, deny, or require modification
of proposed major construction, and, in doing so, shall consider the following
criteria:
      (1)   The impact on the ecological aspects of the waters and the adjacent
properties located at the waterfront construction site;
      (2)   The impact the construction would have on the use of the water by
recreational boaters and adjacent property owners, and any hazard or
interference to navigation the waterfront construction might create;
      (3)   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter;
      (4)   Compliance with the city zoning ordinance, including site plan
review; and
      (5)   Objections by the general public or nearby property owners,
submitted in writing or in person at the public hearing.
(1995 Code, § 62-63)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.028  NOTICE OF HEARING.
   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designated agent shall have published
a notice of the date, time, and place of the public hearing to consider the
application and receive objections, and the notice shall include the name of
the applicant, the location of the proposed major construction, and a brief
description of the nature of the construction.  The notice shall be published
at least one time in a newspaper of general circulation in the city, not less
than ten days before the date set for the public hearing.  In addition, notice
shall be sent to all property owners within 300 feet.
(1995 Code, § 62-64)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.029  DENIAL OF PERMIT.
   If the Planning Commission shall deny the application for permit, it shall
state the reasons therefor.
(1995 Code, § 62-65)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.030  MODIFICATION OF PLAN.
   The Planning Commission shall have the right to require modifications of the
proposed major construction plan as submitted in the application, and may issue
a permit conditional on the applicant’s acceptance of the modifications, as
determined by the Planning Commission.  No final approval or occupancy permits
shall be issued until these conditions are met.
(1995 Code, § 62-66)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.031  ASSISTANCE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR OR ENGINEER.
   Before approval of the application, the Planning Commission may request the
opinion of the City Building Inspector or the licensed engineer as it may
designate regarding the proposed major construction.  If such an opinion is
desired by the Planning Commission, it may delay a decision on the application
submitted pursuant to this chapter for a period of not more than 30 days from
the date of the public hearing.
(1995 Code, § 62-67)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
MINOR CONSTRUCTION
§ 151.045  DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINOR CONSTRUCTION.  Construction of bulkheads, piers/docks, mooring buoys,
boat lifts, or other structures extending into or located on the waters of the
Kalamazoo River, Kalamazoo Lake, or Lake Michigan, where the purpose is for the
private use of the facility by the property owner, and not for rent, lease, or
availability to the general public as a commercial facility or yacht club.  The
purpose of this classification is to permit construction of any dock, pier, or
wharf not longer than 45 feet, on any one parcel of land.
(1995 Code, § 62-86)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.046  PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Prior to the commencement of the minor waterfront construction, a permit
shall be obtained from the city in accordance with the procedures of this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 62-87)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.047  PIER/DOCK CONSTRUCTION.
   Piers/docks constructed pursuant to this chapter shall not extend outboard
more than 45 feet from the bulkhead or shoreline, the length of which shall be
measured from the bulkhead, or at a location on the bottom of the high water
datum (579.8 feet).  All piers/docks shall be substantially constructed and
meet generally accepted construction standards.  Piers/docks shall normally be
of straight form and perpendicular to the bulkhead or shoreline.  Finger piers
shall not be permitted.
(1995 Code, § 62-88)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.048  NUMBER OF PIERS/DOCKS.
   Only one pier or dock shall be allowed per lot or parcel.
(1995 Code, § 62-89)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.049  BULKHEADS.
   Bulkheads may be required at the discretion of the Zoning Administrator or
his or her designated agent depending on the conformation of the shore area and
its contemplated use, and, if necessary, to prevent erosion of the shoreline by
wave action, or to prevent pollution by material from the shore caused by local
conditions.  Construction and location, if required, shall be in accordance
with §
151.019.
(1995 Code, § 62-90)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.050  BACKFILL AND DREDGING.
   Backfill and dredging in minor construction projects shall be controlled the
same as set forth in §
151.021.
(1995 Code, § 62-91)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051  BOAT LIFTS.
   Boat lifts shall be permitted for seasonal use.  A boat lift may be
installed in place of a pier or dock or at the end of a pier or dock, but in
that case shall extend not more than 45 feet from the bulkhead or shoreline. 
One boat lift per parcel or lot shall be permitted.
(1995 Code, § 62-92)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.052  MOORING BUOYS.
   A single mooring buoy may be directly located off the shore or bulkhead. 
However, it must meet USCG design standards and lighting requirements for buoy
and boat.  One single mooring buoy shall be permitted per parcel or lot.
(1995 Code, § 62-93)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.053  PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   An application for a minor construction permit shall be filed with the
Zoning Administrator or his or her designated agent.  The application form
shall be available at the city office and shall require the same information as
set forth in §
151.024.  Upon receipt of the application, adjacent property owners shall be
notified and have the opportunity to respond within eight days.
(1995 Code, § 62-94)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.054  PROCESSING OF APPLICATION.
   The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designated agent, shall review the
application within ten days from the date of filing the application with the
Zoning Administrator or his or her designated agent.  If the Zoning
Administrator, or his or her designated agent, determines that the proposed
construction is, in fact, minor construction, and that the proposed minor
construction otherwise complies with the requirements of this subchapter, he or
she shall issue a permit to the applicant.  If the Zoning Administrator, or his
or her designated agent, determines that the proposed minor construction does
not comply with this subchapter, he or she shall not issue the permit until the
proposed minor construction is modified accordingly.  If the Zoning
Administrator, or his or her designated agent, finds that the proposed minor
construction is major construction as defined in §
151.015, he or she shall refer the same to the Planning Commission which shall
act on the application in accordance with §§
151.015et seq.
(1995 Code, § 62-95)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.055  PUBLIC HEARING.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to provide for speedy processing of
minor construction permits.  No public hearing before the Planning Commission
shall be required for all construction which constitutes minor construction.
(1995 Code, § 62-96)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.056  FILING FEES.
   A filing fee as determined by the City Council and set forth in its schedule
of fees shall accompany each application.
(1995 Code, § 62-97)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
UNSAFE STRUCTURES
§ 151.070  USE.
   No owner or occupant of premises on which a pier/dock, bulkhead, boat hoist,
mooring buoy, or other waterfront structure has deteriorated or fallen into
disrepair or has been damaged by fire, ice, or other casualty shall permit the
use thereof, and the owner or occupant shall either remove the unsafe structure
or place it in a safe and sound condition.  Until removed or placed in a safe
and sound condition, the owner or occupant shall post a warning notice and
block access thereto.
(1995 Code, § 62-121)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.071  REMOVAL.
   Any dilapidated or dangerous waterfront structure constructed pursuant to
this chapter along the waterfront of the city shall constitute a public
nuisance and shall be removed or repaired within 30 days after notice of the
condition has been given to the owner of the property involved.
(1995 Code, § 62-122)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.072  NOTICE.
   If such a dilapidated or dangerous waterfront structure exists, the Zoning
Administrator, or his or her designated agent, shall send a notice of the
condition to the owner of the premises, as is disclosed by the last tax roll of
the city at the address as is shown thereon, by certified mail.  The notice
shall require that the dangerous structure is removed or repaired.  Any person
who fails, refuses, or neglects to repair or remove such a dangerous or
dilapidated structure, within the time limits provided for in section §
151.071, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to prosecution and
penalty as provided for in §
151.999.
(1995 Code, § 62-123)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)  Penalty, see §
151.999
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.085  ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designated agent, shall administer
and enforce this chapter, and shall have the right to enter and inspect
periodically all major and minor construction sites during the process of the
work and shall inspect construction upon completion of the work to ensure
compliance with this chapter, before issuing an occupancy permit.
(1995 Code, § 62-151)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
§ 151.086  REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designated agent, shall have the
authority to revoke any permit issued pursuant to this chapter, if the
requirements of the permit and the provisions of this chapter are being
violated, and in that case shall have the power to issue a stop-work order.
(1995 Code, § 62-152)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.087  ASSISTANCE OF BUILDING INSPECTOR OR ENGINEER.
   The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designated agent, may seek the
advice and assistance of the City Building Inspector or the licensed engineer
as he or she may designate if he or she feels it necessary to ensure compliance
with this chapter.  The Building Inspector and/or licensed engineer shall
render the assistance when requested to do so.
(1995 Code, § 62-153)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.088  APPEALS.
   Any person aggrieved by any order, decision, requirement, or ruling by the
Zoning Administrator, or his or her designated agent, or the Planning
Commission under this chapter may take an appeal directly to the circuit court.
(1995 Code, § 62-157)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
§ 151.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.  Any person violating any provision of this chapter for
which no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Penalty for violation.  Any construction along or abutting upon or
extending into the waters of the Kalamazoo River, Kalamazoo Lake, or Lake
Michigan, in violation of this chapter is hereby declared to be a nuisance per
se.  Any person who shall violate or refuse to comply with the provisions of
this chapter, or fail to obey any lawful order of the Zoning Administrator, or
his or her designated agent, or Planning Commission in the enforcement of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $100 or imprisonment not to exceed 90
days.  The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designated agent, or the City
Planning Commission or the City Council is authorized and empowered to make a
complaint before a court of competent jurisdiction when, in their opinion, the
provisions of this chapter have been violated.
(1995 Code, § 62-154)  (Ord. 101-A, passed 8-3-1987)
   (C)   Other relief.  The City Council or the owners of real property
affected may institute injunction, mandamus, abatement, or any other
appropriate legal action or proceedings to prevent, enjoin, abate, or remove
any structure constructed and maintained in violation of this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 62-155)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
   (D)   Continuing violation.  Each day of violation of this chapter shall be
considered a separate offense.
(1995 Code, § 62-156)  (Ord. 101, passed 2-4-1985)
CHAPTER 152:  FLOODS
Section
   
152.01   Statutory authorization
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
152.04   Designation and duties of the Administrator
   
152.05   Development
   
152.06   Variance procedure
§ 152.01  STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The state legislature has in Public Act 207 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq., as amended, delegated the responsibility to local
governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public health,
safety, and general welfare of its citizenry.
(1995 Code, § 38-1)  (Ord. 66, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 152.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.  The land in the flood plain within a
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any one year.
   DEVELOPMENT.  Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, mobile home placement, excavation, or drilling
operations located within the area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM).  The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazard,
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY.  The official report provided by the Federal
Insurance Administration that includes flood profiles, the flood boundary-
floodway map, and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   VARIANCE.  A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
(1995 Code, § 38-2)  (Ord. 66, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 152.03  BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The area of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled The Flood
Insurance Study for the City of Douglas, dated 2-1-1980, with accompanying
flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary-floodway maps is hereby adopted by
reference and declared to be a part of this chapter.  The flood insurance study
is on file at the office of the City Clerk.
(1995 Code, § 38-3)  (Ord. 66, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 152.04  DESIGNATION AND DUTIES OF THE ADMINISTRATOR.
   The City Clerk is hereby appointed Administrator and is to review all
development and subdivision proposals to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(1995 Code, § 38-4)  (Ord. 66, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 152.05  DEVELOPMENT.
   All development shall be prohibited within areas of special flood hazard as
established in §
152.03.
(1995 Code, § 38-5)  (Ord. 66, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 152.06  VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   The City Council shall hear and decide appeals and requests for variances
from the requirements of this chapter consistent with the standards of §§ 60.3
(d) and 60.5(a) of the Rules and Regulations of the National Flood Insurance
Program (44 C.F.R. § 50).
(1995 Code, § 38-6)  (Ord. 66, passed 1-7-1980)
CHAPTER 153:  ZONING ORDINANCE
Section
   
153.01   Adopted by reference
§ 153.01  ADOPTED BY REFERENCE.
   The zoning ordinance of the City of the Village of Douglas is hereby adopted
by reference as if set forth in full herein. Copies are available for review by
the public in the office of the City Clerk during regular office hours.
(Ord. 02-2009, passed 5-18-2009)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   MORATORIUMS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   SALARIES AND PAYMENTS
TABLE I:  MORATORIUMS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
10-2006  11-6-2006   Imposing a temporary 120-day moratorium on the cutting
                     down, removal, or trimming of trees within the city
                    
 
TABLE II:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
29-A     3-28-1994   Granting to Utilicorp United Inc. a franchise for gas
                     utilities
64       10-18-1979  Liberty TV Cable, Inc.; 15-year term
128      11-6-1989   Consumers Power Co. (electrical); 30-year term
29-A     3-28-1994   Granting to Utilicorp United Inc. a franchise for gas
                     utilities
04-2019  8-19-2019   Granting to Consumers Energy Company an electric franchise
                     for a period of 30 years
                    
 
TABLE III:  SALARIES AND PAYMENTS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Res. -   - -         Salary and wage levels
92-A(2)  5-28-1988   Wages, salaries, and meeting per diem payments
92-B     6-30-1989   Wages, salaries, and meeting per diem payments
92-C     6-18-1990   Wages, salaries, and meeting per diem payments
92-D     6-8-1991    Wages, salaries, and meeting per diem payments
92-E     5-20-1992   Wages, salaries, and meeting per diem payments
92-F     6-16-1993   Wages, salaries, and meeting per diem payments
92-G     6-6-1994    Clerk/Treasurer salary
92-H     6-24-1995   Clerk/Treasurer salary
92-I     6-24-1995   Private automobile reimbursements
92-J     12-20-2004  Clerk/Treasurer salary
92-K     2-7-2005    Private automobile reimbursements
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to 1995 Code
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Code Section
M.C.L.A.            Code Section
15.231 et seq.      Charter,
                    Sec. 6.7
                    Charter, Secs.
                    7.6,
15.231–15.246     15.4;
                    32.04;
                    97.04;
                    97.17
15.261–15.275     31.37;
                    32.04
15.601–15.603     31.17
24.201 et seq.      72.01 ;
                    95.31
24.201–24.328     72.01
24.286              72.01
28.451 et seq.      90.05
28.601 et seq.      72.01
29.1 et seq.        Ch. 90
117.1 et seq.       90.01
                    Ch. 90;
                    90.01;
117.3(k)            150.01;
                    150.15;
                    150.30;
                    150.45
117.4d              Ch. 94
117.5b              10.01
117.16 et seq.      Charter,
                    Sec. 16.5
123.731–123.786   51.01
124.501–124.502   37.35
125.1501 et seq.    90.05;
                    Ch. 150
                    150.01;
                    150.02;
                    150.15;
125.1501–125.1531 150.16;
                    150.30;
                    150.31;
                    150.45;
                    150.46
                    32.01-
125.1651–125.1680 32.03;
                    32.06
125.3101 et seq.    152.01
125.3801 et seq.    32.20;
                    32.22
129.91(5)           37.35
129.111–129.118   37.35
141.101 et seq.     50.001
                    51.01;
141.101–141.138   51.11;
                    53.01
141.103             51.02
                    50.035;
141.121             50.070;
                    51.04
141.421–141.440a  31.19
168.327             31.42
168.558             Charter,
                    Sec. 4.10
168.561(3)          Charter,
                    Sec. 4.15
205.93              72.01
211.27a             Charter,
                    Sec. 10.2
211.44 et seq.      30.04
211.741 et seq.     Ch. 94
211.761 et seq.     Ch. 94
247.651–247.675   97.13
257.1 - 257.923     72.15
257.212             72.01
257.226a            72.01
257.226b            72.01
257.243             72.01
257.252 et seq.     70.15
257.252d            70.35
257.311a            72.01
257.318             72.01
257.319             72.01
257.319d            72.01
257.321a            72.01
257.322             72.01
257.323             72.01
257.324             72.01
257.403             72.01
257.617             72.01
257.619             72.01
257.624b            72.01
257.625b            72.01
257.625n            72.01
257.674             70.35
257.675             70.35
257.675(5)          72.01
257.676b            70.35
257.682             72.01
257.697             72.01
257.697a            72.01
257.698a            72.01
257.710b            72.01
257.727             72.01
257.727(1)          72.01
257.727(2)          72.01
257.727(3)          72.01
257.803d            72.01
257.904d            72.01
257.904e            72.01
257.907             72.01
287.261 et seq.     Ch. 92
287.269             92.21
287.290             Ch. 92
324.101–324.90106 54.02,
                    Ch. 95
324.20101(t)        35.03
324.80119–324.803272.31
324.5501 et seq.    Ch. 95
333.6103            72.01
333.6107            72.01
                    72.01;
333.7101 et seq.    134.20;
                    134.22
333.7106 et seq.    113.03
324.11101 et seq.   54.02
333.16215           72.01
333.20301 et seq.   72.01
333.26421 et seq.   113.03
333.27101 et seq.   113.03
333.27951 et seq.   113.03
338.105(1) et seq.  72.01
380.1 et seq.       134.37
434.34              72.01
                    72.01;
436.1101–436.2303 Ch. 112;
                    112.01;
                    112.02
436.1105            72.01
436.1703            72.01
484.2102            97.03
484.2251            97.04
484.3101–484.3120 97.01;
                    97.03
500.3102            72.01
600.81.1–600.193.210.02
600.101–600.9948  34.01
600.4001 et seq.    72.01
600.6001 et seq.    72.01
600.8101 et seq.    70.30
600.8312            72.01
600.8395            72.01
712A.1–712A.32    72.01
722.1–722.6       72.01
750.49 et seq.      Ch. 92
750.50 et seq.      Ch. 92
750.167(1)(c)       130.01
750.167(1)(f)       134.08
750.167(1)(h)       130.02
750.167(1)(j)       133.02
750.167(1)(l)       133.04
750.169             133.05
750.170             133.05;
                    133.07
750.200 et seq.     Ch. 90
750.215             131.03
750.240             131.01
750.240 et seq.     Ch. 90
750.243a            135.15
750.271 et seq.     133.05
750.302             134.03
750.304             134.01
750.335a            134.09
750.356             133.06
750.383a            133.02
750.479             131.02
750.552             133.03
750.463–750.465a  Ch. 111
752.525             133.05
752.543             133.06
752.811             Ch. 111
761.1               72.01
764.9c              10.10
764.9c(2)           93.079
764.13              72.01
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1995 CODE
1995 Code 2008 Code
1995 Code 2008 Code
2-31      30.01
2-32      30.02
2-166     33.01
2-167     33.02;
          33.99
2-168     33.03
2-169     33.04
6-1       112.01
6-2       112.02
6-3       112.03
6-4       112.04
6-5       112.05
6-6       112.06
6-7       112.07
10-1      111.99
10-2      111.99
10-31     111.01
10-32     111.02
10-33     111.03
10-34     111.04
10-35     111.05
10-36     111.06
10-37     111.07
10-38     111.08
10-39     111.09
10-40     111.10
14-1      92.99
14-2      92.01
14-3      92.02
14-4      92.03
14-5      92.04
14-6      92.05
14-7      92.06
14-36     92.20
14-37     92.21
18-31     150.01
18-32     150.02
18-61     150.15
18-62     150.16
18-81     150.30
18-82     150.31
18-101    150.45
18-102    150.46
18-131    150.60
18-132    150.61
18-133    150.62
18-134    150.63
22-1      110.01
22-2      110.99
22-3      110.02
22-4      110.03
22-5      110.04
22-36     110.20
22-37     110.99
22-61     110.21
22-62     110.22
22-63     110.23
22-64     110.24
22-65     110.25
22-66     110.26
22-67     110.27
26-1      96.01
26-2      96.02
26-3      96.03
26-4      96.04
26-5      96.05
26-6      96.06
26-7      96.07
26-8      96.08
26-9      96.09
26-10     96.10
26-11     96.11
26-12     96.12
26-13     96.13
26-14     96.14
26-15     96.15
26-16     96.16
26-17     96.17
30-31     95.99
30-111    95.35
30-112    95.99
30-113    95.36
30-114    95.37
30-115    95.38
30-116    95.39
30-117    95.40
30-118    95.41
30-119    95.42
34-31     90.20
34-32     90.99
34-33     90.21
34-34     90.22
34-35     90.23
38-1      152.01
38-2      152.02
38-3      152.03
38-4      152.04
38-5      152.05
38-6      152.05
40-41     91.01
40-42     91.02
40-43     91.03
40-44     91.04
40-45     91.05
40-46     91.06
40-47     91.07
40-48     91.08
40-49     91.09
40-50     91.99
40-71     91.20
40-72     91.21
40-73     91.22
40-74     91.23
40-75     91.24
42-1      130.01
42-2      130.02
42-4      130.03
42-36     131.01
42-37     131.02
42-38     131.03
42-39     131.04
42-91     132.01
42-92     132.02
42-93     132.03
42-94     132.04
42-95     132.05
42-96     132.06
42-126    133.01
42-127    133.02
42-128    133.03
42-129    133.04
42-130    133.05
42-131    133.06
42-132    133.07
42-161    134.01
42-162    134.02
42-163    134.03
42-164    134.04
42-165    134.05
42-166    134.06
42-167    134.07
42-168    134.08
42-169    134.09
42-191    134.20
42-192    134.99
42-193    134.21
42-194    134.22
42-221    134.35
42-222    134.36;
          134.99
42-223    134.37
42-224    134.38;
          134.99
42-225    134.39;
          134.99
42-276    135.01
42-277    135.02
42-301    135.15
42-302    135.99
42-303    135.16
42-304    135.17
42-305    135.18
46-1      94.01
46-2      94.02
46-3      94.03
46-4      94.04
46-5      94.05
46-6      94.06
46-7      94.07
46-8      94.08
46-9      94.09
46-10     94.10
46-11     94.11
46-12     94.12
46-13     94.13
46-14     94.14
46-15     94.15
46-16     94.16
46-17     94.17
46-18     94.18
46-19     94.19
46-20     94.20
46-21     94.21
46-22     94.22
46-23     94.23
46-24     94.24
46-25     94.25
46-26     94.26
46-27     94.27
46-28     94.28
50-26     93.001
50-27     93.999
50-28     93.002
50-29     93.003
50-30     93.004
50-31     93.005
50-32     93.006
50-33     93.007
50-34     93.008
54-56     70.01
54-57     70.02
54-58     70.03
54-59     70.04
54-76     70.15
54-77     70.16
54-78     70.17
54-79     70.18
54-101    70.30
54-102    70.31
54-103    70.32
54-104    70.33
54-105    70.34
54-106    70.35
54-151    71.01
54-152    71.02
54-153    71.03
54-154    71.04
54-155    71.99
58-31     50.001
58-32     50.002
58-33     50.999
58-51     50.015
58-66     50.016
58-81     50.030
58-82     50.031
58-83     50.032
58-84     50.033
58-85     50.034
58-86     50.035
58-111    50.017
58-126    50.050
58-127    50.051
58-128    50.999
58-129    50.052
58-130    50.053
58-131    50.054
58-132    50.055
58-133    50.056
58-134    50.057
58-135    50.058
58-141    50.070
58-142    50.070
58-143    50.070
58-144    50.070
58-145    50.070
58-146    50.070
58-151    50.071
58-152    50.071
58-153    50.071
58-154    50.071
58-155    50.071
58-156    50.071
58-157    50.071
58-158    50.071
58-161    50.072
58-162    50.072
58-163    50.072
58-164    50.072
58-165    50.072
58-166    50.072
58-167    50.072
58-171    50.999
58-172    50.085
58-173    50.086
58-174    50.087
58-175    50.088
58-186    50.100
58-187    50.999
58-188    50.101
58-189    50.102
58-190    50.103
58-191    50.104
58-211    51.01
58-212    51.02
58-213    51.03
58-214    51.04
58-215    51.05
58-216    51.06
58-217    51.07
58-218    51.08
58-219    51.09
58-220    51.10
58-221    51.11
58-222    51.12
58-241    52.001
58-242    52.002
58-266    52.015
58-267    52.016
58-268    52.017
58-269    52.018
58-270    52.019
58-271    52.020
58-272    52.021
58-273    52.022
58-274    52.023
58-275    52.024
58-276    52.025
58-277    52.026
58-278    52.027
58-279    52.028
58-280    52.029
58-281    52.030
58-282    52.031
58-283    52.032
58-284    52.033
58-285    52.034
58-286    52.035
58-287    52.036
58-288    52.037
58-289    52.038
58-290    52.039
58-301    52.050
58-302    52.051
58-303    52.052
58-304    52.053
58-305    52.054
58-316    52.065
58-317    52.066
58-318    52.067
58-319    52.068
58-320    52.069
58-321    52.070
58-322    52.071
58-323    52.072
58-324    52.073
58-325    52.074
58-326    52.075
58-327    52.076
58-328    52.077
58-341    52.090
58-342    52.091
58-343    52.092
58-344    52.093
58-345    52.094
58-346    52.095
58-347    52.096
58-348    52.097
58-349    52.098
58-350    52.099
58-351    52.100
58-352    52.101
58-353    52.102
58-354    52.103
58-355    52.104
58-356    52.105
58-357    52.106
58-358    52.107
58-359    52.108
58-360    52.109
58-371    52.120
58-372    52.121
58-373    52.122
58-374    52.123
58-375    52.124
58-376    52.125
58-377    52.126
58-378    52.127
58-379    52.128
58-380    52.129
58-381    52.130
58-396    52.145
58-416    52.160
58-417    52.161
58-418    52.162
58-419    52.163
58-420    52.164
58-441    52.175
58-442    52.999
58-443    52.176
58-444    52.177
58-445    52.178
58-476    53.01
58-491    53.02
58-511    53.15
58-512    53.16
58-513    53.17
58-531    53.30
58-532    53.31
58-533    53.32
58-534    53.33
58-535    53.34
58-536    53.35
58-537    53.36
58-561    53.50
58-576    53.65
58-577    53.66
58-578    53.67
58-579    53.68
58-580    53.69
62-1      72.30
62-2      72.31;
          72.99
62-31     151.001
62-32     151.002
62-33     151.003
62-34     151.004
62-51     151.015
62-52     151.016
62-53     151.017
62-54     151.018
62-55     151.019
62-56     151.020
62-57     151.021
62-58     151.022
62-59     151.023
62-60     151.024
62-61     151.025
62-62     151.026
62-63     151.027
62-64     151.028
62-65     151.029
62-66     151.030
62-67     151.031
62-86     151.045
62-87     151.046
62-88     151.047
62-89     151.048
62-90     151.049
62-91     151.050
62-92     151.051
62-93     151.052
62-94     151.053
62-95     151.054
62-96     151.055
62-97     151.056
62-121    151.070
62-122    151.071
62-123    151.072
62-151    151.085
62-152    151.086
62-153    151.087
62-154    151.999
62-155    151.999
62-156    151.999
62-157    151.088
          
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
 
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
-        - -         TSO III
–      12-7-1987   30.01
–      6-8-1991    30.01
–      9-9-1991    30.01
–      2-26-1996   30.01
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
                     71.01-
2        2-10-1919   71.04;
                     71.99
                     133.05;
5        2-10-1919   133.06;
                     134.07-
                     134.09
6        2-10-1919   130.03
8        2-10-1919   133.05-
                     133.07
14       2-5-1934    132.01;
                     132.02
29       3-10-1960   TSO II
                     130.01;
                     130.02;
                     131.01-
                     131.04;
43       6-5-1961    133.01-
                     133.04;
                     134.01-
                     134.06;
                     135.01
32       6-3-1963    72.30
36       10-4-1965   135.02
                     110.20-
39       5-2-1966    110.27;
                     110.99
42       3-6-1967    70.15-
                     70.18
                     92.01-
                     92.06;
45       4-21-1969   92.20;
                     92.21;
                     92.99
46       7-7-1969    112.01-
                     112.07
                     111.01-
                     111.04;
48       5-18-1970   111.07-
                     111.10;
                     111.99
50       6-4-1972    70.01-
                     70.04
                     50.100-
49       3-5-1973    50.104;
                     50.999
51       6-4-1973    70.30-
                     70.34
52       8-6-1973    50.002
                     51.01-
57       8-18-1977   51.07;
                     51.09-
                     51.12
                     135.15-
58       6-5-1978    135.18;
                     135.99
59       11-6-1978   51.08
                     53.01;
                     53.02;
                     53.15-
                     53.17;
60       4-2-1979    53.30-
                     53.36;
                     53.50;
                     53.65-
                     53.69
64       10-18-1979  TSO II
                     94.01-
65       11-5-1979   94.15;
                     94.17-
                     94.27
66       1-7-1980    152.01-152.05
                     91.01-
69       8-4-1980    91.09;
                     91.99
                     50.016;
86       11-7-1983   50.017;
                     50.030-
                     50.035
88       2-6-1984    150.15
89       2-6-1984    150.01
90       2-6-1984    150.30
91       2-6-1984    150.45
92       4-16-1984   30.02;
                     TSO III
93       5-7-1984    30.01
96       11-5-1984   72.31;
                     72.99
100      11-5-1984   95.99
                     151.016-
                     151.020;
                     151.022-
                     151.026;
                     151.029;
                     151.031;
                     151.046-
101      2-4-1985    151.050;
                     151.052;
                     151.054-
                     151.056;
                     151.070-
                     151.072;
                     151.086-
                     151.088;
                     151.999
                     134.35-
105      6-3-1985    134.39;
                     134.99
48-A     8-5-1985    111.05;
                     111.06
                     50.050-
113      4-6-1987    50.058;
                     50.999
114      6-1-1987    95.35-95.42; 95.99
92A      6-22-1987   TSO III
                     50.085-
115      7-6-1987    50.088;
                     50.999
                     151.001-
                     151.004;
                     151.015;
                     151.017;
                     151.018;
                     151.021;
101-A    8-3-1987    151.027;
                     151.028;
                     151.030;
                     151.045;
                     151.051;
                     151.053;
                     151.085;
                     151.999
117      12-7-1987   50.035
                     134.20-
120      3-7-1988    134.22;
                     134.99
                     93.001-
                     93.004;
121      5-2-1988    93.006;
                     93.008;
                     93.999
92-A(2)  5-28-1988   TSO III
121-A    7-11-1988   93.007
92-B     6-30-1989   TSO III
                     90.20-
127      10-2-1989   90.23;
                     90.99
128      11-6-1989   TSO II
65-A     6-4-1990    94.16;
                     94.28
92-C     6-18-1990   TSO III
121-B    6-3-1991    93.005
92-D     6-8-1991    TSO III
104-A    8-5-1991    70.35
                     150.01;
133      11-4-1991   150.15;
                     150.30;
                     150.45
134      3-2-1992    150.60-
                     150.63
92-E     5-20-1992   TSO III
                     110.01-
108-A    7-6-1992    110.04;
                     110.99
88-A     6-7-1993    150.16
89-A     6-7-1993    150.02
90-A     6-7-1993    150.31
91-A     6-7-1993    150.46
92-F     6-16-1993   TSO III
127-A    9-27-1993   90.23
135      9-27-1993   96.01-
                     96.17
29-A     3-28-1994   TSO II
                     33.01-
136      5-23-1994   33.04;
                     33.99
92-G     6-6-1994    TSO III
                     91.01-
69-A     12-29-1994  91.05;
                     91.09
61-C     2-18-1995   51.04
86-B-2   2-18-1995   50.032
                     50.001;
                     50.015;
137      4-10-1995   50.016;
                     50.070-
                     50.072;
                     50.999
104-B    5-8-1995    70.35
                     52.001;
                     52.002;
                     52.015-
                     52.039;
                     52.050-
                     52.054;
                     52.065-
                     52.077;
-        5-22-1995   52.090-
                     52.109;
                     52.120-
                     52.130;
                     52.145;
                     52.160-
                     52.164;
                     52.175-
                     52.178;
                     52.999
92-H     6-24-1995   TSO III
92-I     6-24-1995   TSO III
139      7-10-1995   91.20-
                     91.23
104-C    8-14-1995   70.35
93-A     9-25-1995   30.01
139-A    9-25-1995   91.24
144      11-3-1997   32.02-
                     32.05
147      8-10-1998   34.01-
                     34.07
148      8-10-1998   111.99
149      8-10-1998   92.99
150      8-10-1998   110.99
151      8-10-1998   95.99
152      8-10-1998   90.99
153      8-10-1998   93.999
154      8-10-1998   70.18
158      10-25-1999  72.15
159      11-22-1999  72.01
                     150.02;
160      5-22-2000   150.16;
                     150.31
168      11-18-2002  97.01-
                     97.21
169      7-7-2003    70.50-
                     70.56
171      12-15-2003  31.35-
                     31.44
172      2-16-2004   31.15-
                     31.21
92-J     12-20-2004  TSO III
92-K     2-7-2005    TSO III
61-E     6-20-2005   51.04
                     32.01-
                     32.05;
03-2006  3-6-2006    32.07;
                     32.08;
                     Ch. 32, App.A
04-2006  5-1-2006    32.06
05-2006  7-17-2006   30.03
08-2006  9-18-2006   35.01-
                     35.11
10-2006  11-6-2006   TSO I
                     110.01-
                     110.03;
01-2007  5-21-2007   110.05-
                     110.07;
                     110.99
01-2008  3-18-2008   32.20–
                     32.22
                     95.01–
03-2008  5-6-2008    95.06;
                     95.99
04-2008  5-6-2008    95.55–
                     95.58
05-2008  5-6-2008    Adopting Ordinance
                     90.01–
06-2008  8-19-2008   90.03;
                     90.06
01-2009  1-5-2009    30.04–
                     30.10
02-2009  5-18-09     153.01
04-2009  11-2-2009   32.20–
                     32.22
01-2010  6-8-2010    37.01–
                     37.16
02-2010  6-8-2010    37.30–
                     37.37
03-2011  4-25-2011   93.020–
                     93.034
                     98.01–
05-2011  9-6-2011    98.09;
                     98.99
06-2011  9-6-2011    93.008
07-2011  9-6-2011    93.009
08-2011  12-5-2011   36.01–
                     36.09
01-2012  5-7-2012    Adopting Ordinance
02-2012  8-6-2012    30.11
                     54.01–
04-2012  9-4-2012    54.14;
                     54.99
                     93.050–
06-2013  4-15-2013   93.062;
                     93.999
03-2014  8-18-2014   71.01
04-2014  9-15-2014   133.08
05-2014  9-15-2014   133.09
04-2015  5-18-2015   90.01–
                     90.07
05-2015  6-15-2015   93.070–
                     93.080
08-2015  10-19-2015  93.035
02-2016  5-16-2016   151.018
03-2016  8-15-2016   92.02;
                     92.07
05-2016  9-19-2016   92.08
                    
02-2012  7-1-2019    30.11
01-2016  5-16-2016   95.58
02-2017  5-15-2017   Adopting Ordinance
03-2017  7-3-2017    90.01
                     92.30–
04-2017  1-15-2018   92.34;
                     92.99
03-2018  8-6-2018    90.02
05-2018  11-5-2018   50.071
06-2018  11-5-2018   94.26
03-2019  9-3-2019    135.17
04-2019  8-19-2019   TSO II
                     113.01–
                     113.03;
01-2020  2-17-2020   113.20–
                     113.36;
                     113.99
                     95.20–
03-2020  3-16-2020   95.33;
                     95.99
04-2020  4-6-2020    70.35;
                     70.36
05-2020  5-18-2020   92.30–
                     92.34
06-2020  6-1-2020    Adopting Ordinance
                    
 
