EAST GRAND RAPIDS, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2024 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. effective 9-14-2024
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
CHARTER
   Chapter
      
I.   NAMES AND BOUNDARIES
      
II.   GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
      
III.   CITY COMMISSION AND MAYOR
      
IV.   CITY MANAGER
      
V.   CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
      
VI.   REGISTRATION, NOMINATION AND ELECTION
      
VII.   ORDINANCES
      
VIII.   INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
      
IX.   GENERAL FINANCE
      
X.   BORROWING AUTHORITY
      
XI.   TAXATION
      
XII.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
XIII.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
      
XIV.   PUBLIC UTILITIES
      
XV.   MISCELLANEOUS
CHAPTER I: NAMES AND BOUNDARIES
PREAMBLE
   We, the People of the City of East Grand Rapids, Michigan, under the
authority of the Constitution and General Laws of the State of Michigan, hereby
adopt this Charter for the City of East Grand Rapids. Michigan.
Section
   
1.1   Incorporation
   
1.2   Boundaries
   
1.3   Annexation
   
1.4   Official map
   
1.5   Wards
§ 1.1 INCORPORATION.
   The municipal corporation known as the “City of East Grand Rapids” shall
continue as a body corporate under the laws of the State of Michigan.
§ 1.2 BOUNDARIES.
   The city shall include all the territory described as follows:
   Commencing at the Southwest corner of Section 33, Town 7 North of Range 11
West, thence North along the West line of Sections 33 and 28 to the center line
of Robinson Road, thence Easterly along the center line of Robinson Road and
Cascade Road across Sections 23 and 27 to the East line of Section 27, thence
South along the East line of Sections 27 and 34, Town 7 North of Range II West
to the intersection of a line described as commencing on the West line of Lot
71 Woodcliff Park at a point 18.75 feet Southerly of the Northwest corner
thereof and to a point on the Easterly line of said Lot 71, 63.15 feet
Southeasterly from the Northeast corner thereof, thence Easterly on said
described line to the Easterly line of said Lot 71, thence Southerly to the
Southeast corner of said Lot 71, thence Easterly along the North line of Lot 72
said plat to the Northeast corner of Lot 72 and the Westerly line of Hall
Street, thence Southerly and Westerly along said line to the East line Section
34, Town 7 North of Range 11 West, thence South to Southeast corner Section 34,
Town 7 North of Range 11 West and Northwest corner Section 2, Town 6 North of
Range 11 West, thence East 300 feet along North line of Section 2, thence South
perpendicular to said North line 158.94 feet, thence Southwesterly to a point
225.0 feet South and 170.0 feet East of the Northwest corner of Section 2,
thence Southwesterly to a point on West line of Section 2, 350.0 feet South of
Northwest corner of said Section, thence South on West line of said Section 2
also being the East line of Section 3, Town 6 North of Range 11 West, to the
East quarter corner of said Section 3, thence West to the center of said
Section 3, thence South along the East line of the North 1/2 Southwest 1/4 of
said Section 3 to the Southeast corner of said North 1/2 Southwest 1/4, thence
West along the South line of the North 1/2 Southwest 1/4 of Section 3 and the
North 1/2 Southeast 1/4 Section 4 to the Southwest corner of said North 1/
2 Southeast 1/4 of Section 4, thence North to the Northwest corner of the South
1/2 Northwest 1/4 Southeast 1/4 of said Section 4, thence East to the Northeast
corner of the South 1/2 West 1/2 Northwest 1/4 Southeast 1/4, thence North to
the Northwest corner of the Northeast 1/4 Northwest 1/4 Southeast 1/4 of said
Section 4, thence East to the Southwest corner of the East 3/4 East 1/
2 Southwest 1/4 Northeast fractional 1/4 of said Section 4, thence North to the
Northwest corner of the said East 3/4 East 1/2 Southwest 1/4 Northeast
fractional 1/4, thence West to the Southwest corner of the North fractional 1/
2 Northeast fractional 1/4 of said Section 4, thence North to the Northwest
corner of the said North fractional 1/2 Northeast fractional 1/4 of said
Section 4, Town 6 North of Range 11 West, thence West to the Southwest corner
of Section 33, Town 7 North of Range 11 West at the place of beginning.
§ 1.3 ANNEXATION.
   The city may annex additional territory in the manner provided by state law.
§ 1.4 OFFICIAL MAP.
   The city shall maintain and keep available for public inspection the
official description and map of the current boundaries of the city.
§ 1.5 WARDS.
   The city shall be divided into three (3) wards, which the Commission shall
apportion in accordance with Public Act 279 of 1909, as amended, of the
Michigan Compiled Laws (Home Rule Cities Act). The Commission’s apportionment
plan shall contain the legal description of all wards within the city and shall
be kept on file at the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER II: GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
Section
   
2.1   General powers
   
2.2   Construction
   
2.3   Exercise of powers
   
2.4   Intergovernmental relations
   
2.5   Property beyond city limits
§ 2.1 GENERAL POWERS.
   The city is a home rule city as provided by Public Act 279 of 1909, as
amended, of the Michigan Compiled Laws (Home Rule Cities Act). Except as
expressly limited in this Charter, the city and its officers shall be vested
with all powers and immunities that home rule cities may exercise, within or
without their territorial limits, and include in their charters, as fully and
completely as if those powers were specifically enumerated in this Charter.
§ 2.2 CONSTRUCTION.
   The powers of the city under this Charter shall be construed liberally in
favor of the city, and the specific mention of particular powers in the Charter
shall not be construed as limiting the general powers stated in this Charter or
granted to home rule cities under state law.
§ 2.3 EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   The powers of the city shall be exercised in accordance with the provisions
of this Charter. If this Charter does not provide a procedure for the exercise
of any power granted to the city, then a procedure for the exercise of that
power contained in a Michigan statute may be invoked by the Commission. If
alternate procedures exist under the statutes, the Commission shall select the
procedure to be followed. If neither this Charter nor state statutes provide a
procedure for the exercise of any power granted to the city, the Commission
shall prescribe by ordinance or resolution a procedure for the exercise of the
power.
§ 2.4 INTERGOVERNMENTAL RELATIONS.
   The city may exercise any of its powers and perform any of its functions
jointly or in cooperation with, by contract or otherwise, the United States,
Canada, one or more states, and political subdivisions or public agencies
thereof.
§ 2.5 PROPERTY BEYOND CITY LIMITS.
   The city shall have the power as provided by law to purchase, operate,
maintain, regulate and improve property located beyond the territorial limits
of the city.
CHAPTER III: CITY COMMISSION AND MAYOR
Section
   
3.1   Composition
   
3.2   Qualifications
   
3.3   Terms of office
   
3.4   Limitation on holding office
   
3.5   Oath of office
   
3.6   Compensation
   
3.7   General powers and duties
   
3.8   Mayor and President of Commission
   
3.9   Prohibitions
   
3.10   Vacancies
   
3.11   Judge of qualifications
   
3.12   Procedure
   
3.13   Investigations
§ 3.1 COMPOSITION.
   The Commission shall consist of the following members:
   (a)   A Mayor who shall be elected at large.
   (b)   Six (6) Commissioners, two (2) from each ward, who shall be elected by
the electors of their respective wards.
§ 3.2 QUALIFICATIONS.
   Only registered voters of the city who have been residents of the city for
at least one (1) year on or before the date of election at which they are a
candidate shall be eligible to hold the office of Mayor or Commissioner.
§ 3.3 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   The terms of office of the Mayor and Commissioner shall be four (4) years
commencing at noon on the first Monday in December following their election.
§ 3.4 LIMITATION ON HOLDING OFFICE.
   A Commissioner shall not serve more than two (2) consecutive four (4) year
terms. This limitation shall not apply to the office of Mayor.
§ 3.5 OATH OF OFFICE.
   Each member of the Commission shall take and subscribe to the oath of office
prescribed by the Constitution for an officer of the state. The oath shall be
filed in the office of the Clerk.
§ 3.6 COMPENSATION.
   Each member of the Commission shall receive the sum of $1,000.00 per year as
remuneration for service to the city. The Mayor shall receive an additional
$1,000.00 per year. These sums shall be payable in equal monthly installments
and shall constitute the only salary or remuneration which a member of the
Commission shall receive for service to the city. Members of the Commission may
be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties on
behalf of the city.
§ 3.7 GENERAL POWERS AND DUTIES.
   All powers of the city shall be vested in the Commission, except as
otherwise provided by law or this Charter. The Commission shall provide for the
exercise of the city’s powers and for the performance of all duties and
obligations imposed on the city.
§ 3.8 MAYOR AND PRESIDENT OF COMMISSION.
   (a)   Mayor. The Mayor shall be recognized as the head of the Commission and
shall perform those functions commonly ascribed to the office. The Mayor shall
preside over all meetings of the Commission and shall vote on all questions,
but shall have no power of veto.
   (b)   President. The Commission shall, at its first meeting in each fiscal
year, name one of the Commissioners as President of the Commission. In the
absence of the Mayor, the president of the Commission shall preside over
meetings and in all other respects assume the duties of the Mayor.
§ 3.9 PROHIBITIONS.
   (a)   Holding other office. Except where permitted by law, no member of the
Commission shall hold any other elected public office, city office, or city
employment during the term for which that member of the Commission is elected.
This prohibition, however, shall not apply to appointed city or regional boards
or commissions. No former member of the Commission shall hold any compensated
appointive office or employment with the city until one year after the
expiration of the term which the former member of the Commission served.
   (b)   Appointments and removals. The Commission and its members may express
their views and fully discuss with the Manager any matter pertaining to the
appointment or removal of employees or officers of the city, but shall have no
power to directly appoint or remove any of those employees or officers, except
the Manager and City Attorney.
   (c)   Administrative authority. Except for the purpose of investigations
authorized under this Charter, neither the Commission nor the members of the
Commission shall give orders to any employee or officer subject to the
direction and supervision of the Manager.
§ 3.10 VACANCIES.
   (a)   Vacancies. A vacancy shall be deemed to exist on the Commission if a
member vacates the office as determined by state law or fails to maintain the
qualifications for office as prescribed by this Charter or law.
   (b)   Filling of vacancies. Any vacancy in the Commission shall be filled by
the concurring vote of at least four (4) remaining members of the Commission
within ninety (90) days after the vacancy occurs. The appointee shall serve
until the next regular city election following the appointment, at which
election a successor shall be elected for the unexpired term or, if none, for a
new term. If the Commission fails to fill the vacancy within ninety (90) days,
the Election Commission shall call a special election to fill the vacancy,
which election shall be held not sooner than ninety days and not later than one
hundred twenty days following the occurrence of the vacancy.
§ 3.11 JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Commission shall be the judge of the qualifications of its members. A
member charged with conduct constituting grounds for creating a vacancy shall
be entitled to a public hearing before the Commission. The Commission shall
have the power to compel by subpoena the production of documents and the
attendance of members of the Commission, officers, and employees of the city as
witnesses at the hearing. Failure of a member of the Commission, officer or
employee to obey a subpoena shall constitute misconduct in office. Notice of
the hearing shall be published in one or more newspapers of general circulation
in the city at least one (1) week in advance of the hearing. Decisions made by
the Commission under this section shall be subject to judicial review.
§ 3.12 PROCEDURE.
   (a)   Regular meetings. Regular meetings of the Commission shall be held at
least once each calendar month at times and places as prescribed by the
Commission.
   (b)   Special meetings. Special meetings of the Commission may be called by
the Mayor, or by three (3) or more Commissioners, upon no less than eighteen
(18) hours’ notice to each member of the Commission. No business shall be
transacted at any special meeting of the Commission unless the nature of the
business has been stated in the notice of the meeting.
   (c)   Open meetings. Regular and special meetings of the Commission shall be
open to the public in accordance with Public Act 267 of 1976, as amended, of
the Michigan Compiled Laws (Open Meetings Act). The rules of order of the
Commission shall provide that citizens shall have a reasonable opportunity to
be heard at any open meeting on matters within the jurisdiction of the
Commission.
   (d)   Quorum. Four (4) members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (e)   Rules of order. The Commission shall determine its own rules and order
of business and keep a written or printed journal in the English language of
all its proceedings, which shall be signed by the Clerk. The vote upon the
passage of all ordinances and upon the adoption of all resolutions shall be
taken by “yes” and “no” votes and entered upon the record. Each member of the
Commission who is present at any meeting shall be required to vote on all
questions to be decided by the Commission at the meeting or state for the
record a reason or reasons why that member cannot vote on the question.
   (f)   Publication of minutes. Minutes of the meetings of the Commission
shall be published in accordance with Public Act 267 of 1976, as amended, of
the Michigan Compiled Laws.
§ 3.13 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Commission, or its duly appointed representatives, shall have the power
to conduct investigations regarding the conduct of any officer, employee,
department, committee or board of the city. The Commission, or its duly
appointed representatives, shall have the power to hold hearings pertaining to
matters under investigation and to compel by subpoena the attendance of
witnesses and production of documents. Failure of an officer or employee to
obey a subpoena shall constitute misconduct in office.
CHAPTER IV: CITY MANAGER
Section
   
4.1   Appointment
   
4.2   Powers and duties
   
4.3   Acting Manager
§ 4.1 APPOINTMENT.
   The Commission, upon the affirmative vote of four members of the Commission,
shall appoint a City Manager who shall serve as the chief administrative
officer of the city. The Manager need not be a resident of the city or state at
the time of appointment but may reside outside the city while in office only
with the approval of the Commission. The Manager shall serve at the discretion
of and be subject to removal by the Commission, but the Manager shall not be
removed from office during a period of ninety (90) days following any regular
city election, except by an affirmative vote of five members of the Commission.
The Commission shall set the Manager’s compensation.
§ 4.2 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Except as otherwise provided by law or Charter, the Manager shall:
   (a)   Appoint suspend and remove the Treasurer, Clerk, Assessor and Public
Safety Director of the city, subject to confirmation of these actions by the
Commission;
   (b)   Appoint, suspend and remove all employees of the city not included in
subparagraph (a) above;
   (c)   Direct and supervise the Treasurer, Clerk, Assessor, Public Safety
Director and all employees of the city;
   (d)   Oversee the administration of all departments within the city;
   (e)   Attend Commission meetings, at which the Manager shall have the right
to be heard but not to vote;
   (f)   Enforce the laws, ordinances, resolutions and provisions of the
Charter that are subject to enforcement by the Manager or the Manager’s
subordinates;
   (g)   Prepare and submit the annual budget to the Commission in accordance
with this Charter;
   (h)   Submit other reports as the Commission may require concerning
operations of the city;
   (i)   Make recommendations to the Commission concerning city matters;
   (j)   Provide staff support services for the Mayor and Commissioners; and
   (k)   Perform other duties as required by law, ordinance, resolution or
Charter.
§ 4.3 ACTING MANAGER.
   By letter filed with the Clerk, the Manager may designate an officer or
employee of the city to exercise the powers and perform the duties of Manager
during the Manager’s temporary absence or disability. The Commission may revoke
the designation at any time and appoint another officer or employee of the city
to serve until the Manager returns.
CHAPTER V: CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
   
5.1   General provisions
   
5.2   Duties of Clerk, Treasurer and Assessor
   
5.3   Personnel system
   
5.4   Compensation
   
5.5   City Attorney
§ 5.1 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (a)   City officers and employees. The Clerk, Treasurer, Assessor, Manager
and City Attorney shall serve as officers of the city. All other persons
employed by the city shall be deemed employees of the city. The Commission may
by ordinance or resolution prescribe the functions and duties of officers and
employees of the city.
   (b)   City departments. The Commission may create or change departments
within the city and may prescribe the functions and duties of these
departments. The Manager may serve as the head of one or more of these
departments with the consent of the Commission.
§ 5.2 DUTIES OF CLERK, TREASURER AND ASSESSOR.
   The Clerk, Treasurer and Assessor shall report to the Manager and perform
those duties as required by law, ordinance, resolution, Charter or by the
Manager, as well as the duties set forth below:
   (a)   Clerk. The Clerk shall provide notice of, attend, and keep a journal
of Commission meetings. The Clerk shall be the custodian of the city seal and
all documents and records of the city, unless otherwise provided by law or
Charter, and shall administer oaths required by law. The Clerk shall keep the
books of account of the assets, receipts and expenditures of the city and keep
the Manager informed as to the financial affairs of the city. The systems of
accounts of the city shall conform to uniform systems of accounts as provided
by state law.
   (b)   Treasurer. The Treasurer shall deposit all monies received by the city
in the manner as the Commission may determine. The Treasurer shall render
investment advice to the city. The Treasurer shall also collect state, county,
school and city taxes and assessments in the manner provided by state law.
   (c)   Assessor. The Assessor shall prepare and certify the regular and
special assessment rolls and shall perform those duties imposed upon assessing
officers by state law.
§ 5.3 PERSONNEL SYSTEM.
   The Commission may provide for the implementation, regulation and
maintenance of a system of personnel management governing officers and
employees of the city which is consistent with federal and state law.
§ 5.4 COMPENSATION.
   The salary and fringe benefits for all officers and full time, non-temporary
employees of the city and the rates of compensation, if any, for members of
committees and boards shall be set by the Commission.
§ 5.5 CITY ATTORNEY.
   The Commission, upon the affirmative vote of four members of the Commission,
shall appoint a City Attorney who shall serve as the chief legal adviser in all
city matters. The City Attorney shall represent the city in legal proceedings.
The Commission, however, may retain special legal counsel to assist the City
Attorney or to handle any matters in which the city has an interest The City
Attorney shall report to and be under the supervision of the Commission and
perform any other duties prescribed by law, ordinance, resolution or the
Manager.
CHAPTER VI: REGISTRATION, NOMINATION AND ELECTION
Section
   
6.1   Election procedure
   
6.2   Election of Mayor and City Commissioner
   
6.3   Nominating petitions
   
6.4   Preparation of ballots
   
6.5   Primary elections
   
6.6   General elections
   
6.7   Special elections
   
6.8   Canvass of votes
   
6.9   Tie vote
   
6.10   Board of Election Commissioners
   
6.11   Inspectors of elections
§ 6.1 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   Election procedures of the city shall be governed by the general
registration and election laws of the state and this Charter.
§ 6.2 ELECTION OF MAYOR AND CITY COMMISSIONER.
   Candidates for the office of Mayor shall be nominated from the city at large
by petition and elected by the qualified electors of the city. Candidates for
the office of Commissioner shall be nominated by petition and elected by the
qualified electors of the respective wards in which the candidates reside. One
Commissioner shall be elected from each ward at each general election. The
terms of office for Mayor and Commissioner shall continue in accordance with
the procedures in place at the date of adoption of this Charter.
§ 6.3 NOMINATING PETITIONS.
   Each nominating petition shall comply with state law, be signed by not less
than twenty-five qualified electors, and be filed with the Clerk by four (4)
o’clock p.m. on the twelfth Tuesday preceding the September primary election in
each odd-numbered year. Each elector who signs a petition shall date his or her
signature and include his or her residential street address on the petition. If
an elector signs more petitions for candidates for any office than the number
of positions to be filled, then the most recent signatures shall be invalid and
if the most recent signatures all bear the same date, then all of those
signatures shall be invalid. The circulator of a petition shall attach to each
petition a certificate stating (1) the number of signatures on the petition;
(2) that each signature is that of the person whose name it purports to be; and
(3) that each signature was made in the presence of the circulator. NOTE: The
Charter language pertaining to filing nominating petitions for the city’s
Primary Election is superseded by Michigan Election Law MCL 168.644f(1), as
amended. The candidate nominating petition filing deadline is 4:00 p.m. of the
15th Tuesday preceding the Primary Election in each odd numbered year. (See
Res. passed 11-20-2017).
§ 6.4 PREPARATION OF BALLOTS.
   Within five days after the expiration of the time limit for filing
nominating petitions as set forth in section 6.3, the Clerk shall certify to
the board of election commissioners the names of all candidates duly nominated
and the special matters to be submitted to the electors. The board shall then
prepare the ballots, indicating the name of each candidate and office without
any party name or designation, and the special matters, if any, to be voted
upon. In accordance with Public Act 116 of 1954, as amended, of the Michigan
Compiled Laws (Michigan Election Law), a candidate’s name shall not be
withdrawn from the election unless a written notice of withdrawal is served on
the Clerk not later than four (4) o’clock p.m. within three (3) days after the
last day for filing nominating petitions.
§ 6.5 PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   Primary elections for nominating candidates for Mayor and Commissioner shall
be held in each ward on the Tuesday following the second Monday in September of
each odd-numbered year. The two (2) candidates who receive the highest number
of votes for each respective office shall have their names placed upon the
general municipal election ballot for that office. If no more than three (3)
candidates file nominating petitions for an office, a primary election shall
not be held for that office and those candidates shall be declared the nominees
for that office in the general municipal election.
§ 6.6 GENERAL ELECTIONS.
   General municipal elections shall be held on the Tuesday following the first
Monday in November of each odd-numbered year.
§ 6.7 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   Special municipal elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
Commission at least sixty (60) days in advance of the election or when required
by law. Any resolution calling a special municipal election shall set forth the
purpose of the election.
§ 6.8 CANVASS OF VOTES.
   A board of canvassers established pursuant to state law shall canvass the
votes of all municipal elections in accordance with law. The board of
canvassers shall file with the Clerk the tally of votes cast for each candidate
and proposition. Candidates in a primary election shall be elected to run in
the general municipal election in accordance with section 6.5. In a general
municipal election, the candidate, or candidates where more than one is to be
elected for the same office, who receive(s) the greatest number of votes shall
be elected. A proposition that receives a greater number of favorable than
unfavorable votes shall be adopted. Where there are competing propositions on
the ballot, the proposition that receives the greatest number of votes shall be
adopted. The Clerk shall notify the successful candidates in writing of their
nomination or election and shall notify the Commission of those propositions
that are adopted.
§ 6.9 TIE VOTE.
   If more than two (2) candidates in the primary election qualify to have
their names placed upon the general municipal election ballot because of a tie
vote, then the board of canvassers shall determine by lot which two are elected
to run in the general election. If two (2) or more candidates in a general
municipal election receive an equal number of votes, the board of canvassers
shall determine by lot which one is elected to the office. The Commission shall
prescribe the method, time and place of the drawing and provide each interested
candidate with written notice of the drawing. A proposition that receives an
equal number of votes favoring and opposing it shall be deemed defeated.
§ 6.10 BOARD OF ELECTION COMMISSIONERS.
   The Clerk, Assessor and City Attorney shall act as the board of election
Commissioners for the city.
§ 6.11 INSPECTORS OF ELECTIONS.
   The board of election commissioners shall appoint a board of inspectors of
elections in accordance with Public Act 116 of 1954, as amended, of the
Michigan Compiled Laws, the members of which shall serve at the will of the
board of election commissioners.
CHAPTER VII: ORDINANCES
Section
   
7.1   General authority
   
7.2   Consideration and adoption
   
7.3   Adoption by reference
   
7.4   Amendment and repeal
   
7.5   Publication
   
7.6   Record
   
7.7   Penalties
   
7.8   Prior legislation
§ 7.1 GENERAL AUTHORITY.
   The city may adopt ordinances and resolutions to provide for the public
peace, health, welfare and safety of persons and property in the city.
§ 7.2 CONSIDERATION AND ADOPTION.
   Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written form. The style of
all ordinances passed by the Commission shall be “The City of East Grand Rapids
ordains:”. No ordinance shall be finally passed by the Commission at the same
meeting at which it is introduced except an emergency ordinance. An emergency
ordinance shall contain a declaration that a public emergency exists affecting
life, health, property or the public peace, and describe the emergency in clear
and specific terms. The effective date of an ordinance shall be stated in the
text of the ordinance and shall be not less than ten days from the date of its
passage, except an emergency ordinance, which may be given immediate effect
§ 7.3 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Commission may adopt any law, code, rule or regulation, with any
amendments that the Commission desires, by reference in an adopting ordinance
where adoption by reference is permitted by law. The law, code, rule or
regulation which is adopted by reference need not be published, but the
adopting ordinance shall be published in accordance with section 13 and shall
clearly identify the law, code, rule or regulation and its purpose. Copies of
the law, code, rule or regulation shall be available for inspection by and
distribution to the public at the Clerk’s office, which shall be stated in the
adopting ordinance.
§ 7.4 AMENDMENT AND REPEAL.
   Ordinances may be amended or repealed in the same manner as provided for the
original adoption of ordinances. When any part of an ordinance is amended, the
whole section as amended shall be re-enacted. An ordinance may be repealed by
reference to its number and title only.
§ 7.5 PUBLICATION.
   Each ordinance shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the city within ten (10) days after its passage by publishing the full text of
the ordinance, except where an ordinance is over five hundred (500) words in
length in which case a digest, summary or statement of the purposes of the
ordinance, which has been approved by the Commission, may be published. Any
summarized version shall include notice that printed copies of the full text of
the ordinance are available for inspection by and distribution to the public at
the office of the Clerk.
§ 7.6 RECORD.
   The Clerk shall record all ordinances, when passed by the Commission, in an
ordinance book, and the Mayor and Clerk shall authenticate the record by
signing each ordinance.
§ 7.7 PENALTIES.
   The Commission shall provide for punishment of violations of ordinances. No
punishment shall exceed the maximum fine or imprisonment, or both, provided by
state law.
§ 7.8 PRIOR LEGISLATION.
   All ordinances and resolutions of the city which are in force at the time of
the adoption of this Charter shall continue in full force and effect as the
ordinances and resolutions of the city until duly repealed or amended by action
of the Commission.
CHAPTER VIII: INITIATIVE, REFERENDUM AND RECALL
Section
   
8.1   General powers
   
8.2   Initiative
   
8.3   Referendum
   
8.4   Requirements for initiative and referendum petitions
   
8.5   Commission procedure
   
8.6   Submission to the electors
   
8.7   Ordinance adopted by initiative
   
8.8   Recall
§ 8.1 GENERAL POWERS.
   The power of initiative and right of referendum are reserved to the electors
of the city as provided by state law.
§ 8.2 INITIATIVE.
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition at any time by filing with the
Clerk a petition for initiative prepared in accordance with section
8.4. Within ten (10) days of filing the petition, the Clerk shall determine the
sufficiency of the petition and shall notify the person who filed the petition
of the adequacy or inadequacy of the petition. Any signatures obtained more
than ninety (90) days before the filing of the petition with the Clerk shall
not be counted. If the petition is found to contain an insufficient number of
valid signatures or to otherwise fail to comply with this chapter, then the
person filing the petition shall be allowed ten (10) days from notification of
the non-compliance to file supplemental petition papers to correct the defects
in the petition. This additional ten (10) day period shall not disqualify valid
signatures obtained within ninety (90) days of filing the original petition
with the Clerk. Only one (1) supplemental filing shall be allowed. When a
petition meets all applicable requirements, the Clerk shall present it to the
Commission at its next regular meeting.
§ 8.3 REFERENDUM.
   An ordinance passed by the Commission may be subject to referendum only in
accordance with the following procedures.
   (a)   Notice petition. Within ten (10) days of the passage of an ordinance,
a petition shall be filed with the Clerk which has been signed by at least one
hundred (100) electors of the city and notifies the city of the intention to
circulate a petition to submit the ordinance to a referendum. Filing this
petition shall automatically suspend the effective date of the ordinance in
question until thirty (30) days after its final passage. Failure to file a
petition in accordance with this section shall preclude the right to seek a
referendum and the ordinance shall become effective in accordance with
Chapter VII.
   (b)   Referendum petition. A petition for referendum prepared in accordance
with section
8.4 must be filed with the Clerk subsequent to filing a notice petition but
prior to the end of the thirty (30) day period described in section
8.3(a). Within ten (10) days of filing the petition for referendum, the Clerk
shall determine the sufficiency of the petition and notify the person who filed
the petition of the adequacy or inadequacy thereof. The effective date of the
ordinance shall continue to be suspended during this time period. If the Clerk
does not approve the petition for referendum, the ordinance subject to the
petition shall become immediately effective and the right of referendum with
respect to the ordinance shall cease. If the Clerk approves the petition for
referendum, the Clerk shall submit the petition to the Commission at its next
regular meeting and the effective date of the ordinance subject to the petition
shall continue to be suspended pending either repeal by the Commission or final
determination by the electors in accordance with section
8.5.
§ 8.4 REQUIREMENTS FOR INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM PETITIONS.
   A petition for initiative or referendum shall be signed by registered
qualified electors of the city in a number equal to the greater of (1) fifteen
percent (15%) of the electors who voted at the last preceding general election,
or (2) three hundred (300). Before the petition is circulated for signatures,
the Clerk shall approve the form of the petition in accordance with Public Act
116 of 1954, as amended, of the Michigan Compiled Laws (Michigan Election Law).
Each elector who signs a petition shall date his or her signature and include
his or her residential address on the petition. The circulator of a petition
shall attach to each petition a certificate stating (1) the number of
signatures on the petition; (2) that each signature is that of the person whose
name it purports to be; and (3) that each signature was made in the presence of
the circulator.
§ 8.5 COMMISSION PROCEDURE.
   Within thirty (30) days of receiving a petition for initiative or referendum
from the Clerk, the Commission shall:
   (a)   In the case of a petition for initiative, adopt the ordinance as
submitted in the petition, submit the proposal to the electors of the city, or
reject the petition on the basis that the proposal is not legally appropriate
for the initiative process;
   (b)   In the case of a petition for referendum, repeal the ordinance to
which the petition refers, submit the proposal to the electors of the city, or
reject the petition on the basis that the proposal is not legally appropriate
for the referendum process.
§ 8.6 SUBMISSION TO THE ELECTORS.
   If the Commission decides to submit a proposal to the electors pursuant to
section 8.5, then the proposal shall be submitted within one hundred eighty
(180) days after reaching that decision, either at the next election held in
the city for any other purpose, or, in the discretion of the Commission, at a
special election. The Commission shall publish the proposal in full in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city at least ten (10) days prior to
the election date. The result of the election shall be determined by a majority
vote of the electors voting thereon, unless otherwise required by law.
§ 8.7 ORDINANCE ADOPTED BY INITIATIVE.
   An ordinance adopted by the electorate by initiative may not be amended or
repealed by the Commission for a period of two (2) years after the date of the
election at which it was adopted and then only by the affirmative vote of not
less than five (5) members of the Commission. If two (2) or more ordinances
adopted at the same election have provisions that conflict, the provisions
contained in the ordinance receiving the highest vote shall prevail.
§ 8.8 RECALL.
   Any elected official in the city may be recalled from office by the electors
of the city in accordance with Public Act 116 of 1954, as amended, of the
Michigan Compiled Laws.
CHAPTER IX: GENERAL FINANCE
Section
   
9.1   Fiscal year
   
9.2   Submission of budget
   
9.3   Budget document
   
9.4   Public budget hearing
   
9.5   Adoption of budget
   
9.6   Budget control
   
9.7   Depository
   
9.8   Independent audit
§ 9.1 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the city shall commence July 1 of each year.
§ 9.2 SUBMISSION OF BUDGET.
   Not later than May 15 of each year, the City Manager shall submit to the
Commission a proposed budget for the next fiscal year.
§ 9.3 BUDGET DOCUMENT.
   The proposed budget shall provide a complete financial plan for the next
fiscal year and include all information required by law, specifically including
the following:
   (a)   Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for each department
and office of the city, showing the expenditures for the current and last
preceding fiscal years, with reasons for any recommended increases or
decreases;
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the city, showing
the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
   (c)   Detailed estimates of (i) all anticipated income of the city from
sources other than taxes and borrowing, showing the amounts received by the
city from each of the same or similar sources for the last preceding and
current fiscal years and (ii) the monies to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and bond issues which, together with item (i), will be
necessary to meet proposed expenditures;
   (d)   An estimate of the balance for the end of the current fiscal year; and
   (e)   Any other information that the Commission requests.
§ 9.4 PUBLIC BUDGET HEARING.
   The Commission shall hold a public hearing on the proposed budget for the
next fiscal year prior to the last day of the current fiscal year. At least six
(6) days before the hearing date, notice of the hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city and the Manager’s proposed budget
shall be on file with the Clerk and available for public inspection.
§ 9.5 ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   The Commission shall hold a special meeting prior to the last day of the
current fiscal year, but subsequent to the public hearing on the budget, for
the sole purpose of final consideration and adoption of the budget and to
authorize a tax levy necessary to meet the budget. The amount that the
Commission may raise annually by a general tax upon the taxable real and
personal property in the city for municipal purposes shall not exceed two
percent (2%) of the assessed value (20 mills) of all real and personal property
in the city, unless otherwise provided by state law.
§ 9.6 BUDGET CONTROL.
   (a)   Financial reports. The Manager shall submit to the Commission a
minimum of four (4) quarterly financial reports during the fiscal year showing
the relation between estimated and actual income and expenses to date. If
income is less than or expenses exceed the amounts estimated, the Commission
shall reduce appropriations as necessary to keep expenditures within income,
and if income exceeds or expenses are less than the amounts estimated, the
Commission may make supplemental appropriations.
   (b)   Appropriations. Unless otherwise authorized by the Commission, no
money shall be drawn from the city treasury nor shall any obligations be
incurred except pursuant to the budget appropriation, as the same may be
amended by the Commission. The balance of any appropriation at the close of the
fiscal year shall revert to fund equity and be available for reappropriation.
§ 9.7 DEPOSITORY.
   The Commission shall designate depositories for city funds and provide for
the regular deposit of all city monies.
§ 9.8 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   A certified public accountant shall make an independent audit of all city
accounts at least annually and more frequently if deemed necessary by the
Commission. The accountant shall prepare the audit in written form and file a
copy with the Clerk, which shall be available for public inspection.
CHAPTER X: BORROWING AUTHORITY
Section
   
10.1   General authority to borrow
   
10.2   Limits of borrowing authority
   
10.3   Bond issuance and records
   
10.4   Deferred payment contracts
§ 10.1 GENERAL AUTHORITY TO BORROW.
   Subject to state law and this Charter, the Commission may, by ordinance or
resolution, authorize the city to borrow money and issue bonds or other
evidence of indebtedness for any purpose within the powers vested in the city.
§ 10.2 LIMITS OF BORROWING AUTHORITY.
   (a)   Bonded indebtedness. The net bonded indebtedness incurred for all
public purposes shall not exceed the maximum amount permitted by state law and
shall be calculated in accordance with state law.
   (b)   Calamity borrowing. In the event of tire, flood or other calamity, the
city may increase borrowing in accordance with state law.
§ 10.3 BOND ISSUANCE AND RECORDS.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness issued by the city shall contain
on its face a statement specifying the purpose for which it is issued. The use
of the proceeds for any other purpose shall be unlawful. All bonds or other
evidences of indebtedness shall be signed by the Mayor and countersigned by the
Clerk under the seal of the city. Interest coupons may be executed with the
facsimile signature of the Mayor and the Clerk. The Clerk shall keep a complete
and detailed record of all bonds and other evidences of indebtedness issued by
the city. Upon payment, the respective bond or other evidence of indebtedness
shall be canceled.
§ 10.4 DEFERRED PAYMENT CONTRACTS.
   The city may enter into installment contracts for the purchase of property
or capital equipment in accordance with state law. Deferred payments on
installment contracts shall be included in the budget for the year in which the
installments are payable.
CHAPTER XI: TAXATION
Section
   
11.1   Authority to tax
   
11.2   Real and personal property subject to taxation
   
11.3   Taxation procedure
   
11.4   Assessment roll
   
11.5   Board of Review
   
11.6   Board of Review meetings
   
11.7   Notice of meetings
   
11.8   Endorsement of assessment roll
   
11.9   Tax levy and assessment
   
11.10   Tax roll certified for collection
   
11.11   Tax liens
   
11.12   Notice of taxes due and tax bills
   
11.13   Jeopardy assessments
   
11.14   Late payment of taxes
   
11.15   Collection of delinquent taxes
   
11.16   State, county and school taxes
§ 11.1 AUTHORITY TO TAX.
   The city shall have the authority to assess and collect taxes for any
purpose permitted under state law.
§ 11.2 REAL AND PERSONAL PROPERTY SUBJECT TO TAXATION.
   The property subject to municipal taxation shall be the same as provided
under state law for state, county, and school taxes.
§ 11.3 TAXATION PROCEDURE.
   Except as otherwise provided under this Charter, municipal taxes shall be
levied, collected and distributed as provided under state law.
§ 11.4 ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Assessor shall prepare and certify an assessment roll in accordance with
state law identifying all persons and real property in the city subject to
taxation.
§ 11.5 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   (a)   General powers. A Board of Review (“Board”) shall be formed to examine
the assessment roll and to make any necessary corrections and amendments. The
Board shall have the same powers and duties as conferred by state law, unless
provided otherwise in this Charter.
   (b)   Composition and term. The Board shall be composed of six (6) members,
none of whom are officers or employees of the city and all of whom are electors
in the city. Each year in July the Mayor, subject to the consent of the
Commission, shall appoint three (3) of the six (6) members for a term of two
(2) years each so that one-half (1/2) of the Board is appointed each year. A
majority of Board members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business of the Board. At its first meeting, the Board shall select a chairman
and establish rules of procedure for the ensuing year.
   (c)   Committees. The Board may be divided into two (2) committees, each
consisting of three (3) members, for the purpose of hearing and deciding
assessment appeals and related matters. Two (2) members of a committee shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business of that committee.
   (d)   Assessor. The Assessor shall serve as the Clerk of the Board, shall
attend all Board meetings, shall keep a record of all Board proceedings, and
may participate in Board discussions but shall not be entitled to vote.
   (e)   Committee Clerks. A Clerk, who shall be either the Assessor or
Assessor’s designee, shall serve on each committee and shall attend all
committee meetings, keep a record of committee proceedings, and may participate
in committee discussions but shall not be entitled to vote.
   (f)   Compensation. The Commission shall fix the annual compensation of the
Board members prior to the Board’s first meeting for that year.
§ 11.6 BOARD OF REVIEW MEETINGS.
   The Board shall meet as provided under state law to examine, correct and
amend the assessment roll and shall remain in session for at least two (2) days
for the purpose of giving taxpayers a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
§ 11.7 NOTICE OF MEETINGS.
   Notice of the date, time and place of Board meetings shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city in accordance with state law.
§ 11.8 ENDORSEMENT OF ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   After reviewing the assessment roll, the Board shall approve and endorse it
as the official assessment roll of the city for all tax purposes in accordance
with state law.
§ 11.9 TAX LEVY AND ASSESSMENT.
   Within three (3) days after the Commission has adopted the budget for the
next fiscal year as provided in Chapter IX of this Charter, the Clerk shall
certify to the Assessor the amount of the tax levy fixed by the Commission. The
Assessor shall then assess the persons and real property listed on the
assessment roll accordingly, together with any special assessments and other
amounts that the Commission may require.
§ 11.10 TAX ROLL CERTIFIED FOR COLLECTION.
   After assessing taxes as set forth in this Chapter, the Assessor shall
certify the assessment roll and attach to it the Assessor’s warrant directing
the Treasurer to collect the respective amounts as a tax or assessment. For the
purpose of collecting the taxes, assessments and any other charges on the roll,
the Treasurer shall have the statutory powers and immunities granted to
township Treasurers or as otherwise provided under state law for the collection
of taxes.
§ 11.11 TAX LIENS.
   On July 1, the annual taxes assessed on real property shall become a lien on
the real property for the amount assessed plus any late charges. On December 31
(prior to the July 1 due date), the annual taxes assessed against persons shall
become a lien on the personal property for the amount assessed plus any late
charges. These liens shall have priority over all other claims, encumbrances
and liens to the extent provided by state law and shall continue until the
taxes and late charges, if any, are paid in full.
§ 11.12 NOTICE OF TAXES DUE AND TAX BILLS.
   Municipal taxes shall be due and payable on July 1 of each year. Notice of
the due date and late charges for late payment of taxes shall be published by
the Treasurer in a newspaper of general circulation in the city as provided
under state law. The Treasurer shall mail a tax bill to the last known property
owner of record. Where more than one person owns the subject property, only one
bill shall be mailed. The Treasurer shall not be required to make personal
demand upon persons named in the tax roll for payment of taxes. Failure on the
part of the Treasurer to publish notice or mail tax bills as described above
shall not invalidate the taxes on the tax roll or release the real property or
persons from the taxes and late charges.
§ 11.13 JEOPARDY ASSESSMENTS.
   Notwithstanding sections
11.11 and
11.12, the city may accelerate the due date for and collect annual taxes
assessed against persons as provided under state law.
§ 11.14 LATE PAYMENT OF TAXES.
   No late charges shall accrue for taxes due and payable on July 1 if received
by the municipality on or before the close of business on August 14 immediately
following. In the event that August 14 is a non-business day, then no late
charges shall accrue if the taxes are received before the close of business on
the next business day. The Commission shall provide a tax payment schedule by
ordinance for municipal taxes paid after August 14, or the following business
day, as the case may be, including the late charges to be added in amounts
permitted by state law.
§ 11.15 COLLECTION OF DELINQUENT TAXES.
   (a)   Real property. The Treasurer shall prepare a delinquent tax roll
identifying all taxes and late charges on real property uncollected by March 1
or other date established by state law. This tax roll shall be sent to the
County Treasurer in accordance with state law procedures for delinquent
township, school and county taxes. The County Treasurer shall collect these
delinquent taxes and assessments on real property in accordance with state law.
The unpaid taxes shall be and remain a lien upon the real property against
which they are assessed until paid.
   (b)   Personal property. The Treasurer shall also prepare a delinquent tax
roll identifying all taxes and late charges against persons uncollected by
March 1 or other date established by state law. The city shall proceed to
collect these taxes in accordance with state law.
§ 11.16 STATE, COUNTY AND SCHOOL TAXES.
   State, county and school taxes shall be levied, collected and distributed in
accordance with state law.
CHAPTER XII: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
12.1   Special assessments
   
12.2   Special assessment procedure
§ 12.1 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Commission shall have power to determine that the whole or any part of
the expense of any public improvement shall be defrayed by special assessments
upon the property especially benefitted and shall so declare by resolution. The
resolution shall include the estimated cost of the improvement, what proportion
of the cost shall be paid by special assessment and what part, if any, shall be
a general obligation of the city, the number of installments in which
assessments may be paid, and the districts of land and premises upon which
special assessments shall be levied. The resolution shall provide for a
separate hearing on necessity.
§ 12.2 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Commission shall prescribe by ordinance the complete special assessment
procedure concerning plans and specifications, estimates of cost, notice and
hearing, the making of the assessment roll and correction of errors, collection
of special assessments, and any other matters concerning the making of
improvements by the special assessment method.
CHAPTER XIII: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS AND CONTRACTS
Section
   
13.1   Public improvements
   
13.2   Purchasing and contractual procedure
   
13.3   Condemnation
   
13.4   Street vacation
§ 13.1 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   The city has the authority to construct or contract for the construction of
public improvements, and to operate, control and maintain the improvements.
§ 13.2 PURCHASING AND CONTRACTUAL PROCEDURE.
   Before purchasing or contracting to purchase supplies, materials, equipment
or services, the city shall permit competitive bidding under the rules and
regulations, and exceptions thereto, as prescribed by the Commission by
ordinance.
§ 13.3 CONDEMNATION.
   Private property may be condemned by the city for public use in accordance
with state law.
§ 13.4 STREET VACATION.
   The Commission shall have the power to vacate any street or any part
thereof, including the power to vacate by resolution, in accordance with state
law.
CHAPTER XIV: PUBLIC UTILITIES
Section
   
14.1   Municipal ownership and operation of public utilities
   
14.2   Operation under consent agreements and franchises
   
14.3   Term of operation for consent agreement or franchise
   
14.4   Irrevocable and exclusive consent agreements and franchises
   
14.5   Transfer of consent agreement or franchise
   
14.6   Regulation of consent agreements and franchises
   
14.7   Rates of franchised utilities
§ 14.1 MUNICIPAL OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   The city shall have the right to purchase, operate and sell the services of
public utilities in accordance with state law. A sale of a public utility by
the city shall require an affirmative vote of a majority of electors voting
thereon at a regular or special election.
§ 14.2 OPERATION UNDER CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND FRANCHISES.
   Unless authorized by state law, a public utility shall not operate within
the city without first obtaining consent from the Commission as provided in
this Chapter. The Commission may enter into consent agreements and franchises
for the operation of public utilities and may grant renewals, amendments and
extensions thereof in accordance with state law.
§ 14.3 TERM OF OPERATION FOR CONSENT AGREEMENT OR FRANCHISE.
   A consent agreement or franchise shall not be granted for a term longer than
thirty (30) years. All consent agreements and franchises must provide a
completion date for the installation of the public utility.
§ 14.4 IRREVOCABLE AND EXCLUSIVE CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND FRANCHISES.
   The Commission shall not grant a consent agreement or franchise which is
exclusive or not revocable at the will of the city unless the proposition shall
have received the affirmative vote of three-fifths (3/5) of the electors voting
thereon at a regular or special election held in accordance with state law. A
special election shall not be held unless the expense of the election is paid
in advance by the grantee of the consent agreement or franchise to the
Treasurer in an amount determined by the Commission. The Commission may approve
an exclusive or irrevocable consent agreement or franchise for referral to the
electorate only after the grantee has filed with the Clerk an unconditional
acceptance of all terms of the consent agreement or franchise and a public
hearing has been held. A public hearing shall be held not less than thirty (30)
days after the grantee has filed the acceptance with the Clerk.
§ 14.5 TRANSFER OF CONSENT AGREEMENT OR FRANCHISE.
   A grantee shall not be entitled to transfer a consent agreement or franchise
for a public utility, either directly or indirectly, without the written
consent of the Commission.
§ 14.6 REGULATION OF CONSENT AGREEMENTS AND FRANCHISES.
   (a)   Right to regulate. All consent agreements and franchises shall be
subject to the right of the city to make all regulations necessary and
conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation of the public, and to
protect the public from danger or inconvenience in the operation of the public
utility. The city shall at all times have the right to the reasonable control
of its streets and other public places, despite the presence of the public
utilities.
   (b)   Violations. The city may prosecute public utilities operating under a
consent agreement or franchise granted by the city for violation of the law,
and may revoke, cancel, or annul any consent agreement or franchise for
violation of the law.
§ 14.7 RATES OF FRANCHISED UTILITIES.
   After a public hearing, the Commission shall fix reasonable rates for public
utilities operating under a consent agreement or franchise to the extent not
preempted by state or federal law.
CHAPTER XV: MISCELLANEOUS
Section
   
15.1   Definitions
   
15.2   Amendments
   
15.3   Availability of public records
   
15.4   Notice of injury
   
15.5   Conflicts of interest
   
15.6   Saturdays, sundays and holidays
   
15.7   Headings
   
15.8   Severability
   
15.9   Effective date
§ 15.1 DEFINITIONS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter:
   (a)   The word “Assessor” shall mean the East Grand Rapids City Assessor;
   (b)   The word “city” shall mean the City of East Grand Rapids;
   (c)   The word “City Attorney” shall mean the East Grand Rapids City
Attorney;
   (d)   The word “Clerk” shall mean the East Grand Rapids City Clerk;
   (e)   The word “Commission” shall mean the East Grand Rapids City
Commission;
   (f)   The word “Manager” shall mean the East Grand Rapids City Manager;
   (g)   The word “Mayor” shall mean the Mayor of East Grand Rapids;
   (h)   The word “person” may include a corporation, partnership, firm or
other entity, as well as an individual;
   (i)   The word “state” shall mean the State of Michigan;
   (j)   The word “street” shall include an alley, road, highway or right-of-
way, or any part thereof;
   (k)   The word “Treasurer” shall mean the East Grand Rapids City Treasurer;
   (l)   Except with reference to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” shall include tangible print produced by manual, mechanical,
electronic, telegraphic or computerized means;
   (m)   The singular number shall include the plural and the plural shall
include the singular.
§ 15.2 AMENDMENTS.
   This Charter may be amended as provided by state law. If two (2) or more
amendments are adopted at the same election and contain conflicting provisions,
the amendment receiving the highest vote shall prevail as to the conflicting
provisions.
§ 15.3 AVAILABILITY OF PUBLIC RECORDS.
   Public records of the city shall be available in accordance with Public Act
442 of 1976, as amended, of the Michigan Compiled Laws (Freedom of Information
Act).
§ 15.4 NOTICE OF INJURY.
   As a condition to recovery against the city for injuries sustained by reason
of any defective condition on property owned by the city, the injured person or
that person’s agent shall serve written notice on the city within one hundred
twenty (120) days after the occurrence of the event causing the injury. The
notice shall specify the exact location and nature of the defective condition,
the injury sustained, how the injury occurred and the names of witnesses, if
any, to the event causing the injury.
§ 15.5 CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   No officer, employee or agent of the city shall engage in a conflict of
interest or use his or her position with the city for private gain. For
example, no officer, employee or agent shall (1) have a personal interest in
any contract with or for the city, except as allowed by state law; (2) act in
an official capacity on matters in which that person has a private interest
distinct from that of the public; or (3) disseminate or use confidential
information regarding city matters.
§ 15.6 SATURDAYS, SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS.
   Whenever the date fixed by this Charter for the performance or completion of
an act falls on a Saturday, Sunday or legal holiday, that act may be performed
or completed on the next succeeding business day.
§ 15.7 HEADINGS.
   The chapter and section headings in this Charter are for convenience only
and shall not be deemed a part of this Charter.
§ 15.8 SEVERABILITY.
   If any chapter, section, paragraph or provision of this Charter shall be
rendered unenforceable and invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction or a
conflicting provision of law, that holding or provision shall not affect the
validity of this Charter as a whole, or any other chapter, section, paragraph
or provision of this Charter.
§ 15.9 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This Charter shall become effective on January 1, 1991.
TITLE I: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
1.   ADOPTION, CONTENTS AND INTERPRETATION
      
2.   ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
      
3.   ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY AND PROCEDURE
      
4.   CITY LIBRARY COMMISSION
      
5.   PURCHASES, CONTRACTS AND SALES
      
6.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
      
7.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
8.   [RESERVED]
      
9.   CITY ELECTIONS
      
10.   NONDISCRIMINATION
      
11.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
      
12.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION PENALTIES
      
13.   APPEARANCE TICKETS AUTHORIZATION
      
14.   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS AUTHORIZATION
CHAPTER 1: ADOPTION, CONTENTS AND INTERPRETATION
Section
   
1.1   Publication and distribution of code
   
1.2   Amendment procedure
   
1.3   Publication
   
1.4   Contents of code; repealer
   
1.5   Short title
   
1.6   Headings
   
1.7   Definitions
   
1.8   Title of officer to include deputy or subordinate
   
1.9   Tense
   
1.10   Notice
   
1.11   Publication of rules and regulations
   
1.12   Prohibited acts; aiding or abetting
   
1.13   Penalty
   
1.14   Severability
   
1.15   Effective date
   An ordinance to provide for the exercise of certain municipal powers of the
City of East Grand Rapids, Michigan, and for the health, safety and welfare of
persons and property in the city, and to provide penalties for the violation of
the provisions thereof. The City of East Grand Rapids ordains:
§ 1.1 PUBLICATION AND DISTRIBUTION OF CODE.
   (A)   Publication of the within codification of the ordinances of the city
is hereby directed. Copies of this code and of all amendments shall be printed
in looseleaf form and shall be distributed to all elected city officials and to
all appointed city officials and department heads. Each copy of said code shall
remain the property of the city and shall be turned over by each official
having custody thereof upon expiration of his or her term of office or
employment to his or her successor or to the City Clerk in case he or she shall
have no successor.
   (B)   Copies of this code shall be made available to the public at cost. The
Clerk shall keep copies of the code available for public inspection during
office hours.
(Prior Code, § 1.1)
§ 1.2 AMENDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   This code shall be amended by ordinance. The title of each amendatory
ordinance, adapted to the particular circumstances and purposes of the
amendment, shall be substantially as follows:
      (1)   To amend any section: “An ordinance to amend section             
(or sections and              ) of Chapter                 of Title
                 of the Code of the City of East Grand Rapids”;
      (2)   To insert a new section, chapter or title: “An ordinance to amend
the Code of the City of East Grand Rapids by adding a new section
(               new sections, a new chapter, or a new title, as the case may
be) which new section (sections, chapter or title) shall be designated as
section             (sections               and             ) of Chapter
              of Title               (or proper designation if a chapter or
title is added) of said Code”; and
      (3)   To repeal a section, chapter or title: “An ordinance to repeal
section         (sections                 and               Chapter           ,
Title          , as the case may be) of the Code of the City of East Grand
Rapids”.
   (B)   Any amending ordinance, when printed for insertion in this code, shall
reflect at the bottom of the printed copy the date on which it was adopted.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall retain permanently copies of all original
ordinances, as well as amendments thereto.
(Prior Code, § 1.2)
§ 1.3 PUBLICATION.
   All ordinances shall be published as required by Chapter VIII, §
7.5 of the City Charter.
(Prior Code, § 1.3) (Ord. effective 2-15-1992)
§ 1.4 CONTENTS OF CODE; REPEALER.
   (A)   The general ordinances of the City of East Grand Rapids as revised,
amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the City of East Grand Rapids,
Michigan.”
   (B)   Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in division (A) shall consist of
the following titles:
      (1)   Administration.
      (2)   Utilities and Services.
      (3)   Parks and Public Grounds.
      (4)   Street and Sidewalks.
      (5)   Zoning and Planning.
      (6)   Food and Health.
      (7)   Businesses and Trades.
      (8)   Building Regulations.
      (9)   Police Regulations.
      (10)   Traffic.
   (C)   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such Code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this section except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in
such code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
section, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the code.
   (D)   While the city code book and online version of the city code will be
regularly updated to include new ordinances and revisions or repeals of
existing ordinances, there will be a period of time from when an ordinance or
ordinance amendment is formally adopted and becomes effective and until the
ordinance or ordinance amendment appears in the city code book and online. All
ordinances and ordinance amendments become effective in accordance with the
provisions of the City Charter regardless of when they appear in the city code
book or online.
   (E)   Such code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption and
approval by the City Commission and the Clerk of the City is hereby authorized
and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the Office of the
Clerk.
   (F)   Such code shall be in full force and effect as of April 20, 2020, and
such code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
(Prior Code, § 1.4) (Ord. effective 12-13-2019; Ord. effective 4-20-2020)
§ 1.5 SHORT TITLE.
   This ordinance may be known and cited as the “East Grand Rapids City Code”.
(Prior Code, § 1.5)
§ 1.6 HEADINGS.
   No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in
any chapter or section heading.
(Prior Code, § 1.6)
§ 1.7 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CITY. The City of East Grand Rapids.
   PERSON. Include any individual, partnership, corporation, association, club,
joint adventure, estate, trust, and any other group or combination acting as a
unit, and the individuals constituting such group or unit.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to or upon which the public resorts, or travels,
whether such place is owned or controlled by the city or any school district or
any agency of the State of Michigan, or is a place to or upon which the public
resorts or travels by custom, or by invitation, express or implied.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a street which is intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STREET, HIGHWAY and ALLEY. The entire width subject to an easement for
public right-of-way or owned in fee by the city, county or state, of every way
or place whenever any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of public travel. The word ALLEY shall mean any such way or place
providing a secondary means of ingress and egress from a property.
(Prior Code, § 1.7)
§ 1.8 TITLE OF OFFICER TO INCLUDE DEPUTY OR SUBORDINATE.
   Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the city is
assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, the title of said
officer shall mean and include such officer and his or her deputy or authorized
subordinate.
(Prior Code, § 1.8)
§ 1.9 TENSE.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context, all
words used in this code indicating the present tense shall not be limited to
the time of adoption of this code but shall extend to and include the time of
the happening of any act, event or requirement for which provision is made
herein.
(Prior Code, § 1.9)
§ 1.10 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notices which are given pursuant to any provisions of this code,
including, but not limited to, notices regarding sidewalk repairs, sewer or
water connections, dangerous structures, abating nuisances or any other act the
expense of which if performed by the city may be assessed against the premises
under the provisions of this code, shall be served:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the owner or other persons to be
served, personally, or by leaving the same at his or her residence, office or
place of business with some person of suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing said notice to such owner or other person to be served
at his or her last known address; or
      (3)   If the owner or other person to be served is unknown or cannot be
located for service or has no address known to the city, by posting said notice
in some conspicuous place on the premises not less than five days prior to the
date of any hearing or action by the city provided for in this code.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal or tear
down any official notice or placard posted by any city officer, unless
permission is given by said officer to remove said notice. Unauthorized removal
of such notice shall not affect the rights of the city to proceed as provided
for in this code.
(Prior Code, § 1.10)
§ 1.11 PUBLICATION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All rules and regulations made by the administrative officers which are
subject to approval by the Commission under the provisions of this code, and
all rules and regulations adopted by the Commission on its own initiative,
shall be published in the manner directed by the City Commission or, in the
absence of any specific direction, publication as part of the official minutes
shall be sufficient. Copies of all such rules and regulations shall be kept in
the office of the Clerk for Public Inspection and Distribution. Rules and
regulations adopted by any department of the city shall be filed with the City
Commission at the time of their adoption, repeal or amendment.
(Prior Code, § 1.11)
§ 1.12 PROHIBITED ACTS; AIDING OR ABETTING.
   Whenever any act is prohibited by this code, by an amendment thereof, or by
any rule or regulation adopted thereunder, such prohibition shall extend to and
include the causing, securing, aiding or abetting of another person to do said
act.
(Prior Code, § 1.12)
§ 1.13 PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless a violation of a city ordinance or of any particular provision
or section of this code is specifically designated as a municipal civil
infraction, the violation shall be deemed to be a criminal misdemeanor. In
addition to specific penalty provisions contained in this code, violations of
the provisions of the following chapters shall be a civil infraction: 32, 41,
61, 71, 77, 81, 82, 83, 86, 87, 91, 94, 98 and 99. Every person found
responsible for violation of a municipal civil infraction pursuant to a
specific provision of this code shall be subject to the sanctions provided in
Chapters 11 and 12 of this code.
   (B)   Every person convicted of a violation of a provision of this code, or
any rule or regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof which is a
criminal misdemeanor, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 and
the costs of prosecution or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days or by
both such fine and imprisonment.
   (C)   Each act of violation and every day upon which any such violation
shall occur shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 1.13) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
§ 1.14 SEVERABILITY.
   (A)   It is the legislative intent of the Commission in adopting this code
that all provisions and sections of this code and of all city ordinances be
liberally construed to protect and preserve the peace, health, safety and
welfare of the inhabitants of the city and should any provision or section of
this code or of any city ordinance be held unconstitutional or invalid, such
holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity of any of the
remaining provisions or sections, it being the intent that this code and all
city ordinances shall stand, notwithstanding the invalidity of any provisions
or section hereof or thereof.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall apply to the amendment of any
section of this code whether or not the wording of this section is set forth in
the amendatory ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1.14)
§ 1.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This ordinance shall take effect January 1, 1994.
(Prior Code, § 1.15; amd. per letter dated 4-26-1995)
CHAPTER 2: ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE
Section
Article I. General Provisions
   
1.31   Division of Administrative Service
Article II. City Clerk
   
1.32   Office of Clerk
   
1.33   Election records
   
1.34   Other duties
   1.35 - 1.40   Reserved
Article III. Assessor
   
1.41   Office of assessor
   
1.42   Board of review
Article IV. Department of Finance/Treasury
   
1.65   Office of Finance Director/Treasurer
   
1.66   Director
   1.67 - 1.69   Reserved
Article V. Police Department
   
1.70   Police Chief
   
1.71   Functions of Police Department
   
1.72   Department rules
   
1.73   Acting Chief
   1.74 - 1.9      Reserved
Article VI. Fire Department
   
1.91   Fire Chief
   
1.92   Department rules
   
1.93   Department equipment
   
1.94   Enforcement of fire laws
   
1.95   Other duties of Fire Chief
Article VII. Department of Public Safety
   
1.96   Director; assignment and duties of officers
   
1.97   Functions of Public Safety Department
   
1.98   Enforcement of fire laws
   
1.99   Other duties of the Director of Public Safety
   
1.100   Department rules
   
1.101   Acting Director of Public Safety
Article VIII. Department of City Services
   
1.102   Director
   
1.103   Division of Streets and Utilities
   
1.104   Division of Engineering Services
   1.105 - 1.110      Reserved
Article IX. Reserved
Article X. Department of Law
   
1.121   Responsibilities of City Attorney
ARTICLE I. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 1.31 DIVISION OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
   The administrative service of the city shall be under the supervision and
direction of the City Manager, except as otherwise provided by the City
Charter, and shall be divided into the following departments, each of which
shall be the responsibility of and under the control of a department head as
listed opposite such department.
 
Department                                    Department Head
Department of Finance                         Finance Director
Department of Public Safety (Police and Fire) Director of Public Safety
Department of City Services                   Director of City Services
Department of Law                             City Attorney
 
(Prior Code, § 1.31) (Ord. effective 11-16-1990; Ord. effective 5-29-1992; Ord.
effective 4-1-1994)
ARTICLE II. CITY CLERK
§ 1.32 OFFICE OF CLERK.
   (A)   This office shall be headed by the City Clerk, who shall serve as set
forth in the City Charter. The Clerk shall act as Clerk of the City Commission
and shall perform those duties as set forth in the City Charter.
   (B)   The Clerk shall be responsible for the publication, filing, indexing
and safekeeping of all proceedings of the Commission.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   City Clerk duties, see Charter §
5.2
§ 1.33 ELECTION RECORDS.
   The Clerk shall keep and maintain all election records and have custody of
all property used in connection with elections in accordance with state law.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.34 OTHER DUTIES.
   The Clerk shall publish all legal notices unless otherwise provided;
establish all license fees required by ordinance or statute except as otherwise
provided; be the custodian of the official seal; and notify the appointing
authority of any board or commission 30 days prior to the expiration of the
term of office of any member thereof.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§§ 1.35 - 1.40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. ASSESSOR
§ 1.41 OFFICE OF ASSESSOR.
   This office shall be headed by the City Assessor who shall serve as set
forth in the City Charter. The Assessor shall perform all work in connection
with the assessing of property and the preparation of all assessment rolls in
accordance with state law.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.42 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The Board of Review shall be constituted and shall serve as set forth in the
City Charter. The Board of Review shall meet and perform those duties as set
forth in the City Charter. After reviewing the assessment roll, the Board shall
approve and endorse the roll as the official assessment roll of the city for
all tax purposes in accordance with state law.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   Board of Review, see Charter §§
11.5(b),
11.5, and
11.6
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 211.14
ARTICLE IV. DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE/TREASURY
§ 1.65 OFFICE OF FINANCE DIRECTOR/ TREASURER.
   This office shall be headed by the City Finance Director/Treasurer, who
shall serve as set forth in the City Charter and, whose duty it shall be to:
   (A)   Have the custody of all monies of the city and all evidences of
indebtedness belonging to the city or held in trust by the city;
   (B)   Collection of all monies owed to the city as provided by ordinance or
the City Charter and collection of all monies owed to the city which is not
provided elsewhere for by ordinance or the City Charter;
   (C)   Receive from other officers and employees of the city all monies
belonging to and receivable by the city that may be collected by such officers
and employees, including fines, license fees, taxes, assessments and all other
charges. All such monies shall be turned over to the Director of Finance/
Treasurer after collection or receipt;
   (D)   Keep and deposit all monies or funds in accordance with Public Act 20,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 129.91 et seq. and city’s adopted investment policy;
   (E)   Disburse all city funds in accordance with the provisions of state
law, the City Charter and this code;
   (F)   Promptly report to the City Manager in writing any default,
delinquency or discrepancy the Finance Director/Treasurer may discover in the
books and records of any city department; and
   (G)   Perform such other duties as set forth in the City Charter.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   Director of Finance/Treasurer duties, see Charter §§
5.2 and 
5.2(b)
§ 1.66 DIRECTOR.
   The Department of Finance shall be headed by the Finance Director/Treasurer.
The Director shall be responsible for all matters relating to the Finance
Department, including the office of Treasurer, Assessor, Human Resources, and
Information Technology.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.67 - 1.69 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. POLICE DEPARTMENT
§ 1.70 POLICE CHIEF.
   The Department of Police shall be headed by the Police Chief who shall
direct the police work of the city.
(Prior Code, § 1.70)
§ 1.71 FUNCTIONS OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The police work of the city shall consist of the following functions.
   (A)   The operation of motor and foot patrol units for routine
investigations and the general maintenance of law and order.
   (B)   The maintenance of the central complaint desk at central police
headquarters, the maintaining and supervising of police records, criminal and
noncriminal identification, property identification and custody of property.
   (C)   The investigation of crimes, elimination of illegal substance and
liquor traffic and vice, and the preparation of evidence for the prosecution of
criminal cases and offenses in violation of this code.
   (D)   The removal of crime hazards and the coordination of community
agencies interested in crime prevention.
   (E)   The control of traffic, traffic educational programs, school patrols,
coordination of traffic violation prosecutions, and the maintenance and
erection of traffic signs and the painting of street and crosswalk lanes.
(Prior Code, § 1.71)
§ 1.72 DEPARTMENT RULES.
   The Chief of Police may prescribe rules for the government of police
officers of the city, subject to approval by the City Manager, which shall be
entered in a book of Police Department rules and may be amended or revoked by
the Police Chief, subject to approval by the City Manager. Such rules may
establish one or more divisions within the Police Department, each of which
divisions may be charged with performing one or more of the functions of the
Police Department enumerated in §
1.71. Any such division shall be supervised by an officer of the Police
Department who shall be responsible for the particular functions of the Police
Department assigned to the particular division supervised by him or her. It
shall be the duty of all members of the police force to comply with such rules.
(Prior Code, § 1.72)
§ 1.73 ACTING CHIEF.
   In the case of the absence from the city of the Police Chief, or his or her
disability, or inability from any cause to act as Police Chief, the Deputy
Police Chief shall act as Chief. In case of the absence, disability or
inability from any cause of both the Police Chief and the Deputy, the City
Manager shall designate and appoint some other member of the Police Department
to act as Chief during such absence or disability.
(Prior Code, § 1.73)
§§ 1.74 - 1.90 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. FIRE DEPARTMENT
§ 1.91 FIRE CHIEF.
   The Department of Fire shall be headed by the Fire Chief and shall be
charged with the prevention and extinguishment of fires, the protection of life
and property against fire, the removal of fire hazards, the performance of
other public services of an emergency nature assigned to it, and the conducting
of an educational fire prevention program.
(Prior Code, § 1.91)
§ 1.92 DEPARTMENT RULES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief may prescribe rules for the government of the
Department, subject to the approval of the City Manager, which shall be entered
in a book of Fire Department rules and which may be amended or revoked by the
Fire Chief, subject to approval by the City Manager.
   (B)   Such rules shall designate the chain of command for the Department so
that in the absence or disability of the Chief, the responsibility for the
operation of the Department shall immediately and automatically vest in the
officer designated by such regulations.
(Prior Code, § 1.92)
§ 1.93 DEPARTMENT EQUIPMENT.
   The Fire Chief shall be responsible for the operation, maintenance and care
of all property and equipment used by the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 1.93)
§ 1.94 ENFORCEMENT OF FIRE LAWS.
   It shall be the duty of the Fire Chief to enforce all state laws and
provisions of this code governing the following:
   (A)   The prevention of fires;
   (B)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
   (C)   The maintenance of fire alarm systems and all fire extinguishing
equipment;
   (D)   The maintenance and use of fire escapes;
   (E)   The maintenance of fire protection and the elimination of fire hazards
in all buildings and structures; and
   (F)   The maintenance and adequacy of fire exits from schools, hospitals,
churches, halls, and all other places where persons work or congregate for any
purpose.
(Prior Code, § 1.94)
Cross-reference:
   Fire and explosives, see
Ch. 95
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 29.1 et seq.
§ 1.95 OTHER DUTIES OF FIRE CHIEF.
   The Fire Chief shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Investigate the origin, cause and circumstances of all fires;
   (B)   Issue all orders necessary for the enforcement of state laws and of
the provisions included in §
1.94 of this code; and
   (C)   Require and supervise from time to time fire drills from all schools
and educational institutions as required by law.
(Prior Code, § 1.95)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 29.19
ARTICLE VII. DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC SAFETY
§ 1.96 DIRECTOR; ASSIGNMENT AND DUTIES OF OFFICERS.
   The city shall appoint a Director of Public Safety, he or she shall have the
powers and duties herein specified for the Chief of Police and the Fire Chief.
City employees assigned to the Police and Fire Departments shall become public
safety officers and there shall be no distinction between public safety
officers assigned to perform duties commonly performed by a Police Department
and members of the Department assigned to perform work commonly performed by a
Fire Department. Every public safety officer shall perform either police work
or fire work as such duties shall be assigned to him or her by the Director of
Public Safety. Wherever any duties shall be imposed upon a public safety
officer by any statute of the state, or by the City Charter or this code, such
duties shall be imposed upon the public safety officers of the city and all
public safety officers shall be “peace officers” within the meaning of such
terms as used in the statutes of the state.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.97 FUNCTIONS OF PUBLIC SAFETY DEPARTMENT.
   The public safety work of the city shall consist of the following functions:
   (A)   The operation of motor, bicycle and foot patrol units for routine
investigations and the general maintenance of law and order;
   (B)   The maintenance of the central complaint desk at public safety
headquarters, the maintaining and supervising of police records, criminal and
noncriminal identification, property identification and custody of property;
   (C)   The investigation of crimes, elimination of illegal substance and
liquor traffic and vice, and the preparation of evidence for the prosecution of
criminal cases and offenses in violation of this code;
   (D)   The removal of crime hazards and the coordination of community
agencies interested in crime prevention;
   (E)   The control of traffic, traffic educational programs, school patrols
and the coordination of traffic violation prosecutions; and
   (F)   The prevention and extinguishment of fires, the protection of life and
property against fire, the removal of fire hazards, provide medical first
response service, provide water and ice rescue services as needed, and the
performance of other public services of an emergency nature assigned to it, and
the conducting of an educational fire prevention program.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.98 ENFORCEMENT OF FIRE LAWS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Safety or designee to
enforce all state laws and provisions of this code governing the following:
      (1)   The prevention of fires;
      (2)   The storage and use of explosives and flammables;
      (3)   Ensure proper maintenance of fire alarm systems and all fire
extinguishing equipment is being performed;
      (4)   The maintenance and use of fire escapes;
      (5)   The maintenance of fire protection and the elimination of fire
hazards in all buildings and structures; and
      (6)   The maintenance and adequacy of fire exits from commercial
properties, multi-residential units and all other places where persons work or
congregate for any purpose.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.99 OTHER DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   The Director of Public Safety shall perform the following duties:
   (A)   Investigate the origin, cause and circumstances of all fires;
   (B)   Issue all orders necessary for the enforcement of state laws and of
the provisions included in §
1.94 of this code; and
   (C)   The Public Safety Director shall be responsible for the operation,
maintenance and care of all property and equipment used by the Public Safety
Department.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.100 DEPARTMENT RULES.
   (A)   The Public Safety Director may prescribe rules for the government of
public safety officers of the city, subject to approval by the City Manager,
which shall be entered in a Manual of Policy and Procedure which can be amended
or revoked by the Director of Public Safety, subject to approval by the City
Manager. Such rules may establish one or more divisions within the Public
Safety Department, each of which divisions may be charged with performing one
or more of the functions of the Public Safety Department enumerated in §
1.97. Any such divisions shall be supervised by an officer of the Public Safety
Department who shall be responsible for the particular functions of the Public
Safety Department assigned to the particular division supervised by him or her.
It shall be the duty of all members of the Public Safety Department to comply
with such rules.
   (B)   Such rules shall designate the chain of command for the Department so
that in the absence or disability of the Public Safety Director, the
responsibility for the operation of the Department shall immediately and
automatically vest in the officer designated by such regulations.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.101 ACTING DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SAFETY.
   (A)   In the case of the absence from the city of the Public Safety
Director, or his or her disability, or inability from any cause to act as
Public Safety Director, one of the captains shall act as Director of Public
Safety.
   (B)   In case of the absence, disability or inability from any cause of the
Public Safety Director and the captains, the City Manager shall designate and
appoint some other member of the Public Safety Department to act as Director
during such absence or disability.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
ARTICLE VIII. DEPARTMENT OF CITY SERVICES
§ 1.102 DIRECTOR.
   The Department of City Services shall be headed by the Director of City
Services. The Director shall be responsible for all matters relating to the
Department of City Services.
(Prior Code, § 1.101) (Ord. effective 5-29-1992)
§ 1.103 DIVISION OF STREETS AND UTILITIES.
   (A)   The Division of Streets and Utilities shall be a division of the
Department of City Services and shall be headed by the Streets and Utilities
Superintendent.
   (B)   This Division shall be responsible for the operation and maintenance
of the city sewage and water distribution systems, the maintenance of all
improved and unimproved street surfaces, the cleaning of improved streets, the
removal of snow, the maintenance of sidewalks, the operation of the refuse
collection and disposal service of the city, and the control and regulation of
the planting of trees.
(Prior Code, § 1.102) (Ord. effective 5-29-1992)
§ 1.104 DIVISION OF ENGINEERING SERVICES.
   (A)   The Division of Engineering Services shall be a division of the
Department of City Services and shall be headed by the Engineering Services
Supervisor.
   (B)   This Division shall be responsible for all matters relating to the
construction of streets and sidewalks within the city and of all physical
properties of the city, except as provided elsewhere in this code, for planning
in connection with such changes or improvements to the physical properties of
the city as are consistent with and necessary for the future growth and
development of the city, and for building inspection.
   (C)   A building inspector shall be appointed, who shall be responsible for
the issuance of all permits and inspection of all work done under the
provisions of the heating, electrical, plumbing and building codes of the city,
the safety inspection of all premises, including structures thereon, and the
enforcement of zoning and housing ordinances.
   (D)   The building inspector and other city personnel so designated by the
City Services Director shall be authorized to issue and serve appearance
tickets with regard to violations of Chapters
50,
80,
81,
82,
83,
84,
85,
91,
96 and
97 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 1.103) (Ord. effective 11-16-1990; Ord. effective 5-29-1992)
§§ 1.105 - 1.110 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IX. RESERVED
ARTICLE X. DEPARTMENT OF LAW
§ 1.121 RESPONSIBILITIES OF CITY ATTORNEY.
   This Department shall be headed by the City Attorney, who shall serve as set
forth in the City Charter. The City Attorney shall be the Director of the
Department of Law and shall be directly responsible to the City Commission. The
City Attorney shall act as legal advisor to and as counsel for the city. The
City Attorney shall conduct for the city all cases in court to which the city
is a party unless otherwise directed by resolution of the City Commission. The
City Attorney shall prepare and officially pass upon all contracts, bonds and
other instruments on which the city is concerned, and shall certify before
execution as to their legality and correctness of form. The City Attorney shall
attend the meetings of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1.121) (Ord. effective 5-31-1991)
CHAPTER 3: ADMINISTRATIVE POLICY AND PROCEDURE
Section
   
1.130   Reserved
   
1.131   City Manager
   
1.132   Director of Finance/Treasurer
   
1.133   City officers and employees
   
1.134   Vacancies
   
1.135   All departments
   
1.136   Administrative manual
   
1.137   Payment of monies
   
1.138   Approval and execution of legal documents
   
1.139   Bonds
   
1.140   Tax collection fees
§ 1.130 RESERVED.
§ 1.131 CITY MANAGER.
   (A)   As provided in the City Charter, the City Manager shall act as the
Chief Administrative Officer of the city and shall have supervisory authority
over all appointed city officials and employees except the Department of Law.
Except for the purpose of investigation as authorized in the City Charter, no
City Commissioner shall give orders to any employee or officer subject to the
direction and supervision of the City Manager. It is the intent of this section
that while the City Commission shall have broad powers and authority over the
Manager, no Commissioner shall have the right to interfere with or to
disorganize the administrative machinery set up by the Manager or to overrule
the Manager except by order to the Manager directly.
   (B)   The City Manager shall see that all ordinances, rules and regulations
adopted by the Commission and the provisions of this code that are subject to
enforcement by the Manager or the Manager’s subordinates are properly
administered and enforced. The Manager shall attend all meetings of the
Commission, regular and special. During the absence or disability of the
Manager, an acting Manager may be appointed in accordance with the provisions
of the City Charter.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   Acting Manager, see Charter Ch. IV, §
4.3
§ 1.132 DIRECTOR OF FINANCE/ TREASURER.
   The Director of Finance/Treasurer is responsible for the performance of the
duties and functions of his or her office as set forth in the Charter and in §
1.65 of this code.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   Director of Finance/Treasurer duties, see Charter §
5.2(b)
§ 1.133 CITY OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES.
   All officers, except the City Attorney, and employees of the city shall
report to the City Manager and shall be responsible to the City Manager for the
effective administration of their respective departments and offices and all
activities assigned to them. The City Manager may set aside any action taken by
such officers or employees and may supersede such officers or employees in the
functions of their respective offices.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.134 VACANCIES.
   In case of vacancy in office or during the absence or unavailability for any
reason of any administrative officer, the City Manager may designate an interim
acting head or perform personally the functions of the office, until such
vacancy is filled in accordance with the Charter.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.135 ALL DEPARTMENTS.
   All departments of the city shall comply with the following.
   (A)   All department heads shall keep informed as to the latest practices in
their particular field and shall inaugurate, with the approval of the City
Manager, such new practices as appear to be of benefit to the public.
   (B)   Each department head shall establish a system of records and reports
in sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of
departmental activities and to form a basis for the periodic reports to the
Manager. The City Finance Director/Treasurer shall keep the Commission fully
advised at all times as to the financial condition and needs of the city.
   (C)   Each department head shall be held responsible for the preservation of
all public records under his or her jurisdiction and shall provide a system of
filing and indexing the same. Public records, reports, correspondence or other
data relative to the business of any department shall be destroyed or removed
permanently from the files in accordance with the city retention policy.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.136 ADMINISTRATIVE MANUAL.
   The City Manager is authorized to adopt such administrative regulations in
addition to, but not inconsistent with, the Charter and this code as he or she
shall deem necessary and proper to provide for the adequate functioning of all
departments. Such regulations shall comprise the administrative manual.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.137 PAYMENT OF MONIES.
   Monies belonging to the city shall be paid out only upon presentation of a
valid invoice approved by the department head and shall be issued by check (or
other accepted method of payment) approved by the City Finance Director/
Treasurer and the City Manager in accordance with the city purchase policy.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.138 APPROVAL AND EXECUTION OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS.
   The Mayor shall sign, the City Clerk shall attest, the City Manager shall
approve as to substance, and the City Attorney shall approve as to legality and
form, all contracts and agreements requiring the assent of the city, unless
otherwise provided for by law, the Charter or the provisions of this code.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.139 BONDS.
   (A)   Surety bonds shall be filed by the following officers and employees of
the city in the following amounts:
      (1)   Finance Director/Treasurer: $500,000; and
      (2)   Deputy Treasurer: $500,000.
   (B)   The costs of all bonds shall be paid by the city.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.140 TAX COLLECTION FEES.
   The city shall impose an additional charge upon summer taxes paid after
August 14 of 1% per month, on the fifteenth day of each month until said taxes
are paid, from August 15 through February 15. The city shall impose a late
penalty charge upon winter taxes paid after February 14 of 1% per month, on
February 15.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
CHAPTER 4: CITY LIBRARY COMMISSION
Section
   
1.151   Library Commission
   
1.152   Organization
   
1.153   Meetings
   
1.154   Annual report
   
1.155   Duties
   
1.156   Building equipment
   
1.157   Committees
   
1.158   Branch librarian
   
1.159   Amendments
§ 1.151 LIBRARY COMMISSION.
   The Library Commission shall be composed of a minimum of five members and a
maximum of nine members, all of whom shall be residents of the city and one of
whom shall be a City Commissioner. Members shall be appointed by the Mayor with
the approval of the City Commission. Beginning July 1, 2020, the term of each
member shall be three years, except that at least one member but not more than
three members appointed July 1, 2020 shall initially serve for one year, at
least two members but not more than three members shall initially serve for two
years, and at least two members but not more than three members shall serve for
three years in order to stagger the normal three-year term. Beginning with July
1, 2021 only the Commissioners whose terms are expiring shall be up for
appointment, and that appointment shall then be for a three-year term.
Similarly, beginning July 1, 2022 the Commissioners then up for appointment
shall be appointed for a three-year term. A member’s first meeting shall be in
July of the year in which they are appointed. A member from Friends of the
Library shall attend each meeting of the Library Commission but is not to be a
voting member.
(Prior Code, § 1.151) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003; Ord. effective 6-12-2020)
§ 1.152 ORGANIZATION.
   At the first meeting after appointment in each year, the members of the
Library Commission shall meet and elect a chairperson, a vice chairperson, and
a secretary. Names of the officers shall be submitted forthwith to the City
Clerk. The chairperson shall preside at meetings of the Commission and, in the
chairperson’s absence, the chairperson’s duties shall be assumed by the vice
chairperson. The secretary shall keep accurate minutes of the proceedings at
each meeting. Minutes should be distributed to members of the Commission within
ten business days from the date of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1.152) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003)
§ 1.153 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Library Commission shall meet at regular intervals, not less than
four times each year. A single meeting should be held for the months of June/
July/August. In the event a special meeting is required, the chairperson or a
two-thirds majority of the Commission is authorized to call it.
   (B)   The Library Commission shall limit the number of absences without
notice for a member to three in a calendar year. The Library Commission may
request the City Commission to remove a member who violates this attendance
policy. The chairperson and branch librarian should set the agenda for the
Library Commission meetings.
(Prior Code, § 1.153) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003)
§ 1.154 ANNUAL REPORT.
   At the close of each fiscal year, the Library Commission shall furnish the
City Commission with an annual report of the activities of the Library
Commission. The report will be a combined effort among the chairperson, branch
library manager, and a member from the Friends of the Library. The report shall
be given to the Mayor’s office during the month of May.
(Prior Code, § 1.154) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003)
§ 1.155 DUTIES.
   The Library Commission shall serve in an advisory capacity on the
administration of branch library policies and shall coordinate activities of
the general public in connection with library services.
(Prior Code, § 1.155) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003)
§ 1.156 BUILDING EQUIPMENT.
   The Library Commission shall make recommendations to provide, maintain and
equip the library in a joint effort with the city and the Kent District library
system.
(Prior Code, § 1.156) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003)
§ 1.157 COMMITTEES.
   The chairperson should appoint a special committee if necessary for the
purpose of fact finding and/or to develop a recommendation on any given
assignment and the special committee shall report their findings to the full
Library Commission. If a final decision needs to be formalized, two-thirds of
the Commission is required to approve a formal decision.
(Prior Code, § 1.157) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003)
§ 1.158 BRANCH LIBRARIAN.
   The branch librarian should be considered an advisory, nonvoting member of
the Commission and should be invited to each meeting.
(Prior Code, § 1.158) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003)
§ 1.159 AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to the bylaws for the Library Commission may be requested by a
two-thirds vote of the members of the Library Commission. Any such amendments
are effective only if approved by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 1.159) (Ord. effective 11-28-2003)
CHAPTER 5: PURCHASES, CONTRACTS AND SALES
Section
   
1.210   Purchasing agent
   
1.211   Purchases or contracts under $5,000
   
1.212   Purchases or contracts of $5,000 or more
   
1.213   Exceptions
   
1.214   Emergency purchases
   
1.215   Inspection of materials
   
1.216   Disposition of property
§ 1.210 PURCHASING AGENT.
   The Manager shall act as purchasing agent of the city unless he or she shall
designate another officer or employee of the city to act as purchasing agent.
Any such designation shall be in writing filed with the Clerk. In the event of
such designation, every purchase order in excess of $100 shall be approved by
the Manager before being issued. The Manager shall adopt any necessary rules
respecting requisitions and purchase orders.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.211 PURCHASES OR CONTRACTS UNDER $5,000.
   Purchase of or contracts for supplies, materials or equipment, or for
services to be performed by other than city employees, the cost of which is
less than $5,000, may be made in the open market but such purchase shall, where
practicable, be based on at least three competitive bids and shall be awarded
to the lowest qualified bidder who meets the city’s specifications. The
purchasing agent may solicit bids verbally or by telephone, or may contact
prospective bidders by written communication. A record shall be kept for six
months of all open market orders and the bids submitted thereon, which records
shall be available for public inspection. Any or all bids may be rejected.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.212 PURCHASES OR CONTRACTS OF $5,000 OR MORE.
   Any other expenditure or contract for supplies, materials, equipment,
construction project or services obligating the city, shall be approved by the
City Commission and shall be governed by the provisions of this section.
   (A)   Such expenditure shall be made the subject of a written contract
unless provided otherwise by resolution of the City Commission. A purchase
order shall be a sufficient written contract in cases where the expenditure is
in the usual and ordinary course of the city’s affairs.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
1.213, the purchasing agent shall solicit bids from a reasonable number of such
qualified prospective bidders as are known to him or her either by sending each
a copy of the notice requesting bids or by posting on city website.
   (C)   Unless prescribed by the Commission, the Manager shall prescribe
whether security is required to be deposited with any bid, and the amount
thereof, which deposit shall be in the form of cash, certified check or bond
written by a surety company authorized to do business in the State of Michigan.
The amount of such security shall ordinarily be expressed in terms of
percentage of the bid submitted. Unless fixed by the Commission, the Manager
shall, in the case of construction contracts, fix the amount of the performance
bond and the amount of the labor and materials bond required of the successful
bidders.
   (D)   Where provided by the notice to bidders, bids shall be opened in
public at the time and place designated in the notice requesting bids. The bids
shall be tabulated and reported to the Commission with the recommendation of
the purchasing agent at the next Commission meeting. After tabulation, all bids
may be inspected by the competing bidders. In lieu of the procedure for opening
bids herein specified, the Commission may direct that bids be opened at a
Commission meeting.
   (E)   The Commission shall have the right to reject any or all bids and to
waive irregularities in bidding and to accept bids which do not conform in
every respect to the bidding requirements.
   (F)   Before a construction contract may be executed by the city, the
contractor shall file a labor and materials bond and a performance bond
executed by a surety company authorized to do business in the State of
Michigan, as required by Public Act 213 of 1963, being M.C.L.A. §§ 129.201 et
seq. The contractor shall also file evidence of public liability insurance in
an amount satisfactory to the City Manager, and shall agree to save the city
harmless from loss or damage caused to any person or property by reason of the
contractor’s negligence or wrongful act.
   (G)   All bids and deposits of certified or cashier’s checks may be retained
until the contract is awarded and signed. If any successful bidder fails or
refuses to enter into the contract awarded to him or her within seven days
after the same has been awarded, or to file any required bond or evidence of
insurance within the same time, the deposit accompanying his or her bid shall
be forfeited to the city, and the Commission may, in its discretion, award the
contract to one of the other bidders whose bid it finds satisfactory or said
contract may be resubmitted.
   (H)   Any purchase or contract to be made or performed in segments or
components shall be subject to this section if the total cost is reasonably
expected to equal or exceed $5,000.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 129.201 et seq.
§ 1.213 EXCEPTIONS.
   The procedures specified in §
1.212 shall not be required in the following cases:
   (A)   Where the subject of the contract is other than a public work or
improvement and the City Commission declares by resolution that the product or
material to be purchased or contracted for is not competitive in nature or no
advantage to the city would result from requiring competitive bidding, and
authorizes execution of a contract without competitive bidding;
   (B)   In the employment of professional services; and
   (C)   Where the Commission shall determine that the public interest will be
best served by purchase from, or joint purchase with, another unit of
government.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.214 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   For purchases wherein City Commission approval is otherwise required, any
department head, with the approval of the Manager, may purchase directly any
supplies, materials, equipment, or services, the immediate procurement of which
is necessary to the continuation of the work of the department. Such purchases
and the emergency causing them shall be reported in detail to the City
Commission at its next meeting and such reports shall be preserved by the
purchasing agent for a period of two years.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.215 INSPECTION OF MATERIALS.
   The responsibility for the inspection and acceptance of all materials,
supplies and equipment shall rest with the ordering department.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.216 DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   Whenever any city property, real or personal, is no longer needed for
corporate or public purposes, the same may be offered for sale. Personal
property not exceeding $1,000 in value may be sold for cash by the purchasing
agent after receiving quotations or competitive bids therefor for the best
price obtainable. Personal property with a value in excess of $1,000, or real
property, may be sold after advertising and receiving competitive bids as
provided in §
1.212 of this code and after approval of the sale by the Commission.
   (B)   Real property which is assessed at less than $10,000 on the city’s
assessment roll may be sold without receiving competitive bids therefor upon
determination by resolution of the City Commission that it would not benefit
the city to have competitive bidding and upon approval of the sale by the City
Commission. In all other instances, real property may be sold only after
advertising and receiving competitive bids as provided in §
1.212 of this code and after approval of the sale by the City Commission. SALE,
as used in this section, shall include lease or other disposition of the
property.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
CHAPTER 6: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT
Section
   
1.220   Definitions
   
1.221   Emergency Management Department
   
1.222   Powers and duties of the Mayor
   
1.223   Powers and duties of the City Manager
   
1.224   Powers and duties of the Director of Emergency Management Department
   
1.225   Emergency management and disaster control plan
   
1.226   Conflicting ordinances, orders, rules and regulations suspended
   
1.227   Coordination with state’s Emergency Preparedness Act
§ 1.220 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISASTER. Any occurrence or threat of wide spread or severe damage, injury,
or loss of life or property resulting from a natural or human made cause
including, but not limited to, fire, flood, snowstorm, ice storm, tornado, wind
storm, water contamination, utility failure, hazardous peacetime radiological
incident, major transportation accident, hazardous materials incident,
epidemic, air contamination, explosion, or hostile military action or
paramilitary action, or similar occurrences resulting from terrorist
activities, riots, or civil disorders.
   EMERGENCY. A condition resulting from actual or threatened enemy attack or
disaster which cannot be handled by normal operating personnel and facilities.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT. The preparation for and carrying out of all emergency
functions, other than functions for which the military forces are primarily
responsible, for protection against and to minimize and repair injury and
damage resulting from enemy attack, sabotage, or other hostile action, or by
disaster.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person who serves without compensation
in the civil defense organization.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016; Ord. effective 12-7-2020)
§ 1.221 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Department is hereby created utilizing to the
fullest extent personnel and facilities of existing city departments and
agencies. The City Manager shall be responsible for its organization,
administration and operation.
   (B)   The organization shall consist of the following:
      (1)   The Emergency Management Department within the Executive Department
of the city government. There shall be an executive head of the Department of
Emergency Management, appointed by the City Commission, who shall be known as
the Director of Emergency Management, and such assistants, clerical help, other
employees and civil defense volunteers as are deemed necessary to the proper
functioning of the organization. In the absence of an appointment of a Director
by the City Commission, the City Manager shall be the Director of Emergency
Management;
      (2)   Four Deputy Directors, Finance Director, Public Safety Director
(police, fire, ems), Assistant City Manager (engineering and public works), and
Parks and Recreation Director, appointed by the City Manager. These shall, so
far as possible, be additional duty assignments to existing personnel, and it
is the intent of this chapter that emergency management and disaster
assignments shall be as nearly consistent with normal duty assignment as
possible;
      (3)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all city departments,
and agencies suitable for or adaptable to emergency management and designated
by the City Manager to participate in the emergency management activity; and
      (4)   Emergency management volunteers, including persons and private
agencies or governmental units offering services to the organization.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.222 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE MAYOR.
   (A)   In the event of an actual or threatened enemy attack or disaster, the
Mayor, or in his or her absence or inability to serve, the President of the
Commission, as conservator of the peace, shall:
      (1)   Declare a state of emergency within the city, thereby placing in
effect the emergency management and disaster control plan required by this
chapter;
      (2)   As soon as may be thereafter, convene the City Commission to
perform such legislative and administrative functions as the situation may
demand. The Commission shall have the power to terminate the state of
emergency;
      (3)   Request the state, its agencies or political subdivisions to send
aid if the situation is beyond the control of the regular and emergency city
forces;
      (4)   Have the power to command services and the use of equipment and
facilities for such work and duties; and
      (5)   Promulgate such emergency regulations as may be deemed necessary to
protect life and property and conserve critical resources, and such regulations
may be invoked when necessary for tests of emergency management and disaster
plans. All such regulations shall be effective when publicly promulgated but
shall be subject to review by the Commission as soon as practicable subsequent
to promulgation.
   (B)   The Mayor, or in his or her absence or inability to serve, the
President of the Commission, shall have power to order emergency management
forces to the aid of the state or political subdivisions thereof, subject to
Commission review, as soon as practicable.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016; Ord. effective 12-7-2020)
§ 1.223 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager, as the Director of Emergency Management, shall maintain
general supervision over the planning and administration for the emergency
management organization and the execution of the emergency management and
disaster plans. He or she shall coordinate emergency management activities and
make emergency assignments as necessary.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.224 POWERS AND DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Director shall be executive head of the Emergency Management
Department and shall have responsibility for the organization, administration
and operation of the emergency and disaster control organization, subject to
the direction and control of the City Manager.
   (B)   The Director of Emergency Management shall be responsible for public
relations, information and education regarding all phases of civil defense.
   (C)   The Director shall be responsible for the development of an emergency
management and disaster control plan, and upon adoption, shall be responsible
for such implementation and revision of the plan as to maintain it on a current
state of readiness at all times.
   (D)   The Director shall coordinate all activities for emergency management
and disaster control, and shall maintain liaison and cooperate with all other
interested and affected agencies, public and private.
   (E)   The Director shall coordinate the recruitment and training of
volunteer personnel and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the
city for emergency management purposes.
   (F)   The Director may issue proper insignia and papers to emergency
management workers and other people directly concerned with emergency
management.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.225 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AND DISASTER CONTROL PLAN.
   As soon as practicable after the enactment of this chapter, a comprehensive
emergency management and disaster control plan shall be adopted by resolution
of the Commission upon the recommendations of the City Manager. In the
preparation of this plan as it pertains to city organization, it is the intent
that the services, equipment, facilities and personnel of all existing
departments and agencies shall be utilized to the fullest extent. When
approved, it shall be the duty of all municipal departments and agencies to
perform the functions and duties assigned by the plan and to maintain their
portion of the plan in a current state of readiness at all times.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.226 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES, ORDERS, RULES AND REGULATIONS SUSPENDED.
   At all times when the orders, rules and regulations made and promulgated
pursuant to this chapter shall be in effect, they shall supersede all existing
ordinances, orders, rules and regulations insofar as the latter may be
inconsistent therewith.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.227 COORDINATION WITH STATE’S EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS ACT.
   The actions of the Emergency Management Department under this chapter shall
be subject to the provisions of the state's Emergency Management Act (M.C.L.A.
§ 30.401 et seq.). In all instances where there is a conflict between the
provisions of this chapter and the state's Emergency Management Act, the
provisions of the Emergency Management Act shall supersede the provisions of
this chapter. The Director of Emergency Management under this chapter shall
serve as the local coordinator under the Emergency Management Act.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016; Ord. effective 12-7-2020)
CHAPTER 7: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
   
1.301   Definitions
   
1.302   Commission authority
   
1.303   Preliminary proceedings
   
1.304   Initial Commission determination
   
1.305   Special assessment roll
   
1.306   Assessing single lots
   
1.307   Assessment roll; hearing and confirmation
   
1.308   Attachment of liens
   
1.309   Handling of assessment roll
   
1.310   Deficiency assessments and refunds
   
1.311   Reassessment in event of illegality
§ 1.301 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST. When referring to the cost of any improvement, shall include the cost
of surveys, plans, right-of-way, spreading of rolls, notices, advertising,
financing and construction and all other costs incident to the making of such
improvement, the special assessments therefor and the financing thereof.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any public improvement, any part of the cost of which is to be
assessed against one or more lots or parcels of land to be especially
benefitted thereby in proportion to the benefit to be derived therefrom.
   LAST CITY TAX ASSESSMENT RECORDS. The last assessment roll for city ad
valorem taxes which has been reviewed by the city’s Board of Review as
supplemented by any changes in the names or addresses of the owners or parties
listed thereon filed with the City Assessor subsequent to the date of such
review.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   Board of review, see Charter §
11.5
§ 1.302 COMMISSION AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The Commission shall have power to determine that the whole or any
part of the cost of any improvement shall be defrayed by special assessments
upon the property especially benefitted, but such determination shall not be
made until the proceedings provided for in §§
1.303 and
1.304 of this chapter shall have been completed.
   (B)   The Commission, in order to ascertain whether or not a reasonable
number of property owners to be assessed desire any particular improvement to
be made, may request and receive a petition therefor, or may receive such a
petition voluntarily presented; but in either event such petition shall be
advisory only and shall not be jurisdictional. Nothing herein contained shall
be construed to require the filing of a petition as a prerequisite to the
commencement of proceedings under this chapter, which proceedings may be
commenced by the Commission on its own initiative.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.303 PRELIMINARY PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)   Before determining to make any improvement, any part of the cost of
which is to be defrayed by special assessment, the Commission shall require the
Manager to prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and specifications therefor
and an estimate of the cost thereof, and to file the same with the City Clerk,
together with his or her recommendation as to the portion of the cost to be
paid by the city-at-large, the number of installments in which assessments may
be paid and the lands which should be included in the special assessment
district.
   (B)   After such filing, a public hearing shall be held before the City
Commission at a time and place to be fixed by resolution of the City
Commission. The Clerk shall cause notice of the time and place of such hearing
to be published once in the officially designated newspaper of the city not
less than ten days prior to the date of said hearing. Notice shall also be
given by the Clerk to each owner of or party in interest in property to be
assessed whose name appears upon the last city tax assessment records, by
mailing by first class mail addressed to such owner or party at the address
shown on said records at least ten days before the date of such hearing.
Failure of the owner or party to receive such notice shall not invalidate the
proceedings or assessments.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.304 INITIAL COMMISSION DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Upon completion of the hearing prescribed in §
1.303(B), the Commission shall by resolution make a determination as to the
necessity of the proposed improvement and, if it determines that the proposed
improvement constitutes a public necessity, it may also determine to defray the
whole or any part of the cost of the improvement by special assessment upon the
property especially benefitted in proportion to the benefits thereto. The
Commission shall by resolution approve the plans and specifications for the
improvement; determine the estimated cost thereof; determine what portion of
such cost shall be paid by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted and what portion, if any, shall be paid by the city-at-large;
determine the number of installments in which assessments may be paid;
determine the rate of interest to be charged on installments; designate the
special assessment district which shall include the land and premises upon
which special assessments shall be levied; and direct the Manager to prepare,
or cause to be prepared, a special assessment roll in accordance with the
Commission’s determination. Any resolution so adopted may be amended by the
Commission prior to the levy of the assessment for such improvement.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any provision of this section, the Commission may by
resolution delay the preparation of the special assessment roll until after the
completion of the improvement, in which case the actual cost thereof shall be
reported to the Commission, and the special assessment roll shall then be made
for such actual cost rather than for the estimated cost.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.305 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The Manager (or designee) shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, a
special assessment roll including all lots and parcels of land within the
special assessment district designated by the Commission, and assessing to each
lot or parcel of land such relative portion of the whole sum to be levied
against all the lands in the special assessment district as the benefit to such
lot or parcel of land bears to the total benefits to all lands in such
district. There shall also be entered upon such roll the amount to be paid by
the city-at-large.
   (B)   The Manager shall attach to such special assessment roll, or endorse
thereon, his or her certificate to the effect that said roll has been prepared
pursuant to a resolution of the Commission (giving date of adoption of same)
and that in making the assessments therein he or she has, as near as may be
according to his or her best judgment, conformed in all respects to the
directions contained in such resolution, and to the provisions of this chapter.
Thereupon he or she shall file said special assessment roll with the Clerk who
shall present the same to the Commission.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.306 ASSESSING SINGLE LOTS.
   (A)   When any expense shall have been incurred by the city upon or in
respect to any single premises, which expense is chargeable against such
premises and the owner thereof under the provisions of the Charter, or any
ordinance of the city, or law of the state, and is not of that class required
to be prorated among several lots and parcels of land in a special assessment
district, an account of the labor, material or service for which such expense
was incurred, with a description of the premises upon or in respect to which
the expense was incurred, and the name of the owner, if known, shall be
reported to the Director of Finance/Treasurer who shall immediately charge and
bill the owner, if known. The Manager shall at such times as he or she may deem
advisable, prepare a special assessment roll covering all such charges which
shall not have been paid. Said roll shall be filed with the Clerk who shall
present the same to the Commission.
   (B)   The provisions of the preceding sections of this chapter with
reference to special assessments generally and the proceedings necessary to be
had before making the improvements shall not apply to assessments contemplated
in division (A) above.
   (C)   Upon confirmation of any special assessment roll authorized by this
section, the Commission shall determine the number of installments in which
assessments may be paid and the rate of interest to be charged on installments.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   Property tax, see Charter §
11.2
§ 1.307 ASSESSMENT ROLL; HEARING AND CONFIRMATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a special assessment roll, the Commission shall order
it filed in the office of the Clerk for public examination, shall fix the time
and place when it will meet and review such roll, and shall direct the Clerk to
give notice of said hearing. Such notice shall specify the time and place of
such hearing and shall be published once in the officially designated newspaper
of the city not less than ten days prior to the date of such hearing. Such
notice shall also be given by the Clerk to each owner of or party in interest
in property to be assessed whose name appears upon the last city tax assessment
records, by mailing by first class mail addressed to such owner or party at the
address shown on said records, at least ten days before the date of such
hearing. Failure of the owner or party to receive such notice shall not
invalidate the proceedings or assessments.
   (B)   The Commission shall meet and review the special assessment roll at
the time and place appointed or at an adjourned date therefor, and shall
consider any written or oral objections thereto. The Commission may correct
said roll as to any assessment or description of any lot or other errors
appearing therein. Any changes made in such roll shall be noted in the
Commission minutes. After such hearing and review, the Commission may confirm
such special assessment roll with such corrections as it may have made, if any,
or may refer it back to the Manager for revision or may annul it and any
proceedings in connection therewith. The Clerk shall endorse the date of
confirmation upon such special assessment roll.
   (C)   Such roll shall, upon confirmation, be final and conclusive.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.308 ATTACHMENT OF LIENS.
   All special assessments contained in any special assessment roll, including
any part thereof deferred as to payment, shall, from the date of confirmation
of such roll, constitute a lien upon the respective lots or parcels of land
assessed and, until paid, shall be a charge against the respective owners of
the several lots and parcels of land. Such lien shall be of the same character
and effect as the lien created for city taxes and shall include interest and
penalties. No judgment or decree, nor any act of the Commission vacating a
special assessment, shall destroy or impair the lien of the city upon the
premises assessed for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged
against the same or as by a regular mode of proceeding might be lawfully
assessed thereon.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.309 HANDLING OF ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   The assessment roll shall be transmitted by the Clerk to the Director
of Finance/Treasurer for collection after its confirmation. The Clerk shall
give notice by one publication in the officially designated newspaper of the
city that said special assessment roll (identifying it) has been filed in his
or her office and specifying when and where payments may be made thereon. He or
she shall mail statements of the several assessments to the respective owners,
as indicated by the records of the Assessor, of the several lots and parcels of
land assessed, stating the amount of the assessment and the manner in which it
may be paid; provided, however, that failure to mail or receive any such
statement shall not invalidate the assessment or entitle the owner to an
extension of time within which to pay the assessment.
   (B)   The whole or any part of any such assessment may be paid during the
period of 30 days from the date of confirmation of the special assessment roll
without interest or penalty. Not later than ten days after the end of said 30-
day period, the Director of Finance/Treasurer shall record all payments upon
assessments noted thereon. The Director of Finance/Treasurer shall then divide
any remaining balance of each assessment by such number of equal installments
as shall have been fixed by the Commission.
   (C)   The first installment shall be spread upon the next city tax roll in a
column headed “special assessments” together with interest upon all unpaid
installments from the date of confirmation of the roll to and including June 30
of the year in which such tax roll is made; provided, that any fraction of a
month shall be considered as a full month. Thereafter, one installment shall be
spread upon each annual tax roll, together with one year’s interest upon all
unpaid installments; provided, that when any annual installment shall have been
prepaid as hereinafter provided, then there shall be spread upon the tax roll
for such year only the interest upon all unpaid installments.
   (D)   After each installment has been placed on the tax rolls, the same
shall be collected by the Director of Finance/Treasurer with the same rights
and remedies, and the same penalties and interest, as provided in the City
Charter for the collection of taxes.
   (E)   After the expiration of the 30-day period provided for in division (B)
above, any installment which has not been spread upon the tax rolls may be
discharged by paying the face amount thereof plus one full year’s interest
thereon. Any person desiring to pay such installment in advance shall contact
the Director of Finance/Treasurer to compute the amount to be paid. The
Director of Finance/Treasurer shall record all advance payments on installments
so that such information is current before spreading installments on the next
city tax roll.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   Taxation, see Charter
Ch. XI
§ 1.310 DEFICIENCY ASSESSMENTS AND REFUNDS.
   (A)   Upon completion of the improvement and the payment of the cost
thereof, the Clerk shall certify to the Manager the total cost of said
improvement. The Manager shall submit this report to the Commission, together
with the amount of the original roll for said improvement.
   (B)   Should the assessments in any special assessment roll, together with
the amount to be paid by the city-at-large, prove insufficient for any reason
to pay the cost of the improvement, as defined in §
1.301, then the Commission may make additional assessments against the several
lots and parcels of land and/or charges to the city-at-large in the same ratio
as the original assessments and charges, to supply the deficiency; but the
total amount assessed against any lot or parcel of land shall not exceed the
value of the benefits received from the improvement.
   (C)   Should the assessments levied plus the amount charged to the city-at-
large prove to be more than 5% larger than necessary to defray the cost of the
improvement, then the Commission shall, by resolution, order the excess to be
applied pro rata to the amount charged to the city-at-large and to the unpaid
installments of said special assessment against each lot or parcel of land. Any
amount of such excess shall be applied equally to all outstanding installments.
Any amount of such excess which cannot be applied as aforesaid shall be
refunded to the current property owner of said lot or parcel of land.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 1.311 REASSESSMENT IN EVENT OF ILLEGALITY.
   Whenever any special assessment shall, in the opinion of the Commission, be
invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the proceedings, or if any
court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge such assessment to be illegal,
the Commission shall, whether the improvement has been made or not, or whether
any part of the assessment has been paid or not, have power to cause a new
assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was
made. All proceedings on such reassessment and for the collection thereof shall
be conducted in the same manner as herein provided for with respect to the
original assessment; and whenever the assessment, or any part thereof, levied
upon any premises has been so set aside, if the same has been paid and not
refunded, the payment so made shall be applied upon the reassessment and the
reassessment shall, to that extent, be deemed satisfied.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
CHAPTER 8: RESERVED
CHAPTER 9: CITY ELECTIONS
Section
   
1.510   Effect of provisions
   
1.511   Primary elections
   
1.512   General elections
   
1.513   Nomination of candidates
   
1.514   Preparation of ballots
   
1.515   Election of Mayor or City Commissioners
   
1.516   Commencement of terms
   
1.517   Length of terms
   
1.518   Applicability of Charter
   
1.519   Statutory authorization
§ 1.510 EFFECT OF PROVISIONS.
   Commencing with city elections to be held subsequent to the June 2017
election, city elections shall be held as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. effective 9-29-2017)
§ 1.511 PRIMARY ELECTIONS.
   Municipal primary elections shall be held on the Tuesday following the first
Monday in August of each odd-numbered year, beginning in 2017, or in accordance
with state election law.
(Ord. effective 9-29-2017)
Charter reference:
   Primary elections, see Charter §
6.5
§ 1.512 GENERAL ELECTIONS.
   General municipal elections shall be held on the Tuesday following the first
Monday in November of each odd-numbered year beginning in 1985.
(Prior Code, § 1.512)
§ 1.513 NOMINATION OF CANDIDATES.
   (A)   Candidates for the office of Mayor shall be nominated from the city-
at-large by petition and elected by the qualified electors of the city.
Candidates for the office of City Commissioner shall be nominated by petition
and elected by the qualified electors of the ward in which they reside.
Nominating petitions shall be on blanks furnished by the City Clerk. Each
nominating petition shall comply with state law, be signed by not less than 25
qualified electors, and be filed with the Clerk by 4:00 p.m. of the fifteenth
Tuesday preceding the primary election in each odd-numbered year.
   (B)   Each elector who signs a petition shall date his or her signature and
include his or her residential street address on the petition. If an elector
signs more petitions for candidates for any office than the number of positions
to be filled, then the most recent signatures shall be invalid and if the most
recent signatures all bear the same date, then all of those signatures shall be
invalid. The circulator of a petition shall attach to each petition a
certificate stating:
      (1)   The number of signatures on the petition;
      (2)   Each signature is that of the person whose name it purports to be;
and
      (3)   Each signature was made in the presence of the circulator.   
(Ord. effective 9-29-2017)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 168.542 et seq.
§ 1.514 PREPARATION OF BALLOTS.
   Within five days after the expiration of the time limit for filing
nominating petitions, the City Clerk shall certify to the Board of Election
Commissioners the names of all candidates duly nominated and any special
matters to be submitted to the electors. The Board shall then prepare the
ballots, indicating the name of each candidate and office without any party
name or designation, and the special matters, if any, to be voted upon. A
candidate’s name shall not be withdrawn from the election unless a written
notice of withdrawal is served on the Clerk not later than 4:00 p.m. within
three days after the last day for filing nominating petitions.
(Prior Code, § 1.514) (Ord. effective 2-15-1991)
Charter reference:
   Ballots, see Charter §
6.4
§ 1.515 ELECTION OF MAYOR OR CITY COMMISSIONERS.
   The two candidates who receive the highest number of votes for the office of
Mayor and the two candidates who receive the highest number of votes for the
office of City Commissioner shall have their names placed upon the general
municipal election ballot for that office unless no more than three candidates
file nominating petitions for an office, in which case a primary election shall
not be held for that office and those candidates shall be declared the nominees
for that office in the general municipal election.
(Prior Code, § 1.515) (Ord. effective 2-15-1991)
Charter reference:
   Primary elections, see Charter §
6.5
§ 1.516 COMMENCEMENT OF TERMS.
   The terms of office of persons elected at elections held in 1985 and
subsequent thereto as Mayor and as City Commissioners shall commence at noon on
the first Monday in December following their election.
(Prior Code, § 1.516)
§ 1.517 LENGTH OF TERMS.
   The terms of office of Mayor and City Commissioners elected in 1985 and
subsequent thereto shall be four years. The terms of office of persons elected
as City Commissioner in 1982 shall continue until the first Monday in December
of 1985. The terms of office of persons elected as Mayor and City Commissioners
in 1983 shall continue until the first Monday in December of 1987.
(Prior Code, § 1.517)
Charter reference:
   Term of office, see Charter §
3.3
§ 1.518 APPLICABILITY OF CHARTER.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the provisions of
Chapters III and
VI of the City Charter shall apply with respect to all city elections.
(Prior Code, § 1.518) (Ord. effective 2-15-1991)
§ 1.519 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The provisions of this chapter are adopted pursuant to authorization
contained in Public Act 116 of 1954, being M.C.L.A. §§ 168.1 et seq., as
amended.
(Prior Code, § 1.519)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 168.1 et seq.
CHAPTER 10: NONDISCRIMINATION
Section
   
1.601   Policy
   
1.602   Implementation by city
   
1.603   Exceptions
   
1.604   Interpretation
   
1.605   Investigation of violations
   
1.606   Prosecution
§ 1.601 POLICY.
   (A)   The city concurs with the policy expressed by Public Act 220 of 1976,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 37.1101 et seq., and Public Act 453 of 1976, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 37.2101 et seq., as amended, that equal opportunity be assured to all
persons regardless of religion, race, color, national origin, age, sex, height,
weight, marital status, or handicap. Therefore, discrimination in housing,
accommodation or employment on the basis of any of these characteristics, or on
the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity, is prohibited by the city,
except as provided below.
   (B)   For purposes of this chapter, DISCRIMINATION means to make a decision,
offer to make a decision or refrain from making a decision based in whole or in
part on the actual or perceived religion, race, color, national origin, age,
sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, height, weight, marital status or
handicap of another person.
(Ord. effective 3-27-2015)
§ 1.602 IMPLEMENTATION BY CITY.
   All city contracts shall provide that a breach of the obligation not to
discriminate established by this chapter shall be material breach of the
contract. The city shall include such nondiscrimination language in its
contracts.
(Ord. effective 3-27-2015)
§ 1.603 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this chapter, the following practices
shall not be a violation of this chapter:
   (A)   For a religious organization or institution to restrict any of its
facilities of housing or accommodations that are operated as a direct part of
religious activities to persons of the denomination involved or to restrict
employment opportunities for officers, religious instructors, and clergy to
persons of that denomination;
   (B)   For the owner of an owner-occupied or owner-family-occupied one-family
or two-family dwelling to restrict occupancy of the remainder of that dwelling
unit;
   (C)   To discriminate based on a person’s age when such discrimination is
required by state, federal or local law;
   (D)   To refuse to enter a contract with an unemancipated minor;
   (E)   To refuse to admit to a place of public accommodation serving
alcoholic beverages a person under the legal age for purchasing alcoholic
beverages;
   (F)   For an educational institution to limit the use of its facilities to
those affiliated with such institution;
   (G)   To provide discounts on products or services to students, minors and
senior citizens;
   (H)   To restrict use of lavatories and locker room facilities on the basis
of sex;
   (I)   For a governmental institution to restrict any of its facilities or to
restrict its employment opportunities based on duly-adopted institutional
policies that conform to federal and state laws and regulations;
   (J)   To restrict participation in an instructional program, athletic event
or on an athletic team on the basis of age or sex;
   (K)   To discriminate in hiring and selecting between one person and another
based on bona fide occupational qualifications;
   (L)   To give preferential treatment in hiring to veterans and their
relatives as required by state or federal law; and
   (M)   To discriminate in employment, public accommodation, public services
and housing based upon a person’s age, income level or mental or physical
limitations when such discrimination is required or allowed by federal, state
or local constitution, law or regulation.
(Ord. effective 3-27-2015)
§ 1.604 INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall not be read to prohibit or interfere with the exercise of
a person’s first amendment rights, nor shall it be read to require an employer,
whether public or private, to provide benefits to domestic partners in
contravention of Art. I, § 25 of the state’s Constitution.
(Ord. effective 3-27-2015)
§ 1.605 INVESTIGATION OF VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person claiming a violation of this chapter shall file a signed,
written complaint with the City Manager or his or her designee within 180 days
of the incident forming the basis of the complaint. The complaint must set
forth the details, including the names, dates, witnesses and other factual
matters relevant to the claim.
   (B)   Within 30 days of a written complaint complying with this chapter
being filed, the City Manager or his or her designee shall begin an
investigation of any complaint alleging a violation of this chapter not
currently recognized or proscribed by state or federal anti-discrimination
statutes, and cause all other complaints to be referred to an appropriate state
or federal agency for review.
   (C)   In the course of the investigation, the City Manager or his or her
designee may request a person to answer questions and produce papers, records
or other documents which might be relevant to the alleged violation of this
chapter. If said person does not comply with such requests, the City Attorney
may apply to the County Circuit Court for an order requiring production of said
materials.
   (D)   No person shall provide false information to the City Manager or any
authorized designee investigating a complaint regarding a violation of this
chapter. Each violation of this division (D) shall constitute a civil
infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $500.
   (E)   After completion of an investigation under this section, the City
Manager or his or her designee shall give written notice of the results of the
investigation to the person who filed the complaint and the person accused of
the violation. If the investigation establishes that a violation of this
chapter occurred, the City Manager or his or her designee shall either refer
the matter to a mediation service or refer the complaint to the City Attorney
for prosecution in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. effective 3-27-2015)
§ 1.606 PROSECUTION.
   (A)   At the discretion of the City Attorney, prosecution for violation of
this chapter may be initiated on the basis of an investigation undertaken
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter shall constitute a civil infraction
pursuant to the provisions of the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, M.C.L.A. §§
600.101 et seq. and is punishable by a fine of not more than $500 plus the
costs of investigation and prosecution.
(Ord. effective 3-27-2015)
CHAPTER 11: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
1.651   Definitions
   
1.652   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement
   
1.653   Municipal civil infraction citations; issuance and service
   
1.654   Municipal civil infraction citations; contents
§ 1.651 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended.
   AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. A city official, public safety officer or other
personnel or agent of the city authorized by this code or any ordinance to
issue municipal civil infraction citations.
   CITY. The City of East Grand Rapids.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice prepared
by an authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court regarding
the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the
person cited.
(Prior Code, § 1.651) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
§ 1.652 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION; COMMENCEMENT.
   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized city official of a municipal civil infraction citation directing the
alleged violator to appear in court.
(Prior Code, § 1.652) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
§ 1.653 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE.
   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials as follows.
   (A)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
   (B)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the district
court which has jurisdiction over the city.
   (C)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a form
approved by the State Court Administrator. The original citation shall be filed
with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by the city
and issued to the alleged violator as provided by § 8705 of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 600.8705.
   (D)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged in
the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint and
if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date and
signature of the official: I declare under the penalties of perjury that the
statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and belief.
   (E)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a municipal
civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as
completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
   (F)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
      (1)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
      (2)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the official has
reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an infraction
and if the City Attorney approves in writing the issuance of the citation.
   (G)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
city official as follows.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided below, an authorized city official
shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged violator.
      (2)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting a copy
on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a
copy of the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner of the
land, building or structure at the owner’s last known address.
(Prior Code, § 1.653) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
§ 1.654 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   A municipal ordinance citation shall contain the name and address of
the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the place where
the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of the court,
and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
   (B)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he or she
may do one of the following:
      (1)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail, in
person or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance;
      (2)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance, or in person, or by
representation; or
      (3)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
         (a)   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the city; or
         (b)   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (C)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
      (1)   If the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility “with
explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to
the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time
specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time for an
appearance;
      (2)   If the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the alleged
violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone or by
representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled
date and time to appear for a hearing, unless a hearing date is specified on
the citation;
      (3)   A hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal hearing is
requested by the alleged violator or the city;
      (4)   At an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge or district court magistrate without the opportunity of being
represented by an attorney; and
      (5)   At a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in person
before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in bold-faced type that the
failure of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the
citation or at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor
and will result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on
the municipal civil infraction.
(Prior Code, § 1.654) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
CHAPTER 12: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION PENALTIES
Section
   
1.671   Municipal civil infraction
   
1.672   General penalties and sanctions for violations of city ordinances;
continuing violations; injunctive relief
§ 1.671 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   For purposes of this chapter, the words MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION shall
mean an act or omission that is prohibited by an ordinance of the city, but
which is not a crime under the particular ordinance involved, and for which
civil sanctions, including, without limitation, fines, damages, expenses and
costs, may be ordered, as authorized by Chapter 87 of Public Act 236 of 1961,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended, and Public Act 12-26 of 1994, as
amended. A municipal civil infraction is not a lesser included offense of a
violation of a city ordinance that is a criminal offense.
(Prior Code, § 1.671) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
§ 1.672 GENERAL PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS OF CITY ORDINANCES;
CONTINUING VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Unless a violation of an ordinance of the city is specifically
designated in the ordinance as a municipal civil infraction, the violation
shall be deemed to be a criminal misdemeanor.
   (B)   The penalty for a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not exceeding
$500 (plus costs of prosecution), or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or
both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the violation by the
ordinance involved.
   (C)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by the ordinances involved,
plus any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions, as authorized under
Chapter 87 of Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as
amended, Public Act 12-26 of 1994, as amended, and other applicable laws.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation by an ordinance, the civil fine for a municipal
civil infraction violation shall be not less than $50, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (2)   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations by a
person of any requirement or provision of an ordinance.
         (a)   As used in this chapter, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
ordinance:
            1.   Committed by a person within any 12-month period (unless some
other period is specifically provided by an ordinance); and
            2.   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
         (b)   Unless otherwise specifically provided by an ordinance for a
particular municipal civil infraction violation, the increased fine for a
repeat offense shall be as follows.
            1.   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be not less than $500, plus costs.
            2.   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or
any subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $750, plus costs.
   (D)   A VIOLATION includes any act which is prohibited or made or declared
to be unlawful or an offense by an ordinance, and any omission or failure to
act where the act is required by an ordinance.
   (E)   Each day on which any violation of an ordinance continues constitutes
a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or sanctions as a separate
offense.
   (F)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the city may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain, prevent
or abate any violation of any city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1.672) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
CHAPTER 13: APPEARANCE TICKETS AUTHORIZATION
Section
   
1.681   Purpose
   
1.682   Authorized persons
§ 1.681 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to supplement existing ordinance provisions
to empower certain city officials to issue and serve appearance tickets for
violations of the city ordinances which contain criminal misdemeanor penalties
for violations of the ordinance involved. This chapter is enacted pursuant to
Public Act 175 of 1927, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.1 et seq. as amended by Public
Act 506 of 1980, Public Act 445 of 1994 and Public Act 366 of 1984, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9c and 764.9f, as amended, and Public Act 49 of 1988, being
M.C.L.A. § 764.9f, as amended.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.682 AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   Unless prohibited by state law or unless otherwise provided by specific
provisions of a particular city ordinance to the contrary, the following
officials are empowered to issue and serve appearance tickets for violations of
city ordinances which contain criminal misdemeanor penalties for violations of
the ordinance involved:
   (A)   The Director of Public Safety and all officers of said Department;
   (B)   The Assistant City Manager and his or her designee;
   (C)   The County Sheriff and all other Deputy County Sheriffs of said
county; and
   (D)   All building mechanical, plumbing, electrical and property maintenance
code inspectors.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
CHAPTER 14: MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATIONS AUTHORIZATION
Section
   
1.691   Purpose
   
1.692   Authorized persons
§ 1.691 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to supplement existing ordinance provisions
to empower certain city officials to issue and serve municipal civil infraction
citations for violations of those city ordinances which constitute municipal
civil infractions. This chapter is enacted pursuant to Public Act 12-26 of 1994
and Public Act 236 of 1961, being M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 1.692 AUTHORIZED PERSONS.
   Unless prohibited by state law or unless otherwise provided by specific
provisions of particular city ordinance to the contrary, the following
officials are hereby designated as authorized city officials to issue and serve
municipal civil infraction citations for violation of city ordinances which
provide for a municipal civil infraction for a violation thereof:
   (A)   The Director of the Public Safety Department, all officers of said
Department, and his or her designee;
   (B)   The Assistant City Manager and his or her designee;
   (C)   The County Sheriff and all other County Sheriffs of said county;
   (D)   All building mechanical, plumbing, electrical and property maintenance
code inspectors; and
   (E)   The Director of the County Department of Animal Control and his or her
designee.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
TITLE II: UTILITIES AND SERVICES
   Chapter
      
21.   COMBUSTIBLE WASTE AND SOLID WASTE
      
22.   CITY WATER UTILITY
      
23.   CITY SEWER SERVICE
      
24.   WATER AND SEWER RATES
      
25.   PUBLIC UTILITY EMERGENCY RESPONSE
      
26.   CLEANUP OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
27.   RESERVED
      
28.   STORM WATER
CHAPTER 21: COMBUSTIBLE WASTE AND SOLID WASTE
Section
   
2.1   Definitions
   
2.2   Yard rubbish collection
   
2.3   Accumulation and storage of solid waste and source separated materials
   
2.4   Disposition of solid waste
   
2.5   Waste haulers’ licenses
   
2.5A   Identification of solid waste containers
   
2.5-1   Regulations governing operations of waste haulers
   
2.6   Delivery of combustible waste; commercial operation date
   
2.7   Compliance with laws, rules and regulations
   
2.8   Littering and waste accumulation prohibited
   
2.9   Rules and regulations
   
2.10   Regulations governing collection of yard rubbish
   
2.11   Violations; penalty
   
2.12   Notice of violation
   
2.13   Removal by city, cost to owner or occupant
   
2.14   Temporary rubbish containers
   
2.15   Dumpsters and enclosures
   
2.16   Reserved
   
2.17   Reserved
§ 2.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT 451 PLAN. The county solid waste management plan approved by the County
Board of Commissioners, the city and by the Director of the Department of
Natural Resources, pursuant to the requirements and provisions of Public Act
451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., as amended, and any
amendments thereto adopted in accordance with said Act.
   APPROVED GARBAGE GRINDER and APPROVED COMPOSTING METHOD. Garbage grinders
and composting methods, respectively, which conform with all city ordinance
requirements, are used exclusively to dispose of solid waste generated by the
occupant of the site of generation on which they are located, and are
consistent with the Act 451 Plan.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke, refuse, wastewater
sludge or other combustible materials.
   BOARD OF PUBLIC WORKS. The Kent County Board of Public Works established
pursuant to the provisions of Act 185 of the state’s Public Acts of 1957, as
amended.
   COMBUSTIBLE WASTE. Solid waste that is combustible in the MBI as shall be
determined solely by the Board of Public Works. COMBUSTIBLE WASTE shall
include: garbage; combustible rubbish, such as paper; cardboard; cartons; wood;
boxes, rags, cloth; bedding; leather; grass; leaves and brush; yard trimmings;
tree limbs; timber; logs, and stumps six inches in diameter or less; carpeting;
and combustible construction and demolition debris; and any other solid waste
that is combustible in the MBI as shall be determined solely by the Board of
Public Works. COMBUSTIBLE WASTE shall exclude: noncombustible solid waste, such
as ashes; noncombustible rubbish; incinerator ash; incinerator residue;
municipal and industrial sludges; animal waste; pathological and biological
waste; asbestos and asbestos waste products; explosives; radioactive materials;
appliances; concrete rubble; noncombustible construction and demolition debris;
rock; gravel and earth materials; automobiles; trailers; equipment wire and
cable; all waste other than solid waste (such as hazardous waste; site
separated materials and source separated materials); and any other type of
waste that is noncombustible in the MBI as shall be determined solely by the
Board of Public Works.
   COMMERCIAL OPERATION DATE. The date when the MBI has been completed and
tested and is, in the sole opinion of the county, ready for full commercial
operation.
   COMPOSTING CONTRACTOR. An entity that collects compostable materials and
delivers them to an offsite composting facility.
   COUNTY. The County of Kent, Michigan, acting by and through its Board of
Commissioners or its Department of Public Works.
   DIRECTOR. The Public Works Director of the city.
   DIRECTOR’S ASSISTANT. Any city employee authorized by the Director of City
Services to issue violations pursuant to §
2.12 of this chapter.
   DISPOSAL SITE. Any of the following:
      (1)   A solid waste transfer facility;
      (2)   A single incinerator having an average daily design capacity
exceeding 50 tons of solid waste per day or two or more incinerators located at
one site under the control of one person and having an aggregate average daily
design capacity exceeding 150 tons of solid waste per day;
      (3)   A sanitary landfill;
      (4)   A solid waste processing plant; or
      (5)   Any other solid waste handling or disposal facility utilized in the
disposal of solid waste.
   GARBAGE. Rejected food wastes, including waste accumulation of animal, fruit
or vegetable matter, used or intended for food or that attends the preparation,
use, cooking, dealing in or storing of meat, fish, fowl, fruit or vegetables.
Some of these wastes may be composted by an approved composting method or by
delivery to a composting contractor.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Hazardous waste as defined in Act 451 and as identified in
administrative rules promulgated from time to time pursuant to said Act by the
Director of the state’s Department of Natural Resources.
   MBI. The mass burn energy generating incinerator to be constructed by or on
behalf of, or available by contract or lease with, the county within the city
in accordance with the Act 451 Plan.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, public or private corporation, partnership,
trust, public or private agency or any other entity, or any group of such
persons.
   PREMISES. Any enclosed area used for residential, commercial or industrial
purposes, separately or in combination, to which a separate street address,
postal address or box, tax roll description, or other similar identification
has been assigned to or is in use by a person having control of the area.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid waste, excluding ashes, consisting of
combustible and noncombustible waste, including paper, cardboard, metal
containers, yard rubbish, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, demolished building
materials, or litter of any kind that may be a detriment to the public health
and safety.
   SITE OF GENERATION. Any premises in or on which solid waste is generated by
any person.
   SITE SEPARATED MATERIALS. Recyclable materials (including, but not limited
to, bottles, cans, newspapers, corrugated containers, metals and yard rubbish)
that are separated from solid waste after collection from a site of generation
by the city, a waste hauler, or the operators of a disposal site to which it is
delivered.
   SOLID WASTE. Garbage, rubbish, ashes, incinerator ash, incinerator residue,
street cleanings, municipal and industrial sludges, solid commercial and solid
industrial waste, and animal waste; provided, however, that this definition
shall not include hazardous waste, site separated materials, source separated
materials, human body waste, liquid or other waste regulated by statute,
ferrous and nonferrous scrap directed to a scrap metal processor or to a reuser
of ferrous or nonferrous products, and slag or slag products directed to a slag
processor or to a reuser of slag or slag products.
   SOURCE SEPARATED MATERIALS. Recyclable materials (including, but not limited
to, bottles, cans, newspapers, corrugated containers, metals and yard rubbish)
that are separated from solid waste prior to the collection of solid waste from
a site of generation.
   TIPPING FEE. The fee established by the Board of Public Works to be charged
upon delivery of combustible waste to the MBI.
   WASTE HAULER. Any person engaged, in whole or in part, in the business of
collecting, transporting, delivering or disposing of solid waste within the
city.
   YARD RUBBISH. Grass clippings, branches, twigs, leaves, brush, shrub
clippings, tree limbs and general yard and garden waste materials.
(Prior Code, § 2.1) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985; Ord. effective 9-19-1988; Ord.
effective 9-14-1991; Ord. effective 8-14-1992; Ord. effective 1-28-2005; Ord.
effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.2 YARD RUBBISH COLLECTION.
   (A)   Yard rubbish shall be collected by the city at regular intervals
pursuant to a schedule established by the Director. The yard rubbish collection
service of the city shall be under the supervision and direction of the
Director.
   (B)   The City Manager shall make such reasonable rules and regulations
concerning the storage and collection of yard rubbish as he or she may deem
proper, subject to the approval of the Commission. No person shall fail to
observe any rule or regulation so adopted and approved.
(Prior Code, § 2.2) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985)
Cross-reference:
   Lawn care contractors, see
Chapter 78
   Related provisions, see §
2.10
§ 2.3 ACCUMULATION AND STORAGE OF SOLID WASTE AND SOURCE SEPARATED MATERIALS.
   The occupant of any premises within the city in which any solid waste or
source separated materials shall be accumulated shall maintain on said premises
one or more approved containers. The number of containers kept on each premises
shall be sufficient to conveniently store the normal accumulation of solid
waste and source separated materials on said premises for a period of not less
than seven days. Each solid waste container shall be kept tightly covered with
an impervious cover except when open for the deposit or removal of solid waste.
Solid waste containers shall be kept in a clean and sanitary condition at all
times. Both solid waste containers and containers for source separated
materials shall be placed inside a building or at the rear or side of a
building at a place which is reasonably inconspicuous, but shall be accessible
to the waste hauler. The Director may make such reasonable rules and
regulations relating to the type of containers and the methods of storage of
containers as the Director may deem necessary for the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Prior Code, § 2.3) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985; Ord. effective 9-17-1994)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
9.95
§ 2.4 DISPOSITION OF SOLID WASTE.
   (A)   Solid waste shall be disposed of only to licensed waste haulers,
composting contractors or the city collection service (if provided), except
that any individual may dispose of solid waste from his or her own household:
      (1)   By an approved garbage grinder or composting method upon the
individual’s own land so long as the disposal does not create a nuisance or
hazard to health, in accordance with Act 451; or
      (2)   By personally transporting the same to an approved sanitary
landfill, but only in accordance with the rules and regulations pertaining
thereto and the Act 451 Plan. No person transporting any solid waste in
accordance with this section shall fail to securely cover and secure the load
so that no part of said load shall be lost while being transported.
   (B)   The personal use of incinerators is prohibited.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.5 WASTE HAULERS’ LICENSES.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of collecting, transporting or
disposing of solid waste within the city without first obtaining a license
therefor.
   (B)   Licenses shall be issued upon application to the City Clerk on forms
provided by him or her and upon payment of such fee as shall be required by §
7.32 of this code. Licenses shall cover the period from July 1 through June 30,
and a new license must be secured for each license year. It shall be an express
condition of each license that the waste hauler shall comply with all
provisions of the chapter.
   (C)   The Director shall make such reasonable rules and regulations
governing the operation of the business of solid waste collection,
transportation and disposition as he or she may deem necessary and as are
consistent with the Act 451 Plan, subject to approval of the City Commission.
The Director shall revoke the license of any waste hauler who fails to abide by
any such rule or regulation or any provision of this chapter. Prior revocation
of a license shall be sufficient grounds for refusal by the Director to certify
any future application of such licensee.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.5A IDENTIFICATION OF SOLID WASTE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   A solid waste container having a capacity of at least 64 gallons shall
be plainly marked with the name and current street address or the name and
current telephone number of the waste hauler which collects solid waste from or
transports solid waste within the solid waste container. The name and current
street address or the name and current telephone number of the waste hauler
shall be plainly marked on at least three sides of the solid waste container in
letters and figures not less than three inches in height.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
   (B)   The waste hauler collecting solid waste from or transporting the solid
waste container having a capacity of at least 64 gallons shall be responsible
for complying with this section. It shall be a violation of this section for
any waste hauler to collect solid waste or to transport such a solid waste
container unless the solid waste container has been marked in compliance with
this section.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
   (C)   For purposes of this section, SOLID WASTE CONTAINER means a container
or receptacle designed or used for depositing, storing or accumulating solid
waste for collection or transportation by a waste hauler. Without limitation,
this definition shall include dumpsters, packer boxes and roll-offs or other
receptacles designed or used to store solid waste or to transport solid waste
from a site of generation.
   (D)   This section shall become effective on January 1, 1991.
(Prior Code, § 2.5A) (Ord. effective 9-14-1991)
§ 2.5-1 REGULATIONS GOVERNING OPERATIONS OF WASTE HAULERS.
   (A)   Regulation No. 1. Each applicant for waste hauler license shall file
with the application a certificate of insurance for motor vehicle insurance in
the minimum amounts required by the City Commission for city contracts. None of
this coverage shall have any deductible amount, except for property damage
which shall have a deductible of not more than $300. The certificates must name
the applicant as the insured and the city as an additional insured, and must
include at least a ten-day notice of cancellation clause. The certificates must
state that they cover commercial operations or waste hauling operations, and
must either extend through the full license period (through June 30) or be
immediately renewed so as to avoid any lapse in coverage during the license
period. Proof of renewal shall be furnished to the city at least ten days prior
to the insurance expiration date.
   (B)   Regulation No. 2. Every waste hauler licensed in the city must provide
every customer with the collection, transportation and disposition of both
solid waste and source separated materials other than yard rubbish which are
specified by the Director (recyclables), and shall charge customers a unified
fee for this service. This regulation does not prohibit a licensed waste hauler
from subcontracting with another licensed waste hauler for the collection,
transportation and/or disposition of solid waste or recyclables so long as the
customer is only charged a unified fee. Composting contractors need only offer
composting service.
   (C)   Regulation No. 3. Every licensed waste hauler shall not collect solid
waste and/or source separated materials within any residentially zoned areas of
the city between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.6 DELIVERY OF COMBUSTIBLE WASTE; COMMERCIAL OPERATION DATE.
   (A)   (1)   Commencing on the commercial operation date and at all times
thereafter, waste haulers shall:
         (a)   Deliver to the MBI all combustible waste collected or
transported from a site of generation within the city; and
         (b)   Pay the tipping fee for delivery of such waste at the MBI
(unless otherwise provided by contract between the city and the waste hauler).
      (2)   Commencing on the commercial operation date and at all times
thereafter, no waste hauler shall deliver combustible waste collected or
transported from a site of generation within the city to any disposal site
other than the MBI.
   (B)   Waste haulers shall deliver to the MBI all combustible waste
regardless of whether the combustible waste is transported in the same load or
vehicle as solid waste which is not combustible waste. This requirement shall
be absolute and unconditional unless the Board of Public Works, acting through
its designated representatives, has made a prior written determination that a
specific load of waste consists primarily of waste which would not be accepted
for delivery at the MBI. Such a written determination of the Board of Public
Works shall not be applicable to waste collected from any site of generation,
any load or vehicle, any waste hauler or any facts or circumstances, other than
those expressly identified in the written determination. This division (B)
shall become effective on January 1, 1992.
   (C)   Waste haulers shall not deliver combustible waste to a site for site
separation of recyclable materials unless the Board of Public Works, acting
through its designated representatives, after request of the waste hauler, has
made a prior written determination that such delivery does not violate this
section. Such a written determination shall not be applicable to waste
collected from any site of generation, any load or vehicle, any waste hauler,
or any facts or circumstances other than those expressly identified in the
written determination. A written determination pursuant to this section shall
not relieve the waste hauler from the obligation to deliver to the MBI all
combustible waste remaining in a load after site separation of recyclable
materials. This division (C) shall become effective on January 1, 1992.
   (D)   Waste haulers shall not deliver hazardous waste to the MBI.
   (E)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, waste haulers
shall not be prohibited from transporting combustible waste from a site of
generation within the city for disposal at any disposal site located outside of
the state.
(Prior Code, § 2.6) (Ord. effective 9-14-1991; Ord. effective 11-14-1997)
§ 2.7 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Waste haulers shall comply with the Act 451 Plan and all applicable federal
and state laws, statutes, rules and regulations (including, but not limited to,
Act 451 and administrative rules promulgated pursuant to Act 451) in the
collection, transportation, delivery and disposal of combustible waste. Waste
haulers shall also comply with all rules and regulations of the Board of Public
Works for the administration and operation of the MBI (including, without
limitation, rules and regulations prohibiting delivery of loads consisting
primarily of unacceptable waste as solely determined by the Board of Public
Works acting through its designated representatives) and other disposal sites
of the county refuse disposal system.
(Prior Code, § 2.7) (Ord. effective 9-14-1991; Ord. effective 1-28-2005)
§ 2.8 LITTERING AND WASTE ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall throw or deposit any solid waste, including yard rubbish,
upon or into any street, alley or other property, public or private, except to
the extent that yard rubbish may be placed in the street adjacent to the curb
for collection by the city under the rules and regulations made by the City
Manager and approved by the City Commission. It shall be the duty of every
occupant of property and the owner of unoccupied property, at all times, to
maintain the premises occupied or owned by him or her in a clean and orderly
condition, permitting no deposit or accumulation of solid waste upon such
premises unless stored or accumulated as permitted by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.8)
Cross-reference:
   Litter control, see
Ch. 91, Art. II
§ 2.9 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All rules and regulations promulgated by the Director pursuant to § 2.5 of
this chapter shall be filed with the City Commission. Unless reversed or
modified by the City Commission at the first meeting after such filing with the
City Commission, the rules and regulations shall take effect immediately after
said first meeting of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 2.9) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985; Ord. effective 4-20-1987; Ord.
effective 9-19-1988)
§ 2.10 REGULATIONS GOVERNING COLLECTION OF YARD RUBBISH.
   (A)   Yard rubbish, including grass clippings, branches, twigs, leaves,
weeds, shrub clippings, and general yard and garden waste materials, shall be
picked up by the city when placed along the terrace side of the curb or edge of
the street according to the approved schedule and regulations established and
published by the City Manager.
   (B)   Small loose yard waste such as grass clippings, twigs, weeds, shrub
trimmings and leaves shall be placed in disposable/recyclable paper bags,
cardboard boxes or other suitable reusable containers, limited in size to a 32
gallon capacity container to maximum 40 pounds in weight for each container.
Ornamental grass may be placed outside of the container if it is bundled with
twine. Plastic bags, metal hardware, wheel barrows, lawn carts and their
likeness are prohibited.
   (C)   Large yard waste such as tree limbs, trunks and stumps shall be cut to
a maximum length of six feet and tree logs may not exceed 12 inches in
diameter. Collection of large yard waste items may be collected a few days
following the scheduled pick up date due to equipment required to complete the
collection.
   (D)   Except during the fall leaf collection program, it is preferred that
yard waste no longer be placed out for collection earlier than one day prior to
the scheduled day.
   (E)   Yard waste collection services shall be provided from Monday of the
first full week of April through Friday of the first full week of December each
year.
   (F)   Fall leaves may be placed out for collection without being placed in
containers commencing on Monday of the second full week of October through
Friday of the first full week of December. Fall leaves should be places along
or in the street without obstructing the traveled portion of the roadway or
walkways. Small loose yard waste must be placed in the required container at
all other times.
   (G)   Collection and disposal of real Christmas trees, holiday wreaths or
other natural plant based holiday decorations shall be provided commencing on
Monday of the first full week through Friday of the second full week of January
each year. The collection of these items will follow the regular established
schedule.
   (H)   The city does not accept yard waste at the public works complex from
licensed contractors or residents, effective April 1, 2007. Licensed
contractors shall be required to place yard waste only at the property that is
being provided service. Placement of materials shall be in accordance with
other rules and regulations noted or dispose of the yard waste at an
appropriate off-site facility.
   (I)   Unless otherwise noted herein, yard waste collection services will be
discontinued from Friday of the first full week of December through Monday of
the first full week in April each year. Yard waste shall not be placed out for
collection during this time. Special collections may be provided during this
time if ice and wind events occur.
   (J)   Yard waste from properties located outside the corporate boundaries of
the city is strictly prohibited from being deposited along city streets or
terrace side of curb for collection.
   (K)   Violations of these rules and regulations by contractors may be cited
in accordance with this chapter and/or also grounds for suspension of their
licenses.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.11 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Upon a violation of any provision of this chapter, the city may seek
prosecution and may seek legal and/or equitable relief in a court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall
have committed a civil infraction. Civil infraction penalties shall be in
accordance with
Chapter 11, Title I of the city code.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.12 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The issuance of a ticket or notice of violation by a public safety officer,
the Director or the Director’s Assistant shall be deemed an allegation of a
violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.12) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985; Ord. effective 4-20-1987; Ord.
effective 9-19-1988)
§ 2.13 REMOVAL BY CITY, COST TO OWNER OR OCCUPANT.
   (A)   If the provisions of §§
2.8 and/or 2.10 of this chapter are not complied with, the City Manager, or the
Manager’s duly authorized representative, shall notify the occupant and owner
of the premises to comply with the provisions of said sections within a time to
be specified in said notice, which notice shall be given by either posting said
notice at a conspicuous place on the premises for five days and mailing said
notice to such person at his or her last known address or by delivering the
notice personally to the owner or occupant or by leaving the same at his or her
residence, office or place of business with some person of suitable age and
discretion. Said notice shall require compliance with §§
2.8 and/or
2.10 of this chapter within five days after service of such notice.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant does not comply within this time limit, the
City Manager shall cause the yard rubbish to be removed and the actual cost of
such removal, plus 100% for inspection and other additional costs in connection
therewith, shall be charged against said premises and the same shall be billed
to said owner. If any such charges are not paid within 30 days after billing,
they shall be collected as a single lot assessment in accordance with the City
Charter and §
1.306 of this code. Notwithstanding the above, in the case of an emergency,
such as a traffic lane being blocked by yard rubbish, a citation may be issued
immediately pursuant to the motor vehicle code.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.14 TEMPORARY RUBBISH CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. The following regulation has been adopted to
ensure that placement of temporary rubbish containers complies with health,
safety and aesthetics objectives of the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      PERSON. The person or entity that owns, rents, occupies or controls the
property upon which a temporary rubbish container is placed.
      SUPPLIER. The company or vendor that supplies the temporary rubbish
container.
      TEMPORARY RUBBISH CONTAINER. A transportable unit, container or structure
used on a temporary basis for the storage and disposal of rubbish, construction
materials and debris, and other such non-putrescible materials. Such containers
shall not be considered an accessory structure as provided in §
5.4, Article II of Chapter 50 of the city code.
   (C)   Requirements for registration of temporary rubbish containers.
      (1)   Prior to or within 72 hours following the initial delivery of the
temporary rubbish container, a person or the supplier shall register the
placement of the temporary rubbish container with the Director of City
Services; provided, however, that a person or supplier is not required to
register a temporary rubbish container that is removed within 72 hours of its
initial delivery.
      (2)   Registration requires all of the following:
         (a)   Completing the City Services Department’s application, to
include the person’s name, the size of the temporary rubbish container to be
registered, the address at which the temporary rubbish container will be
placed, the delivery date, removal date, active building permit number, if
applicable, and a sketch depicting the location and the placement of the
temporary rubbish container;
         (b)   Presenting an approved building permit for that property if the
temporary rubbish container is to be used for the storage of building or
construction materials; and
         (c)   Written approval of the application by the City Services
Department.
      (3)   The effective date of the registration shall be the date of the
City Services Department’s approval.
   (D)   Requirements for placement of temporary rubbish containers. The
following requirements shall apply to the placement of temporary rubbish
containers.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to place or permit the placement of a
temporary rubbish container on property located within the city unless it is
registered with the City Services Department as provided in division (C) above.
      (2)   Temporary rubbish containers shall only be placed upon or within a
driveway or a parking area or, if access exists at the side or rear of the lot,
the side or rear yard.
      (3)   No temporary rubbish container shall be placed upon or within
public property or a public place, including, without limitation, a street,
sidewalk or outlawn.
      (4)   The temporary rubbish container shall be located at such address
for a maximum period of six months, including the days of delivery and removal,
unless an extension is granted. An extension may be granted by the Director of
City Services, subject to conditions, for an additional amount of time not to
exceed 18 months total (three renewals of six months each). The maximum
registration period for a temporary rubbish container is 24 months, inclusive
of extensions.
      (5)   No more than one temporary rubbish container may be registered per
address.
      (6)   The temporary rubbish container shall not exceed five feet in
height, eight feet in width or 22 feet in length.
      (7)   The temporary rubbish container shall be secured in a manner that
does not endanger the safety of persons or property in the vicinity of such
unit.
      (8)   The temporary rubbish container shall be maintained in good
condition, free from evidence of deterioration, weathering, discoloration,
graffiti, rust, ripping, tearing or other holes or breaks, at all times.
      (9)   No temporary rubbish container shall be used to store garbage,
business inventory, commercial goods, goods for property other than the
property where the temporary rubbish container is located, or any other illegal
or hazardous material. Upon reasonable notice, the city may inspect the
contents of any temporary rubbish container at any reasonable time to ensure
that it is not being used to store said materials.
      (10)   Any temporary rubbish container which is not removed at the end of
the time for which it may lawfully remain in place may be removed by the city
immediately, without notice, and the cost of such removal may be assessed
against the property on which such unit was located as a single lot assessment
as provided by §
1.306, Chapter 7 of Title I of the city code.
      (11)   A sign advertising the supplier’s business and mounted on a
temporary rubbish Container does not require a sign permit per §
8.13(P) of Chapter 81, provided that the temporary rubbish container is in
compliance with this section and all applicable ordinances.
   (E)   Enforcement and penalties. Violations of this section shall be subject
to the enforcement and penalties provided in this chapter, and shall be
enforced as municipal civil infractions in accordance with
Chapter 11, Title I of the city code.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.15 DUMPSTERS AND ENCLOSURES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. A chapter to regulate the construction, placement
and use of dumpsters and their enclosures in a manner consistent with the
environmental, health, safety and aesthetic objectives of the city.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DUMPSTER. A bin or other rigid container that is placed long-term at a
property for the purpose of temporary storage of solid waste, site-separated
materials or source-separated materials as defined in this chapter, for
periodic pick-up by a waste hauler.
      ENCLOSURE. A permanent structure designed so as to screen one or more
dumpsters from ground-level view from streets, public sidewalks or adjacent
properties. An ENCLOSURE shall not be considered an accessory structure as
provided in §
5.14, Article II of Chapter 50 of the city code, nor shall they be regulated as
fences or walls pursuant to Article I of
Chapter 83 of the city code.
   (C)   Regulations.
      (1)   Dumpsters shall be constructed and maintained with covers, doors,
floors and sides sufficient to prevent loss of contents by wind, by leakage or
by animals.
      (2)   Dumpster covers must not allow rain, snow and the like to enter the
dumpster so as to create spillage and runoff when emptied.
      (3)   Drain plugs, when so equipped, must be leak-proof.
      (4)   Drain plugs, doors, lids, covers and gates shall be kept securely
closed at all times.
      (5)   Dumpsters shall not be overfilled in a manner that prevents closure
of doors or lids or allows spillage of contents.
      (6)   Outdoor storage of excess solid waste, site-separated materials, or
source-separated materials is prohibited unless they are stored in the dumpster
as required in this section. The owner shall arrange for disposal of any excess
waste within 24 hours.
      (7)   Dumpsters shall be enclosed on all sides within a permanent
enclosure, unless the location itself is shielded by buildings or other
structures so as to be reasonably inconspicuous to ground-level view from
streets, public sidewalks or adjacent properties. If not more than two
household-sized containers, each with less than one-half cubic yard or 100
gallon capacity, are used on a parcel, enclosure will not be required.
      (8)   Enclosures shall consist of a wall or fence on all sides and shall
be equipped with a gate.
      (9)   Height of walls and gate shall be sufficient to shield the enclosed
dumpster(s) from ground-level view from streets and adjacent properties, but
shall not exceed six feet from the finish grade at the gate unless attached to
a taller structure.
      (10)   The enclosure and gate shall be a permanent structure constructed
of high quality materials which prevent visibility, and which are consistent
with the building materials of the main building on the site.
      (11)   Enclosures shall be maintained to retain their original
appearance, shape and configuration in accordance with the Property Maintenance
Code of the city.
      (12)   Fire safety regulations include the following.
         (a)   All dumpsters, and any associated combustible enclosures, must
have a minimum separation of ten feet from the nearest building or building
overhang.
         (b)   The minimum separation distance may be reduced, or the enclosure
may be attached to a building, if protected by fire-rated materials in
compliance with the Building Code.
         (c)   Dumpsters and enclosures shall not block access to any fire
safety equipment such as stand pipe connections, hydrants or other fire safety
fixtures.
      (13)   Location regulations include the following.
         (a)   Dumpsters and enclosures shall be placed at the rear or side of
a building at a place which is reasonably inconspicuous.
         (b)   Detached enclosures must be at least three feet from property
lines, fences and structures in order to allow for periodic maintenance to be
performed.
      (14)   Any person or entity, including the owner, occupant or hauler who
violates the terms of this section shall be subject to a civil infraction
violation in accordance with
Chapter 11, Title I of the city code.
   (D)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Paper recycling containers may be placed on the property of a
church or school for the purpose of fundraising. Such containers will not
require an enclosure, provided that the container is placed so as to be
reasonably inconspicuous from adjacent residential uses.
      (2)   Temporary rubbish containers as defined in
Chapter 21 are exempt from the requirements of this section.
   (E)   Variances.
      (1)   The City Commission may authorize exceptions from the strict
requirements of this section relating to location and screening, upon written
application and following a public hearing. The procedure, the standards and
the fee for such application and hearing shall be as set forth in
Chapter 50 of this code with respect to variances from the city zoning chapter.
      (2)   In no case shall the City Commission have the authority to grant a
variance when the matter concerns requirements of this section relating to
environmental protection, fire safety or building code.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.16 RESERVED.
§ 2.17 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 22: CITY WATER UTILITY
Section
   
2.20   Definitions
   
2.21   Meter connections
   
2.22   Metered water required; tampering with meters prohibited
   
2.23   Meter location
   
2.24   Access to meters
   
2.25   Responsibility for meter
   
2.25-1   Responsibility for meter pit
   
2.25-2   Meter pits in street; indemnification
   
2.26   Meter failure; estimate of consumption
   
2.27   Inaccurate meters
   
2.28   Accurate meters required
   
2.29   Bill adjustment when meters inaccurate
   
2.30   Hydrant use
   
2.31   Water conservation measures
   
2.32   Additional regulations
   
2.33   Injury to facilities prohibited
   
2.34   Cross-connections
   
2.35   Violations
§ 2.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of City Services.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of City Services, or his or her authorized
representative.
   METER. The measuring device which measures or records the flow of water
through the device and shall not include any portion of the water service pipe
connected to the device.
   WATER CONNECTION. The part of the city water distribution system connecting
the water main to the shut-off box.
   WATER MAIN. The part of the city water distribution system located within
easement lines or streets designated to supply more than one water connection,
excluding any and all portions of the water service pipe located between the
shut-off box and the meter on the private premises regardless of whether
portions of such water service pipe are located within the city’s easement
lines or not.
(Prior Code, § 2.20) (Ord. effective 11-29-1991; Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
§ 2.21 METER CONNECTIONS.
   Water meters shall be installed in accordance with rules and regulations of
the Department and upon payment of the required meter installation fee. All
meters shall be the property of the city. Meter installation charges shall not
be less than the cost of the materials, installation and overhead attributable
to such installation. Such fees and charges shall be established by resolution
of the City Commission from time to time, in accordance with the above factors.
(Prior Code, § 2.21) (Ord. effective 11-29-1991)
§ 2.22 METERED WATER REQUIRED; TAMPERING WITH METERS PROHIBITED.
   All premises using water shall be metered, except as otherwise provided in
this code. No person except an authorized city employee shall break or injure
the seal or change the location of, alter or interfere in any way with any
water meter.
(Prior Code, § 2.22)
§ 2.23 METER LOCATION.
   Meters shall be set in an accessible location and in a manner satisfactory
to the Director. Where the premises contains no basement or cellar, or when
other good and sufficient reason exists in the judgment of the Director, the
meter may be installed outside in a meter pit. The location of the meter pit
shall be approved by the Director, whether on the premises serviced by the
meter or on the public right-of-way adjoining the same.
(Prior Code, § 2.23) (Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
§ 2.24 ACCESS TO METERS.
   The City Manager shall have the right to shut off the supply of water to any
premises where authorized employees are not able to obtain access to the meter.
Any authorized city employee shall at all reasonable hours, have the right to
enter the premises where such meters are installed for the purpose of reading,
testing, removing or inspecting the meter or for the purpose of inspecting any
pipe or fixture connected to the city water system, and no person shall hinder,
obstruct, or interfere with such employee in the lawful discharge of his or her
duties in relation thereto.
(Prior Code, § 2.24)
§ 2.25 RESPONSIBILITY FOR METER.
   The owner of the premises serviced by a meter is hereby made responsible for
the same. If by any manner the meter is damaged or stolen, such accident must
be reported to the Director at once. It shall be the duty of the city to make
all meter repairs and charge same to the party made responsible for the meter.
If any damage occurs to the meter through the fault of the water mains, repair
will be made at the expense of the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.25) (Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
§ 2.25-1 RESPONSIBILITY FOR METER PIT.
   Where a meter shall be set in a meter pit, such pit shall be built at the
expense of the owner of the premises serviced by the meter as directed by the
Director. When the meter pit falls into disrepair, such condition must be
reported to the Director at once. The pit shall be repaired to the satisfaction
of the Director at the owner’s expense.
(Prior Code, § 2.25-1) (Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
§ 2.25-2 METER PITS IN STREET; INDEMNIFICATION.
   Any person whose property is serviced by a water meter which has been
installed in a meter pit in a street which is adjacent to or part of his or her
premises shall be responsible for all repairs to said meter pit and shall
indemnify and save harmless the city against all costs, liability or damages to
it resulting from such meter pit being defective or out of repair.
(Prior Code, § 2.25-2)
§ 2.26 METER FAILURE; ESTIMATE OF CONSUMPTION.
   If any meter shall fail to register properly, the Director shall estimate
the consumption on the basis of former consumption and bill accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 2.26) (Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
§ 2.27 INACCURATE METERS.
   A consumer may request that the meter be tested. If the meter is found
defective, it shall be repaired or an accurate meter installed.
(Prior Code, § 2.27)
§ 2.28 ACCURATE METERS REQUIRED.
   A meter shall be considered accurate if when tested it registers not to
exceed 5% more or 5% less than the actual quantity of water passing through it.
If a meter registers in excess of 5% more than the actual quantity of water
passing through it, it shall be considered “fast” to that extent. If a meter
registers in excess of 5% less than the actual quantity of water passing
through it, it shall be considered “slow” to that extent.
(Prior Code, § 2.28)
§ 2.29 BILL ADJUSTMENT WHEN METERS INACCURATE.
   If a meter has been tested at the request of a consumer and shall have been
determined to register “fast”, the city shall credit the consumer with a sum
equal to the percent “fast” multiplied by the amount of all bills incurred by
said consumer within the three months prior to the test, and if a meter so
tested is determined to register “slow”, the city may collect from the consumer
a sum equal to the percent “slow” multiplied by the amount of all the bills
incurred by the consumer for the prior three months.
(Prior Code, § 2.29)
§ 2.30 HYDRANT USE.
   No person, except an employee of the city in the performance of his or her
duties, shall open or use any fire hydrant except in case of emergency, without
first securing permission from the Director and paying such charges as may be
prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 2.30) (Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Opening fire hydrants, see §
9.93
§ 2.31 WATER CONSERVATION MEASURES.
   The City Manager, subject to approval by the Commission, may regulate, limit
or prohibit the use of water for any purpose. Such regulations shall restrict
less essential water uses to the extent deemed necessary to assure an adequate
supply for essential domestic and commercial needs and for firefighting. No
such regulation, limitation or prohibition shall be effective until 24 hours
after the publication thereof in a newspaper of general circulation in the
city, except in case of an emergency regulation authorized by the Commission at
a regular or special meeting. Any person violating any such rule or regulation
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished as prescribed in §
1.13 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 2.31)
§ 2.32 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager may make and issue additional rules and regulations
concerning this chapter. Such rules and regulations shall be effective upon
approval by the City Commission. The rules and regulations now in effect shall
continue until changed in accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 2.32) (Ord. effective 11-29-1991)
§ 2.33 INJURY TO FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   No person, except an employee of the city in the performance of his or her
duties, shall perform any work on, or tamper with, or break, damage, destroy,
uncover or deface any structure, appurtenance or equipment which is a part of
the city water distribution system.
(Prior Code, § 2.33)
§ 2.34 CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   Cross-connections with the public water supply system, i.e., a connection or
arrangement of piping or appurtenances through which it is possible that water
of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants can enter the public
water supply system, shall be subject to the following requirements and shall
be made and continued only in conformance with the provisions of this section.
   (A)   The city adopts by reference the water supply cross-connection rules
of the state’s Department of Public Health being R 325.11401 to R 325.11407 of
the MAC.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Director to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the public water supply where cross-connections
with the public water supply are deemed possible. Such inspections shall be
limited to the identification of cross-connections for the purpose of
eliminating potential health hazards. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the city and approved by the state’s Department of Public
Health.
   (C)   Solely for the purpose of protecting the public’s health, safety and
welfare, a representative of the city shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
system of the city for the limited purpose of inspecting the plumbing systems
thereof for cross-connections and safe connection to the city’s water
connection. On request the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding such connections of the piping system or systems on such property.
The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be
deemed evidence of the presence of cross- connections and/or unsafe connections
to the city’s water connection and shall be sufficient cause for discontinuance
of water service as provided in division (D) below.
   (D)   The Director is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water
service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this section exists, and to take such other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the
cross-connection has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
section.
   (E)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this section and by the State and City Plumbing Code. Any water
outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not
supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING
   (F)   This section does not supersede the state’s Plumbing Code and
Chapter 88 of this code but is supplementary to them.
(Prior Code, § 2.34) (Ord. effective 11-29-1991; Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
Cross-reference:
   Inspection of rental units, see
Ch. 88
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.
§ 2.35 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter, or any
written order of the Director in pursuance thereof, shall have committed a
civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more than $500.
Each day that a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a separate
offense.
(Prior Code, § 2.35) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
CHAPTER 23: CITY SEWER SERVICE
Section
   
2.41   Findings
   
2.42   Purposes and objectives
   
2.43   Definitions
   
2.44   Abbreviations
   
2.45   Management of the POTW
   
2.45.1   City Manager’s emergency authority
   
2.45.2   Inspection
   
2.46   Standards, rules, regulations and administrative reference guide
   
2.47   Use of the POTW
   
2.48   General discharge conditions and prohibitions
   
2.49   Limitations on wastewater strength
   
2.50   Permit application
   
2.51   Significant changes
   
2.52   Permit issuance (significant industrial users)
   
2.53   Permit modifications
   
2.54   Permit conditions
   
2.55   Permits duration
   
2.56   Permit changes
   
2.57   Baseline monitoring report
   
2.58   Periodic compliance reports
   
2.59   Inspection, sampling and analysis
   
2.60   Monitoring facilities
   
2.61   Confidential information
   
2.62   Enforcement
   
2.63   Recovery of costs incurred by the city
   
2.64   Falsifying information
   
2.65   Emergency suspension of service and discharge permit
   
2.66   City Manager’s authority to issue administrative orders
   
2.67   Publishing non-compliance list
   
2.68   City Manager’s authority to require financial assurances
   
2.69   Judicial proceedings
   
2.70   Right of appeal
   
2.71   Operating upsets
   
2.72   Criminal and civil liability
   
2.73   Record retention requirement
   
2.74   Removal credits
   
2.75   Net/gross calculations
   
2.76   Purpose of charges
   
2.77   Integrated sewer connection fee schedule
   
2.78   Use charges
   
2.79   User classes
   
2.80   Determination of user charges
   
2.81   Applicability
   
2.82   2012 surcharges, permit, and discharge authorization fees
   
2.83   Review of rates and charges
   
2.84   Sewer service applications and notification
   
2.85   Sewer lines
   
2.86   Sewer laterals and appurtenances
   
2.87   Connection permits
   
2.88   Sewer connections
§ 2.41 FINDINGS.
   The City Commission finds the following:
   (A)   There is a need to assure the quality of the wastewater discharged by
the publicly owned treatment works (POTW) to prevent the degradation of the
Grand River;
   (B)   There is a need to protect the biological systems, operation and
infrastructure through the regulation of discharge into the POTW; and
   (C)   There is a need for the city to enhance its ability to regulate the
discharge of wastewater to the POTW consistent with local, state and federal
laws.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.42 PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards, rules and
regulations, with respect to the use of the POTW, to provide for rates and
charges for connection to and use of the system, to establish limits for the
discharge of pollutants into the system and to prevent the pollution of the
environment.
   (B)   This chapter sets forth requirements for dischargers into the city’s
wastewater collection and treatment systems, and enables the city’s system to
protect the public health and environment in conformity with all applicable
state and federal laws relating thereto.
   (C)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which
interfere with the normal operation of the system or contaminate the resulting
sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the POTW which do
not receive adequate treatment in the POTW and which will pass through the
system into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be incompatible
with the system; and
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
   (D)   This chapter provides for the issuance of permits and discharge
authorizations for the regulation of discharges into the POTW.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.43 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following words and phrases shall have
the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section unless the context
in which they are used specifically indicates otherwise.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE. In general, as described in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(i)
(1),(2), (3) and (4). See below for details in regard to specific situations.
      (1)   In the case of a corporation, a president, secretary, treasurer or
vice president of the corporation in charge of a principal business function,
or any other person who performs similar policy or decision-making functions
for the corporation;
      (2)   In the case of a limited liability company, a principal managing
member or the member in charge of the principal business functions;
      (3)   In the case of a partnership or proprietorship, a general partner
or proprietor; and
      (4)   An authorized representative of the individual designated above if:
         (a)   Such a representative is responsible for the overall operation
of the facilities from which the discharge into the POTW originates;
         (b)   The authorization is in writing; and
         (c)   The written authorization is submitted to the POTW.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). An empirical test in which standardized
laboratory procedures are used to determine the relative oxygen requirements of
wastewaters, effluents and polluted water. The approved laboratory procedures
are listed in 40 C.F.R. part 136, specifically in the method for the “Five Day
BOD Test”.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES ( BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, maintenance procedures and other management practices to implement
the prohibitions listed in §
2.47. BMPs include treatment requirements, operating procedures and practices
to control plant site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal, or
drainage from raw materials storage.
   BUILDING INSPECTIONS. The Building Inspections Division of the East Grand
Rapids Department of City Services.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of an
industrial user’s treatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. National pretreatment standards
specifying quantities or concentrations of pollutants or pollutant properties
which may be discharged or introduced into a POTW by specific industrial
dischargers.
   CITY. The City of East Grand Rapids.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager of the City of East Grand Rapids and any
persons designated to act on behalf of the City Manager in the administration
or enforcement of this chapter.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251
et seq., as amended and applicable regulations promulgated there under.
   COMBINED SEWER. Any sewer designed or intended to receive both storm water
and sewage.
   COMBINED WASTE STREAM FORMULA. The waste stream at industrial facilities
where regulated process effluent is mixed prior to treatment with wastewaters
other than those generated by the regulated process. Where required by federal
or state law, and only to the extent required by federal or state law, the
combined waste stream formula provided in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(e) and R 323.2311
(7) MAC will apply to the limits applicable to a combined waste stream.
   COMMERCIAL USER. A person or entity whose premises are used to offer
services and/or products such as retail and wholesale stores, gasoline
stations, restaurants, schools, churches, hotels, motels, nursing homes,
hospitals, warehouses, private clubs, theaters and governmental buildings.
However, some COMMERCIAL USERS may also be designated as significant industrial
users (SIU) should they meet the criteria established in 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(f),
R 323.2302(cc) of the MAC and §
2.43(45) of this chapter.
   COMMODITY RATE. A variable unit charge payable by a user based on metered
water consumption.
   COMPLIANCE SCHEDULE. A schedule consisting of one or more milestone dates
required for corrections, additions or modifications of treatment systems or
related pollution prevention or control activities as a result of enforcement
actions, expansions or changes in operations or changes in local or categorical
treatment standards. Compliance schedules do not preclude additional
enforcement actions due to violations of requirements of this chapter.
   CONFINED SPACE, PERMIT REQUIRED. Space defined by reference to Public Act
154 Part 90 of 1974, as amended, M.C.L.A. § 408.1001.
   CROSS-MEDIA ELECTRONIC REPORTING REGULATION (CROMERR). An Environmental
Protection Agency approved system allowing states, tribes and local governments
that receive or plan to begin receiving electronic documents in lieu of paper
documents to satisfy regulations under an authorized program.
   DISCHARGE AUTHORIZATION. Written authorization provided by the City Manager
specifying the conditions for discharge of a one time or short term duration
discharge, or other discharges not meeting the definition of significant
industrial user, including, but not limited to, cooling tower water and silver
recovery unit discharges.
   DISCHARGER. Any person or entity owning, controlling or operating any real
property which directly or indirectly utilizes the POTW. DISCHARGER also means
any employee, officer, director, partner, member, contractor or other person
who participates in, or is legally or factually responsible for, any act or
omission which is a violation of this chapter or which results in a violation
of this chapter. This definition shall be interpreted broadly to include any
person or entity who participates in an act or omission that results in a
violation of this chapter.
   DOMESTIC USER. A person or entity whose premises are domiciles for single-
or multiple-family use.
   EFFLUENT. Waste material (as smoke, liquid, industrial refuse or sewage)
discharged into the POTW.
   ENFORCEMENT ACTION. Action taken by the city to return a user into a state
of compliance with the standards established in this chapter of this code. This
may include, but is not limited to, fines, penalties and compliance schedules.
   FINANCE DEPARTMENT. The Division of the East Grand Rapids City Water
Department System that is responsible for the reading of meters, submitting
bills for water and/or sewer service, collection of payment for bills and the
preparation and maintenance of the customer accounts, including applications
for service.
   GARBAGE. Animal and plant waste resulting from the handling, preparation and
cooking of foods.
   INDUSTRIAL EFFLUENT. Waste matter or material discharged into the POTW from
any non-domestic source subject to regulation under § 307(b), (c), or (d) of
the Clean Water Act.
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any person or entity that discharges into the POTW from any
non-domestic source subject to regulation under § 307(b), (c) or (d) of the
Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317(b), (c) or (d).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Solid, liquid or gaseous waste resulting from any
industrial, manufacturing, trade or business process or from the development,
recovery or processing of natural resources.
   INFILTRATION. The water entering a sewer system, including sewer service
connections, from the ground, through such manner as, but not limited to,
defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or manhole walls. INFILTRATION does
not include, and is distinguished from, inflow.
   INFLOW. The water discharged into a sewer system, including service
connections from such sources as, but not limited to, roof leaders, cellar,
yard and area drains, foundation drains, cooling water discharges, drains from
springs and swampy areas, manhole covers, cross-connections from storm drains
and combined sewers, catch basins, storm water, surface runoff, street wash
waters or drainage. INFLOW does not include, and is distinguished from,
infiltration.
   INTERCEPTOR SEWER LINES. Those lines whose basic function is to collect
wastewater from two or more separate trunk sewer lines and to transport such
wastewater to the sewage treatment plant.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge, which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge
or discharges from other sources, inhibits or disrupts the POTW collection,
treatment processes or operations, or its sludge processes or operations, use,
disposal and causes a violation of any requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit
(including an increase in the magnitude or duration of the violation) or of the
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance with the following
statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued there under, or any more
stringent state or local regulations: § 405 of the Clean Water Act being 33
U.S.C. § 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq. (including Title II, more commonly referred to as the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA)), and including state regulations
contained in any state sludge management plan prepared pursuant to Subtitle D
of the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6941 et seq., the Clean Air
Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances Control Act being 15
U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act
being 16 U.S.C. §§ 1431 et seq.
   LATERAL SEWER LINE. A sewer pipe beginning at the local collector sewer or
other connection point and extending to the premises actually served. The
lateral sewer includes the stub to which a user connects. The extension from
the building to the public sewer or other place of disposal regardless of
whether portions of such extension are located within the city easement lines.
The lateral sewer shall include the “T” or “Y” connection to the public sewer.
   MAHL. The maximum allowable headworks loading expressed in pounds per day
that the POTW can accept without experiencing fire or explosion hazards, fume
toxicity, pass through, sludge quality impairment, treatment inhibition or
cause a violation of state water quality standards.
   MEDICAL WASTE. Isolation wastes, infectious agents, human blood and blood
products, pathological wastes, sharps, body parts, contaminated bedding,
surgical wastes, potentially contaminated laboratory wastes and dialysis
wastes.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES). A permit issued
pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342), as amended.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility or installation of which the
construction commenced after the publication of the proposed pretreatment
standards under 33 U.S.C. § 1317(c) which will be applicable to such source if
such standards are thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section
provided that: the construction is a site at which no other source is located;
or the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants
at an existing source is totally replaced; or the production or wastewater
generating processes are substantially independent of an existing source at the
same site. Reference 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(m)(1) or R 323.2302(r) of the MAC for
further information.
   NORTH AMERICAN INDUSTRY CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM (NAICS). A six digit code used
by business and government to classify and measure economic activity.
   PASS THROUGH. A discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit (including an increase of the magnitude
or duration of a violation).
   PERSON or ENTITY. An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or
private corporation, limited liability company or public agency or
instrumentality.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in moles per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. The term includes, but is not limited to, any dredged spoil,
solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions,
chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or
discharged equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal,
commercial and agricultural waste or any other contaminant or other substance
defined as a pollutant under the Clean Water Act.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land or building having any connection to
the POTW of the city.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction in the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to, or in lieu of, discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration
can be physical, chemical or biological processes, process changes or by other
means. Dilution is not considered PRETREATMENT unless expressly authorized by
an applicable national pretreatment standard for a particular industrial
category.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement related
to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard, imposed on an
industrial user.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to real property
or any person having or exercising care, custody or control over any real
property.
   PUBLIC SEWER. Local collector, trunk and interceptor sewer lines including
lift stations and all appurtenances that are owned or controlled by the POTW.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1292, including any devices and
systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling and reclamation of municipal
sewage and industrial waste. The systems include sewers, pipes and equipment
used to convey wastewater to the treatment facility. The term also includes the
municipality as defined in § 502(4) of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1362(4) which has jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the
discharges from such treatment works.
   READINESS TO SERVE CHARGE. A fixed monthly charge payable by a user based on
the size of the water meter servicing the user.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the treatment facilities of a user which causes them to become all or partially
inoperable or substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can
reasonably be expected to occur in the absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY
DAMAGE does not mean economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. Any liquid or water carried waste received from domestic, commercial
and industrial customers, including any infiltration or inflow as may be
present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of devices and structures used for
treating sewage.
   SEWER. Any pipe or conduit for the conveyance of sewage.
   SIGNIFICANT CHANGE. Any change in a discharger’s effluent which causes the
constituents of the discharge to be different and/or increases in the
concentration or flow by 20% over those reported on the discharger’s permit
application.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER (SIU). Any discharger to the POTW who:
      (1)   Has an average discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more of process
wastewater per day (excluding sanitary, non-contact cooling and boiler blow
down wastewater) or contributes a process waste stream which makes up 5% or
more of the average dry weather hydraulic or organic capacity of the POTW, or
as determined by the City Manager under authority of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 and in
R 323.2302 of the MAC on the basis that the industrial user has a reasonable
potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation or for violating any
pretreatment standard or requirement (in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)
(6) and R 323.2306(h) of the MAC);
      (2)   Is found by the City Manager, the state’s Department of
Environmental Quality (MDEQ) or the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing users, on the wastewater treatment system the quality of sludge,
the system’s effluent quality or air emissions generated by the system; or
      (3)   Is subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards under 40
C.F.R. § 403.6 and R 323.2311 of the MAC and 40 C.F.R. Chapter I, Subchapter N.
Upon a finding that an industrial user meeting criteria under division (1)
above has no reasonable potential for adversely affecting the POTW’s operation
or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, the City Manager may
at anytime, on his or her own initiative, or in response to a petition received
from an industrial user or the POTW, and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.8
(f)(6) and R 323.2306(h) of the MAC, determine that such industrial user is not
a SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Any industrial user with a violation that meets
one or more of the following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined here as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six- month
period exceed (by any magnitude) the daily maximum limit, instantaneous limit
or the average limit for the same pollutant parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined here as those
in which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter
taken during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily
maximum limit, instantaneous limit or the average limit multiplied by the
applicable TRC (TRC=1.4 for BOD, TSS, fats, oil and grease and 1.2 for all
other pollutants except pH).
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the City Manager determines has caused, alone or
in combination with other discharges, interference or pass through (including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public);
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, welfare or to the environment or has resulted in the POTW’s
exercise of its emergency authority under §
2.65 of this chapter to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a local control mechanism or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports and
reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance;
      (8)   Any violation or group of violations, which the City Manager
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program. As required by federal regulations, the city shall at
least annually publish a list of industrial users which during the previous 12
months were in SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE with applicable standards or
pretreatment requirements; or
      (9)   Failure to meet BMP requirements.
   SLUG DISCHARGE. Any discharge of a non-routine, episodic nature, including,
but not limited to, an accidental spill or non-customary batch discharge, which
has a reasonable potential to cause interference or pass through, or in any
other way violate the POTW’s regulations, local limits or permit conditions.
   STORM DRAIN. Any underground pipe or any facility intended to convey only
storm water runoff, street wash waters, groundwater and drainage. This term
also includes discharges allowed by state or federal discharge permits.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. All matter existing in non-liquid state which is removable
by filtration in accordance with 40 C.F.R. part 136 referenced as “Residue,
Non-filterable”, or an alternative method approved by the EPA Administrator in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(5)(vi) and R 323.2310(e)(vi) of the MAC.
   SYSTEM. Refers to the POTW.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant identified pursuant to § 307 of the Clean
Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1317, or pursuant to Part 115 of the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., or pursuant to any other applicable laws or
regulations.
   UNCONTAMINATED INDUSTRIAL EFFLUENTS. Water which has not come into contact
with any substance used in, or incidental to, industrial processing operations,
such as non-contact cooling water and to which no deleterious or toxic
substance has been added.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with categorical pretreatment standards (or other limits of this
chapter) because of factors beyond the reasonable control of the industrial
user. An UPSET does not include noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, and lack of preventive maintenance or careless or
improper operation.
   USER CLASS. Either a domestic, commercial or industrial group of users.
   WASTEWATER. Water, or any liquid, whether or not containing pollutants,
which is discharged or permitted to be discharged into the sanitary sewer
system.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.44 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings.
BTEX   Benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene and xylene
C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations
EPA    United States Environmental Protection Agency
MTBE   Methyl tertiary butyl ether
MAC    Michigan Administrative Code
mg/L   Milligrams per liter
TSS    Total suspended solids
MAHL   Maximum allowable headworks loading
 
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.45 MANAGEMENT OF THE POTW.
   The POTW shall be and remain under the management, supervision and control
of the City Manager. The City Manager may make such rules, orders or
regulations as are deemed advisable and necessary to assure the efficient
management and operation of the system, subject, however, to the rights, powers
and duties with respect thereto which are reserved by law to the City
Commission.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.45.1 CITY MANAGER’S EMERGENCY AUTHORITY.
   When a necessary or advisable emergency protective measure or action is
required, the City Manager is authorized to cause such measures and actions to
be taken as authorized by law. The cost of such protective measures or actions
shall be at the expense of the property owner responsible for such measure or
action. Failure to pay such cost will constitute a lien upon the property as
provided for by law or in the City Charter.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.45.2 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Under current federal and state laws, rules and regulations, the city
is held responsible for the discharge of wastewater into the POTW; therefore,
the city has the right and obligation to inspect connections and discharges to
its system in order to confirm compliance with state and federal laws and
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   The City Manager and other duly authorized employees of the city
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties at reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation,
measurement, sampling and testing in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. Any person who uses, applies for use and/or is connected to the POTW
under this chapter shall be deemed to have consented to inspections pursuant to
this section, including entrance upon that person’s property at reasonable
times to make inspections. In the event that a violation of this chapter is
identified, the property owner shall be responsible for all costs of inspection
and remediation if necessary.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.46 STANDARDS, RULES, REGULATIONS AND ADMINISTRATIVE REFERENCE GUIDE.
   The standards, rules and regulations established in, or pursuant to, this
chapter are deemed to be the absolute minimum consistent with the preservation
of the public health, safety and welfare, to prevent pollution of the
environment and to fulfill the obligations of the city with respect to state
and federal law, including all rules and regulations adopted in conformance
thereto. All such additional standards, rules and regulations not contained in
this chapter shall be approved by the City Commission. The discharge into the
POTW of any substance which exceeds the pretreatment requirements contained
herein, or in any manner fails to conform hereto, is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance and a violation of the code.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.47 USE OF THE POTW.
   Any person or entity conforming to the standards, rules and regulations
established in, or pursuant to, this chapter shall be permitted to discharge
effluent into the POTW, provided adequate sewer service is available to which
he or she can connect.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.48 GENERAL DISCHARGE CONDITIONS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   All premises connected to the POTW shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Minimum size of the building drain/sewer, including required
cleanouts, shall be four inches or greater in diameter.
      (2)   A grease interceptor, with a maintenance cleaning schedule
appropriate for its intended use, shall be required to receive the drainage
from fixtures and equipment having grease-laden waste, located in food
preparation areas such as in restaurants, commercial kitchens, bars, clubs or
similar facilities. The grease interceptor shall not be less than a three
compartment, 1,000 gallon system, or equivalent, unless the City Manager
approves an alternative system. Food waste grinders shall not discharge to the
building drainage system through the grease interceptor, unless the interceptor
is appropriately sized to handle the solids loading and approved by the
Plumbing Code. Grease interceptors shall be cleaned and maintained in
accordance with BMP. At no time shall the level of grease and sludge in any
compartment of the trap be greater than 25% of the tank liquid level. Proof of
maintenance and cleaning shall be available for review upon request.
      (3)   Sand traps and similar interceptors for removal of heavy solids by
commercial users, as determined by the City Manager, shall be designed and
installed, according to the city sand trap for garages design specifications.
They shall be located as to be readily accessible for cleaning and shall have a
water seal of not less than six inches. Sand traps and similar interceptors
shall be cleaned and maintained in accordance with BMP. Proof of maintenance
and cleaning shall be available for review upon request.
      (4)   Oil/water separators are required at repair garages, gasoline
stations with grease racks, grease pits or work racks and at factories, or
other facilities, where oily and flammable liquid wastes are produced.
Separators shall be installed into which all oil-bearing, grease-bearing or
flammable wastes shall be discharged before emptying in the building drainage
system or other point of disposal. Oil separators shall have a depth of not
less than two feet below the invert of the discharge drain. The outlet opening
of the separator shall not have less than an 18-inch water seal. An alternative
design may be approved by the Plumbing Inspector, as provided for by the
Plumbing Code. Oil/water separators shall be cleaned and maintained in
accordance with BMP. Proof of maintenance and cleaning shall be available for
review upon request.
   (B)   (1)   No discharger shall introduce into the POTW any pollutant(s)
which cause pass through or interference. The following general and specific
prohibitions of this section apply to each discharger introducing pollutants
into the POTW whether or not the discharger is subject to any national, state
or local pretreatment standards or requirements.
      (2)   Pollutants, substances or wastewater prohibited by this section
shall not be processed or stored in such a manner that they could be discharged
to the POTW:
         (a)   Pollutants which create a fire or explosion hazard in the POTW,
including, but not limited to, waste streams with a closed cup flashpoint of
less than 140°F or 60°C using the test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21;
         (b)   Solid or viscous pollutants in amounts that will cause
obstruction to the flow in the POTW or results in interference;
         (c)   Pollutants which cause corrosive structural damage to the POTW,
but in no case discharges with a pH lower than 5.0 or a pH greater than 10.5.
These pH limits will be evaluated annually as part of the rate study and the
limits set forth in this section will be revised as deemed necessary;
         (d)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient
quantity, either singly or by interaction, to injure or interfere with any
wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or animals or
exceed the limitations set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard;
         (e)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly, or by interaction, are capable of creating a public nuisance or hazard
to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers for maintenance and
repair;
         (f)   Any substance which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, may cause a violation of the POTW’s NPDES permit
or any applicable state or federal water quality standards or interferes with
any treatment process, or causes treatment residues, sludge’s or scum’s, to be
unsuitable for reclamation or reuse or to interfere with the reclamation
process. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to
be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or
regulations developed under § 405 of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C. §
1345, any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et
seq., the Clean Air Act being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic Substances
Control Act being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2601 et seq. or state standards applicable to
the sludge management method being used;
         (g)   Any substance with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
         (h)   Heat in amounts that will inhibit biological activity in the
POTW resulting in interference, but, in no case heat in such quantities that
the temperature at the headworks of the POTW exceeds 40°C (104°F) unless the
MDEQ, upon the request of the POTW, approves the alternative temperature
limits;
         (i)   Any pollutant, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and
the like), released in a discharge at a flow rate and/or pollutant
concentration which will cause interference with the POTW;
         (j)   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to, noncontact
cooling water, unless a discharge authorization is approved by the City
Manager;
         (k)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration except as set forth in 10 C.F.R. part 20.
Introduction of radioactive wastes that interfere with the operation of the
POTW including, but not limited to, the use and disposal of sludge, the
recycling of any and all waste products, or if the discharge causes the POTW to
violate any local, state or federal laws;
         (l)   Pollutants which result in the presence of toxic gases, vapors
or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause acute worker health and
safety problems;
         (m)   Any discharge of petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting oil,
animal fat, vegetable fat, oil, grease, products of mineral oil or any
combination thereof at a concentration of greater than 100 milligrams per
liter, unless it can be demonstrated that matrix interference is responsible
for levels greater than this amount, but, in no case in amounts that will cause
an obstruction, interference or pass through in the POTW;
         (n)   Any substances not identified in division (m) above, that will
become solid or viscous after entering the POTW;
         (o)   Any effluent having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the
POTW’s average daily flow. The City Manager, upon review, may approve greater
discharges subject to conditions as authorized by this chapter or special
conditions he or she deems necessary in order to preserve and protect public
health, safety and welfare, subject to conformance with the applicable state
and federal law;
         (p)   Any trucked or hauled pollutants, except at discharge points
designated by the City Manager;
         (q)   Any detectable level of mercury using EPA method 245.1 or 245.2
with a detection limit not to exceed 0.2 u.g/1 unless the user can demonstrate
that matrix interference prevents the attainment of this level. Mercury
sampling procedures, preservation and handling, and analytical protocol for
compliance monitoring shall be in accordance with U.S. EPA method 245.1 or
245.2. In the event that mercury is detected, the user shall develop and
implement a mercury elimination plan including elements deemed necessary by the
City Manager to progress toward the goal of no detectable discharge of mercury.
For users whose operation and discharge characteristics are substantially
similar, a group mercury elimination plan may be acceptable. Dental facilities
shall comply with Public Act 503 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. § 333.16631, and all
best management practices promulgated by the state’s Department of Community
Health in conjunction with the state’s Department of Environmental Quality
(MDEQ);
         (r)   There shall be no discharge to the POTW of groundwater that has
been contaminated with gasoline and related petroleum products that would
qualify for a state general discharge permit for gasoline and related petroleum
products in accordance with R 2191 promulgated pursuant to Act 451 of the
state’s Public Acts of 1994, as amended, Part 31, except where no other
discharge option exists. If discharge to the POTW is desired under these
conditions, the discharger must submit a wastewater discharge permit
application as specified in §
2.50 which may be approved by the City Manager. Upon approval, a permit will be
issued with appropriate conditions as set forth in §
2.54. The total BTEX concentration shall not exceed 20 micrograms per liter and
the MTBE concentration shall not exceed 20 micrograms per liter;
         (s)   Disposal of septage waste into the POTW is prohibited, except as
in accordance with the septage waste receiving plan, the City Manager may
authorize disposal of portable containers of domestic waste, including waste
from recreational vehicles. Septage wastes are to be discharged only at
designated locations in accordance with the septage waste receiving plan;
         (t)   Sludge from an industrial or commercial pretreatment system
shall not be placed into the POTW. Such sludge shall be disposed of by a
licensed hauler in a site approved by the MDEQ;
         (u)   Any substance that causes excessive foaming in the POTW;
         (v)   Medical Wastes, except as specifically authorized according to
Part 138, Medical Waste Regulatory Act of the state’s Public Health Code,
Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.;
         (w)   Any detectable level of PCB using EPA method 608 with a
detection limit not to exceed 0.1ug/1 unless the user can demonstrate that
matrix interference prevents the attainment of this level. PCB sampling
procedures, preservation and handling, and analytical protocol for compliance
monitoring shall be in accordance with U.S. EPA method 608; and/or
         (x)   Bacteriological, chemical or enzymatic products shall not be
added to facility discharge or be used to maintain or clean grease interceptors
or grease traps, unless approved by the City Manager.
   (C)   Bypass is prohibited, except in cases where the bypass was unavoidable
to prevent a loss of life, personal injury or severe property damage, and where
there are no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the use of auxiliary
treatment facilities, retention of untreated wastes or maintenance during
normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not satisfied if
adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the exercise of
reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass that occurred during normal
periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance. In cases where a
bypass may occur, it would be subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   Anticipated bypass. If an industrial user knows in advance of the
need for a bypass, the user shall submit prior notice to the POTW, if possible,
at least ten days before the date of the bypass. Upon notification, the City
Manager shall make a determination whether to allow the discharge.
      (2)   Unanticipated bypass. An industrial user shall immediately notify
the City Manager of the occurrence of any unanticipated bypass. The City
Manager shall make a determination whether to allow the discharge to continue.
A written submission shall also be provided within five days of becoming aware
of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
and its cause, the dates and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate and prevent recurrence of the bypass.
   (D)   Any discharger shall have an affirmative defense in any action brought
against it alleging a violation of the general and specific prohibitions
established in divisions (B)(2)(b), (B)(2)(h), (B)(2)(i) and (B)(2)(m), where
the discharger can demonstrate that:
      (1)   It did not know or have reason to know that its discharge, alone or
in conjunction with a discharge or discharges from other sources, would cause
pass through or interference; and
      (2)   Either:
         (a)   A local limit designed to prevent pass through or interference
was developed for each pollutant in the user’s discharge that caused pass
through or interference and the user was in compliance with each such local
limit immediately before and during the pass through or interference; or
         (b)   A local limit was not applicable and immediately before and
during the pass through or interference the user’s discharge did not
substantially change in volume or constituents from the user’s previous
discharges when the POTW was regularly in compliance with its NPDES permit and,
in the case of interference, all applicable requirements for sludge use or
disposal.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.49 LIMITATIONS ON WASTEWATER STRENGTH.
   (A)   Upon the promulgation of the federal categorical pretreatment
standards for a particular industrial subcategory, the federal standard, if
more stringent than limitations imposed under this chapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
chapter. Compliance by existing sources with categorical pretreatment standards
shall be within three years of the date the standard is effective unless a
shorter compliance time is specified in the appropriate subpart of 40 C.F.R.
Chapter I, Subpart N. A new source shall install, and have in operation at
start-up, all pollution control equipment required to meet applicable
categorical pretreatment standards before beginning discharge. When the
applicable categorical pretreatment standards are expressed in terms of mass of
pollutant per unit of production, the City Manager may convert these limits to
equivalent limitations expressed either as a mass of pollutant discharged per
day or effluent concentration for purposes of calculating effluent limitations
applicable to individual industrial users as set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c)
(2) to (c)(7) and R 323.2311(5) of the MAC. In situations in which non-
regulated waste streams are intermixed with the regulated waste stream, the
City Manager may use the combined waste stream formula to develop equivalent
discharge limits. Whenever equivalent limits are used, they shall be deemed
pretreatment standards in determining compliance with the standards. The City
Manager shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 and R 323.2310 of the MAC. An application
for modification of the categorical pretreatment standards may be considered
for submittal to the Regional Administrator of EPA by the City Manager when the
system achieves consistent removal of the pollutants as defined by 40 C.F.R. §
403.7 and R 323.2313 of the MAC.
   (B)   No industrial user shall increase the use of water or dilute a
discharge as a substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with a
pretreatment standard or requirement.
   (C)   Supplementary limitations include the following.
      (1)   Supplementary limits were established in accordance with EPA
guidance and MDEQ approval criteria. Specific permit limits for BOD, total
suspended solids, total phosphorous, and ammonia as NH3-N, are specified by
individual discharge permits and were derived from the industrial allocable
portion of the MAHLs listed in Table 1.
 
Table 1 Maximum Allowable Head Works Loadings
Materials                       Loading (Pounds/Day)
Ammonia nitrogen (NH3-N)        15,100
Biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) 160,800
Total phosphorous (TP)          6,990
Total suspended solids (TSS)    141,300
 
      (2)   Table 2 contains a list of technically based local limits derived
from the industrial allocable portion of the non-compatible pollutant MAHLs
shown above as well as limits for toxic pollutants. For users subject to
categorical pretreatment standards, which include the following parameters, the
following limits, if more restrictive, shall apply, both to the categorically
regulated process flow as well as any other flows not specifically regulated by
categorical pretreatment standards. For all other dischargers these limits
shall apply to the total flow from each connection to the POTW, except silver
which is a process discharge limit as noted. All measurements to determine
compliance with these limits shall be performed in accordance with EPA approved
methods found in 40 C.F.R. part 136. The monthly average shall be the average
of all samples analyzed by EPA approved methods during a calendar month.
Table 2 Local Limits
Inorganic Daily Maximum (Mg/l) Monthly Average (Mg/l)
Table 2 Local Limits
Inorganic           Daily Maximum (Mg/l) Monthly Average (Mg/l)
Total arsenic       1.46                 NA
Total cadmium       0.817                NA
Total chromium      4.0                  NA
Hexavalent chromium 0.72                 NA
Total copper        1.5                  NA
Total cyanide       1.0                  NA
Total lead          1.5                  NA
Total mercury       ND1                  NA
Total molybdenum    3.4                  NA
Total nickel        1.5                  1.1
Total selenium      2.3                  1.67
Total silver        6202                 NA
Total zinc          2.6                  2.0
NA - Not applicable
1. Non-detectable or as specified in §
2.48(2)(q)
2. Process discharge limit for photo processors and x-ray machines sampled
from discharge of silver recovery unit. The analysis of these sample
matrixes, photo processing, and x-ray machine wastes for silver shall be
performed on an unpreserved and undigested sample or an alternative
preservation and analytical method that does not interfere with the
measurement of silver.
Table 2 Local Limits
Organic Daily Maximum (Mg/l) Monthly Average (Mg/l)
Table 2 Local Limits
Organic                   Daily Maximum (Mg/l) Monthly Average (Mg/l)
MTBE                      0.02                 NA
Polychlorinated biphenyls ND1                  NA
Tetrachloroethylene       0.25                 NA
Total phenols             3.26                 NA
Trichloroethylene         0.16                 NA
NA - Not applicable
1. Non-detectable per EPA method 608 with a detection limit not to exceed 0.1
p.g/1 unless higher levels are appropriate due to matrix interference
 
      (3)   For compatible pollutants, the City Manager shall establish
specific concentration limits, when necessary, that are adequate to ensure that
the industrial allocable portion of the MAUL listed herein is not exceeded. Any
requests for specific limits must be made at the time of permit application or
renewal and such a determination will be made solely by the City Manager. The
establishment of any such limits shall not create any vested right or property
rights for the user. Accordingly, no right of appeal from such a determination
will exist and the approval may be terminated, modified or subjected to special
condition either at time of approval or thereafter, at the discretion of the
City Manager.
      (4)   (a)   The City Manager may implement a system for setting special
alternative specific limits for batch discharges. Special alternative specific
limits may be approved when all of the following conditions are met:
            1.   The user requests a special alternative specific limit through
the special alternative limit process; and
            2.   The City Manager makes a determination that adequate treatment
capacity exists to allow this special alternative specific limit consistent
with the MAHL for those pollutants present.
         (b)   In no event shall a special discharge permit be granted or
effective which authorizes a discharge in excess of the limitations imposed by
any applicable final federal or state pretreatment standard or discharge limit.
In addition, the City Manager shall not consider any request for an increase
above any limits that were calculated based on health or safety criteria.
      (5)   The City Manager may develop BMPs by resolution or in individual
wastewater discharge permits to implement local limits and the requirements of
§
2.48.
   (D)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   Prevention plan.
         (a)   Industrial and commercial users shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of materials which may interfere with the POTW by
developing spill prevention plans. If the materials of concern are listed in
Table 1 of R 324.2009 of the MAC, as amended, a pollution incident prevention
plan (PIPP) pursuant to Part 31 of the Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq.,
and R 324.2006 of the MAC, as amended, shall be developed and maintained. A
copy of the PIPP must be made available upon request of the City Manager.
Facilities necessary to implement these plans shall be provided and maintained
at the owner’s or industrial or commercial user’s expense.
         (b)   Industrial and commercial users who store hazardous substances
shall not discharge to the POTW after the effective date of this chapter until
a state required PIPP has been submitted. Receipt of such plan shall not
relieve the industrial or commercial user from complying with all other laws
and regulations governing the use, storage and transportation of hazardous
substances.
      (2)   The City Manager shall evaluate each significant industrial user at
least once every two years, and other industrial users as necessary, to
determine whether such user needs a plan to control slug discharges. If the
City Manager decides that a slug control plan is needed, the plan shall contain
at a minimum the following elements:
         (a)   Description of discharge practices, including non-routine batch
discharges;
         (b)   Description of stored chemicals;
         (c)   Procedures for immediately notifying the POTW of slug
discharges, including any discharge that would violate a prohibition under §§
2.48 and
2.49, with procedures for follow-up written notification within five days; and
         (d)   When deemed necessary, procedures to prevent adverse impact from
accidental spills, including inspection and maintenance of storage areas,
handling and transfer of materials, loading and unloading operations, control
of plant site runoff, worker training, building containment structures or
equipment, measures for containing toxic organic pollutants and/or measures and
equipment for emergency response.
      (3)   Any upset or accidental discharge shall be reported to the City
Manager immediately upon occurrence. A detailed report shall be filed within
five days. The report shall include location of the upset or discharge, date
and time thereof, type of waste, concentration, volume and corrective actions.
Failure to file a report shall be a separate violation of this chapter.
      (4)   Signs shall be permanently posted in conspicuous places on
discharger’s premises, advising employees whom to call in the event of a slug,
upset or accidental discharge. Employers shall instruct all employees who may
cause, or discover such upset or discharge, with respect to emergency
notification procedure.
      (5)   Significant industrial users are required to notify the City
Manager prior to any changes at its facility affecting the potential for a slug
discharge.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.50 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   All new non-domestic users connecting to, or discharging to, the POTW,
and all existing non-domestic users connected to, or discharging to, the POTW,
shall complete a wastewater discharge survey to establish whether a non-
domestic user should be classified as a significant industrial user or
authorized discharger as defined in §
2.43 and require a discharge permit. New water service will not be initiated
until a complete survey is submitted. In the case of a transfer account, water
service will be discontinued if a complete survey is not submitted within ten
days of the transfer. If, upon review, the City Manager determines a permit may
be required, the non-domestic user shall file a permit application which may
include, but not be limited to, the following information:
      (1)   Name, address and location of the discharger;
      (2)   North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) number(s)
according to the North American Industry Classification System manual, Office
of Management and Budget, 1997, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including, but not
limited to, toxic pollutants as determined by bona fide chemical and biological
analyses. Sampling and analyses shall be performed in accordance with
procedures established by the EPA and contained in 40 C.F.R. part 136, as
amended;
      (4)   Time and duration of discharges;
      (5)   Average daily and maximum daily wastewater flow rates in gallons
per day, including daily, monthly and seasonal variations, if any. All flows
shall be measured, unless other verifiable techniques are approved by the City
Manager;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sanitary and storm drain systems, sewer connections, inspection
manholes, sampling chambers and appurtenances by size, location and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are, or may be, discharged to the POTW;
      (8)   The nature and concentration of any pollutants or materials
prohibited by this chapter in the discharge, together with a statement
regarding whether or not compliance is being achieved with this chapter on a
consistent basis and, if not, whether additional operation and maintenance
activities and/or additional pretreatment is required for the discharger to
comply with this chapter;
      (9)   Where additional pretreatment and/or operation and maintenance
activities will be required to comply with this chapter by an existing source,
the discharger shall enter into a consent agreement consistent with the law,
and approved by the City Manager, of the shortest schedule by which the
discharger will provide such additional pretreatment and/or implementation of
additional operational and maintenance activities. The compliance date for such
a schedule shall not be later than the compliance date for any applicable
standard. A new source (40 C.F.R. § 403.3(k) and R 323.2302(r) of the MAC), or
an expansion of an existing source, must have in place all necessary equipment
to abate pollution. For a new source this will be prior to the commencement of
the discharge. For an expansion of an existing source this shall be before any
additional wastewater is introduced to the system.
         (a)   The schedule shall contain milestone dates for the commencement
and completion of major events leading to the construction and operation of
additional pretreatment required for the discharger to comply with the
requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, dates related to
hiring a state licensed professional engineer, completing preliminary plans,
completing final plans, executing contract for major components, commencing
construction, completing construction and all other acts necessary to achieve
compliance with this chapter.
         (b)   Under no circumstance shall the City Manager permit a time
increment for any single step directed toward compliance which exceeds six
months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each milestone date in the
schedule and the final date for compliance, the discharger shall submit a
progress report to the City Manager, including a statement as to whether or not
they complied with the increment of progress represented by that milestone date
and, if not, the date on which they expect to comply with this increment of
progress, the reason for delay and the steps being taken by the discharger to
return the construction to the approved schedule.
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   The type and amount of raw materials utilized;
      (12)   All permit applications shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the discharger, and a state licensed professional engineer,
where pretreatment facilities are required; and
      (13)   When required by the City Manager, the discharger shall provide an
inspection and sampling manhole(s) or structure(s), non-permitted confined
space where feasible, with an opening of no less than 24 inches diameter and an
internal diameter of no less than 36 inches containing flow measuring,
recording and sampling equipment as required by the City Manager to assure
compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   Non-domestic users who have previously submitted a survey, as
prescribed in this section, are also required to complete a wastewater
discharge survey periodically, at a frequency to be determined by the City
Manager.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.51 SIGNIFICANT CHANGES.
   All industrial users shall promptly notify the control authority (and the
POTW if the POTW is not the control authority) in advance of any substantial
change in the volume or character of pollutants in their discharge, including
the listed or characteristic hazardous wastes for which the industrial user has
submitted initial notification under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p) and §
2.75 of the city code.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.52 PERMIT ISSUANCE (SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS).
   The City Manager will evaluate the completed application and data furnished
by the discharger and may require additional information. Within 30 days after
full evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the City Manager shall
make a determination as to whether the applicant is a significant industrial
user or authorized discharger. For every applicant, the City Manager shall
issue or deny a discharge permit subject to terms and conditions provided
herein.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.53 PERMIT MODIFICATIONS.
   The City Manager shall have the right to amend any discharge permit issued
hereunder in order to assure compliance by the POTW with applicable laws and
regulations and prevent a violation of any NPDES limit, water quality standards
or interference with residuals management as specified in §
2.48(B)(2)(f). Upon the promulgation of a federal categorical pretreatment
standard, the significant industrial user discharge permit of each discharger
subject to such standards will be revised to comply with such standards. Where
a discharger, subject to a federal categorical pretreatment standard, has not
previously submitted an application for a significant industrial user discharge
permit as required by §
2.50, the discharger shall apply for a significant industrial user discharge
permit from the City Manager within 30 days after the promulgation of the
applicable federal categorical pretreatment standard and provide the
information required. The discharger shall be informed of any proposed changes
in the discharger’s permit at least 30 days prior to the effective date of
change. Any changes or new conditions in the permit may include a reasonable
time schedule for compliance, which does not exceed any compliance dates set by
40 C.F.R. § 403.6(b) and R 323.2311(3) of the MAC.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.54 PERMIT CONDITIONS.
   Significant industrial user discharge permits shall specify the following:
   (A)   Statement of duration (not more than five years) including issuance
and expiration dates;
   (B)   Effluent limitations based on the more stringent of categorical
pretreatment standards, BMPs or local limits as established by this chapter and
state law;
   (C)   General and specific discharge prohibitions as established by §§
2.48 and
2.49 of this code;
   (D)   Requirements and specifications for monitoring programs including
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
   (E)   Requirements for collecting, retaining and providing access to plant
records relating to the user’s discharge and for providing entry for sampling
and inspection;
   (F)   Requirements for notification of spills, bypass or potential problems
to the POTW including slug loadings, upsets or violations;
   (G)   Requirements to develop and implement spill and slug control plans;
   (H)   Requirements for notification and approval of changes prior to
discharge. The POTW shall be notified of any proposed substantial change in the
volume or character of pollutants in their discharge, including the listed or
characteristic hazardous wastes for which the industrial user has submitted
initial notification under 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p) and R 323.2310(15) of the MAC
and operational shift changes of greater than four hours;
   (I)   Special conditions as the City Manager may reasonably require under
particular circumstances of a given discharge to ensure compliance with this
chapter and state and federal pretreatment standards and requirements;
   (J)   Statement of applicable civil and criminal penalties for violation of
pretreatment standards and requirements;
   (K)   Statement of non-transferability;
   (L)   Conditions for modification or revocation of permit;
   (M)   Schedule of fees and charges;
   (N)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics, including BMP: based on applicable pretreatment standards or
local limits;
   (O)   Limits on average and maximum rate and time of discharge and/or
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
   (P)   Requirements for installation and maintenance of inspection and
sampling facilities;
   (Q)   Compliance schedules; and
   (R)   Requirements for submission of special technical reports, discharge
reports or certification statements. These include any reporting requirements
contained in a federal categorical standard or pretreatment requirements.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.55 PERMITS DURATION.
   All discharge permits shall be issued for up to five years, subject to
amendment or revocation as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.56 PERMIT CHANGES.
   (A)   Permit transfer.
      (1)   Individual discharge permits may be transferred to a new owner or
operator only if the permitee gives at least 30 days’ advance notice to the
City Manager and the City Manager approves the individual discharge permit
transfer. The notice to the City Manager must include a written certification
by the new owner or operator which:
         (a)   States that the new owner and/or operator have no immediate
intent to change the facility’s operations and processes;
         (b)   Identifies the specific date on which the transfer is to occur;
         (c)   Acknowledges full responsibility for complying with the existing
individual wastewater discharge permit; and
         (d)   Includes all modifications.
      (2)   Failure to provide advance notice of a transfer renders the
individual wastewater discharge permit void as of the date of facility
transfer.
   (B)   Permit renewal/reissuance. SIUs with an expiring wastewater discharge
permit shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit reissuance by submitting a
complete permit application, in accordance with §
2.50 of this chapter, a minimum of 60 days prior to the expiration of the SIU’s
existing wastewater discharge permit.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.57 BASELINE MONITORING REPORT.
   (A)   Providing report. Within 180 days after the effective date of a
categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the final administrative
decision made upon a category determination request, or 90 days prior to the
commencement of discharge in the case of a new source, the industrial user
shall submit a baseline monitoring report, in accordance with 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(b) and R 323.2310(2) MAC, for any discharge subject to federal
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements signed by an authorized
representative.
   (B)   Ninety-day report on compliance with federal categorical standards.
Within 90 days following the date for final compliance with applicable federal
categorical pretreatment standards, or in the case of a new source following
the commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW, any
discharger subject to federal categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements shall submit a report in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d) and
R 323.2310(3) MAC signed by an authorized representative.
   (C)   Significant non-categorical user compliance report. For dischargers
who are not subject to categorical pretreatment standards, but discharge or
have the potential to discharge substances which could adversely affect the
POTW’s operation, or for violating any pretreatment standard or requirement, a
report is to be submitted 30 days following the commencement of discharge and
every six months thereafter to the City Manager. The report shall specify the
nature and concentration of all prohibited or regulated substances contained in
their discharge as set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(h) and R 323.2310(7) MAC and
the average and maximum daily flow in gallons. The report shall state whether
the requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if additional
pretreatment is necessary, to bring the discharge into compliance with the
requirements. This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative,
as set forth in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(l) and R 323.2310(11) MAC, of the discharger
and certified to by a state licensed professional engineer.
   (D)   Hazardous waste notification.
      (1)   Any industrial or commercial user, except as specified in division
(E) below, who discharges any substance to the POTW which, if otherwise
disposed of, would be a listed or characteristic hazardous waste under 40
C.F.R. part 261, shall notify the POTW, the EPA Regional Waste Management
Division Director and the state hazardous waste authorities as set forth in 40
C.F.R. § 403.12(p) and R 323.2310(15) of the MAC in writing of such discharge.
      (2)   All hazardous waste notifications shall include:
         (a)   The name of the hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. part
261;
         (b)   The EPA hazardous waste number;
         (c)   The type of discharge (continuous, batch or other); and
         (d)   A certification that the user has a program in place to reduce
the volume and toxicity of hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has
determined to be economically practical.
      (3)   In addition to the information submitted in division (D)(2) above,
the reports from industrial and commercial users discharging more than 100
kilograms of hazardous waste per calendar month to the POTW shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   An identification of the hazardous constituents contained in the
waste;
         (b)   An estimation of the mass and concentration of such constituents
in the waste stream discharged during that calendar month; and
         (c)   An estimation of the mass of constituents in the waste stream
expected to be discharged during the following 12 months.
      (4)   Hazardous waste notifications shall be submitted no later than 30
days after the effective date of this chapter or prior to the discharge of
listed or characteristic hazardous waste for discharges commencing after the
effective date of this chapter, as required in §
2.51. Any notification under this provision need be submitted only once for
each hazardous waste discharged, although notifications of changed discharge
must be submitted under §
2.51 of this chapter. This section does not apply to pollutants already
reported as part of a significant industrial user discharge permit self-
monitoring requirement.
      (5)   Industrial and commercial users are exempt from the hazardous waste
notification requirement when they discharge 15 kilograms or less of non-acute
hazardous wastes per calendar month. Discharge of any quantity of acutely
hazardous waste as specified in 40 C.F.R. §§ 261.30(d) and 261.33(e) requires a
one-time notification.
      (6)   In the case of any new regulations under § 3001 of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 6921 identifying additional
characteristics of hazardous waste, the industrial user must notify the POTW,
the EPA regional waste management division Director, and the state hazardous
waste authorities of the discharge of such substance within 90 days of the
effective date of the regulations.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.58 PERIODIC COMPLIANCE REPORTS.
   (A)   Reporting requirements.
      (1)   Significant industrial users subject to categorical pretreatment
standards shall submit to the City Manager a report, as required in 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(e), indicating the nature and concentration of prohibited or regulated
substances in the effluent. The reports shall be submitted for the six-month
periods of January through June and July through December. Reports are due
within 30 days of the end of the reporting period. If the sampling performed
indicates a violation, the user shall notify the City Manager immediately upon
becoming aware of the violation. At a minimum, the SIU shall also repeat the
sampling and analysis and submit the results of the repeat analysis to the City
Manager within 30 days after becoming aware of the violation. In cases where
the pretreatment standard requires compliance with a best management practice
or pollution prevention alternative, the user must submit documentation
required by the City Manager or the pretreatment standard necessary to
determine the compliance status of the SIU. In addition, this report shall
include a record of all measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows
which during the reporting period exceeded the average daily flow reported in §
2.50(A)(5) hereof. Flows shall be reported on the basis of actual measurement
provided, however, where cost or feasibility considerations justify, the City
Manager may accept reports of average and maximum flows estimated by verifiable
techniques. The City Manager, for good cause shown, considering such factors as
local high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles or other extenuating
factors, may authorize the submission of said reports on months other than
those specified above.
      (2)   Significant industrial users with discharges that are not subject
to federal categorical pretreatment standards but are subject to local limits
shall follow the same sampling and reporting requirements as in division (A)(1)
above.
   (B) Contents of reports. Reports of permittees shall contain all results of
sampling and analysis of the discharge, including the flow, nature,
concentration, production and/or mass, where required by the City Manager.
Reports required in discharge permits will be accepted in an electronically
submitted format only through an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) approved
Cross-Media Electronic Reporting Regulation (CROMERR) system compliant with 40
C.F.R. part 3. CROMERR is an EPA approved system allowing states, tribes and
local governments that receive or plan to begin receiving electronic documents
in lieu of paper documents to satisfy regulations under an authorized program.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.59 INSPECTION, SAMPLING AND ANALYSIS.
   (A)   The City Manager may inspect the monitoring facilities of any
discharger to determine compliance with the requirements of this chapter. The
discharger shall allow the City Manager to enter upon the premises of the
discharger at all hours, for the purposes of inspection, sampling or records
examination. The City Manager shall have the right to set up on the
discharger’s property such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling,
inspection, compliance monitoring and/or metering operations and have access to
examine and copy any records. All costs associated with this monitoring
requirement shall be borne by the discharger.
   (B)   The reports required by §§
2.57 and
2.58 of this chapter shall be based on sampling and analysis performed in the
period covered by the report and performed in accordance with the techniques
described in 40 C.F.R. part 136, and amendments thereto, or as specified in the
applicable categorical pretreatment standard.
   (C)   The frequency of monitoring shall be specified by the City Manager to
assess compliance by Industrial and commercial users with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12
(g)(3) and R 323.2310(6)(d) MAC. Where EPA 40 C.F.R. part 136 does not include
a sampling or analytical technique for the pollutant in question, sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with the procedure set forth in the
EPA publication, Sampling and Analysis Procedures for Screening of Industrial
Effluents for Priority Pollutants, April 1977, and amendments thereto, or with
any other sampling and analytical procedures approved by the Administrator of
the EPA. Where the POTW performs all the required sampling and analyses and
collects all the information required for the reports required in §§
2.57 and
2.58 of this chapter, the SIU will not be required to submit the report.
   (D)   If sampling performed by an SIU indicates a violation, the user shall
notify the City Manager within 24 hours of becoming aware of the violation. At
a minimum, the user is required to resample and analyze within 30 days of
becoming aware of the violation. The City Manager may, with the issuance of a
modified permit, require more frequent sampling and analysis. Re-sampling by
the SIU is not required if the city performs sampling at the user’s facility
between the time when the initial sampling was conducted and the time when the
SIU or city receives the results of this sampling, or if the city has performed
the sampling and analysis in lieu of the SIU.
   (E)   If an SIU, subject to the reporting requirement in §§
2.57 and
2.58, monitors any pollutant more frequently than required by the POTW, using
the procedures prescribed in this section, the results of this monitoring shall
be included in the report.
   (F)   (1)   The reports required by §§
2.57 and
2.58 of this chapter shall include the following certification statement: “I
certify under penalty of the law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information submitted,
it is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true, accurate and complete. I
am aware that there are significant penalties for submitting false information,
including the possibility of penalty and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (2)   The reports required by §§
2.57 and
2.58 of this chapter shall include the certification statement as set forth in
§
2.59(F)(1) above, and shall be signed as follows:
         (a)   By a responsible corporate officer, if the industrial user
submitting the reports required by §§
2.57 and
2.58 of this chapter is a corporation. For the purpose of this division (F)(2)
(a), a responsible corporate officer means:
            1.   A president, secretary, treasurer or vice-president of the
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision-making functions for the corporation; or
            2.   The Manager of one or more manufacturing, production or
operating facilities, provided, the Manager is authorized to make management
decisions which govern the operation of the regulated facility including having
the explicit or implicit duty of making major capital investment
recommendations, and initiate and direct other comprehensive measures to assure
long-term environmental compliance with environmental laws and regulations; can
ensure that the necessary systems are established or actions taken to gather
complete and accurate information for control mechanism requirements; and where
authority to sign documents has been assigned or delegated to the Manager in
accordance with corporate procedures.
         (b)   By a general partner or proprietor if the industrial user
submitting the reports required by §§
2.57 and
2.58 of this chapter is a partnership, or sole proprietorship respectively;
         (c)   By a duly authorized representative of the individual designated
in divisions (F)(2)(a) or (F)(2)(b) of this section if:
            1.   The authorization is made in writing by the individual
described in divisions (F)(2)(a) or (F)(2)(b) of this section;
            2.   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility from which the
industrial discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager,
operator of a well or well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for
the company; and
            3.   The written authorization is submitted to the Director.
         (d)   If an authorization under division (F)(1)(c) above is no longer
accurate because a different individual or position has responsibility for the
overall operation of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental
matters for the company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of
division (F)(1)(c) above must be submitted to the Director prior to or together
with any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.60 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   When deemed necessary by the City Manager, each discharger shall
provide and operate, at the discharger’s own expense, a monitoring facility to
allow inspection, representative sampling and flow measurement of each
discharge to the POTW. Sampling requirement shall be flow proportional unless
time proportional composite sampling is authorized by the control authority.
Each monitoring facility shall be situated on the discharger’s premises, except
where such a location would be impractical or cause undue hardship on the
discharger, the City Manager may concur with the facility being constructed in
the public right-of-way providing that the facility is located so that it will
not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. Upon appropriate notice by
the City Manager for monitoring facilities, a compliance schedule may be issued
as a permit condition.
   (B)   There shall be ample room in or near such sampling facilities to allow
accurate sampling and preparation of samples for analysis. The facility,
sampling and measuring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and
proper operating condition, at the expense of the discharger.
   (C)   All required monitoring facilities shall be constructed and maintained
in accordance with all applicable local construction standards and
specifications (non-permitted confined space structure where feasible).
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.61 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data furnished to the City Manager with respect to the
nature and frequency of discharge shall be available to the public or other
governmental agencies without restriction. Wastewater constituents and
characteristics will not be recognized as confidential information. When
requested by a discharger furnishing a report, the portions of a report which
may disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for
inspection by the public unless required by law, but shall be made available
upon written request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter,
the NPDES permit, and/or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that
such portions of a report shall be available for use by the state or any state
agency in judicial review or enforcement proceedings involving the discharger
furnishing the report.
   (B)   Where a discharger has mass based limits as allowed by federal
categorical pretreatment standards on a production basis, the production data
necessary to determine compliance shall be available to the public.
   (C)   Where application of the combined waste stream formula is necessary to
apply federal categorical pretreatment standards to a discharger, the flow
measurements and other data used in the calculation shall be available to the
public.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.62 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any discharger who is found to have violated an order of the City
Manager, or who has failed to comply with any provision of this chapter (or
permits issued hereunder), and the regulations or rules of the city,
promulgated pursuant to this chapter, shall be guilty of a violation of the
city code.
   (B)   Whenever the City Manager finds that any user has violated, or is
violating, this chapter, a significant industrial user discharge permit or
order issued hereunder, or any other pretreatment requirement, the City Manager
may serve upon said user a written notice of violation. Within ten days of the
receipt of this notice, an explanation of the violation and a plan for
satisfactory correction and prevention thereof, to include specific required
actions, shall be submitted by the user to the City Manager. Submission of this
plan in no way relieves the user of liability for any violation occurring
before or after receipt of the notice of violation.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall limit the authority of the city to take
any action, including emergency actions or any other enforcement action,
without first issuing a notice of violation.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.63 RECOVERY OF COSTS INCURRED BY THE CITY.
   Any discharger violating any of the provisions of this chapter, or who
discharges or causes a discharge producing a deposit or obstruction, or causes
damage to or impairs the city’s POTW, shall be liable to the city for any
expense, loss or damage caused by such violation or discharge. This shall
include, but not be limited to, penalties levied upon the city by the EPA or
MDEQ for violation of its NPDES permit caused by any violation by a discharger,
including all actual costs, court, attorney and other related legal fees plus
an additional charge of 100% of the total costs and/or penalties.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.64 FALSIFYING INFORMATION.
   Any person or entity who knowingly makes any false statement, representation
or certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document
filed or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with, or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this chapter, shall, upon conviction, be punished as provided
for in §§
2.70 to
2.72 of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.65 EMERGENCY SUSPENSION OF SERVICE AND DISCHARGE PERMIT.
   (A)   The City Manager may for good cause shown, suspend the sewage disposal
system service and/or the discharge permit of a discharger when it appears that
an actual or impending discharge presents or threatens an imminent or
substantial danger to the health or welfare of persons or the environment,
interferes with the operation of the POTW, violates any pretreatment limits or
conditions imposed by this chapter or any discharge permit issued pursuant to
this chapter.
   (B)   Any discharger notified of the suspension of sewage disposal system
service and/or the discharger’s discharge permit, shall cease all discharges
immediately upon notification or as directed by the City Manager. In the event
of failure of the discharger to comply voluntarily with the suspension order
within the specified time, the City Manager may take whatever steps are deemed
necessary to eliminate the discharge, including cessation of city water service
and/or shall commence judicial proceedings for injunctive relief immediately
thereafter to compel the discharger’s compliance with such order.
   (C)   The City Manager may reinstate the discharge permit and/or sewage
disposal system service and terminate judicial proceeding upon presentation of
proof by the discharger of the elimination of the non-complying discharge or
conditions creating the threat of imminent or substantial danger as set forth
above.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.66 CITY MANAGER’S AUTHORITY TO ISSUE ADMINISTRATIVE ORDERS.
   Whenever the City Manager determines that any discharger has violated this
chapter, or any other applicable laws or regulations which the city is
authorized to enforce, the City Manager may issue administrative orders of the
type listed below, as deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Multiple
orders may be issued simultaneously or in combination as a single order with
respect to a single discharger.
   (A)   Cease and desist order. A cease and desist order directs the non-
complying user to cease illegal or unauthorized discharges immediately or to
terminate its discharge altogether. Any person who uses, applied for use and/or
is connected to the POTW under this chapter shall be deemed to have consented
to inspection pursuant to this section, including entrance upon that person’s
property by the City Manager to take such steps as are necessary to eliminate
the discharge should the discharger fail to comply with such order. Such order
shall be final and in effect until a hearing, if requested by the user, is
conducted and a final decision is made by the City Manager. A written request
for such hearing shall be made within ten calendar days after receiving the
order.
   (B)   Consent order. An agreement between the City Manager and the user
which may contain compliance schedules, requirements for reimbursement of the
city for damages and costs incurred or remedial actions, fines and
administrative penalties and signatures of the City Manager and the authorized
representative. A consent order shall address every identified and potential
deficiency in the user’s compliance status at the time of the order.
   (C)   Show cause order.
      (1)   Where the violation is not corrected by timely compliance, the City
Manager may order any discharger who causes or allows prohibited conduct, to
show cause before the City Manager why a proposed permit revocation action
should not be taken.
      (2)   A written notice shall be served on the discharger by personal
service, or by certified mail, return receipt requested, specifying the time
and place of a hearing to be held by the City Manager regarding the violations,
the reasons why the enforcement action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement
action and directing the discharger to show cause before the City Manager why
the proposed enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing
shall be served no less than ten days before the hearing. Service may be made
on any agent, officer or authorized representative of the discharger.
      (3)   The proceedings at the hearing shall be considered by the City
Manager who shall then enter appropriate orders with respect to the alleged
improper activities of the discharger. Appeal of such order may be taken by the
discharger in accordance with applicable state law.
   (D)   Compliance order. A compliance order directs the discharger to achieve
compliance by a date specified in the order. Compliance orders require
Industrial users to develop management practices, spill prevention programs and
related POTW industrial pretreatment program requirements.
   (E)   Stop work order. Where there is work in progress that constitutes
causes or is causing a violation of any provision of this chapter, the City
Manager may issue a stop work order to prevent further violations or damage.
   (F)   Administrative fines. As specified in §
2.72 of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.67 PUBLISHING NON-COMPLIANCE LIST.
   A list of all dischargers in significant noncompliance for the NPDES
Industrial Pretreatment Program annual reporting period shall be published by
the city in The Grand Rapids Press by the date specified in the city’s NPDES
permit.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.68 CITY MANAGER’S AUTHORITY TO REQUIRE FINANCIAL ASSURANCES.
   Pursuant to the City Manager’s authority to issue administrative orders, the
City Manager may require a non-complying industrial or commercial user to post
a performance bond sufficient to cover expenses which might reasonably be
incurred as a result of future violations. Industrial or commercial users who
have, in the prior two years, been responsible for causing an upset at the
POTW, may be required to obtain liability insurance sufficient to cover the
reasonable costs of restoring the POTW in the event of another such incident.
These requirements may be made conditions of the significant industrial user
discharge permit.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.69 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS.
   Following the entry of any order by the City Manager with respect to the
conduct of a discharger contrary to the provision of this chapter, the attorney
for the city or his or her designee may, following the authorization of such
actions by the City Manager, commence a civil infraction or criminal action for
appropriate legal and/or equitable relief in the court of competent
jurisdiction. Such relief may include, but is not limited to, the following:
injunctive relief against an industrial user for failure to comply with
pretreatment standards and requirements; suit for damages and costs to the city
including legal expense; and municipal civil infraction actions and criminal
prosecution seeking fines and imprisonment as permitted by §
2.72 of this chapter and state law.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.70 RIGHT OF APPEAL.
   Any discharger shall have the right to request, in writing, an
interpretation or ruling by the City Manager on any matter covered by this
chapter and shall be entitled to a prompt written reply.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.71 OPERATING UPSETS.
   (A)   Any discharger experiencing an upset in operations which places the
discharger in a temporary state of noncompliance with this chapter, or a
discharge permit issued pursuant hereto, shall inform the City Manager
immediately upon becoming aware of the upset. The City Manager shall make a
determination whether this discharge can continue. Upon the City Manager
allowing the discharge to continue, a written follow-up report thereof shall be
filed by the discharger with the City Manager within five days. The report
shall include:
      (1)   A description of the upset, the cause thereof and the upset’s
impact on a discharger’s compliance status;
      (2)   The duration of noncompliance, including exact dates and time of
noncompliance, and if noncompliance continues, the time by which compliance is
reasonably expected to occur; and
      (3)   All steps taken, or to be taken, to reduce, eliminate and prevent
recurrence of such upset or other conditions of noncompliance.
   (B)   A documented and verified operating upset shall be an affirmative
defense to any enforcement action brought by the City Manager against a
discharger for any noncompliance with this chapter or any discharge permit
issued pursuant hereto, which arises out of violations alleged to have occurred
during the period of the upset. It will not, however, be a defense to an action
for damages to the POTW or to persons, property or natural resources caused by
the upset. An upset will be considered “documented and bona fide” only if the
discharger complies with division (A) above and with 40 C.F.R. § 403.16(c) and
R 323.2315 of the MAC. In any enforcement proceeding the user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (C)   The user shall have controlled production of all discharges to the
extent necessary to maintain compliance with pretreatment standards upon
reduction, loss or failure of its treatment facility, until the facility is
restored or an alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement
applies in the situation where, among other things, the primary source of power
of the treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (D)   A user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense of an operating
upset shall demonstrate through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs
or other relevant evidence that:
      (1)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause of the upset;
      (2)   The facility was, at the time, being operated in a prudent and
appropriate manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
      (3)   The user notified the City Manager immediately upon becoming aware
of the upset; and
      (4)   A written submission, containing the following information, was
provided within five days of commencement of the upset:
         (a)   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
         (b)   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times or,
if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance was expected to
continue; and
         (c)   Steps taken to reduce, eliminate and prevent recurrence of the
noncompliance.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.72 CRIMINAL AND CIVIL LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   Any person in violation of this chapter, or of any permit issued
pursuant hereto, or standards, rules and regulations, any order of the City
Manager issued pursuant to those rules and regulations or this chapter, shall
be:
         (a)   Subject to the municipal civil infractions provisions of
Chapter 11 of the city code, which the City Manager is authorized to enforce
citations pursuant thereto; and
         (b)   For such violations not covered by the civil infractions
provisions of
Chapter 11 of the city code, shall, if convicted, be subject to a criminal
penalty of up to $500 per day or imprisonment for 90 days or both such penalty
and imprisonment.
      (2)   Each act of violation and every day upon which any violation is
permitted or suffered to exist, shall constitute a separate violation and shall
be subject to a separate penalty. The City Manager may issue a notice of
violation calling for corrective action prior to issuing a citation pursuant to
Chapter 11 of the code. In the case of a conviction pursuant to this section of
a discharger who is not a natural person, any officer or director of a
corporation, any officer or partner of a partnership, or any member of a
limited liability company, or any officer or owner of a proprietorship is
hereby deemed to be a proper person to serve any term of imprisonment imposed
by the court as a result of the conviction.
   (B)   In addition to, and expressly not in lieu of the foregoing, any
discharger who violates this chapter, or any permit issued pursuant hereto, or
the standards, rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter, or any
order of the City Manager issued pursuant to this chapter, shall be subject to
civil penalties, and to the payment of any damages and costs which may be
awarded, by any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In addition to any applicable state and federal penalties, any person
who:
      (1)   At the time of a violation knew or should have known that a
pollutant or substance was discharged contrary to any provision of this
chapter, or contrary to any notice, order, permit, decision or determination
promulgated, issued or made by the City Manager under this chapter;
      (2)   Intentionally makes a false statement, representation or
certification in an application for, or form pertaining to, a permit, or in a
notice, report or record required by this chapter, or in any other
correspondence or communication, written or oral, with the POTW regarding
matters regulated by this chapter;
      (3)   Intentionally falsifies, tampers with or renders inaccurate any
sampling or monitoring device or record required to be maintained by this
chapter; or
      (4)   Commits any other act that is punishable under state law by
imprisonment for more than 90 days: shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine of $500 per violation, per day, or
imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both at the discretion of the court.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.73 RECORD RETENTION REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Users subject to the reporting requirements of this chapter shall
retain, and make available for inspection and copying, all records of
information obtained pursuant to any monitoring activities required by this
chapter, any additional records of information obtained pursuant to monitoring
activities undertaken by the user independent of such requirements, and
documentation associated with BMP established under §
2.49(C)(5). Records shall include the date, exact place, method and time of
sampling, and the name of the person(s) taking the samples; the dates analyses
were performed; who performed the analyses; the analytical techniques or
methods used; and the results of such analyses. These records shall remain
available for a period of at least three years.
   (B)   Any and all records which pertain to matters which are the subject of
a notice of violation, administrative order, show cause hearing or any other
enforcement or litigation activities brought by the city pursuant to this
chapter, shall be retained and preserved for five years, or until all
enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of limitation with
respect to any and all appeals have expired, whichever is later.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.74 REMOVAL CREDITS.
   Where applicable, the City Manager may elect to initiate a program of
removal credits as part of this chapter to reflect the POTW’s ability to remove
pollutants in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.7 and R 323.2313(a) of the MAC.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.75 NET/GROSS CALCULATIONS.
   The City Manager may elect to adjust categorical pretreatment standards to
reflect the presence of pollutants in the discharger’s intake water, in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.15 and R 323.2313(c) of the MAC.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.76 PURPOSE OF CHARGES.
   Charges for the installation of, connection to and use of the POTW are
hereby established for the purpose of recovering the cost of construction,
reconstruction, maintenance, repair, operation and replacement of the system.
Such charges shall be made in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set
forth and shall be made against all users of the system.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.77 INTEGRATED SEWER CONNECTION FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   When a property owner or user is requested or required to connect to
the system and has not previously paid or been assessed a connection fee, the
integrated owner connection fee in place at the time of connection shall apply.
The integrated connection fee is due and payable at the time a user receives a
permit to connect to the sewer system. A permit issued by the city to connect
to the sewer system shall expire 180 days from the date the permit was issued.
   (B)   The user receiving services who applied for a larger water meter than
the one presently in service shall pay an integrated connection fee, which is
the difference in cost between the meter size in service and the one applied
for in accordance with the integrated connection fee in effect at the time of
the application. No credit or rebate shall be made the case of application for
a smaller meter size.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.78 USE CHARGES.
   Rates and charges for sewage disposal service furnished by the system shall
be charged to all persons or entities within or outside the city limits using
the system. Such charges shall reflect the proportionate costs of providing the
service within the city limits.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.79 USER CLASSES.
   For the purposes of determining user charges, two user classes are
established: residential and nonresidential.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 2.80 DETERMINATION OF USER CHARGES.
   The charges herein established shall be based upon the water consumption of
the user’s premises, including water from public and private supplies, as
determined by this chapter and the standards, rules and regulations promulgated
pursuant hereto, or at the election of the user upon the actual amount of
sewage discharge into the system. However, a readiness to serve charge shall be
based upon the size of the water meter and as determined by this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.81 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Users of the system complying with the provisions of this chapter
shall pay rates and charges as set forth in resolutions adopted by the City
Commission. Such rates and charges shall be designed to produce revenues which
are proportionate to the cost of providing service to each user class of each
customer class. Such cost shall include, but not be limited to, operation,
maintenance, replacement, depreciation and a reasonable rate of return of the
system’s investment. Any bulk user of the system must establish a similar
schedule of rates and charges to assure that its individual users are paying
proportionate share of the cost of providing service in conformance with EPA
regulations.
   (B)   A surcharge shall also be imposed on those users who exceed normal
BOD, TSS, phosphorous and ammonia concentrations established as provided
herein.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.82 2013 SURCHARGES, PERMIT, AND DISCHARGE AUTHORIZATION FEES.
   (A)   If the City Manager determines that a discharge will not cause pass
through or interference as defined in this chapter, industrial or commercial
users, whether they are located within a retail service area or a bulk service
area, shall be charged a surcharge if the concentration of their discharge
exceeds a five-day BOD of 250 mg/l, and/or TSS of 250 mg/l, or any phosphorus
of 15 mg/l. That charge shall be $0.193 per pound of BOD and $0.277 per pound
of TSS and $2.158 per pound of phosphorus in excess of the above limits. In
addition, all industrial or commercial users shall be charged a surcharge for
ammonia concentrations exceeding 38 mg/l. The charge shall be $0.294 per pound
of ammonia in excess of the above limit. Discharge concentrations of these
substances and the resulting surcharge shall be based on at least three
composite samples per quarter. This sampling shall be performed by either the
city or the industrial user as determined by the City Manager.
   (B)   The fee for a discharge permit or discharge authorization as provided
for in §
2.52 of this chapter, whether they are located within a retail service area or
a bulk service area, shall be $400 per year and an analytical fee based on
division (C) below.
   (C)   The following schedule of charges shall apply to any analysis which
may be required as part of a discharge permit.
Analysis 2010 Charge Each (Except Where Noted Otherwise)
Analysis                     2010 Charge Each (Except Where Noted Otherwise)
Ammonia NH3-N                $9
BOD                          $14
BTEX/MTBE                    $35
EPA 624                      $60
EPA 625                      $115
Fecal coliform               $45
Hexavalent chromium          $10
Labor                        $56.16 per hour
Mercury (EPA 245.1 or 245.2) $15
Metals                       $7
Oil and grease               $25
PH                           $5
Sampler                      $35 per day
Sulfide                      $12
Total cyanide                $15
Total phosphate              $13.50
TSS                          $7
Vehicle                      $3.78 per hour
 
   (D)   These charges will be reviewed annually and may change to reflect the
current cost of providing these services.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.83 REVIEW OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   Annually, after the close of the fiscal year and prior to the adoption of
the system’s budget, there shall be a review of rates and charges. Upon
completion of the review, a report shall be prepared and presented to the City
Commission summarizing the review and recommending rates and charges which
assure that all the costs of the system will be recovered from customer and
user classes proportionately to the cost of providing service to them.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.84 SEWER SERVICE APPLICATIONS AND NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   A user desiring to obtain sewer service shall make application on
forms prescribed by the city. In the event that sewer service at premises is
continuous through a change of ownership, the new owner must file a
notification of change of ownership within ten days. Failure to complete an
application or notification may result in discontinuance of service.
   (B)   Whenever a condominium has a single sewer connection servicing the
premises, the account shall be made in the name of the condominium association.
Sewer service shall not be provided until the condominium association has filed
with the water business office written proof that it has the authority to enter
into such an arrangement.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.85 SEWER LINES.
   (A)   OVER SIZING shall mean the enlargement of a local collector sewer so
that the enlargement will serve as a trunk or interceptor sewer. When the
system requires a local collector sewer line to be oversized, it will pay the
cost of such over sizing as computed in the following manner:
      (1)   In a residential assessment district or a new residential plot, the
over sizing share is the material difference in cost of the oversized sewer;
      (2)   In a commercial, industrial or high density residential development
assessment district, the over sizing share is the material difference in the
cost of the oversized sewer; and
      (3)   In cases where the larger than normal size sewer line is required
solely to provide adequate service to a local service area and is not used as
part of the larger network, then the entire cost of the enlargement will be
treated in the same manner as a normal sized local collector line and the
system will not participate in the over sizing cost.
   (B)   All extensions of the local collector sewer line are normally paid for
by the affected users through special assessment or front footage charges.
However, the City Commission may authorize the extension of a local collector
sewer line to serve an existing structure when the owner of the property
requests sewer service because of failure of his or her present system causing
an emergency situation and constituting a public health hazard. The POTW, at
its own expense, may extend the sewer line to serve said properties under the
following conditions:
      (1)   The requesting property is within 500 feet of an existing local
collector sewer line;
      (2)   As shown by a poll of the other properties affected by the proposed
extension, a majority of the owners having front footage are opposed to the
project; and
      (3)   There is a reasonable expectation, as determined by the City
Commission, that newly constructed or existing properties not presently
desiring service will request such service in the foreseeable future.
   (C)   All new sewer lines shall conform to the city’s standard construction
specifications and shall be a minimum of eight inches in diameter in most
residential areas and a minimum of 12 inches in diameter in commercial,
industrial or high-density residential areas. The City Manager reserves the
right to determine the minimum acceptable sewer lateral size in those cases
where drainage problems exist.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.86 SEWER LATERALS AND APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   The property owner shall maintain, at his or her expense, the sewer
lateral to ensure continuous flow of sewage from the structure to the local
collector, trunk or interceptor sewer, and shall be responsible for replacement
of lateral sections existing between the structure and the public sewer line.
   (B)   Whenever a sewer lateral is to be extended into the premises, the
plumber or contractor may obtain location measurements from the city. However,
the city does not assume responsibility for the accuracy of such location
measurements.
   (C)   Every structure with plumbing fixtures(s) shall have an independent,
owner-maintained building sewer lateral to the local collector sewer line when
the system is available. There shall not be more than one structure served by a
single sewer lateral connection, except with approval of the City Manager.
   (D)   When a structure is to be demolished, satisfactory arrangements shall
be made with the city to disconnect and seal the sewer lateral at the property
line or at the point designated by the city. The lateral disconnection shall be
inspected by the city prior to sealing. Failure to make arrangements for
inspection and the proper termination of the connection shall cause the City
Manager to order excavation of the lateral for the required inspection with all
associated costs to be assessed against the property owner.
   (E)   Roof drains shall not be connected to the system. The City Manager
shall order the immediate disconnection of all such connections. The owner of
the premises shall be responsible for any and all costs associated with these
disconnections and all costs including, but not limited to, legal and
inspection service required to enforce provisions of this chapter. Each day the
owner fails to comply with such order shall constitute a separate violation of
this section.
   (F)   Footing drains shall not be connected to the system on any structure
built after 1968. The City Manager shall order the immediate disconnection of
such connections. The owner of the premises shall be responsible for any and
all costs associated with these disconnections and all costs including, but not
limited to, legal and inspection service required to enforce provisions of this
chapter. Each day the owner fails to comply with such order shall constitute a
separate violation of this section.
   (G)   Basement waterproofing systems shall not be connected into the system
or discharged in such a manner as to cause a public or private nuisance. Prior
to installation of a basement waterproofing system, the property owner, or the
owner’s contractor, must obtain a permit from the city. The waterproofing
system must be inspected and approved by the city prior to putting the system
into operation. Given due cause, the City Manager may order the owner to
discontinue the discharge of water from a basement waterproofing system. Each
day the owner fails to comply with such order shall constitute a separate
violation of this section.
   (H)   Disposal of garbage into the POTW shall be permitted only after it has
been pulverized by an installed food-waste-grinder unit. Such units shall be
installed in accordance with the current Plumbing Code, adopted by the city and
enforced by the city.
   (I)   Storm drains shall not be connected into the system or discharged in
such a manner as to cause a public or private nuisance.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.87 CONNECTION PERMITS.
   Persons authorized shall obtain a permit for sewer lateral connection from
the city in accordance with the Plumbing Code. Said permits shall be obtained
before any such work may begin.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
§ 2.88 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   If at any time it is found that any sewer lateral connection has been
installed contrary to or in violation of the city code or rules or regulations
governing such installation, the City Manager shall issue an order requiring
compliance within 30 days after notification. If compliance has not been
obtained, including payment of all fees and charges, within 30 days of the
notice, the City Manager may authorize termination of city water/sewer service
until the corrections are made. The owner or user will not have redress for any
such charges occurring because of shut-off or termination. In addition, the
violator may be subject to a municipal civil infraction action.
   (B)   Each new sewer lateral installation, or repair of an existing sewer
lateral, shall be inspected and approved by the city prior to backfilling.
   (C)   If a piece of property that has an existing sewer lateral serving more
than one building is subdivided into separate lots or parcels, then the owner
of the building that does not have direct sewer service must install his or her
own sewer service across his or her property or on an easement and the original
sewer lateral to the adjoining subdivided property must be disconnected. Any
required easements shall be recorded by the County Clerk.
   (D)   Whenever a new sewer lateral is installed or repaired by a contractor
or plumber, it shall be guaranteed to be free from any defective material or
poor workmanship, in the public right-of-way, for a period of one year from the
date of installation.
   (E)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within the city
shall install suitable toilet facilities therein and connect such facilities
directly with the public sanitary sewer in accordance with the provisions of
this chapter and regulations supplementary hereto. Notwithstanding the above, a
property owner that was using a private septic system on June 1, 1999, may
continue to use that system until such time as a public sanitary sewer is
located within 100 feet of the property owner’s property line and that owner’s
private septic system fails. The property owner shall then connect to the
public sanitary sewer upon failure of the private system. At such time as a
public sewer becomes available to a property served by a private sewage
disposal system, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in
compliance with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar
private sewage disposal shall be abandoned and filled with suitable material.
   (F)   Wastewater metering facilities may be installed by a user or as
required by the City Manager to measure sewage discharge from the user’s
premises to the sanitary sewer. All such arrangements shall be made subject to
acceptance by the City Manager and the expense thereof, including the
installation, maintenance and operation, shall be borne by the user. Plans and
specifications for the installation of any wastewater meter must be sealed by a
state licensed professional engineer and submitted to the city before actual
installation begins. Such metering facilities shall meet the following
criteria.
      (1)   A state licensed professional engineer must develop installation
plans. Drawings of the location of the primary measuring device and the meter,
the location of the meter’s data output(s) and specifications for the meter,
including its manufacturer, model and logging frequency, must be included with
the plans.
      (2)   A plan location map, which accurately shows where the primary
measuring device, flow meter and flow meter totalizer are located in relation
to the facility building, shall be submitted as part of the drawings.
      (3)   Meter reading provisions shall be convenient to meter installation
sites or any existing water meter reading location.
      (4)   Underground structure and all associated piping, which contain the
primary measuring device and the meter, shall be installed in accordance with
the Plumbing Code.
      (5)   If possible, the primary measuring device must be located in an
open or non-permitted confined space. The recording device may not be located
in a confined space.
      (6)   The meter must include a data logger capable of recording and
displaying continuous flow data. The data must be inspected each business day,
by the user, with documentation of the inspection in the form of the
inspector’s initials, date and time. All data records must be maintained for a
minimum of three years and be available for inspection by the city.
      (7)   The meter installation must be inspected and found to be acceptable
by the City Manager before any data from the meter will be used for billing
purposes.
      (8)   The user must maintain a meter service contract provided by the
manufacturer or the manufacturer’s approved representative. The meter shall be
checked and calibrated quarterly, or as per manufacturer’s recommendation, by
the service provider. All calibration records must be maintained for a minimum
of three years and be available for inspection by the city.
      (9)   If failure of the meter occurs, the user must notify the City
Manager within three business days. Repairs to the meter, which are the
responsibility of the owner, must be completed within five business days. If
repairs cannot be completed within five business days, a timetable for
completion of repairs must be submitted to the City Manager. If, as a result of
failure, or suspected failure, the sewer meter readings are in dispute, the
volume of water indicated by the city’s water meter during the disputed time
will be used as the wastewater volume.
      (10)   The city, at its discretion, must be allowed to inspect the meter
and all records pertaining to the meter. At the City Manager’s discretion, the
acceptance of any wastewater metering device and/or data may be revoked.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2013)
CHAPTER 24: WATER AND SEWER RATES
Section
   
2.100   Definitions
   
2.101   Basis of water charges
   
2.102   Water rates
   
2.103   Sanitary sewer rates
   
2.104   Rate adjustments
   
2.105   Special water rates
   
2.106   Service to city
   
2.107   Billing
   
2.108   Collection
§ 2.100 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meanings of terms
used in this chapter shall be as defined in §
2.20,
Chapter 23 of this title and §
2.41 and as follows.
   CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT COSTS. The cost of the following: principal and interest
on the bonded debts of the water and sanitary sewer system; and payments for
the replacement, expansion or improvement of the water and sanitary
infrastructure.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of City Services.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of City Services or his or her authorized
representative.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE COST. All reasonably necessary costs of operating
and maintaining the water and sanitary sewer system.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, public or private corporation or
public agency or instrumentality.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land, buildings or premises having any
connection to the water and sanitary sewage disposal system of the city.
   WATER AND SANITARY SEWER CHARGES. The charges levied on users of the system
to support the cost of operation and maintenance of the water and sanitary
sewer system and capital improvement costs. The following charges are
established herein.
      (1)   READINESS TO SERVE CHARGE. Capital improvement costs, operations,
maintenance and administration costs.
      (2)   WATER AND SANITARY SEWER USER CHARGE. Direct usage charges from the
City of Grand Rapids.
   USER (CUSTOMER) CLASSES. All users of the system shall be classified as one
of the following.
      (1)   NONRESIDENTIAL. Businesses and service establishments including
users involved in social, charitable, religious, educational or other special
purpose activities, such as schools, government buildings and churches.
      (2)   RESIDENTIAL. A user whose building or premises is used primarily as
a residence for one or more persons and whose usage of water and sanitary
wastes are usually normally domestic uses.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 2.101 BASIS OF WATER CHARGES.
   All water service shall be charged for on the basis of water consumed as
determined by the meter installed in the premises of water service customers by
the Department.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 2.102 WATER RATES.
   (A)   Charges for residential water service shall be payable every month.
The charge for residential water service shall be the total of the consumption
rate, as established by resolution of the City Commission, and a readiness-to-
serve charge based upon water usage levels, as established by resolution of the
City Commission.
   (B)   Charges for nonresidential water service shall be payable every month.
The charge for nonresidential water service shall be the total of the
consumption rate, as established by resolution of the City Commission, and a
monthly meter service charge based upon meter size, as established by
resolution of the City Commission.
   (C)   The consumption rate shall be based upon the city’s cost for
purchasing water from the city. The readiness-to-serve charge shall be based
upon the city’s cost for providing and maintaining the water system
infrastructure.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 2.103 SANITARY SEWER RATES.
   (A)   Charges for residential sanitary sewer service shall be payable every
month. The charge for residential sanitary sewer service shall be a total of
the consumption rate, as established by resolution of the City Commission,
which consumption rate will be based upon the lower of actual water usage for
the month or the average monthly water usage computed on an annual basis, and a
readiness-to-serve charge based upon the average monthly water consumption, as
established by resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   Charges for nonresidential sanitary sewer service shall be payable
every month. The charge for nonresidential sanitary sewer service shall be a
total of the consumption rate, as determined by resolution of the City
Commission, which consumption rate will be based upon the lower of the actual
water usage for the month or the average monthly usage computed on an annual
basis, and a monthly service charge depending upon water meter size, as
determined by resolution of the City Commission.
   (C)   The consumption rate shall be based upon the city’s cost for sewage
disposal as billed by the city. The readiness-to-serve charge shall be based
upon the city’s cost for providing and maintaining the sewer system
infrastructure.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 2.104 RATE ADJUSTMENTS.
   The rates for water and sewer service established by this chapter shall be
reviewed annually and adjusted through an adopted resolution approved by the
City Commission as required to meet the needs of the system. Rate changes will
be communicated through the water and sewer monthly billing notifications.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 2.105 SPECIAL WATER RATES.
   For miscellaneous services for which a special water rate shall be
established, such water rates shall be fixed by the City Commission. Such rates
may be revised by resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 2.106 SERVICE TO CITY.
   The city shall pay the same water and sanitary sewer rates for service to it
as would be payable by a private customer for the same service. All such
charges for service shall be payable monthly from the current funds of the city
or from the proceeds of taxes.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 2.107 BILLING.
    Charges for all water and sanitary sewer service shall be billed and
collected monthly by the Director of Finance/Treasurer. All water meters shall
be read every month (or estimated for no more than three months if
circumstances arise) and bills prepared on or around the tenth of the month
following the meter reading. All charges for water and sewer service shall be
immediately due and payable and may be paid without penalty up to and including
the thirtieth day of the month when rendered, and shall thereafter be subject
to a penalty equal to 10% of the unpaid monthly bill. If there are previous
monthly bills yet unpaid, this new billing, plus the 10% penalty for that
month, will be added to the prior bill and constitute the total arrearage.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017; Ord. effective 4-1-2022)
§ 2.108 COLLECTION.
   (A)    The City Commission, annually on or about June 1, shall approve any
delinquent balance as of January 30 for such service furnished to any premises
to the Director of Finance/Treasurer who shall place the same on the next tax
roll of the city. Such charges so assessed shall be collected in the same
manner as general city taxes.
   (B)   The city may discontinue utility service to customers for non-payment
of bills or failure to allow water meter service or replacement but only after
notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills or water
meter service objections. The city's application for utility service and all
utility bills shall contain, in addition to the title, address, and telephone
number of the official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily
readable provisions to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill;
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid on or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed and a cutoff notice that, if the bill is not paid within ten
days of mailing of the second bill, service may be discontinued for non-
payment; and
      (3)   That if access to the water meter has been denied by the customer
and a cutoff notice has been sent, service may be discontinued if access to the
meter is not allowed; and
      (4)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his or her bill or
the need for the city to repair or replace his or her meter shall have a right
to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and by
counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or in
writing his or her complaint and contentions to the Director of Finance/
Treasurer or his/her designee. This official shall be authorized to order that
customer's service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a
final determination of the customer's complaint.
   (C)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, the service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days. If access to a
water meter continues to be denied following the hearing procedure, service
will be discontinued at the time specified.
   (D)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for non-payment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the amount of $20. If service has been discontinued because of the failure to
allow water meter service or replacement, service will be reinstated only after
the meter has been repaired or replaced and a turn-on charge in the amount of
$20 has been paid.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017; Ord. effective 4-1-2022)
CHAPTER 25: PUBLIC UTILITY EMERGENCY RESPONSE
Section
   
2.140   Purpose
   
2.141   Definitions
   
2.142   Liability for expense of an emergency response
§ 2.140 PURPOSE.
   The city finds that non-storm damage to public utilities frequently requires
the response of the city’s emergency services and this response places an
operational and financial burden upon the city’s public safety services. This
chapter places the burden for these costs on the parties responsible for the
ownership and maintenance.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 2.141 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The providing, sending and/or utilizing of public safety
services by the city, or by a private individual or corporation operating at
the request or direction of the city, in connection with any incident involving
damage to or a breakdown of a public utility which requires the response of
Public Safety Department services to protect the public safety and welfare.
   EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The direct and reasonable costs incurred
by the city, or by a private person or corporation operating at the request or
direction of the city, when making an emergency response to the incident,
including costs of providing public safety services at the scene of the
incident. These costs further include all of the salaries and wages of the city
personnel responding to the incident and all salaries and wages of the city
personnel engaged in investigation, supervision and report preparation.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Includes:
      (1)   Electrical service;
      (2)   Telephone service;
      (3)   Natural gas service;
      (4)   Cable television service; and
      (5)   Telecommunications or other services located in the right-of-way.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
§ 2.142 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   The public utility which owns the facilities or equipment which have
suffered the damage and necessitated the emergency response shall be
responsible for the payment of the expense of the emergency response.
(Ord. effective 10-14-2016)
CHAPTER 26: CLEANUP OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
   
2.150   Definition of dangerous or hazardous substances or materials
   
2.151   Duty to remove and cleanup
   
2.152   Failure to remove and cleanup
   
2.153   Enforcement
§ 2.150 DEFINITION OF DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR MATERIALS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE OR MATERIAL. Any substance which is
spilled, leaked or otherwise released from its container and which the Director
of Public Safety or his or her authorized representative determines to be
dangerous or harmful to the environment or to human or animal life, health or
safety.
(Prior Code, § 2.150) (Ord. effective 10-6-1986)
§ 2.151 DUTY TO REMOVE AND CLEANUP.
   It shall be the duty of any person or other entity which causes or controls
leakage, spillage or any other dissemination of dangerous or hazardous
substances or materials to immediately remove such and cleanup the area where
such hazardous substances or material have been released to the satisfaction of
the Director of City Services. Such person or other entity is hereinafter
referred to as the responsible party.
(Prior Code, § 2.151) (Ord. effective 10-6-1986)
§ 2.152 FAILURE TO REMOVE AND CLEANUP.
   If the responsible party fails to comply with §
2.151, it shall be liable to and shall pay the city upon demand for its costs
and expenses, including the costs incurred by the city to hire outside
assistance, for the cleanup and restoration of the affected area. The city’s
cost shall include, but not be limited to, actual labor costs of city
personnel, including workers’ compensation benefits, fringe benefits and
administrative overhead; costs of equipment operation; costs of materials
obtained by the city; and costs of any contract labor and materials. The costs
of fire suppression services which are normally provided by the city shall not
be assessed.
(Prior Code, § 2.152) (Ord. effective 10-6-1986)
§ 2.153 ENFORCEMENT.
   The city shall have the right to bring an action in the appropriate court to
collect any and all costs of cleanup and restoration which are not paid by the
responsible party as required by §
2.152. In addition, in those instances where the responsible party owns the
affected property, any and all costs of cleanup and restoration which are not
paid within 30 days after billing shall be levied as a special assessment in
the manner as provided §
1.306 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 2.153) (Ord. effective 10-6-1986; Ord. effective 2-15-1991)
CHAPTER 27: RESERVED
CHAPTER 28: STORM WATER
Section
   
2.180   General
   
2.181   Storm water permits
   
2.182   Storm water system, floodplain and other standards, soil erosion
control
   
2.183   Prohibitions and exemptions
   
2.184   Inspection, monitoring, reporting and record keeping
   
2.185   Enforcement
   
2.186   Storm water easements and maintenance agreements
   
2.187   Performance and design standards
   
2.188   Other matters
§ 2.180 GENERAL.
   (A)   Statutory authority and title. This chapter shall be known and may be
cited as the City of East Grand Rapids Storm Water Management Ordinance.
   (B)   Findings. The City of East Grand Rapids finds that:
      (1)   Water bodies, roadways, structures, and other property within, and
downstream of the city are at times subjected to flooding;
      (2)   Flooding is a danger to the lives and property of the public and is
also a danger to the natural resources of the city and the region;
      (3)   Land developed alters the hydrologic response of watersheds,
resulting in increased storm water runoff rates and volumes, increased
flooding, increased stream channel erosion, and increased sediment transport
and deposition;
      (4)   Storm water runoff produced by land development contributes to
increased quantities of water-borne pollutants;
      (5)   Increases of storm water runoff, soil erosion, and non-point
sources pollution have occurred as a result of land development, and cause
deterioration of the water resources of the city and downstream municipalities;
      (6)   Storm water runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution,
due to land development within the city, have resulted in a deterioration of
the water resources of the city and downstream municipalities;
      (7)   Increased storm water runoff rates and volumes, and the sediments
and pollutants associated with storm water runoff from future development
projects within the city will, absent reasonable regulation and control,
adversely affect the city water bodies and water resources, and those of
downstream municipalities;
      (8)   Storm water runoff, soil erosion, and non-point source pollution
can be controlled and minimized by the regulation of storm water runoff from
development;
      (9)   Post-construction storm water runoff program requirements for new
development and redevelopment within the city are set forth in the 2013
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes, and Energy (formerly Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality) Permit Application for Discharge of Storm
Water to Surface Waters of the State from a Municipal Separate Storm Sewer
System (MS4) under the National Pollution Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
program (Rev 10/2014);
      (10)   Adopting the standards, criteria and procedures contained in this
ordinance and implementing the same will address many of the deleterious
effects of storm water runoff;
       (11)   Adopting these standards is necessary for the preservation of the
public health, safety, and welfare;
      (12)   Adopting these standards is necessary to comply with the NPDES MS4
permit;
      (13)   Illicit discharges contain pollutants that will significantly
degrade the city’s water bodies and water resources;
      (14)   Illicit discharges enter the city’s MS4 through either direct
connections (e.g. sanitary sewer laterals mistakenly or deliberately connected
to the storm sewers) or indirect connections (e.g. infiltration, or spills
conveyed by surface flow into the storm sewer system); and
      (15)   Establishing and implementing measures for controlling illicit
discharges and connections will address many of their deleterious effects.
   (C)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to establish minimum storm
water management requirements and controls to accomplish, among others, the
following objectives:
      (1)   To reduce artificially induced flood damage;
      (2)   To minimize increased storm water runoff rates and volumes from
identified new land development;
      (3)   To minimize the deterioration of existing watercourses, culverts
and bridges, and other structures;
      (4)   To encourage water recharge into the ground where geologically
favorable conditions exist;
      (5)   To prevent an increase in non-point source pollution;
      (6)   To maintain the integrity of stream channels for their biological
functions, as well as for drainage and other purposes;
      (7)   To minimize the impact of development upon stream bank and
streambed stability;
      (8)   To reduce erosion from development or construction projects;
      (9)   To preserve and protect water supply facilities and water resources
by means of controlling increased flood discharges, stream erosion, and runoff
pollution;
      (10)   To reduce storm water runoff rates and volumes, soil erosion, and
non-point source pollution, wherever practicable, form lands that were
developed without storm water management controls meeting the purposes and
standards of this chapter;
      (11)   To reduce the adverse impact of changing land use on water bodies
and, to that end, this chapter establishes minimum standards to protect water
bodies from degradation resulting from changing land use where there are
insufficient storm water management controls;
      (12)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the MS4 from storm
water discharges;
      (13)   To prohibit illicit discharges and connections to the MS4; and
      (14)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this
chapter.
   (D)   Applicability, exemptions and general provisions.
      (1)   This chapter shall apply to all new development and all
redevelopment projects, including private, commercial, and public projects that
disturb one acre or more, and projects less than one acre that are part of a
larger common plan of development or sale that would disturb one acre or more.
      (2)   This chapter shall not apply to the following provided, however,
that this chapter does not supersede any other city ordinance:
         (a)   The installation or removal of individual mobile homes within a
mobile home park. This exemption shall not be construed to apply to the
construction, expansion, or modification of a mobile home park;
         (b)   Construction of, or an addition, extension or modification to,
an individual single-family or a two-family detached dwelling;
         (c)   Farm operations and buildings, except dwellings, directly
related to farm operations. This exemption shall not apply to greenhouses and
other similar structures; and,
         (d)   Plats with preliminary plat approval and other developments with
final land use approval prior to the effective date of this chapter, where such
approvals remain in effect.
   (E)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following words and
phrases shall have the meanings respectively ascribed to them by this section
unless the context in which they are used specifically indicates otherwise:
      BASE FLOOD. A flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in
any given year
      BASE FLOOD ELEVATION. The high-water elevation of the base flood,
commonly referred to as the “100-year flood elevation.”
      BASE FLOOD PLAIN. The area inundated by the base flood.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). A practice, or combination of practices
and design criteria that accomplish the purposes of this chapter (including,
but not limited to reducing storm water runoff rates, reducing storm water
runoff volume, and reducing the amount of pollutants in storm water) as
determined by the city and, where appropriate, the standards of the County
Drain Commissioner.
      BUILDING OPENING. Any opening of a solid wall such as a window or door,
through which floodwaters could penetrate.
      CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. §
1251 et seq., as amended, and the applicable regulations promulgated
thereunder.
      CONSTRUCTION SITE STORM WATER RUNOFF.  Storm water runoff from a
development site following an earth change and before final site stabilization.
      DETENTION. A system which is designed to capture storm water and release
it over a given period of time through an outlet structure at a controlled
rate.
      DEVELOPMENT. The installation or construction of buildings, structures or
other impervious surfaces on a site that disturbs one acre of land or more,
including projects less than one acre that are part of a larger common plan or
sale that would disturb one acre or more. A development may include a land
division, plat, site condominium, planned unit development, mobile home park,
private road or other special land use requiring land use or other review and
approval by the city.
      DEVELOPER. Any person or entity proposing or implementing the development
of land
      DEVELOPMENT SITE. Any land that is being or has been developed, or that a
developer proposed for development.
      DISCHARGER. Any person or entity who directly or indirectly discharges
storm water from any property.
      DRAIN. Any drain as defined in the Drain Code of 1956, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 280.1, et seq.
      DRAINAGE. The collection or conveyance of storm water, ground water, and/
or surface water.
      DRAINAGEWAY. The area within which surface water or ground water is
conveyed from one part of a lot or parcel to another part of the lot or parcel
or to adjacent land or to a watercourse.
      EARTH CHANGE. Any human activity which removes ground cover, changes the
slope or contours of the land, or exposes the soil surface to the actions of
wind and rain. EARTH CHANGE includes, but is not limited to, any excavating,
surface grading, filling, landscaping, or removal of vegetative roots.
      EGLE. Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy.
      EPA. The United States Environmental Protection Agency.
      EROSION. The process by which the ground surface is worn away by action
of wind, water, gravity or a combination thereof.
      FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGE-MENT AGENCY (FEMA). The agency of the federal
government charged with emergency management.
      FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or
complete inundation of normally dry land areas resulting from the overflow of
water bodies or the unusual and rapid accumulation of surface water runoff from
any source.
      FLOOD-PROOFING. Any structural and/or non-structural additions, changes,
or adjustments to structures or property that reduce or eliminate flood damage
to land, improvements, utilities, or structures.
      FLOOD PROTECTION ELEVATION (FPE). The base flood elevation plus one foot
at any given location.
      FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or stream and the portions of the
floodplain adjoining the channel that are reasonably required to carry and
discharge a 100-year flood.
      GRADING. Any stripping, excavating, filling, and stockpiling of soil or
any combination thereof, and the land in its excavated or filled condition.
      GROUNDWATER. Water below the land surface in the zone of saturation as
defined by EGLE Part 213.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIAL(S). Any material including any substance, waste or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
      HIGH GROUNDWATER. A groundwater elevation which does not meet minimum
distance from the bottom of proposed practice as defined in the Storm Water
Standards Manual.
      ILLICIT CONNECTION. Any method or means for conveying an illicit
discharge into water bodies or city’s storm water system.
      ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to water bodies or storm water systems
that does not consist entirely of storm water, discharges pursuant to the terms
of an NPDES permit, or exempted discharges as defined in this chapter.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any surface that does not allow storm water to
percolate into the ground.
      LOCAL FLOODPLAIN. Any land area subject to periodic flooding as
determined by Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) .
      LOCAL GOVERNMENT.  The City of East Grand Rapids, or a properly delegated
official.
      LOWEST FLOOR. The lowest floor or the lowest enclosed area (including a
basement), but not including an unfinished or flood-resistant enclosure which
is usable solely for parking of vehicles or building access.
      MS4. Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System is a system of drainage
(including roads, storm drains, pipes and ditches, etc.) that is not a combined
sewer or part of a sewage treatment plant. During wet weather, pollutants are
transported through MS4s to local water bodies.
      MS4 PERMIT. Regulated communities with MS4s that discharge to waters of
the state are required to obtain a permit under Section 402 of the Federal
Clean Water Act, as amended, and under the Water Resources Protection (Part 31,
Act 451, PA 1994) of the Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act (NREPA), as amended.
      NPDES. National Pollution Discharge Elimination System. The NPDES program
protects the surface waters of the state by assuring that discharges of
wastewater comply with state and federal regulations. Anyone discharging or
proposing to discharge wastewater to the surface waters of the state are
required to make application for and obtain a valid NPDES permit prior to
wastewater discharge.
      OVERLAND FLOW-WAY. Surface area that conveys a concentrated flow of storm
water runoff
      PERSON.  An individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation, public agency, instrumentality, or any other legal entity.
      PLAN.  Written narratives, specifications, drawings, sketches, written
standards, operating procedures, or any combination of these.
      POLLUTANT. A substance discharged which includes, but is not limited to
the following: any dredged spoil, solid waste, vehicle fluids, yard wastes,
animal wastes, agricultural waste products, sediment, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological wastes,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discharged equipment, rock, sand,
cellar dirt, and industrial, municipal, commercial and agricultural waste, or
any other contaminant or other substance defines as a pollutant under the Clean
Water Act.
      PROJECT SITE. Area of earth change or disturbance.
      PROPERTY OWNER. Any person having legal or equitable title to property or
any person having or exercising care, custody, or control over any property.
      RETENTION. A system which is designed to capture storm water and contain
it until it infiltrates the soil or evaporates.
      RIPARIAN PROPERTY OWNER. A property owner whose land is adjacent to a
waterbody.
      SEWERSHED. A catchment defined by storm drain infrastructure emptying
into a common outlet.
      SOIL EROSION. The stripping of soil and weather rock from land creating
sediment for transportation by water, wind, or ice, and enabling formation of
new sedimentary deposits.
      STATE OF MICHIGAN WATER QUALITY STANDARDS. All applicable state rules,
regulations, and laws pertaining to water quality, including the provisions of
Section 3106 of Par 31 of 1994 PA 451, as amended.
      STATE-REGULATED FLOODPLAIN. Any area of land adjoining a river or stream
that will be inundated by a base flood that has a drainage area of two square
miles or more when measured at the downstream limits of the proposed
development site.
      STORM DRAIN. A system of open or enclosed conduits and appurtenant
structures intended to convey or manage storm water runoff, ground water and
drainage.
      STORM WATER PERMIT. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter.
      STORM WATER RUNOFF. Water that originates during precipitation events or
with snowmelt. Storm water that does not soak into the ground or evaporates
becomes storm water runoff, which either flows directly into surface waters or
is channeled into storm drainage systems.
      STORM WATER MANAGEMENT FACILITY. The method, structure, area, system,
plantings, trees, or other equipment or measures which are designed to receive,
control, store, convey, infiltrate, or treat storm water.
      STORM WATER STANDARDS MANUAL. Establishes a uniform set of minimum storm
water design standards necessary to provide for public safety, the protection
of property, and to comply with the NPDES MS4 individual permit.
      STREAM.  A river, stream or creek which may or may not be serving as a
drain, or any other water body that has definite banks, a bed, and visible
evidence of a continued flow or continued occurrence of water.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. A repair, reconstruction, or improvement of an
existing structure, such that the cost equals or exceeds 50% of the true cash
value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement is started;
         (b)   Before the damage occurred if the structure has been damaged and
is being restored; or
         (c)   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is started when the first alteration of
any structural part of the building commences.
      UNCONTAMINATED PUMPED GROUNDWATER. Pumped groundwater from dewatering
wells at sites where no known soil or groundwater contamination exists.
      WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid other than uncontaminated storm
water discharged from a facility.
      WATER BODY. A river, lake, stream, creek or other watercourse or
wetlands.
      WATERSHED. A land area draining into a water body.
      WETLANDS. Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support wetland vegetation and aquatic life.
(Prior Code, § 2.180) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
§ 2.181 STORM WATER PERMITS.
   (A)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person shall engage in any development activity without first
receiving a storm water permit from the city pursuant to division (B) below.
      (2)   The granting of a storm water permit only authorizes the discharge
of storm water from the development for which the permit is required, subject
to the terms of the permit. It shall not be deemed to approve other
development, other land use activities, or replace other required permits.
   (B)   Storm water permit review procedures. The city shall grant a storm
water permit, which may impose terms and conditions in accordance with division
(I) below, only upon compliance with each of the following requirements:
      (1)   The developer has submitted a site (drainage) plan complying with
division (C) below.
      (2)   The developer has paid or deposited the storm water permit review
fee pursuant to division (D) below.
      (3)   The developer has paid or posted an applicable performance
guarantee pursuant to division (F) below.
      (4)   The developer agrees to provide all easements necessary to
implement the approved drainage plan and to otherwise comply with this chapter,
including, but not limited to, §
2.186(B). All easements shall be acceptable to the city in form and substance
and shall be recorded with the County Register of Deeds. At the discretion of
the city the final easement may be required to be recorded prior to permit
issuance.
      (5)   The developer provides the required maintenance agreement for
routine, emergency, and long-term maintenance of all structural and vegetative
BMPs installed and implemented to meet the performance standards, and to comply
with the approved drainage plan and this chapter, including, but not limited
to, §
2.186(C). The maintenance agreement shall be acceptable to the city in form and
substance, may not be amended without the approval of the city, shall be
binding on all future property owners, and shall be recorded with the County
Register of Deeds.
   (C)   Drainage plan. The developer shall provide adequate storm water
management facilities for the development site. Adequate facilities reduce the
exposure of people to drainage-related adverse impacts and to health and safety
hazards. They reduce the exposure of real and personal property to damage
through storm water inundation. The storm water management system and storm
water best management practices (BMPs) shall be designed in accordance with the
latest version of the document “Storm water Standards Manual” of The City of
East Grand Rapids.
      (1)   The developer shall provide a drainage plan prepared by a civil
engineer to the city for review and approval by the city. The drainage plan
shall identify and contain all the information required in the “Storm water
Standards” manual, including an implementation plan relative to the development
site.
      (2)   The implementation plan for construction and inspection of all
storm water management facilities necessary to the overall drainage plan shall
include a schedule of the estimated dates of completing construction of the
storm water management facilities shown on the plan and an identification of
the proposed inspection procedures to ensure that the storm water management
facilities are constructed in accordance with the approved drainage plan.
   (D)   Storm water permit review fees.
      (1)   All expenses and cost incurred by the city directly associated with
processing, reviewing and approving or denying a storm water permit application
shall be paid to the city from the funds in a separate escrow account
established by the developer, as provided in division (D)(2) below. The city
shall draw funds from a developer's escrow account to reimburse the city for
out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the city relating to the application. Such
reimbursable expenses include, but are not limited to the following:
         (a)   Services of the city attorney directly related to the
application;
         (b)   Services of the engineer or city engineering consultants
directly related to the application;
         (c)   Services of other independent contractors or consultants working
for the city which are directly related to the application; and
         (d)   Any additional public hearings, required mailings and legal
notice requirements necessitated by the application.
      (2)   At the time a developer applies for a storm water permit they may
be required to deposit with the city an escrow deposit, an initial amount as
determined by the Director of Public Works for such matters, and shall provide
additional amounts as requested by the city in such increments as are
specified. Any excess funds remaining in the escrow account after the
application has been fully processed, reviewed, and the final city approval and
acceptance of the development has occurred will be refunded to the developer
with no interest to be paid on those funds. At no time prior to the city's
final decision on an application shall the balance in the escrow account fall
below the amount as designated by the Director of Public Works. If the funds in
the account are reduced to less than the required amount, the developer shall
deposit into the account an additional amount as determined by the Director of
Public Works, before the application review process will be continued.
Additional amounts necessary to process the application may be required to be
placed in the escrow account by the developer, at the discretion of the city
and based upon the criteria set forth in this chapter.
   (E)   Construction site runoff controls. Prior to making any earth change on
a development site regulated by this chapter, the developer shall first obtain
a soil erosion permit issued in accordance with Part 91 of Act No. 451 of the
Public Acts of 1994, as amended, if otherwise required by law. The developer
shall install storm water management facilities and shall phase the development
activities to prevent construction site storm water runoff and off-site
sedimentation. During all construction activities on the development site, the
city or Kent County Road Commission may inspect the development site to ensure
compliance with the approved construction site runoff controls.
   (F)   Performance guarantee.
      (1)   The city shall not approve a storm water permit until developer
submits to the city a letter of credit or other performance guarantee in a form
and amount satisfactory to the city, a letter of credit or other performance
guarantee to ensure the timely and satisfactory construction of all approved
storm water management facilities and to complete site grading in accordance
with the approved drainage plan. Upon certification by a registered
professional engineer that the storm water management facilities have been
completed in accordance with the approved drainage plan including, but not
limited to, the implementation plan required to be submitted in division (C)
above, and receipt of construction record drawings meeting the minimum
requirements of the city or the County Drain Commissioner, the city may release
the letter of credit, or other performance guarantee subject to final city
acceptance and approval.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (F)(3) below, the amount of the
performance guarantee shall be the amount of the construction estimate provided
by a registered professional engineer, unless the city reasonably determines
that a greater amount is appropriate, in which case the basis for such
determination shall be provided to the developer in writing. In determining
whether an amount greater than the construction estimate is appropriate, the
city shall consider the size and type of the development, the size and type of
the on-site storm water system, and the nature of the off-site storm water
management facilities the development will utilize.
      (3)   The Director of Public Works may reduce or waive the amount of the
performance guarantee for a development that will not increase the percentage
of impervious surface of the development site by more than 10% and in
accordance with those factors set forth in division (F)(2) above.
      (4)   This chapter shall not be construed or interpreted as relieving a
developer of its obligation to pay all costs associated with on-site private
storm water management facilities as well as those costs arising from the need
to make other drainage improvements in order to reduce a development's impact
on a drain consistent with adopted design standards.
   (G)   Certificate of occupancy. No final certificate of occupancy shall be
issued to a development until storm water management facilities have been
completed in accordance with the approved drainage plan; provided, however, the
city may issue a certificate of occupancy if an acceptable letter of credit or
other performance guarantee has been submitted to the city , for the timely and
satisfactory construction of all storm water management facilities and site
grading in accordance with the approved drainage plan.
   (H)   No change in approved facilities. Storm water management facilities,
after construction and approval, shall be maintained in good operational
condition, in accordance with the approved drainage plan, and shall not be
subsequently altered, revised or replaced except in accordance with the
approved drainage plan, or in accordance with approved amendments or revisions
to that plan.
   (I)   Terms and conditions of permits. In granting a storm water permit, the
city may impose such terms and conditions as are reasonably necessary to
effectuate the purposes of this chapter. A developer shall comply with such
terms and conditions.
(Prior Code, § 2.181) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
§ 2.182 STORM WATER SYSTEM, FLOODPLAIN AND OTHER STANDARDS, SOIL EROSION
CONTROL.
   (A)   Management of and responsibility for storm water system. The city is
not responsible for providing drainage facilities on private property for the
management of storm water on said property. It shall be the responsibility of
the property owner to provide for, and maintain, private storm water management
facilities serving the property and to prevent or correct the accumulation of
debris that interferes with the drainage function of a water body or the
functioning of such drainage.
   (B)   Storm water system. All storm water management facilities shall be
constructed and maintained in accordance with all applicable federal, state,
and local ordinances, and rules and regulations.
   (C)   Storm water discharge rates and volumes. Minimum design standards set
forth in §
2.187 of this chapter shall apply to all new development and redevelopment
projects, including preventing or minimizing water quality impacts. Specific
exemptions are listed in the Storm Water Standards Manual.
   (D)   Floodplain standards.
      (1)   All new buildings and substantial improvements to existing
buildings shall be protected from flood damage up to the flood protection
elevation (FPE) and shall be in accordance with all applicable federal, state,
and local ordinances, and rules and regulation. Floodway alteration in a local
floodplain shall be permitted only upon review and approval by a FEMA Letter of
Map Amendment (LOMA), in accordance with an approved drainage plan.
      (2)   A drainage plan providing for the filling or alteration of a
floodway within a local floodplain shall include provisions for maintaining
stability of banks of streams or other water bodies. Establishing buffer zones
is one means of providing protection of the slopes and banks or water bodies.
      (3)   Within any required buffer zone, no earth change shall take place
except in accordance with the approved drainage plan. Such a plan may also
include provisions for the replacement of local flood plain storage volume,
where such storage volume is lost or diminished as a result of approved
development.
      (4)   Any earth change with a state-regulated floodplain shall only be
undertaken in accordance with any required state or federal permit.
         (a)   Advisability of additional flood protection. The degree of flood
protection required by this chapter is hereby found to be the minimum necessary
and reasonable for regulator purposes. Larger floods may occur, and higher
floodwater heights may occur than will be mitigated or controlled by compliance
with these requirements. This chapter shall not be interpreted to imply or
guarantee that areas outside the floodway or the state-regulated floodplain or
uses permitted within such areas, shall remain free from flooding or flood
damage. Compliance with the terms of this chapter will not guarantee freedom
from damage, injury or loss of life. This chapter shall not be interpreted or
applied to create liability for the City of East Grand Rapids or any officer,
agent, or employee of the city for any flood or flood related damage.
   (E)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control.
      (1)   All persons who cause, in whole or in part, any earth change to
occur shall provide soil erosion and sedimentation control so as to adequately
prevent soils from being eroded and discharged or deposited onto adjacent
properties or into a storm water drainage system, a public street or right-of-
way, wetland, creek, stream, water body, or floodplain. All development shall
be in accordance with all applicable federal, state, and local ordinances,
rules and regulations.
      (2)   During any earth change which exposes soil to an increased risk of
erosion or sediment track-out, the property owner and other persons causing or
participating in the earth change shall do the following:
         (a)   Comply with the storm water management standards of this
chapter;
         (b)   Obtain and comply with the terms of a soil erosion and
sedimentation control permit if required by law;
         (c)   Prevent damage to any public utilities or services within the
limits of grading and within any routes of travel or areas of work of
construction equipment;
         (d)   Prevent damage to or impairment of any water body on or near the
location of earth change or affected thereby;
         (e)   Prevent damage to adjacent or nearby land;
         (f)   Apply for all required approvals or permits prior to the
commencement of work;
         (g)   Proceed with the proposed work only in accordance with the
approved plans and in compliance with this chapter and the Storm Water
Standards Manual;
         (h)   Maintain all required soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures, including but not limited to, measures required for compliance with
the terms of this chapter;
         (i)   Promptly remove all soil, sediment, debris, or other materials
applied, dumped, tracked, or otherwise deposited on any lands, public streets,
sidewalks, or other public ways or facilities, as directed by the regulatory
agency issuing the soil erosion and sediment control permit. Removal of all
such soil, sediment, debris or other materials within 24 hours shall be
considered prima facie compliance with this requirement, unless such materials
present an immediate hazard to public health and safety;
         (j)   Refrain from grading lands at locations near or adjoining lands,
public streets, sidewalks, alleys, or other public or private property without
providing adequate support or other measures as to protect such other lands,
streets, sidewalks or other property from settling, cracking or sustaining
other damage; and
         (k)   The property owner shall have the soil erosion and sediment
control measure inspected weekly and within 24 hours of a rain event of
sufficient quantity to cause runoff. The inspection for sites one acre or
greater shall be conducted by an EGLE certified construction site storm water
operator who shall maintain written inspection logs. Logs shall be made
available to the city.
   (F)   Building openings.
      (1)   No building opening shall be constructed below the following
elevations:
         (a)   One foot above the base flood elevation;
         (b)   One foot above the 100-year water surface hydraulic grade line
of the storm water system;
and
         (c)   The building opening established at the time of plat or
development approval and on file with the city.
      (2)   No lowest floor shall be constructed below the following
elevations:
         (a)   Two feet above the highest known ground water elevation;
         (b)   The lowest allowable floor established at the time of plat or
redevelopment approval and on file with the city.
      (3)   A waiver from elevations stated in this division (F) may be granted
by the city following receipt of a certification from a registered professional
engineer demonstrating that the proposed elevation does not pose a risk of
flooding and with a FEMA LOMA approval.
      (4)   Upon completion of construction of the structure’s foundation and
or slab on grade, a registered land surveyor shall certify any minimum building
opening or lowest floor elevation specified by this chapter. This certificate
shall attest that the building opening or lowest floor elevation complies with
the standards of this chapter. The permittee for the building permit shall
submit the certificate to the city building inspections official prior to the
commencement of framing and/or structural steel placement. If the surveyor
should find that the minimum building opening or lowest floor elevation is
below the elevation specified in division (F)(1)(a) through (c) above, that
opening must be raised using a method that meets with the approval of the city.
After reconstruction, a registered land surveyor or engineer shall re-certify
that the minimum building opening or lowest floor elevation complies with the
standards of this chapter prior to the commencement of framing and/or
structural steel placement.
   (G)   Sump pump discharge.
       (1)   Whenever building footing drains are required or utilized, a
direct connection between the footing drains and the storm sewer through a sump
pump-check valve system, or a gravity pipe with a double flap gate valve for
backflow prevention is required. The check valve system shall be installed on
private property and maintained by the property owner.
      (2)   A storm water lateral shall be constructed for each parcel at the
time of storm sewer construction if feasible. If no lateral is constructed, the
property owner shall discharge said water in such a manner as to not impact
neighboring land or public streets. If a storm water lateral does not exist,
and if it is technically feasible to construct one, the property owner may
install one at their expense. Any work to be conducted within the right-of-way
must be expressly authorized by the city.
      (3)   The property owner assumes all risks associated with connecting
directly into the storm sewer system. The requirements outlined in division (G)
(1) above are the minimum required for the city to allow a property owner to
connect a foundation drain to the storm sewer system. Additional measures may
be considered to reduce the risk of storm sewer backups, such as the inclusion
of a physical air gap between the residential storm water discharge line and
the public storm sewer system. All backflow prevention devices shall be
installed on private property and maintained by the property owner. Storm water
runoff shall not be redirected or infiltrated within the influence of footing
drains.
      (4)   None of the requirements of this §
2.182(G) shall be interpreted to require a property owner to connect into the
storm sewer system.
      (5)   If a storm sewer connection is not utilized, foundation drain
outlets shall comply with other applicable city ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 2.182) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
§ 2.183 PROHIBITIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Prohibited discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge to a water body, directly or indirectly,
any substance other than storm water or an exempted discharge. Any person
discharging storm water shall effectively prevent pollutants from being
discharged with the storm water, except in accordance with BMPs.
      (2)   The city is authorized to require dischargers to implement
pollution prevention measures, utilizing BMPs as necessary, to prevent or
reduce the discharge of pollutants into the city's storm water drainage system.
      (3)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the city
storm drain system or watercourse any materials, including, but not limited to,
pollutants, or water containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a
violation of applicable water quality standards other than storm water. The
commencement, conduct, or continuance of any illicit discharge to the storm
drain system is prohibited except for discharges authorized by the city as
being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      (4)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
         (a)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of
illicit connections to the MS4 is prohibited.
         (b)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
         (c)   Without limitation, a person is considered to be in violation of
this chapter if the person connects a line conveying wastewater to the MS4 or
allows such a connection to continue.
      (5)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to any non-storm
water discharge permitted under a NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge
order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority of the
Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided, that the discharge is in
full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other
applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has been
granted for any discharge to the MS4.
   (B)   Exempted discharges.
      (1)   The following non-storm water discharges shall be exempted from the
requirement of this section, provided that they do not result in a violation of
State of Michigan water quality standards:
         (a)   Water supply line flushing;
         (b)   Landscape irrigation;
         (c)   Diverted stream flows;
         (d)   Rising ground water;
         (e)   Uncontaminated ground water infiltration to storm drains;
         (f)   Uncontaminated pumped ground water;
         (g)   Discharges from potable water sources;
         (h)   Foundation drains;
         (i)   Air conditioning condensate;
         (j)   Individual residential car washing;
         (k)   Dechlorinated swimming pool water;
         (l)   Street wash water;
         (m)   Discharges or flows from emergency firefighting activities; and
         (n)   Discharges for which a specific federal or state permit has been
issued.
      (2)   None of the above exemptions eliminate the need to provide
appropriate pollution control or pollution prevention measures required under
this chapter or under any other Federal or State law, rule or regulation.
   (C)   Interference with natural or artificial drains.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, fill, dam, confine,
pave, alter the course of, or otherwise interfere with any natural or
constructed drain, ditch, swale, culvert, water body, floodplain, or flood
prone area without first submitting a drainage plan to the city and receiving
approval of that plan. Any deviation from the approved plan is a violation of
this chapter. This section shall not prohibit, however, necessary emergency
action so as to prevent or mitigate drainage that would be injurious to the
environment, the public health, safety, or welfare.
      (2)   No filling, blocking, fencing or above-surface vegetation planting
shall take place within a floodway.
      (3)   No shrubs or trees shall be planted below the top of the bank of a
water body.
      (4)   For an overland flow-way:
         (a)   Silt screen fences shall not be permitted below the top of the
bank of a water body.
         (b)   Chain link fences shall be permitted if the city determines that
the fence will not obstruct or diver the flow of water.
         (c)   If a fence is removed by the city for drain access or drain
maintenance, the fence shell be replaced by the owner of the fence at the
owner's expense.
      (5)   Shrubs, trees or other above-ground vegetation shall not be planted
over the top of an underground storm sewer or over the top of the easement
within which the storm sewer has been installed.
   (D)   Storage of materials in drainageway. It shall be unlawful for any
person to store, stockpile or dispose of any hazardous, toxic, or non-toxic
material including, but not limited to, chemicals, explosives, buoyant
materials, yard wastes, log and brush piles, unsecured landscaping materials,
play or work sheds, animal wastes, fertilizers, flammable liquids and
pollutants within an overland flow-way, drainage system or a floodplain unless
adequate protection and or containment has been provided to prevent such
materials from entering, diverting or blocking the city drainage system, except
as specifically permitted by State and Federal law.
(Prior Code, § 2.183) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
§ 2.184 INSPECTION, MONITORING, REPORTING AND RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   Inspection and sampling. To assure compliance with the standards
outlined in §
2.187, the city may inspect and/or obtain storm water samples from storm water
management facilities of any discharger to determine compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. Upon request, the discharger shall allow the
city’s properly identified representative to enter upon the premises of the
discharger at all hours necessary for the purposes of such inspection or
sampling absent exigent circumstances. The city shall make a reasonable effort
to provide the discharger with advance notice of such inspection and/or
sampling. Unreasonable delays in allowing access to a discharger’s facility is
a violation of this chapter. As a condition of the issuance of any permit in
accordance with this chapter, a permittee is deemed to consent to the city’s
exercise of its right to place on the discharger’s property the equipment or
devices used for such sampling or inspection.
   (B)   Storm water monitoring facilities. A discharger of storm water runoff
shall install and operate equipment or devices for the monitoring of storm
water runoff, at its own expense, so as to provide for inspection, sampling,
and flow measurement of each discharge to a water body or a storm water
management facility, when directed in writing to do so by the city or its
designee. The city may require a discharger to provide an operate such
equipment and devices if it is necessary or appropriate for the inspection,
sampling, and flow measurement of discharges in order to determine whether
adverse effects from or as a result of such discharges may occur. All such
equipment and devices for the inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of
discharges shall be installed and maintained in accordance with applicable
laws, ordinances, and regulations.
   (C)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   Any discharger who accidently discharges into a water body any
substance other than storm water or an exempted discharge shall immediately
inform the city concerning the discharge. If such information is given orally,
a written report concerning the discharge shall be filed with the city within
five days. The written report shall specify:
         (a)   The composition of the discharge and the cause thereof;
         (b)   The exact date, time, and estimated volume of the discharge;
         (c)   All measures taken to date to clean up the accidental discharge,
and all measures proposed to be taken to reduce and prevent any recurrence; and
         (d)   The name and telephone number of the person making the report
and the name of a person who may be contacted for additional information on the
matter.
      (2)   A properly reported accidental discharge shall be an affirmative
defense to a civil infraction proceeding brought under this chapter against a
discharger for such discharge. It shall not, however, be a defense to a legal
action brought to obtain an injunction, to obtain recovery of costs or to
obtain other relief as a result of or arising out of the discharge. A discharge
shall be considered properly reported only if the discharger complies with all
the requirements of division (C)(1) above.
   (D)   Record keeping requirement. Any person subject to this chapter shall
retain and preserve for no less than three years any and all books, drawings,
plans, prints, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence and records,
including records on magnetic or electronic media an any and all summaries of
such records, relating to monitoring, sampling, and chemical analysis of any
discharge or storm water runoff from any property.
(Prior Code, § 2.184) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
§ 2.185 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Sanctions for violation.
      (1)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to a fine, plus costs,
damages, expenses, and other sanctions as authorized under Chapter 87 of the
Revised Judicature Act of 1961 and other applicable laws, including, without
limitation, equitable relief; provided, however, that the violation stated in
division (A)(2) below shall be a misdemeanor. Each day such violation occurs or
continues shall be deemed a separate offense and shall make the violator liable
for the imposition of a fine for each day. The rights and remedies provided for
in this section are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided
by law. An admission or determination of responsibility shall not exempt the
offender for compliance with the requirements of this chapter. For purposes of
this section, “subsequent offense” means a violation of the provisions of this
chapter committed by the same person within 12 months of a previous violation
of the same provision of this chapter for which said person admitted
responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible. The city designated
enforcement officer is authorized to issue municipal civil infraction citations
for a violation of any provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Any person who neglects or fails to comply with a stop work order
issued under division (B) below shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of no more than $500 or imprisonment for no
more than 93 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, and such person shall
also pay such costs of prosecution and other charges as may be imposed in the
discretion of the court.
      (3)   Any person who aids or abets a person in a violation of this
chapter shall be subject to the sanctions provided in this section.
   (B)   Stop work order. Where there is work in progress that causes or
constitutes in whole or in part, a violation of any provision of this chapter,
the city is authorized to issue a stop work order to prevent further or
continuing violations or adverse effects. All persons to whom a stop work order
is directed, or who are involved in any way with the work or matter described
in a stop work order shall fully and promptly comply therewith.
   (C)   Failure to comply; completion. In addition to any other remedies,
should any owner fail to comply with the provisions of this chapter, the city
may, after giving reasonable notice and an opportunity for compliance, have the
necessary work done, and the owner shall be obligated to promptly reimburse the
city for all costs of such work. Without limiting the foregoing, a failure to
comply or otherwise bring property into compliance with this chapter is deemed
a public nuisance and shall be subject to abatement.
   (D)   Emergency measures.  When emergency measures are necessary to protect
public safety, health and welfare, and/or to prevent loss of life, injury, or
damage to property, the city is authorized to carry out or arrange for all such
emergency measures. Property owners shall be responsible for the cost of such
measures made necessary as a result of a violation of this chapter and shall
promptly reimburse the city for all such costs.
   (E)   Cost recovery for damage to storm drain system. A discharger shall be
liable for all costs incurred by the city as the result of causing a discharge
that produces a deposit or obstruction, or causes damage to, or impairs a storm
drain, or violates any of the provisions of this chapter. Costs include, but
are not limited to, those penalties levied by the EPA or MEDQ for violation of
a NPDES permit, attorney fees, and other costs and expenses.
   (F)   Collection of costs; lien. To the extent permitted by law, service
charge incurred by the city and/or the County Drain Commissioner in any manner
authorized by law including, but not limited to, all remedies authorized by Act
No. 94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as amended. When applicable, said costs
shall be a lien on the premises which shall be enforceable in accordance with
Act No. 94 of the Public Acts of 1933, as amended from time to time or as
otherwise authorized by law with any such charges which are delinquent for six
months or more may be certified annually to the City Treasurer who shall enter
the lien on the next tax roll against the premises and the costs shall be
collected and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided for in
the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll and the enforcement of a lien of
taxes.
   (G)   Appeals. Any person as to whom any provision of this chapter has been
applied may appeal in writing, no later than 30 days after the action or
decision being appealed from, to the City Manager or his/her designee the
action or decision whereby any such provision was so applied. Such appeal shall
identify the manner being appealed, and the basis for the appeal. The City
Manager or his/her designee shall consider the appeal and may affirm, reject,
or modify the action being appealed based on the standards set forth in this
chapter. The City Manager or his/her designee may impose reasonable conditions
on an affirmative decision in an appeal. City Manager or his/her designee shall
make its decision in writing and shall furnish a copy of the decision to the
person making the appeal. In considering any such appeal, the City Manager or
his/her designee may consider the recommendations of the city engineer and the
comments of other persons having knowledge of the matter.
   (H)   Suspension of MS4 access.
      (1)   The city may, without prior notice, suspend a person's discharge
access to the MS4 when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge that presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of person or the MS4. If
the person fails to comply with a suspension order issued herein, the city may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
the environment, or to minimize danger to persons. A person failing to comply
with a suspension order pursuant to this section shall be liable for all cost
incurred by the city as the result of such failure to comply and a violation
shall constitute a public nuisance.
      (2)   Any person discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may
have their MS4 access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an
illicit discharge. The city will notify a violator of the proposed termination
of its MS4. A person violates this chapter if the person reinstates MS4 access
to a premise terminated pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 2.185) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
§ 2.186 STORM WATER EASEMENTS AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Applicability of requirements. The requirements of this section
concerning storm water easements and maintenance agreements shall apply to all
persons required to submit a drainage plan to the city for review and approval.
   (B)   Storm water management easements. The property owner shall provide all
storm water management easements necessary to implement the approved drainage
plan and to otherwise comply with this chapter in form and substance required
by the city and shall record such easements as directed by the city. The
easements shall assure access for proper inspection and maintenance of storm
water management facilities and shall provide adequate emergency overland flow-
ways.
   (C)   Maintenance agreements.
      (1)   Maintenance agreement required. The developer shall provide all
storm water maintenance agreements necessary to implement the approved drainage
plan and to otherwise comply with this chapter in form and substance as
required by the city and shall record such agreements as directed by the city.
The maintenance agreements shall, among other matters, assure access for proper
inspection and maintenance or corrective actions of storm water CMPs, including
emergency overland flow-ways, and include provisions for tracking the transfer
of operation and maintenance responsibility to ensure the performance standards
are met in perpetuity.
      (2)   Maintenance agreement provisions. The maintenance agreement shall
include a maintenance plan and schedule for routine, emergency and long-term
maintenance of all structural and vegetative storm water BMPs installed and
implemented to meet the performance standards, with a detailed annual estimated
budget for the initial three years, and a clear statement that only future
maintenance activities in accordance with the maintenance agreement plan shall
be permitted without the necessity of securing new permits.
         (a)   Written notice and submittal of maintenance documentation shall
be provided to the city by the property owner at the interval set forth in the
maintenance agreement and subject to the provisions of §§
2.184 and
2.185.
         (b)   If it has been found by the city, following notice and an
opportunity to be heard by the property owner, that there has been a material
failure or refusal to undertake maintenance as required under this chapter and/
or as required in the approved maintenance agreement as required hereunder, the
city shall then be authorized, but not required, to hire an entity with
qualifications and experience in the subject matter to undertake the monitoring
and maintenance required, in which event the property owner shall be obligated
to advance or reimburse payment for all costs and expense associated with such
monitoring and maintenance, together with a reasonable administrative fee. The
maintenance agreement required under this chapter shall contain a provision
spelling out the requirements and, if the applicant objects in any respect to
such provision or the underlying rights and obligations, such objection shall
be resolved prior to the commencement of construction of the proposed
development of the property.
   (D)   Establishment of county drains. Prior to final approval of a platted
subdivision, all storm water management facilities for platted subdivisions
shall be established as county drains, as authorized in Section 433, Ordinance
18 of the Michigan Drain Code (P.A. 40 of 1956, as amended) for long-term
maintenance.
(Prior Code, § 2.186) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
§ 2.187 PERFORMANCE AND DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Design standards. Storm water BMPs shall be designed to manage storm
water flow within the available capacity of the downstream conveyance system as
determined by the city. In addition, storm water BMPs shall be designed to meet
performance standards as described in division (B) below. Storm water system
design shall be in accordance with the latest version of the Storm Water
Standards Manual published by the city.
   (B)   Performance standards. In order to achieve the goals and purposes of
this chapter, the following storm water management performance standards are
hereby established:
      (1)   Water quality treatment. Treat the calculated site runoff for the
entire project site from the 90% annual non-exceedance storm, which is
approximately equal to one inch of rain (i.e. on average, 90% of the storm in a
given year, produces one inch or less). The treatment volume specified is based
on capturing and treating the volume of storm water that is the first to runoff
in a storm and expected to contain the majority of pollutants. This volume of
runoff is often referred to as the “first flush”. The water quality treatment
standard is required for all sites.
         (a)   Total suspended solids (TSS). The methods selected to treat the
volume of water calculated for the water quality treatment performance standard
shall be designed on a site-specific basis to achieve either a minimum of 80%
removal of TSS, as compared with uncontrolled runoff, or discharge
concentration of TSS that does not exceed 80 milligrams per liter (mg/l). This
performance standard is based on TSS as a surrogate for other pollutants
normally found in storm water runoff. Control of TSS to meet this standard is
expected to achieve control of other pollutants to an acceptable level that
protects water quality.
      (2)   Channel protection. Maintain the post-development project site
runoff volume and peak flow rate at or below pre-development levels for all
storms up to the two-year, 24-hour event. At a minimum, pre-development is
defined as the last land use prior to the planned new development or
redevelopment. The channel protection standard is required for storm water
discharges to surface waters or the MS4.
      (3)   Flood control. Control the volume of site runoff from the flood
control rainfall event with a maximum allowable release rate to reduce the
potential for property damage for overbank flooding and preserve existing
floodplains. The flood control event and maximum allowable release rate shall
be determined by Kent County. The flood control standard is required for all
sites.
         (a)   Overflow routes. Acceptable overflow routes for the 100-year
flood shall be identified for the site and for downstream areas between the
site and the nearest acceptable floodway or outlet. Storm water conveyance
systems are usually designed to handle flows generated by the ten-year storm.
When larger storms generate higher flows, the conveyance system is expected to
surcharge resulting in storm water accumulating on the surface of the ground.
Gravity will cause such storm water to flow overland to lower elevations. By
carefully managing the shape of the land surface such overland storm water flow
can be directed to locations that will not cause property damage. Adequate
emergency overland flow-ways will direct storm water flows generated by the
100-year storm to avoid damage to structures and facilities.
      (4)   Site-specific requirements.
         (a)   Pretreatment. Pretreatment of site runoff is required on a site-
specific basis prior to discharging to certain storm water BMPs. Pretreatment
provides for the removal of fine sediment, trash and debris, and preserves the
longevity and function of the BMP.
         (b)   Hot spots and groundwater contamination. Some land use
activities have a potentially greater risk of polluted runoff than others.
Project sites with these types of activities are referred to as “hot spots” and
include uses such as gas stations, commercial vehicle maintenance and repair,
auto recyclers, recycling centers, and scrap yards. Hot spots also include
areas with the potential for contaminating public water supply intakes.
Pretreatment of storm water runoff to address pollutants associated with hot
spots is required for the site. Storm water management strategies and BMPs that
reduce the potential to mobilize existing soil and groundwater contaminants, or
that capture and treat storm water runoff and/or accidental spills to protect
groundwater or nearby surface waters are required.
         (c)   Coldwater streams. Storm water management strategies and BMPs
that minimize thermal impacts from site runoff and maximize groundwater
recharge are required for sites with a surface water discharge to a coldwater
stream as determined by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources (MDNR).
   (C)   Alternative approach for channel protection. In many cases,
infiltration will likely be used as the primary means of retention. It is not,
however, the sole means of providing onsite retention, and the developer must
include consideration of storm water reuse, interception, evapotranspiration,
and other vegetative (non-structural) BMPs at the project site. Site
constraints that limit the use of infiltration may include:
      (1)   Poorly draining soils (<0.24 inches per hour; typically, hydrologic
soil groups C and D);
      (2)   Bedrock;
      (3)   High groundwater, or the potential of mounded groundwater to impair
other uses;
      (4)   Wellhead protection areas;
      (5)   Storm water hot spots; and
      (6)   Part 201 and 213 sites, and areas of soil or groundwater
contamination.
The city may grant a waiver of the onsite retention criteria for channel
protection described in division (B) above and allow an alternative approach to
meet the channel protection performance standard if the developer demonstrates
that site constraints preclude sufficient retention onsite. If a waiver is
granted, the developer must meet the following extended detention criteria:
   Extended detention. Detain the portion of the channel protection volume
unable to be retained onsite for a minimum of 24 hours with a maximum release
rate no greater than the existing one-year peak discharge, and a drawdown time
no greater than 72 hours. A waiver from the city must be granted to use this
alternative approach.
   (D)   Resolution to implement performance and design standards. The City
Commission of the City of East Grand Rapids may adopt a resolution establishing
more detailed design and performance standards for storm water management
facilities, consistent with the terms of this chapter, and in order to further
implement its goals and purposes.
(Prior Code, § 2.187) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
§ 2.188 OTHER MATTERS.
   (A)   Interpretation. Words and phrases in this chapter shall be construed
according to their common and accepted meanings, except that words and phrases
defined in §
2.180(E) of this chapter shall be construed according to the respective
definitions given in that section. Technical words and technical phrases that
are not defined in this chapter but which have acquired particular meanings in
law or in technical usage shall be construed according to such meanings.
   (B)   Catchline headings. The catchline headings of the articles and
sections of this chapter are intended for convenience only, and shall not be
construed as affecting the meaning or interpretation of the text of the
articles or sections to which they may refer.
   (C)   Severability. The provisions of this chapter are hereby declared to be
severable, and if any part or provision of this chapter should be declared
invalid or unenforceable by any court of competent jurisdiction, such
invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other part or provision of
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 2.188) (Ord. effective 1-18-2002; Ord. effective 4-29-2022)
TITLE III: PARKS AND PUBLIC GROUNDS
   Chapter
      
31.   PARKS; GENERAL REGULATIONS
      
32.   TREES, SHRUBS AND PLANTS
      
33.   PUBLIC LAKES AND WATERWAYS
      
34.   BOAT MARINAS AND DOCKS
      
35.   PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
      
36.   MEDIA PRODUCTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
CHAPTER 31: PARKS; GENERAL REGULATIONS
Section
   
3.1   Rules
   
3.2   Violations
Article I. Promulgated Park Rules
   
3.10   Rules and regulations for public parks
§ 3.1 RULES.
   The City Manager is hereby empowered to make and enforce such rules and
regulations, subject to the approval of the City Commission, pertaining to the
conduct and use of parks and public grounds, as are necessary to administer the
same and to protect public property and the safety, health, morals and welfare
of the public.
(Prior Code, § 3.5) (Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.2 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter or any of
the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder, shall have committed a civil
infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more than $500.
(Prior Code, § 3.6) (Ord. effective 1-31-1992; Ord. effective 9-14-1996; Ord.
effective 1-14-2017)
ARTICLE I. PROMULGATED PARK RULES
§ 3.10 RULES AND REGULATIONS FOR PUBLIC PARKS.
   The rules and regulations for public parks is hereby adopted by reference. A
full copy of the rules and regulations can be found at: https://www.eastgr.org/
DocumentCenter/View/57/Park-Rules-and-Regulations?bidId=.
CHAPTER 32: TREES, SHRUBS AND PLANTS
Section
   
3.31   Definitions
   
3.32   Responsibility
   
3.33   Permits for tree planting, care and removal
   
3.34   Public tree planting, care and removal
   
3.35   Tree protection
   
3.36   Excavations near trees
   
3.37   Covering surface near trees
   
3.38   Private trees and shrubs obstructing public ways or clear vision areas
   
3.39   Removal of private trees
   
3.40   Private trees overhanging public ways
   
3.41   Private tree disputes
   
3.42   Diseased and infested private trees
   
3.43   Diseased or infested shrubs and plants
   
3.44   Appeal
   
3.45   Owner’s failure to comply
   
3.46   Inspections
   
3.47   Lawn extensions
   
3.48   Overhead utility lines and trimming permits
   
3.49   Rules and regulations
§ 3.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works.
   DIRECTOR. Director of Public Works or designee.
   OWNER. Include the person with legal or equitable title to the property, a
lessee or tenant in possession of the property and any other person having
control of or responsibility with respect to the property in such manner that
he or she could reasonably be expected to take any action required by this
chapter or to see that any acts prohibited by this chapter are not done.
   PARK. Include all public parks having individual names, and all areas owned
by the city, or to which the public has free access as a park.
   PROHIBITED SPECIES. Any tree of the species of poplar (Populus spp.), willow
(Salix spp.) and box elder (Acer negundo).
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person owning or operating any pole, line, pipe or
conduit located in any public street or over or along any public easement or
right-of-way for the transmission of electricity, gas, telephone service or
cable television service.
   STREET. All the land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, highways and boulevards in the city.   
   TREE. Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, means trees, shrubs,
bushes and all other woody vegetation.   
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.32 RESPONSIBILITY.   
   The Director shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.33 PERMITS FOR TREE PLANTING, CARE AND REMOVAL.   
   The Director shall have control over all trees located within the street
rights-of-way in the city and the planting, care and removal thereof, subject
to the regulations contained in this chapter. The Director of Parks and
Recreation shall have control over all trees located in park properties or
trails in the city and the planting, care and removal thereof, subject to the
regulations contained in this chapter. The owner of land abutting on any street
may, upon obtaining prior written permission of the Director, prune, spray or
plant trees in that part of the street abutting his or her land not used for
public travel, but no person shall otherwise prune, spray or plant any tree in
any street or park. Every such permit shall specify the extent of the
authorization and the conditions to which it is subject. Where an owner of
abutting property requests the removal of a tree that is not in poor health or
structurally unsound as determined by the Director, the owner may make a
request to the City Commission through a standing subcommittee by a City
Commission approved policy.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.34 PUBLIC TREE PLANTING, CARE AND REMOVAL.   
   (A)   The Department shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve
and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds, as may be necessary to ensure
safety or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The
Director may remove, or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof
which is in an unsafe condition, or which is of a prohibited species, or is
affected with any injurious disease, fungus, insect or other pest.
   (B)   Whenever the Department shall remove any tree, plant or shrub, solely
for the purpose of constructing any public work, the Director shall, if
practicable, replace the same at public expense at some nearby location by
planting another tree, plant or shrub, not necessarily of the same type.   
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Park and Recreation Commission, see also
Chapter 35
§ 3.35 TREE PROTECTION.
   No person shall break, injure, mutilate, kill or destroy any tree or shrub,
or set any fire within ten feet of any tree, or permit any fire, or the heat
thereof, to injure any portion of any tree. No toxic chemicals or other
injurious materials shall be allowed to seep, drain or be emptied on, near or
about any tree. No electric wires or any other lines or wires shall be
permitted to come in contact with any tree or shrub in any manner that shall
cause damage thereto, and no person shall attach any electric insulator to any
tree. No person shall use any tree as an anchor except by special written
permit from the Director, and no material shall be fastened to or hung on any
tree. All persons having under their care, custody or control, facilities which
may interfere with the trimming or removal of any tree, shall after notice
thereof by the Department, promptly abate such interference in such manner as
shall permit the trimming or removal of such tree by the Department.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.36 EXCAVATIONS NEAR TREES.
   Excavations and driveways shall not be placed within five feet of any tree
without written permit from the Director. Any person making such excavation or
construction shall guard any tree within six feet thereof with a good
substantial frame box to be approved by the Department, and all building
material or other debris shall be kept at least four feet from any tree.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.37 COVERING SURFACE NEAR TREES.   
   No person shall place within the street right-of-way (excepting the street
surface thereof) any stone, brick, sand, concrete or other material which will
in any way impede the full and free passage of water, air or fertilizer to the
roots of any tree, except a sidewalk of authorized width and location.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.38 PRIVATE TREES AND SHRUBS OBSTRUCTING PUBLIC WAYS OR CLEAR VISION AREAS.
   (A)   The owner of any tree on private property overhanging any street or
right-of-way shall trim the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct
the light from any street light or obstruct the view of any street intersection
and so that there shall be a clear space of ten feet above the top of the curb
at the street level over the street or sidewalk (see illustration A-0). The
city shall have the right to trim any tree or shrub on private property when it
interferes with pedestrian or vehicular traffic, or with the proper spread of
light along the street from a street light, or interferes with visibility of
any traffic-control device or sign, such trimming to be confined to the area
immediately above the right-of-way. This chapter does not apply to trees or
shrubs in the right-of-way of adjacent jurisdictions as determined by Public
Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. §§ 247.651 et seq. or intergovernmental
agreements for right-of-way or street responsibility.
   Illustration A-0
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2095.png]
 
   (B)   For purposes of this section, TREES shall mean trees, and SHRUBS shall
include bushes, woody vegetation and plantings. Shrubs on private property
located within a clear vision area, as described below, shall not be permitted
to extend or grow to a height of more than 36 inches above the top of the curb
at the street level in order that the view of a pedestrian or driver of a
vehicle approaching a driveway or street intersection shall not be obstructed.
Trees may be planted and maintained on private property in a clear vision area
so long as all branches are trimmed to maintain a clear vision for a vertical
height of ten feet above the street level. A clear vision area shall be
measured as follows:
      (1)   A clear vision area for a driveway means a triangular area formed
by the intersection of a street right-of-way line and a driveway line and
extending ten feet from the intersection of the lines, or in the case of a
rounded line, from the intersection of the line extended (see illustration A-
1 below).   
      (2)   A clear vision area for a corner lot means a triangular area formed
by the intersection of two street right-of-way lines and extending 20 feet from
the intersection of the lines, or in the case of a rounded line, from the
intersection of the line extended (see illustration A-1 below).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2093.png]
 
   (C)   Any property owner failing to trim or maintain any trees or shrubs in
conformity with this chapter shall be notified by the Director of Public Works
or his or her designee. Such notice shall require trimming or maintenance in
conformity with this chapter within ten days after service of such notice. Upon
the expiration of such period, the Director of Public Works may cause the
trimming or maintenance to be done and the cost thereof may be collected from
the owner of said property as a single lot assessment in accordance with §
1.306 of this code.   
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018; Ord. effective 11-1-2019)
§ 3.39 REMOVAL OF PRIVATE TREES.
   Every owner of private property who removes or has removed a tree or trees
or removes limbs from a tree or trees located on such property, or who suffers
a tree or limbs therefrom to be damaged by the elements so as to require
removal of such tree or limbs, shall remove said tree or portion thereof from
said premises within ten days. If the tree is in that portion of the premises
which constitutes front yard or side yard adjacent to a public street under the
city zoning ordinance, and is so removed or damaged as to completely destroy it
as a living tree, the tree shall be cut down to approximately ground level.
Immediately following the removal of such tree or portion thereof, the owner of
the premises shall restore the premises to a sightly condition, shall remove
all debris therefrom from said premises and shall seed, sod or otherwise care
for all uncovered soil so as to prevent blowing of dirt and dust and erosion of
the soil. In case the owner of the premises shall fail to comply with the
requirements of this section, the Director shall give written notice of the
requirements of this chapter and if such requirements are not met within ten
days after such notice is given, the Director may carry out the removal and
restoration required by this section, and in such event the cost shall be a
debt owing by the owner to the city. In case the owner shall fail to pay such
cost within 60 days after a bill for the same has been rendered, the Director
shall report the same to the City Commission for collection as a single lot
assessment in accordance with the City
Charter 2 and §
1.306 of this code.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.40 PRIVATE TREES OVERHANGING PUBLIC WAYS.
   The owners of any tree on private property overhanging any street or right-
of-way shall remove all decayed and broken limbs and branches from trees on
such property where such limbs and branches overhang a street or public
property.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.41 PRIVATE TREE DISPUTES.
   Private tree disputes are generally civil matters between property owners,
however state law does assign responsibilities and liability regarding certain
scenarios.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.42 DISEASED AND INFESTED PRIVATE TREES.
   When the Director shall discover that any tree growing on private property
within the city is afflicted with any dangerous and infectious insect
infestation or disease that constitutes a hazard to the people of the city, or
to other trees, they shall forthwith serve a written notice upon the owner, in
the manner specified in §
1.10 of this code, describing the tree, its location and the nature of the
infestation or tree disease and ordering the owner to take such measures as may
be reasonably necessary to cure such infestation or disease and to prevent the
spreading thereof, specifying the measures required to be taken. Such order may
require the pruning, spraying or destruction of trees, as may be reasonably
necessary. Such notice shall be complied with within ten days after service
thereof upon the owner of the property on which the afflicted tree is located,
or within such additional time as may be stipulated in such notice.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.43 DISEASED OR INFESTED SHRUBS AND PLANTS.   
   The Director shall have the same authority with respect to diseased or
infested shrubs, plants and vines as he or she has with respect to trees under
§
3.42.   
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.44 APPEAL.
   In case the owner of the property shall feel aggrieved at an order of the
Director requiring the maintenance, treatment or destruction of any tree,
shrub, plant or vine, the owner may within 48 hours make an appeal to the City
Commission in writing filed with the City Clerk. The City Commission shall hear
such appeal at its next regular meeting, unless another time shall be set, and
shall determine the matter with the assistance of such expert advice and
opinion as may be presented at such meeting.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.45 OWNER’S FAILURE TO COMPLY.
   In case the owner of the property refuses to carry out the order of the
Director within the time limited, or in case of an appeal, within five days
after the Commission shall have affirmed such order with or without amendment
thereto, the Director shall carry out the order and shall bill the owner of the
property for the cost thereof. In case the owner of such property shall fail to
pay such bill within 60 days after the same has been rendered, the Director
shall report the same to the City Commission for collection as a single lot
assessment in accordance with the City
Charter 3 and §
1.306 of this code. The Director may, without serving the above notice, when
the owner shall consent thereto and pay the reasonable cost thereof, cause
trees growing on private property to be sprayed when he or she deems the same
necessary on account of any infestation or disease or threat thereof.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
Charter reference:
   Taxation, see
Charter Ch. XI
§ 3.46 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director, and other city employees or agents authorized by him or her,
shall have authority to enter upon private premises for the purpose of
examining any trees, shrubs, plants or vines for the presence of destructive
insects or plant diseases. No damages shall be awarded for the destruction of
any tree, shrub, plant or vine, or the product thereof, or injury to the same,
if done by the Director or under his or her direction, in accordance with this
chapter.   
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.47 LAWN EXTENSIONS.
   On residence streets, the abutting owner may maintain a planting strip on
the lawn extension between the sidewalk and curb and may plant flowers, trees
(with permission) and shrubbery therein in conformity with this chapter. No
person shall willfully injure or destroy any grass, flower, tree or shrub upon
any lawn extension or throw any papers, refuse or other thing thereon. No
person shall drive an automobile, bicycle or other vehicle upon or over any
such lawn extension.   
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.48 OVERHEAD UTILITY LINES AND TRIMMING PERMITS.
   The Director shall grant permission to public utilities to trim and keep
trimmed all trees within the streets, alleys, parks and public places of the
city in such manner as shall keep the overhead lines of such public utilities
safe and accessible. Such trimming shall be done in accordance with approved
practices and under the general direction of the Department. Said permission
shall require reasonable prior notice to the city before work is commenced and
require that the utilities and/or their contractors provide written notice
describing trimming to be completed with a contact number for question/
concerns; provided however, that in the event of an emergency requiring
immediate maintenance work on the overhead lines of said public utilities,
prior notice of commencing work under said permit shall not be required. The
word EMERGENCY, as used in this section, shall be defined to mean the
occurrence or happening of an event which could not be foreseen by the exercise
of reasonable care and foresight and which might reasonably be expected to
cause damage to the overhead lines of the public utilities.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 3.49 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director shall, with the approval of the Commission, make such rules and
regulations supplementary to this chapter, and not in conflict herewith, as the
Director may from time to time deem necessary. The rules and regulations in
effect at the adoption of this code shall continue in effect until changed. No
person shall fail to obey any rule or regulation effective hereunder.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
CHAPTER 33: PUBLIC LAKES AND WATERWAYS
Section
Article I. Police Regulations
   
3.61   Seaplanes and the like
   
3.62   Ice sleds
   
3.63   Snowmobiles and automobiles prohibited
   
3.64   Ice holes
   
3.65   Boat registration required
   
3.66   Numbers other than boat registration prohibited
   
3.67   Operating under influence of liquor or drugs
   
3.68   Safe operation; speed
   
3.69   Reckless operation
   
3.70   Major accident report
   
3.71   Minor accident; duties of operator
   
3.72   Night water skiing
   
3.73   Mufflers
   
3.74   Mooring, damage to buoys
   
3.75   Pulling water skier; number of persons in boat
Article II. Aquatic Weed Treatment and Control
   
3.80   Treatment or eradication of aquatic weeds
ARTICLE I. POLICE REGULATIONS
§ 3.61 SEAPLANES AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall operate or navigate any seaplane, hydroplane, amphibious
aircraft or other aircraft on any waterway or on the ice covering the waters of
any waterway except in case of emergency.
(Prior Code, § 3.100)
§ 3.62 ICE SLEDS.
   No person shall operate or navigate any iceboat, ice sled or other ice craft
propelled by gasoline or other internal combustion engine upon the ice covering
the waters of any waterway.
(Prior Code, § 3.101)
§ 3.63 SNOWMOBILES AND AUTOMOBILES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile, automobile, motorcycle, motorbike or
other vehicle propelled by gasoline or other engine upon the ice covering the
waters of any waterway, provided that this article shall not apply to emergency
vehicles operated by city personnel.
(Prior Code, § 3.101-1)
§ 3.64 ICE HOLES.
   Any person who shall open any hole in the ice covering any waterway, shall,
before leaving the same unattended, mark or barricade the same so that the
hazardous condition is readily apparent to a reasonably observant person. No
person shall open any hole in the ice covering any waterway which hole is more
than six inches in diameter without having previously secured from the Director
of Public Safety of the city written authorization to make such opening. Any
such written authorization shall define the location and size of any such
opening and the manner in which the same is to be attended, marked or
barricaded.
(Prior Code, § 3.102)
§ 3.65 BOAT REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or give permission for the operation of any
motorboat or other boat 12 feet in length or longer on any waterway unless the
boat is numbered in accordance with the rules promulgated by the state’s
Natural Resources Commission pursuant to Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 324.80101 through 324.80199 and unless the number awarded to the boat is in
full force and effect, and the identifying number is displayed as required by
said rules.
(Prior Code, § 3.103)
§ 3.66 NUMBERS OTHER THAN BOAT REGISTRATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate any boat on any waterway on which any number is
painted, attached or otherwise displayed from either side of the bow of such
boat other than the number awarded to said boat and displayed in accordance
with the rules promulgated by the state’s Natural Resources Commission pursuant
to Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.80101 through 324.80199.
(Prior Code, § 3.104)
§ 3.67 OPERATING UNDER INFLUENCE OF LIQUOR OR DRUGS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person who is under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or narcotic drugs, to operate, propel or be in actual
physical control of any watercraft upon any waterway. It shall be unlawful for
the owner of any watercraft or any person having such in charge or in control
thereof to authorize or knowingly permit the same to be propelled or operated
by any person who is under the influence of any intoxicating liquor or narcotic
drugs, on any waterway.
(Prior Code, § 3.105)
§ 3.68 SAFE OPERATION; SPEED.
   Any person operating or propelling a watercraft upon any waterway shall
operate the same in a careful and prudent manner, and at such rate of speed as
not to endanger the life or property of any person. No person shall operate any
watercraft at a rate of speed greater than will permit him or her, in the
exercise of reasonable care, to bring the watercraft to a stop within the
assured clear distance ahead. No person shall operate a watercraft in a manner
so as to unreasonably interfere with the lawful use by others of any waterway.
(Prior Code, § 3.106)
§ 3.69 RECKLESS OPERATION.
   No person shall operate any watercraft or navigate, steer or control himself
for herself while being towed on water skis, water sled, surfboard or similar
contrivance, upon any waterway carelessly and heedlessly in disregard of the
rights or safety of others, or without due caution and circumspection or at a
speed or in such manner as to endanger or be likely to endanger any person or
property.
(Prior Code, § 3.107)
§ 3.70 MAJOR ACCIDENT REPORT.
   The operator of any watercraft involved in any accident resulting in injury
or death to any person or property damage of $50 or more shall give his or her
name, address and the registration number of his or her watercraft, and also
the name and address of the owner of the watercraft, to the person struck or
the operator or occupants of any watercraft collided with and render to any
person injured in the accident reasonable assistance, including the
transporting of the persons to a physician or surgeon for medical or surgical
treatment if it is apparent that treatment is necessary or requested by the
injured person. In any such case, the operator shall notify the city Police
Department. Any accident report form filed pursuant to this section shall not
be evidence in any civil or criminal action in any court of this state.
(Prior Code, § 3.108)
§ 3.71 MINOR ACCIDENT; DUTIES OF OPERATOR.
   The operator of any watercraft involved in an accident resulting in damage
to property in an amount less than $50 shall stop his or her watercraft and
give his or her name and address and the registration number of the watercraft,
and also the name and address of the owner, to the operator or occupants of any
other watercraft involved or to the owner or his or her agents of any property
damaged by such accident, where available.
(Prior Code, § 3.109)
§ 3.72 NIGHT WATER SKIING.
   No operator of any watercraft shall have in tow or shall otherwise be
assisting in the propulsion of a person on water skies, water sled, surfboard
or other similar contrivance during the period one-half hour after sunset to
one-half hour prior to sunrise. No person shall permit himself for herself to
be towed on water skies, watersled, surfboard or similar contrivance in
violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 3.110)
§ 3.73 MUFFLERS.
   Every watercraft being operated on a waterway and being propelled by a
permanently or temporarily attached motor shall be equipped with a stock
factory muffler, underwater exhaust or other modern device capable of
adequately muffling the sound of the exhaust of the engine of such motorboat.
The mufflers shall be kept closed, and the exhaust or device kept in proper
working order by any person operating or in charge of the watercraft at all
times when the engine is in operation. The term CAPABLE OF ADEQUATELY MUFFLING
THE SOUND OF THE EXHAUST OF THE ENGINE means the motor’s exhaust at all times
shall be so muffled or suppressed as not to create excessive or unusual noise.
(Prior Code, § 3.111)
§ 3.74 MOORING, DAMAGE TO BUOYS.
   No person shall moor or fasten any vessel to or willfully damage a lawfully
placed buoy or beacon.
(Prior Code, § 3.112)
§ 3.75 PULLING WATER SKIER; NUMBER OF PERSONS IN BOAT.
   No person shall operate a boat on a waterway of this city having in tow a
person on water skis or similar contrivance unless there is in such boat, in
addition to the operator, at least one competent person in a position to
observe the person being towed.
(Prior Code, § 3.113)
ARTICLE II. AQUATIC WEED TREATMENT AND CONTROL
§ 3.80 TREATMENT OR ERADICATION OF AQUATIC WEEDS.
   The city, through the City Commission, shall have the authority to harvest,
control or eradicate aquatic weeds within Reeds Lake (portion within city
limits), Fisk Lake or any other waterway within the city by means of mechanical
harvesting, biological agents or chemicals (including fluridone or other lawful
chemicals or substances). The city can undertake such harvesting or treatments
either by utilizing city employees or by contract with an outside service
provider.
(Ord. effective 4-17-2006)
CHAPTER 34: BOAT MARINAS AND DOCKS
Section
   
3.100   Definition
   
3.101   License required; fee
   
3.102   Application form
   
3.103   Swimming
   
3.104   Rules and posting
   
3.105   Condition of premises
   
3.106   Mooring areas
   
3.107   Docks
   
3.108   Inspections
   
3.109   Insurance
   
3.110   Standards
   
3.111   Optional public hearing
   
3.112   Conditions
§ 3.100 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARINA. Any of the following (or any combination of one or more of the
following):
      (1)   Renting, leasing or otherwise making available to others for a fee
or consideration, spaces or facilities at or adjacent to a lake for the
mooring, dockage or storage of boats of any type or class. This shall also
include transient boat slips or spaces associated with a restaurant or other
business;
      (2)   Any situation where a dock, pier, wharf or boat anchoring or
mooring area is used by members of the public who are not owners of the
property;
      (3)   Any boat club, yacht club, or similar business, club or facility
with lake frontage which has, operates or maintains a dock, pier, wharf, boat
slips or boat moorings;
      (4)   Any situation where a dock, pier, wharf or boat anchoring or
mooring area or lakefront property is used by more than one family and/or the
owners or tenants of more than one lot, parcel or property; and
      (5)   The use of any easement, common area, right-of-way, jointly-owned
property, condominium common element (or common area) or similar lake access
device for one or more docks, wharves, piers, boat lifts or boat slips. This
division (5) shall also include the mooring, storing, anchoring or keeping of
any boat or watercraft on or at such an easement, right-of-way or property (or
the bottomlands or shore thereof).
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.101 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person, firm, association or other entity shall operate or maintain any
marina within the city without annually applying for and obtaining a license
therefor. Furthermore, no person shall use or keep a boat at an unlicensed
marina within the city. The license year shall be from March 1 through February
28 each year. License applications shall be filed each year along with payment
to the Director of Finance/Treasurer of a fee as set forth in §
7.32 of this code. The applicant shall also supply evidence of insurance as
required by §
3.109 of this chapter. The application shall be reviewed by the City Manager
and, if found to be in compliance with this chapter and all city code
requirements (including meeting the standards contained in §
3.110 hereof), shall be approved by the City Manager. If the City Manager
determines that a marina (pursuant to an application) may have a significant
impact on the lake involved or nearby riparian uses or be of significant public
interest, the City Manager may refer the decision on the license application to
the City Commission.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.102 APPLICATION FORM.
   The application for a marina license shall contain all of the following
information:
   (A)   The name and address of the property owner(s);
   (B)   The name and address of the applicant (if different than the property
owner(s));
   (C)   A description of the premises to be used as a marina;
   (D)   The maximum number of boats for which permission is requested;
   (E)   A list of the owner(s) of the boats which will be involved (this is
not applicable where the marina will be used only by renters for less than one
month or by members of the general public);
   (F)   A sketch of all proposed dock and mooring facilities and the layout;
and
   (G)   A copy of any regulations on the use of the marina to be enforced by
the applicant.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.103 SWIMMING.
   Swimming by users of the marina or the general public at the location of any
marina is prohibited unless appropriate safety measures are taken, including
segregation of the swimming area from the boat mooring and traffic area.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.104 RULES AND POSTING.
   For licenses issued by the city for public marinas (excluding situations for
private use only where the marina is not open to the general public or is not
for commercial use), the licensee shall post such rules as the City Manager may
deem appropriate consistent with requirements contained in Chapter 33 of this
title including, but not restricted to, regulations relating to launching
permits, water pollution, navigation lights, water-skiing, boat equipment and
other safety regulations.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.105 CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   All marina premises (including grounds and docks) shall be kept neat, safe
and orderly at all times. Sufficient rubbish containers shall be maintained on
the premises.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.106 MOORING AREAS.
   Mooring areas may not extend beyond the area enclosed between the shoreline,
the property lines of the licensee extended and a line drawn through the lake
end of the dock extended parallel with the shoreline.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.107 DOCKS.
   This section applies to all docks, whether or not a marina is involved, and
whether the dock is for commercial, private or residential use. No dock may be
installed or used except in full compliance with this title. All docks shall be
constructed to carry a minimum weight of 200 pounds per square foot. Docks may
not unreasonably interfere with navigation. Docks, if floating, must be secured
to prevent their floating away. No permanent dock (i.e., a dock or pier left in
a lake during the time period from November 1 through April 1) shall be
installed, used or extended unless all state requirements are met and a license
is obtained from the city pursuant to the same standards and procedures which
are applicable as if a marina were involved. If the application for a permanent
dock is part of a request for a marina license, the two applications may be
processed simultaneously by the city. A license issued by the city for a
permanent dock (which is not part of a marina) is valid for ten years.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.108 INSPECTIONS.
   The City Manager (or his or her designated representative) shall have the
right of access to the marina at all reasonable hours for the purpose of
inspecting boats, docks and the premises to determine compliance with
regulations contained herein.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.109 INSURANCE.
   No person shall operate any marina within the city without carrying general
liability insurance with a minimum limit of at least $250,000 and keeping such
insurance in effect whenever the marina is in use. Evidence of such insurance
shall be presented to the city at the time an application for license is filed
as required by §
3.101 of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.110 STANDARDS.
   No marina permit shall be issued unless the City Manager (or City
Commission, where applicable) finds that all of the following standards will be
met:
   (A)   The marina will not be detrimental to the public health, safety or
general welfare;
   (B)   The number, size, location and configuration of dock(s) and boat
slips, moorings or hoists will not present a safety hazard to swimmers and
other users of the property, easement or right-of-way involved, as well as the
users of nearby lakefront properties (and the waterfront thereof); and
   (C)   The marina (including the docks and boat hoists, slips or moorings
thereof) will not unreasonably interfere with the uses of the lake by the
owners of the adjoining riparian properties or by members of the general
public.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.111 OPTIONAL PUBLIC HEARING.
   If the City Manager has referred a marina license application to the City
Commission for the City Commission to make the final decision regarding whether
a marina license should be granted, the City Commission may schedule a public
hearing before making a final decision regarding the application. Should such a
public hearing be held, notice of the public hearing shall appear in the
newspaper at least 15 days before the public hearing is held and notices of the
public hearing shall also be mailed (by regular mail) to the owners of all
properties located within 300 feet of the property for which the marina license
is requested (as the ownership and addresses are shown on the most recent tax
bills) at least 15 days before the public hearing.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
§ 3.112 CONDITIONS.
   The City Manager (or City Commission, where applicable) may attach
reasonable conditions to the issuance of any marina license. Such conditions
may include, but are not limited to, limitations on the number, location and
configuration of docks, piers, wharves, boat hoists and boat slips, as well as
limits on the number and type of boats.
(Ord. effective 4-10-2009)
CHAPTER 35: PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
Section
   
3.130   Parks and Recreation Commission
   
3.131   Operation of Commission
   
3.132   Authority of Commission
§ 3.130 PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION.
   The city hereby creates a Parks and Recreation Commission consisting of nine
members, all of whom shall be residents of the city. One member shall be a
School Board member nominated by the city’s School Board. The remaining eight
members shall be appointed by the Mayor with the approval of the City
Commission. One of these members shall be a City Commissioner. Beginning July
1, 2020, the term of each member shall be for three years, except that three
members appointed July 1, 2020 shall initially serve for one year, three
members shall initially serve for two years, and three members shall serve for
three years in order to stagger the normal three-year terms. The members to be
appointed on July 1, 2021 shall then be appointed for a three-year term. The
members to be appointed on July 1, 2022 shall then be appointed for a three-
year term. From then on, all Commissioners should be on a three-year term
cycle.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017; Ord. effective 6-12-2020; Ord. effective 7-1-2022)
§ 3.131 OPERATION OF COMMISSION.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission will adopt its own rules of procedure
and shall elect its own chairperson and vice chairperson. The City Manager,
Recreation Director and School Athletic Director shall be ex officio members of
the Parks and Recreation Commission but do not have voting rights.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.132 AUTHORITY OF COMMISSION.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall be an advisory body to the City
Commission. It shall develop recommendations on policies relative to the
operation of the Parks and Recreation Program, and shall make those
recommendations to the City Commission.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
CHAPTER 36: MEDIA PRODUCTION ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
Section
   
3.140   Definition
   
3.141   Permit required; fee
   
3.142   Application form
   
3.143   Condition of premises
   
3.144   Inspections
   
3.145   Insurance/hold harmless
   
3.146   Standards
   
3.147   Conditions
§ 3.140 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For purposes of this section, MEDIA PRODUCTION shall mean any of the
following (or any combination of one or more of the following):
      (1)   Photographing, videotaping, producing or filming of movies,
television programs, commercials, print advertisements and/or other media,
whether for commercial, educational, not-for-profit, artistic or any other
purpose; or
      (2)   Still photo shoots.
   (B)   Excluded from this definition of MEDIA PRODUCTION is the shooting and/
or reporting of actual news events, filming or photographing solely for
private-family use, and filming or photographing by students for educational
related activity.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.141 PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person, firm, association or other entity shall operate or engage in any
media production on public property or that impacts public property within the
city without applying for and obtaining a permit therefor. Permit applications
shall be filed at least five days prior to production date; provided, however,
that the Director of Parks and Recreation, or the Director’s designee, may
waive the five-day requirement, in his or her discretion, upon receipt of
information showing why this requirement cannot be met. The applicant shall
also supply evidence of insurance and execute the hold harmless agreement as
required by §
3.145 hereof. The application shall be reviewed by the Director of Parks and
Recreation, who shall also communicate with the Public Works Director and
Public Safety Director or their designees. If the application is found by all
reviewers to be in compliance with this chapter and all city code requirements
(including meeting the standards contained in §
3.146 hereof), the application shall be approved by the Director of Parks and
Recreation. If the Director of Parks and Recreation determines that a media
production (pursuant to an application) may have a significant impact on the
public property involved, the Director of Parks and Recreation may refer the
decision on the permit application to the City Commission to be considered at
the next regular City Commission meeting. Referral of the application will
delay consideration of the permit. A permit fee will be charged for each media
production permit application as set by resolution of the City Commission.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.142 APPLICATION FORM.
   The application for a media production permit shall contain all of the
following information:
   (A)   Information regarding the applicant, including the name, address and
phone number of the applicant;
   (B)   A brief description of the proposed production and the portion
involving public property within the city;
   (C)   A precise description of the proposed location(s) including dates,
times desired for set up, production and clean-up, type and number of media
equipment to be utilized in the production, and number of persons to be
involved in the production; and
   (D)   A copy of a certificate of insurance as required by §
3.145 below.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.143 CONDITION OF PREMISES.
   All public property used for or impacted by media production shall be kept
neat, safe and orderly at all times, and shall be maintained in the condition
as it existed prior to beginning the media production. Each person operating a
media production within the city shall be responsible for any damage to public
property resulting from the production.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.144 INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation (or his or her designated
representative) shall have the right of access to the media production at all
reasonable hours for the purpose of inspecting the production to determine
compliance with regulations contained herein.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.145 INSURANCE/HOLD HARMLESS.
   No person shall operate any media production on public property or that
impacts public property within the city without carrying general liability
insurance naming the city, its elected officials, officers, corporate
authorities, commissions, employees and agents, as additional insured with a
minimum limit of at least $1,000,000 and keeping such insurance in effect
whenever the media production is in operation. Evidence of such insurance shall
be presented to the city at the time an application for permit is filed as
required by this section. Furthermore, each person applying for a media
production permit shall sign an agreement with the city holding the city
harmless from any claim which may arise as a result of the production.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.146 STANDARDS.
   No media production application permit shall be issued unless the Director
of Parks and Recreation (or City Commission, where applicable) finds that the
media production will not be detrimental to the public health, safety or
general welfare. The city reserves the right to revoke any permits issued
hereunder in the event of noncompliance with this chapter or any city code
requirements.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
§ 3.147 CONDITIONS.
   The Director of Parks and Recreation (or City Commission, where applicable)
may attach reasonable conditions to the issuance of any media production
permit. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, limitations on the
number, location, duration and configuration of the production.
(Ord. effective 1-14-2017)
TITLE IV: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   Chapter
      
41.   STREETS
      
42.   SIDEWALKS
CHAPTER 41: STREETS
Section
Article I. General Street and Sidewalk Provisions
   
4.1   Definitions
   
4.2   Street names
   
4.3   Street numbers
   
4.4   Damage and obstruction prohibited
   
4.5   Permits and bonds
   
4.6   Street openings; permits; insurance
   
4.7   Emergency street openings
   
4.8   Backfilling
   
4.9   Sidewalk openings
   
4.10   Utility poles
   
4.11   Maintenance of installations in street
   
4.12   New paving
   
4.13   Sewer and water connections
   
4.14   Determination of necessity of water and sewer connections
   
4.15   Prohibited openings
   
4.16   Reserved
   
4.17   Reserved
Article II. Curb Cuts
   
4.18   Permit required; conditions
   
4.19   Reserved
Article III. Street or Sidewalk Obstructions
   
4.20   Permit to obstruct; insurance
   
4.21   Pedestrian passage
   
4.22   Reserved
Article IV. Safety Requirements
   
4.23   Safeguards
   
4.24   Shoring excavations
   
4.25   Reserved
Article V. Housing Moving
   
4.26   Permit requirements; moving operations
Article VI. Additional Regulations
   
4.27   Authority of City Manager to make additional regulations
   
4.28   Responsibility for driveway approaches, retaining walls and areaways
   
4.29   Driveway approaches, retaining walls and areaways not in good repair
   
4.30   Removal of encroachments
   
4.31   Temporary street closings
   
4.32   Vacating streets
   
4.33   Sanctions and penalties
ARTICLE I. GENERAL STREET AND SIDEWALK PROVISIONS
§ 4.1 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works, or designee.
   STREET. All of the land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, alleys and boulevards in the city, and includes lawn extensions and
sidewalks and the area reserved therefor where the same are not yet
constructed.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.2 STREET NAMES.
   All streets shall be known and designated by the names applied thereto on
the map of the city known as the street plan, filed with the Department. The
naming of any new street or the changing of the name of any street shall be
done by resolution, which resolution shall amend the said map and be submitted
to the state’s Department of Transportation per Public Act 51.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.3 STREET NUMBERS.
   All premises shall bear a distinctive street number at or near the front
entrance of said premises. Such numbers shall be not less than three inches
high, shall be facing the street and adjacent to the principal entrance, and in
such position as to be plainly visible from the street.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.4 DAMAGE AND OBSTRUCTION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall make any excavation in, or cause any damage to, any street
in the city, except under the conditions and in the manner permitted in this
chapter. No person shall place any article, thing or obstruction in any street,
except under the conditions and in the manner permitted in this chapter, but
this provision shall not be deemed to prohibit such temporary obstructions as
may be incidental to the expeditious movement of articles and things to and
from abutting premises, nor to the lawful parking of vehicles within the part
of the street reserved for vehicular traffic.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.5 PERMITS AND BONDS.
   (A)   Where permits are authorized in this chapter, they shall be obtained
upon application to the Director, upon such forms as the Director shall
prescribe, and there shall be a fee which shall be provided for by resolution
of the Commission. Such permit shall be revocable by the Director for failure
to comply with this chapter, rules and regulations adopted pursuant hereto, and
the lawful orders of the Director or his or her duly authorized representative
and shall be valid only for the period of time endorsed thereon.
   (B)   Application for a permit under the provisions of this chapter shall be
deemed an agreement by the applicant to promptly complete the work permitted,
observe all pertinent laws and regulations of the city in connection therewith,
repair all damage done to the street surface and installations on, over or
within such street, including trees, and protect and save harmless the city
from all damages or actions at law that may arise or may be brought on account
of injury to persons or property resulting from the work done under the permit
or in connection therewith. Where liability insurance policies are required to
be filed in making application for a permit, they shall be in the amounts
prescribed by resolution of the city.
   (C)   A duplicate executed copy or photocopy of the original of such
insurance policy, or a certificate of insurance, shall be filed with the City
Clerk. Where cash deposits are required with the application for any permit
hereunder, such deposit shall be in the amount required by the Director
depending on the size of the project, except as otherwise specified in this
chapter, and such deposit shall be used to defray all expenses to the city
arising out of the granting of the permit and work done under the permit or in
connection therewith. Six months after the completion of the work done under
the permit, any balance of such cash deposit unexpended shall be refunded. In
any case where the deposit does not cover all costs and expenses of the city,
the deficit shall be paid by the applicant.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.6 STREET OPENINGS; PERMITS; INSURANCE.
   No person shall make any excavation or opening in or under any street
without first obtaining a written permit from the Director. The Director may
require that the applicant post a cash deposit and file a liability insurance
policy as provided in §
4.5 before such permit is issued.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.7 EMERGENCY STREET OPENINGS.
   The Director may, if the public safety requires immediate action, grant
permission to make a necessary street opening in an emergency; provided, that a
permit shall be obtained on the following business day and the provisions of
this chapter shall be complied with.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.8 BACKFILLING.
   All trenches in a public street or other public place, except by special
permission, shall be backfilled in accordance with regulations adopted pursuant
to this chapter. Any settlement shall be corrected within eight hours after
notification to do so.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.9 SIDEWALK OPENINGS.
   All openings in the sidewalk for any purpose shall be of a design approved
by the Director and shall be protected in a manner satisfactory to the
Director.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.10 UTILITY POLES.
   Utility poles may be placed in such streets as the Director shall prescribe
and shall be located thereon in accordance with the directions of the Director.
Such poles shall be removed or relocated as the Director shall from time to
time direct.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.11 MAINTENANCE OF INSTALLATIONS IN STREET.
   Every owner of, and every person in control of, any premises hereafter
maintaining a sidewalk opening, manhole or any post, pole, sign, awning, wire,
pipe, conduit or other structure or excavation in, under, over or upon, any
street which is adjacent to or a part of the premises, shall keep the same and
the covers thereof, and any utility installations thereon or therein, in good
repair and condition at all times during his or her ownership or control
thereof, and shall indemnify and save harmless the city against all costs,
claims, damages or actions that may result from or be based on such excavation
or structure being under, over, in or upon the street, or being unsecured, out
of repair or defective.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.12 NEW PAVING.
   Whenever the City Commission shall determine to pave or resurface any
street, the Director shall, not less than 30 days prior to commencement of
construction, serve notice upon all public utilities, requiring them to install
and make all necessary changes in underground work in advance of the paving or
resurfacing.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.13 SEWER AND WATER CONNECTIONS.
   When such paving or resurfacing shall have been ordered or declared
necessary by the City Commission, such sewer and water connections as are
necessary shall be installed in advance of such paving or resurfacing, and the
cost thereof may be charged against the premises adjacent thereto, or to be
served thereby, and against the owner of such premises. Where such paving or
resurfacing is financed in whole or in part by special assessment, the cost of
such sewer and water connections may be charged against the premises adjacent
thereto, or to be served thereby, as a part of the special assessment for such
paving or resurfacing. Where such paving or resurfacing is financed otherwise
than by special assessment, the cost of the sewer and water connections so
installed may be determined by the City Commission to constitute a lien on said
premises and shall be collected as a single lot assessment in accordance with
the City Charter and §
1.306 of this code.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.14 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY OF WATER AND SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   The necessity for such sewer and water connections shall be determined by
the Director, which determination shall be based upon the size, shape and area
of each abutting lot or parcel of land, the lawful use of such land under the
zoning regulations of the city, the character of the locality and the probable
future development of each abutting lot or parcel of land. The Director shall
give written notice of the intention to install such sewer and water
connections and to charge the cost of the same to the premises, to each owner
of land abutting the street, to be furnished with such connections, as shown by
the records of the City Assessor in accordance with §
1.10 of this code. Any owner objecting to the installation of any such sewer or
water connection shall file his or her objections in writing, within seven days
after service of such notice, with the Director who shall, after considering
each such objection, make a final determination of the sewer and water
connections to be installed.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.15 PROHIBITED OPENINGS.
   No permit to make any opening or excavation in or under a paved street shall
be granted to any person within a period of two years after the completion of
any paving or resurfacing thereof unless a street opening is necessary as a
public safety measure, in which case the Director may suspend the operation of
this section as to such street opening upon such conditions as he or she may
reasonably establish.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.16 RESERVED.
§ 4.17 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. CURB CUTS
§ 4.18 PERMIT REQUIRED; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   No opening in or through any curb or any street shall be made without
first obtaining a written permit from the Director.
   (B)   Curb cuts and sidewalk driveway crossings to provide access to private
property shall comply with the following.
      (1)   No single curb cut shall be less than ten feet wide.
      (2)   The minimum distance between any driveway and a public crosswalk
shall be 20 feet.
      (3)   The minimum distance between curb cuts serving commercial property
shall be 25 feet.
      (4)   The maximum number of lineal feet of sidewalk driveway crossings
permitted for any lot, parcel of land, business or enterprise, shall be 45% of
the total abutting street frontage up to and including 200 lineal feet of
street frontage plus 20% of the lineal feet of street frontage in excess of 200
feet.
      (5)   The necessary adjustments to utility poles, light standards, fire
hydrants, catch basins, street signs, signals or other public improvements or
installations shall be accomplished without cost to the city.
      (6)   All construction shall be in accordance with plans and
specifications approved by the Director.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.19 RESERVED.
ARTICLE III. STREET OR SIDEWALK OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 4.20 PERMIT TO OBSTRUCT; INSURANCE.
   No person shall occupy any street or sidewalk with any materials or
machinery incidental to the construction, demolition or repair of any building
adjacent to said street, or for any other purpose, without first obtaining a
permit from the Director. The Director may require that the applicant post a
cash deposit and file a liability insurance policy as required by §
4.5 before such permit is issued.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.21 PEDESTRIAN PASSAGE.
   At least five feet of sidewalk space shall be kept clean and clear for the
free passage of pedestrians and if the construction, demolition or repair
operations are such that such free passageway is impracticable, a temporary
plank sidewalk with substantial railings or sidewalk shelter, built in
accordance with Chapter 80 of this code, shall be provided around such
construction.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.22 RESERVED
ARTICLE IV. SAFETY REQUIREMENTS
§ 4.23 SAFEGUARDS.
   All openings, excavations and obstructions shall be substantially barricaded
and railed off, and at night shall be provided with prescribed warning lights.
Warning lights perpendicular to the flow of traffic shall not be more than
three feet apart, and parallel to the flow of traffic not over 15 feet apart.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.24 SHORING EXCAVATIONS.
   All openings and excavations in any street shall, where necessary, be
properly and substantially sheeted and braced as a safeguard to workers and to
prevent cave-ins or washouts which would tend to injure the thoroughfare or
subsurface structure of the street.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.25 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. HOUSING MOVING
§ 4.26 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS; MOVING OPERATIONS.
   No person shall move, transport or convey any building, machinery, truck or
trailer, more than eight feet eight inches wide or more than 13 feet six inches
high above the surface of the roadway into, across or along any street, or
other public place in the city without first obtaining a permit from the
Director. The applicant shall obtain and file written approvals from all light,
telephone, gas and water utilities having installations in any street to be
entered, stating that all connections have been properly cut off and, where
necessary, that all obstructions along the route of moving will be removed
without delaying moving operations. In addition, clearance shall be obtained
from the Public Safety Department, approving the proposed route through the
city streets and the time of moving, together with an estimate of the cost to
the Public Safety Department as the result of the moving operations. The
applicant shall deposit with the city the total cost to the city as estimated
by the Public Safety and Public Works Department, plus a cash deposit as
required by §
4.5 and shall file with the city a liability insurance policy in the amount
prescribed by resolution of the city.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
Cross-reference:
   Building removal, see
Chapter 85
ARTICLE VI. ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS
§ 4.27 AUTHORITY OF CITY MANAGER TO MAKE ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager may make such additional regulations pertaining to openings
and excavations in the streets, curb cuts, street obstructions, and house
moving as he or she deems necessary for the public health and safety. Such
regulations shall be subject to the approval of the City Commission. Failure to
comply with any such regulations shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.28 RESPONSIBILITY FOR DRIVEWAY APPROACHES, RETAINING WALLS AND AREAWAYS.
   All driveway approaches, retaining walls and areaways within the city shall
be maintained by the owner of the land adjacent to or abutting upon the
improvement. This maintenance shall include building, rebuilding and removing
all obstacles. Snow and ice removal for drive approaches are the responsibility
of the adjacent property owner.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.29 DRIVEWAY APPROACHES, RETAINING WALLS AND AREAWAYS NOT IN GOOD REPAIR.
   The Director is hereby authorized and directed to order any person who owns
property abutting to any driveway approach, retaining wall or areaway that is
not in good repair, to build, rebuild or repair such improvements in accordance
with engineering standards as applicable. As used in this section, PROPERTY
OWNER means the owner of the land upon which there is a driveway approach,
retaining wall or areaway or the owner of the property directly abutting or
adjacent to any of these improvements.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.30 REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENTS.
   The city may remove encroachments and obstructions and fill excavations in
the street and charge the expense of such removal or filling against the person
responsible therefor, including the abutting landowner who permitted the
encroachment, obstruction or excavation to exist other than in accordance with
the terms and conditions of this chapter, and the costs thereof shall be a lien
on such abutting landowner’s premises and shall be collected as a single lot
assessment in accordance with the City Charter and §
1.306 of this code.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.31 TEMPORARY STREET CLOSINGS.
   The Director shall have authority to temporarily close any street, or
portion thereof, when he or she shall deem such street to be unsafe or
temporarily unsuitable for use for any reason. He or she shall cause suitable
barriers and signs to be erected on said street, indicating that the same is
closed to public travel. When any street or portion thereof shall have been
closed to public travel, no person shall drive any vehicle upon or over said
street except as the same may be necessary incidentally to authorized street
repair or construction work being done in the area closed to public travel. No
person shall move or otherwise interfere with any sign or barrier erected
pursuant to this section without authority from the Director.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.32 VACATING STREETS.
   When the Commission shall deem it advisable to vacate a street or alley or
any part thereof, the Commission shall by resolution so declare and in the same
resolution shall appoint a time, not less than four weeks thereafter, when the
Commission shall meet and hear objections to the vacation. Notice of the
meeting, including a copy of the resolution, shall be published once not less
than two weeks before the time appointed for the meeting in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city. Notice of the meeting shall also be served
personally or by mail at least seven days prior to the day of the meeting upon
property owners of record, as listed in the records at City Hall, for all
property which abuts the portion of the street or alley to be vacated. Failure
of a property owner to receive such notice shall not invalidate the vacation
proceedings. Vacated portions of streets and alleys shall be eliminated from
the street plan map. A certified copy of the resolution of vacation adopted by
the City Commission shall be recorded with the Register of Deeds and sent to
the State Treasurer as required by state law.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.33 SANCTIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Violation of any provisions of this article shall be a misdemeanor
punishable by a fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment for not more
than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day of a continuing
violation, as determined by the city upon prior written notice to the violator,
may be charged and punished as a separate and distinct offense.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
CHAPTER 42: SIDEWALKS
Section
   
4.41   Definitions
   
4.42   General construction requirements
   
4.43   Sidewalk specifications
   
4.44   Damage to sidewalk or pedestrian path
   
4.45   Winter maintenance
   
4.46   Suspension or revocation of permit; stop work orders
   
4.47   Ordering construction
   
4.48   Construction by city
   
4.49   Levy of assessments
§ 4.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works, or his or her designee.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street right-of-way designed for pedestrian
travel.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.42 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   No person shall construct, rebuild or repair any sidewalk without a right-
of-way permit. All work must be to required standards.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.43 SIDEWALK SPECIFICATIONS.
   Sidewalks shall be constructed to the state’s Department of Transportation
specifications.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.44 DAMAGE TO SIDEWALK OR PEDESTRIAN PATH.
   Any person who shall damage a sidewalk or pedestrian path (or any portion
thereof) in any way shall be responsible for returning of the sidewalk or
pedestrian path to its state prior to such damage. At the city’s option, the
city may either repair the damage caused by such person and such person shall
be responsible for reimbursing the city for such repair work, or, alternatively
the city may require that the person who caused the damage repair the sidewalk
or pedestrian path to its prior state within 30 days of the date of damage.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.45 WINTER MAINTENANCE.
   The city provides snow plowing service for city sidewalks. The level of
service is limited to what can be provided by mechanical equipment. Due to
these limitations, sidewalks may not be cleared or maintained to a dry pavement
standard. Warming temperatures between plowing operations may result in a layer
of compacted snow or ice on the sidewalk surface. Ice control is not provided
by the city. In the event that the city is not able to provide snow plowing
service for any reason, including equipment failures or employee shortages, the
City Manager or designee may require property owners adjacent to sidewalks to
clear and maintain the sidewalk until such time the city can restore service.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.46 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; STOP WORK ORDERS.
   The Director may suspend any permit issued under the terms of this chapter
for failure to comply with the terms of this chapter, or the rules,
regulations, plans and specifications established under the provisions of this
chapter for the construction, reconstruction or repair of any sidewalk. The
Director may cause work to be stopped under any permit granted for the
construction, reconstruction or repair of any sidewalk by issuing a stop order
whenever in his or her judgment the provisions of this chapter are not complied
with, and any such stop order shall be effective immediately.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.47 ORDERING CONSTRUCTION.
   The Director shall determine at least once a year which new sidewalks should
be constructed during the year and which existing sidewalks shall be rebuilt or
repaired. It shall be the duty of the Director, on or before June 1 of each
year, to give the owner of the premises adjacent to where a sidewalk is to be
constructed, rebuilt or repaired by the owner, written notice to construct,
rebuild or repair the same within 30 days after the service of said notice.
Initial construction shall be the responsibility of the property owner of the
property adjacent to where the sidewalk is to be placed. Repair or replacement
shall be the responsibility of the property owner adjacent to where the
sidewalk is located if the actions or inactions of the owner, occupant, agents
or contractors hired by the owner or occupant damage the sidewalk. In all other
instances, repair or replacement shall be the responsibility of the city.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.48 CONSTRUCTION BY CITY.
   If a sidewalk is not constructed, rebuilt or repaired within the time fixed
by a notice issued pursuant to §
4.47, the Director shall make a written report to the Commission of the neglect
or the refusal of the owner to comply with said notice. The Commission may then
establish a special assessment district for the purpose of constructing,
rebuilding or repairing such sidewalks upon receiving a recommendation of the
Director that a reasonable grouping of a number of individual sidewalk projects
may be established to permit the taking of bids for construction under a single
contract. In the event that any of such sidewalks are not suitable for grouping
with other sidewalks in a special assessment district as herein provided, the
Commission may then order the Director to cause such sidewalks to be
constructed, rebuilt or repaired, and make report to the Commission of such
activity. At the same time, the Director shall prepare an account for the
expense of labor, material and services incurred thereby, and report the same,
together with a correct description of the premises adjacent to where such work
shall have been done and the name of the owner thereof, to the Director of
Finance/Treasurer as required by the provisions of §
1.306 of this code.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
§ 4.49 LEVY OF ASSESSMENTS.
   In any case where the Commission orders the Director to cause any sidewalk
to be constructed, rebuilt or repaired and receives the report from the
Director required by §
4.48, the Commission shall determine what amount or part of such expense shall
be charged and the person against whom the premises upon which the same shall
be levied as a special assessment and shall cause such amount so determined to
be charged, together with an administration charge of 10% in addition thereto.
Such action shall be treated as a single lot assessment in accordance with the
City Charter and §
1.306 of this code.
(Ord. effective 11-16-2018)
TITLE V: ZONING AND PLANNING
   Chapter
      
50.   ZONING
      
51.   PLANNING COMMISSION
      
52.   REGULATION OF ANTENNAS
      
53.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
54.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
55.   REGULATION OF ADULT BUSINESSES
CHAPTER 50: ZONING
Section
Article I. Purpose and Title
   
5.1   Short title
   
5.2   Purpose
   
5.3   Interpretation and conflicting regulations
   
5.4   Vested right
   
5.5   Reserved
Article II. Definitions
   
5.6   Construction of language
   
5.7   Definitions A-B
   
5.8   Definitions C-D
   
5.9   Definitions E-F
   
5.10   Definitions G-H
   
5.11   Definitions I-J
   
5.12   Definitions K-L
   
5.13   Definitions M-N
   
5.14   Definitions O-P
   
5.15   Definitions Q-R
   
5.16   Definitions S-T
   
5.17   Definitions U-V
   
5.18   Definitions W-Z
Article III. Zoning Districts and Map
   
5.19   Districts established
   
5.20   Zoning map
   
5.21   District boundaries interpreted
   
5.22   Zoning of vacated areas
   
5.23   Zoning of annexed areas
   
5.24   Reserved
   
5.25   Reserved
Article IV. Residential Districts
   
5.26   Intent
   
5.27   Schedule of uses
   
5.28   Area, height and placement requirements
   
5.29   Standards applicable to single-family dwellings
   
5.30   Standards applicable to two-family and multiple family dwellings
   
5.31   Restrictions on dogs and cats
   
5.32   Prohibited animals
   
5.33   Reserved
   
5.34   Reserved
Article V. C-1, Commercial District
   
5.35   Intent
   
5.36   Schedule of uses
   
5.37   Area, height and placement requirements
   
5.38   Uses specifically prohibited
   
5.39   Additional requirements applying to the commercial district
   
5.40   Reserved
Article VI. Planned Unit Development (PUD)
   
5.41   Intent
   
5.42   Qualifying conditions
   
5.43   Permitted uses
   
5.44   General development requirements
   
5.45   PUD review procedures
   
5.46   Pre-application conference
   
5.47   PUD concept plan review
   
5.48   Final PUD site plan review
   
5.49   Standards of approval
   
5.50   Deviations from approved final PUD site plan
   
5.51   Expiration and extension
   
5.52   Appeals and variances
   
5.53   Reserved
   
5.54   Reserved
   
5.55   Reserved
Article VII. General Provisions
   
5.56   Compliance with provisions
   
5.57   Uses per lot
   
5.58   Access
   
5.59   Height exceptions
   
5.60   Setback requirements
   
5.61   Encroachments into required yard setbacks
   
5.62   Corner lots
   
5.63   Through lots
   
5.64   Temporary uses and special events
   
5.65   Hours of operation
   
5.66   Essential services
   
5.67   Voting place
   
5.68   Mechanical equipment screening
   
5.69   Lighting
Article VIII. Additional Use Requirements
   
5.70   Accessory buildings, structures and uses
   
5.71   Dining and entertainment uses
   
5.72   Office uses
   
5.73   Public and institutional uses
   
5.74   Residential uses
   
5.75   Other uses
Article IX. Off-Street Parking Requirements
   
5.76   Off-street parking, loading, access and circulation requirements
   
5.77   Minimum parking requirements
   
5.78   Modifications and exemptions
   
5.79   Off-street parking facility location and design
   
5.80   Off-street loading requirements
   
5.81   Storage and repair of vehicles
   
5.82   Commercial vehicles
Article X. Site Plan Review
   
5.83   Intent
   
5.84   Uses requiring review
   
5.85   Site plan and sketch plan review procedures
   
5.86   Submittal requirements
   
5.87   Standards for approval
   
5.88   Conditions of approval
   
5.89   Validity of approved plans
   
5.90   Amendment to approved plans
Article XI. Special Land Uses
   
5.91   Intent
   
5.92   Scope
   
5.93   Procedures
   
5.94   Review standards
   
5.95   Validity of permit
   
5.96   Amendments, expansions and change in use
   
5.97   Revocation of an approved special land use
   
5.98   Appeals
   
5.99   Restrictions on resubmittal of a special land use request
Article XII. Zoning Board of Appeals
   
5.100   Creation and membership
   
5.101   Proceedings
   
5.102   Powers and duties
   
5.103   Decisions
   
5.104   Time limit on variances and termination of variances
   
5.105   Automatic termination of use variance
Article XIII. Amendments and Rezoning
   
5.106   Initiation of rezoning and text amendments
   
5.107   Application procedure
   
5.108   Rezoning and text amendment guidelines
   
5.109   Amendment considerations
   
5.110   Conditional rezoning
Article XIV. Nonconformities
   
5.111   Intent
   
5.112   Nonconforming uses
   
5.113   Nonconforming buildings and structures
   
5.114   Nonconforming lots
   
5.115   Nonconforming resulting from right-of-way dedication
   
5.116   Elimination of nonconformities
Article XV. Administration and Enforcement
   
5.117   Enforcement
   
5.118   Duties of the Director of Public Works
   
5.119   Plot plan/survey
   
5.120   Permits
   
5.121   Fees
   
5.122   Performance guarantees
Article XVI. Enactment Provisions
   
5.123   Repeal of ordinances
   
5.124   Severability
   
5.125   Enactment and effective date
ARTICLE I. PURPOSE AND TITLE
§ 5.1 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known, and may be cited, as “the Zoning Ordinance of
the City of East Grand Rapids”.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.2 PURPOSE.
   The provisions of this chapter, enacted under the authority of the state’s
Zoning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., shall be held to be
minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public health, safety and
for the encouragement of the orderly growth of the city community, as well as
the general welfare. This chapter is intended to ensure that uses of land shall
be situated in appropriate locations and relationships; to limit the
inappropriate overcrowding of land and congestion of population and
transportation systems and other public facilities; and to facilitate adequate
and efficient provision of transportation systems, sewage disposal, water,
energy, education, recreation and other public service and facility needs.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.3 INTERPRETATION AND CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   In its interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, safety, comfort, convenience or general welfare. It is not intended by
this chapter to impair or interfere with any other existing provision of law or
ordinance. However, where this chapter imposes a greater restriction than is
required by existing ordinance or by rules, regulations or permits, the
provisions of this chapter shall control.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.4 VESTED RIGHT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted or construed to give rise to
any permanent vested rights in the continuation of any particular use,
district, zoning classification, or any permissible activities therein; and all
rights are hereby declared to be subject to such subsequent amendment, change
or modification hereof as may be necessary to the preservation or protection of
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.5 RESERVED.
ARTICLE II. DEFINITIONS
§ 5.6 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   (A)   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter,
shall have the meanings assigned to them in this chapter, except where the
context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (B)   The following rules of construction apply to this chapter.
      (1)   The particular shall control the general and the use of a general
term shall not be taken to have the same meaning as another specific term. For
example, a “dry cleaning retail establishment” shall not be interpreted to be
the same as a “retail business supplying commodities on the premises”, if each
term is listed as a separate and distinct use.
      (2)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the
text of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
      (3)   A building or structure includes any and all of its parts.
      (4)   The phrase “used for” includes “arranged for”, “designed for”,
“intended for”, “maintained for” and “occupied for”.
      (5)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
MAY is permissive.
      (6)   The word PERSON includes any individual, corporation, partnership,
incorporated association, limited liability company or any other similar
entity.
      (7)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a
regulation involves two or more items, conditions, provisions or events
connected by the conjunctions “and”, “or” or “either-or”, the conjunction shall
be interpreted as follows.
         (a)   AND. Indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events apply.
         (b)   OR. Indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions
or events may apply singly or in any combination.
         (c)   EITHER-OR. Indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events apply singly but not in combination.
      (8)   Terms not defined in this chapter shall have the meaning
customarily assigned to them.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.7 DEFINITIONS A-B.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING, STRUCTURE OR USE. A building, structure or use on the
same lot with, and of a nature which is customarily incidental and subordinate
to the principal building, structure or use or the property.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT (ADU). A secondary dwelling unit that is located on
the same parcel or lot as a single-family dwelling, having its own dedicated
access and permanent provisions for living, sleeping, cooking and sanitation
that are separate from the primary dwelling. The design and size of the ADU
shall be clearly subordinate to that of the primary dwelling unit.
      (1)   DETACHED ADU. An ADU that is located entirely in a detached
accessory building.
      (2)   GARAGE ADU. An ADU that is located in a detached accessory building
that also features a garage or carport.
      (3)   ATTACHED ADU. An ADU that is attached to the principal dwelling
unit, generally in the form of an addition or separate wing of the primary
house.
      (4)   INTERIOR ADU. An ADU that is built in a converted space within the
primary home without requiring modification to the building foundation,
generally in either the attic or basement.
   ADDITION. An extension or increase in floor area or height of a building or
structure.
   ADULT. A person at the legal age of adulthood, as defined by the laws of the
state.
   ADULT DAY CARE HOME. A private residence with the approved capacity to
receive six or fewer adults, to be provided with foster care for periods of
less than 24 hours per day, five or more days per week and for two or more
consecutive weeks, as licensed and regulated under the Adult Foster Care
Facility Licensing Act, Public Act 218 of 1979, M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 et seq., as
amended.
   ADULT FOSTER CARE. See FOSTER CARE.
   ALLEY. A secondary right-of-way which provides a means of access to the rear
of a lot and/or building.
   ALTERATION. A change, addition or modification in construction or type of
occupancy; any change in a building, such as walls, partitions, columns or
joists; any change in the dimensions or configuration of the roof, exterior
walls or foundation; or any change which may be referred to as altered or
reconstructed.
   APARTMENT. See DWELLING UNIT.
   BASEMENT. The part of a building between a floor and ceiling, which is
partially below and partially above ground level, but with a vertical distance
from grade to the floor below that is greater than the vertical distance from
grade to the ceiling. A BASEMENT is not counted as a story (see Figure 2-1).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2097.png]
 
   BED AND BREAKFAST. A private residence, occupied by the owner or resident
manager, in which guest room accommodations are provided to overnight lodgers
for compensation, and which may include breakfast as a part of the
accommodation.
   BERM. An earth mound covered with grasses, trees and other plants; designed
to provide visual interest, screen undesirable views and impacts and help
separate incompatible uses.
   BOARD. The Zoning Board of Appeals for the City of East Grand Rapids.
   BREW PUB. A restaurant which serves alcoholic beverages and brews
handcrafted, natural beer intended for retail consumption on the premises and
on any premises that has a license as a standard full-service restaurant owned
and operated in its entirety by the same corporate ownership and management as
the brew pub.
   BREWERY, MICRO. A facility for the production and packaging of malt
beverages of low alcoholic content for distribution, retail or wholesale, on or
off premises, with a capacity of not more than 15,000 barrels per year. A MICRO
BREWERY may include other uses such as a standard restaurant, bar or live
entertainment, as otherwise permitted in the zoning district.
   BUFFER. An open area that does not contain development, structures and
buildings, but which may include landscaping, a screen wall or berm used to
physically separate and screen one land use or property from another.
   BUILDING. A temporary or permanent independent structure, with a roof
supported by columns, walls or other supports that is used to house people,
animals, possessions or conduct business activities or other uses. A BUILDING
may or may not have a permanent location on the ground. See also STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. See HEIGHT OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.
   BUILDING LINE. See SETBACK LINE.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL or BUILDING INSPECTOR. The person designated by the city
to administer the Building Code.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. The building in which a principal use is located.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 9-14-2019; Ord. effective 2-19-2024)
§ 5.8 DEFINITIONS C-D.
   CARPORT. A roofed structure, open on two or more sides, which may or may not
be attached to a building, providing storage for vehicles.
   CARRY-OUT SERVICE. A service that is ancillary to a permitted use involving
the sale of pre-ordered and ready-to-consume food or beverages, which are
packaged and intended for consumption off the premises. These items are
delivered to a customer who is either waiting in the premises, or in a motor
vehicle parked in a space designated and used for carry-out service.
   CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY. A document issued by the city certifying that a
structure or use has been constructed and will be used in compliance with all
applicable regulations and, therefore, occupancy or the use of the building can
occur.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. See DAY CARE FACILITY.
   CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of East Grand Rapids.
   CLINIC. An establishment that admits patients on an outpatient basis for
examination and treatment by physicians, dentists or similar medical
professionals. CLINIC does not include a marijuana collective, cooperative or
dispensary, or the business of a primary caregiver or other business or use
involved in the medical use of marijuana.
   CLINIC, VETERINARY. A veterinary establishment that admits animals on an
outpatient basis for examination and treatment and which are usually not lodged
overnight.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Include:
      (1)   Vehicles primarily used to transport commercial goods or materials,
or used to provide a commercial service;
      (2)   Tractor cabs used for hauling semi-trailers;
      (3)   All vehicles, including passenger vehicles, affixed with signs
advertising or identifying an establishment, product, service or activity; and
      (4)   Mobile mechanized equipment, such as cranes, bulldozers, trenchers,
tractors, compressors and similar equipment.
   CONDITIONAL REZONING. A rezoning that is conditioned by a specific use and/
or other restrictions, voluntarily offered the applicant and recorded with the
property.
   CONDOMINIUM, SITE.
      (1)   BUILDING ENVELOPE. The area of a condominium unit within which the
principal building or structure may be constructed, together with any accessory
structures, as described in the master site condominium deed.
      (2)   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
to 559.272.
      (3)   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of the condominium project designed
and intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed of
the condominium project, within which a building or other improvements may be
constructed by the condominium unit owner. A SITE CONDOMINIUM UNIT is
considered a lot by this chapter.
      (4)   CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. A plan or project consisting of not less than
two condominium units, established in conformance with the Condominium Act.
      (5)   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENT. An area that is appurtenant to a site
condominium unit and that is reserved in the master deed for the site
condominium development for the exclusive use of the owner of the site
condominium unit.
      (6)   SITE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium development in which each
condominium unit consists of an area of vacant land and a volume of vacant air
space, within which a building or other improvements may be constructed.
      (7)   SITE CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT. A development consisting of not less
than two site condominium units, established in compliance with the Condominium
Act.
      (8)   SITE CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The plans, drawings and
information prepared for a site condominium development, as required by § 66 of
the Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. § 559.166 and this chapter, for review by
the Planning Commission and the City Commission.
   CONVALESCENT HOME or NURSING HOME. A facility licensed as a “nursing home”
by the State Department of Public Health under Article 17 of the Public Health
Code, Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as amended. A
NURSING HOME shall include an extended care facility, hospice and convalescent
home.
   CUL-DE-SAC. The vehicle turn-around area constituting the terminus of a
street that has only one outlet to another street.
   CUPOLA. A small ornamental structure placed on top of a larger roof,
sometimes used as a lookout or to provide light and air. (Also called a
BELFRY.)
   DAY CARE FACILITY. A facility licensed under the Child Care Organizations
Act, Public Act 116 of 1973, being 722.111 to 722.128. DAY CARE FACILITIES
include the following.
      (1)   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility other than a private residence in
which one or more preschool or school age children are given care and
supervision for periods of less than 24 hours per day, and where the parents or
guardians are not immediately available to the child. A CHILD CARE CENTER or
day care center includes a facility that provides care for not less than two
consecutive weeks, regardless of the number of hours of care per day. The
facility is generally described as a child care center, day care center, day
nursery, nursery school, parent cooperative preschool, play group, before- or
after-school program or drop-in center.
      (2)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A private home in which one, but fewer than
seven, minor children are received for care and supervision for periods of less
than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. FAMILY
DAY CARE HOMES include a home in which care is given to an unrelated minor
child for more than four weeks during a calendar year.
      (3)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. A private home in which more than six, but not
more than 12, minor children are given care and supervision for periods of less
than 24 hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. A
GROUP DAY CARE HOME includes a home in which care is given to an unrelated
minor child for more than four weeks during a calendar year.
   DECK. A structure, which may be directly attached to a dwelling, without a
roof or walls, except for railings, that is constructed on piers or an above-
grade foundation wall and used as an outdoor living area.
   DENSITY, GROSS. The number of dwelling units per acre of land.
   DENSITY, NET. The number of dwelling units per acre of land, not including
the area in rights-of-way for streets and any submerged land, unless otherwise
specified in this chapter.
   DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS. The person designated by the City Commission to
administer this zoning chapter.
   DRIVE-IN OR DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITY. A system used to serve patrons of a
business while in their motor vehicles, either exclusively or in addition to
service within a building or structure.
   DRIVEWAY. A privately controlled and maintained easement, right-of-way or
other interest in land, located and constructed in accordance with the
requirements of this chapter, providing vehicular access from a public or
private street to a lot.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building or portion of a building, designed for use and
occupancy by one family, having permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
cooking and sanitation. A recreational vehicle, vehicle chassis, tent or other
transient residential use is not considered a DWELLING.
      (1)   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building containing three or more
dwelling units where each unit may have access to a common hallway, stairs or
elevator, or where each unit may have individual access to a street or common
courtyard.
      (2)   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A freestanding dwelling unit that is
physically separate from any other dwelling.
      (3)   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A one-family dwelling unit attached to one
other dwelling by a common wall. (Also known as a DUPLEX.)
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.9 DEFINITIONS E-F.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more rights by the property owner to and/or for
the use by the public, a utility or another person or entity.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
a public utility, or municipal department, of underground, surface or overhead
gas, communication, telephone, electrical, steam, fuel or water, transmission,
distribution collection, supply, or disposal systems. This includes related
poles, wires, pipes, conduit, cables, public safety alarm and communication
equipment, traffic signals, hydrants and similar accessories that are necessary
to furnish adequate service, addressing general public health, safety,
convenience or welfare. These do not include wireless telecommunication towers
(unless located on public property and used as part of a municipal emergency
communications network); wind energy conversion systems (WECS); offices,
utility buildings, substations or structures that are enclosures or shelters
for service equipment; or maintenance depots.
   EXCAVATION. The process of altering natural grade by cutting or filling
earth, or any activity by which soil or rock is cut, dug, quarried, uncovered,
removed, displaced or relocated.
   FAMILY. Either of the following defines a family:
      (1)   An individual or group of two or more persons, related by blood,
marriage or adoption, together with foster children and servants of the
principal occupants who are domiciled together as a single, domestic,
housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit; or
      (2)   A collective number of individuals, domiciled together in one
dwelling unit whose relationship is of a continuing, non-transient domestic
character, and who cook and live as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit. This
does not include a society, club, fraternity, sorority, association, half-way
house, lodge, organization, group of students or other individuals whose
domestic relationship is of a transitory or seasonal nature, such as a school
term, or a period of rehabilitation or treatment, or is otherwise not intended
to be of a permanent nature.
   FENCE. A permanent outdoor partition, wall, fence, structure or gate,
erected as a barrier or enclosure.
   FILLING. Depositing or dumping any matter into or onto the ground.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum of the horizontal area of all building floors,
excluding basements, measured from the interior faces of exterior walls, (see
Figure 2-2).
   FLOOR AREA, LIVABLE. The total area of all floors whose height is more than
half above finished grade, having a minimum floor to ceiling height of seven
and a half feet, located on a permanent foundation, wired for electrical
service and heated for year-round use.
   FLOOR AREA, USABLE. The sum of the total horizontal area of all building
floors that are used or intended to be used for the sale of merchandise, or to
serve clients or customers, and all areas devoted to employee work space. FLOOR
AREA is measured from the interior faces of exterior walls. Excluded from
USABLE FLOOR AREA are those parts of a building principally used, or intended
to be used to store or process merchandise, and hallways, elevators, stairs,
bulkheads, or utility or sanitary facilities. (See Figure 2-2.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2099.png]
 
   FOSTER CARE.
      (1)   ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY. A facility defined by the Adult Foster
Care Facility Licensing Act (Public Act 218 of 1979) as an establishment
providing foster care to adults. Included are foster care facilities and family
homes for adults who are aged, mentally ill, developmentally disabled or
physically disabled, and who require supervision on an ongoing basis, but who
do not require continuous nursing care.
         (a)   ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME. A private residence with an
approved capacity of six or fewer adults, where foster care is provided 24
hours per day, five or more days per week, and for two or more consecutive
weeks. It is licensed and regulated under the Adult Foster Care Facility
Licensing Act, Public Act 218 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 et seq., as
amended. The person issued the adult foster care family home license is a
member of the household and an occupant of the residence.
         (b)   ADULT FOSTER CARE GROUP HOME. A private residence where adults
are provided with foster care 24 hours a day, five or more days per week, and
for two or more consecutive weeks. A foster care group home with an approved
capacity of at least seven, but not more than 12 adults is a “small group
home”. A group home with an approved capacity of at least 13, but not more than
20 adults is a “large group home”. An adult foster care facility is licensed
under the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, Public Act 218 of 1979,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 et seq., as amended, and the person issued the adult
foster care group home license is a member of the household and an occupant of
the residence.
      (2)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A private home, licensed under Public Act 116
of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 to 722.128, in which at least one, but not
more than four, minor children who are not related to an adult member of the
house by blood or marriage, or who are not placed in the household pursuant to
the Adoption Code (Public Act 288 of 1939, being M.C.L.A. §§ 701.1 et seq., as
amended), are given care and supervision 24 hours per day, four or more days
per week for two or more consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent or guardian.
The person issued the license is a permanent resident of the home.
      (3)   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A private home, licensed under Public Act
116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 to 722.128 in which more than four, but
fewer than seven minor children, who are not related to an adult member of the
house by blood or marriage, or who are not placed in the household pursuant to
the Adoption Code (Public Act 288 of 1939, as amended), are given care and
supervision 24 hours per day, four or more days per week for two or more
consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent or guardian. The person issued the
license is a permanent resident of the home.
   FRONTAGE. See LOT FRONTAGE.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.10 DEFINITIONS G-H.
   GRADE. The elevation of the ground adjacent to a structure. EXISTING OR
NATURAL GRADE is the elevation that exists or existed prior to human- made
alterations. FINISHED GRADE is the elevation established after filling or
excavation.
   GREENBELT. A strip of land providing visual relief between properties,
reserved for landscaping, berms, walls or fencing; often between abutting uses
of differing intensities or along the street frontage.
   HEIGHT OF BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The vertical distance measured from the
average elevation of the finished lot grade at the front of the building, to
the highest point of a flat roof; to the deck line of a mansard roof; to the
average height between the eaves and ridge for a gable, hip and gambrel roof,
or to an equivalent point on any other roof. When the lot is developed and
permits a walkout entry at the rear of the building, the HEIGHT shall be
measured from the average elevation of the finished lot grade at the rear of
the building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession that is customarily incidental
and secondary to the use of a Figure 2-3: Building height dwelling. It is
conducted within a dwelling, carried out by its occupants utilizing equipment
typically found in a home and is not evident from the outside.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2101.png]
 
   HOSPITAL. A facility providing health care services primarily for in-patient
and surgical care of the sick or injured, including related facilities that are
an integral part of the facility such as laboratories, out-patient departments,
clinics, central service facilities and staff offices.
   HOTEL. A business establishment offering lodging accommodations to travelers
and tourists for a daily rate and which may offer additional services, such as
restaurants, entertainment, and meeting rooms to guests and the general public.
   HOUSEHOLD. All persons occupying a house, apartment, group of rooms or a
single room occupied as separate living quarters, regardless of their
relationship to one another.
   HOUSING, INDEPENDENT LIVING AND ASSISTED LIVING. A building or buildings
containing individual dwelling units designed for and restricted to occupancy
by persons of a specified age who are retired or are nearing retirement and
wish to live in a community environment, but do not require nursing or medical
supervision. Group dining facilities and non-medical personal care services may
also be provided. Such housing does not include a nursing home.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 9-14-2019)
§ 5.11 DEFINITIONS I-J.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Any material that substantially reduces or prevents the
infiltration of storm water into the earth.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. An unlicensed and/or uninsured motor vehicle that is
incapable of being operated under its own power.
   JUNK. Including, but not limited to inoperable vehicles; solid waste; motor
vehicles, machinery, appliances, products or merchandise with missing parts;
scrap metals or materials that are damaged or deteriorated; or vehicles or
machines in a condition preventing them from being used as manufactured.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.12 DEFINITIONS K-L.
   LOADING SPACE. A designated off-street space on the same lot as a building
or group of buildings, used to temporarily park a commercial vehicle while
loading and unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A parcel of land intended for individual ownership and use, separately
described on a deed or other instrument recorded in the office of the County
Register of Deeds, whether by metes and bounds, as part of a platted
subdivision or site condominium. See lot of record. (See Figure 2-4.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2267.png]
 
      (1)   LOT AREA. The area of land included within a lot as defined by lot
lines, but excluding any public rights-of-way.
      (2)   LOT COVERAGE, BUILDINGS. The lot area, stated as a percentage of
the total, covered by all buildings and areas under roof.
      (3)   LOT COVERAGE, PAVEMENT AND BUILDINGS. The lot area, stated as a
percentage of the total, covered by all buildings and paved surfaces, including
driveways, patios and walkways. One-half the area of permeable surfaces,
approved by the Director of Public Works, are also counted toward this
calculation.
      (4)   LOT FRONTAGE. The length of the front lot line measured at the
street right-of-way; except as defined for flag lots.
      (5)   LOT WIDTH. The horizontal distance between side lot lines measured
at the two points where the required front setback intersects the side lot
lines.
      (6)   LOT, CORNER. A lot with at least two contiguous sides abutting two
intersecting streets, and where the interior angle of the intersecting streets
is less than 135 degrees. Also, a lot located on a curved street or streets if
tangents of the curve, at the points of beginning with the lot or the points of
intersection of the side lot lines with the street line, intersect at an
interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      (7)   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE OR THROUGH. An interior lot bordered by two,
more or less, parallel streets. For the purpose of this definition, if one side
of the lot is bordered by an alley opposite of a street the lot is not
considered a THROUGH LOT.
      (8)   LOT, INTERIOR. A lot other than a corner or through lot.
   LOT LINES. See Figure 2-4.
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE.
         (a)   For an interior lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the line
abutting the street right-of-way or private street easement.
         (b)   For a corner lot, the FRONT LOT LINE shall be the line that
abuts the street right-of-way or private street easement that is designated on
the plat of subdivision or was determined to be the front lot line at the time
a permit was issued for the principal building on the lot. If there is no
indication on the plat or in the records of original permits, the FRONT LOT
LINE shall be determined by the Director of Public Works in accordance with §
5.62.
         (c)   For a through lot, each line abutting the street right-of-way or
private street easement shall be considered a FRONT LOT LINE for purposes of
determining minimum setbacks.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite and most distant from the
front lot line. In the case of an irregular, triangular or flared lot, the rear
lot line shall be a line at least ten feet in length entirely within the lot,
parallel to and at the maximum distance from the front lot line. A through lot
does not have a REAR LOT LINE.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. A lot line that is neither a front lot line nor a
rear lot line.
      (4)   STREET LINE. Any lot line separating a lot from a public or private
street right-of-way. A front street line shall be the street line that is also
the front lot line, as defined in this section.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land separately described on a plat, condominium
document or metes and bounds description recorded in the office of the County
Register of Deeds, which was in existence on the effective date of this
chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 2-27-2015)
§ 5.13 DEFINITIONS M-N.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. A factory-built, single-family structure that is
manufactured under the National Manufactured Home Construction and Safety
Standards Act, being 42 U.S.C.§§ 5401 et seq. It is transportable in one or
more sections, built on a permanent chassis or foundation and used as a
dwelling. It is not constructed with a permanent hitch or other device allowing
its transport, other than for its delivery to a permanent site and does not
have wheels or axles permanently attached to its body or frame.
   MARIJUANA.
      (1)   MARIJUANA, MARIHUANA or CANNABIS. The term shall have the meaning
given to it in § 7601 of the state’s Public Health Code, Public Act 368 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as is referred to in § 3(d) of the
state’s Medical Marijuana Act, PA 2008, Initiated Law 1, M.C.L.A. § 333.26423d.
Any other term pertaining to MARIJUANA used in this chapter and not otherwise
defined shall have the meaning given to it in the state’s Medical Marijuana Act
and/or in the General Rules of the state’s Department of Community Health
issued in connection with that Act.
      (2)   MARIJUANA DISPENSARY OR DISPENSARY.
         (a)   Any business, facility, association, cooperative, location or
operation, whether fixed or mobile, where medical marijuana is made available
to, sold, traded, used, grown, processed, delivered or distributed by or to one
or more of the following:
            1.   A primary caregiver (as defined by Michigan Initiated Law 1 of
2008, as amended);
            2.   A qualifying patient (as defined by Michigan Initiated Law 1
of 2008, as amended); or
            3.   Members of the public.
         (b)   A medical MARIJUANA DISPENSARY shall also include any place,
location, facility or operation, whether fixed or mobile, where medical
marijuana is smoked or consumed by three or more persons at one time.
         (c)   A medical MARIJUANA DISPENSARY shall not include the
dispensation of medical marijuana by a primary caregiver personally dispensing
to not more than five qualified patients in strict accordance with Michigan
Initiated Law 1 of 2008, as amended, so long as the lawful amount of medical
marijuana is delivered to the qualifying patient where the qualifying patient
resides and it is done in full compliance with this chapter, all other
applicable city ordinances and applicable state and federal laws, rules and
regulations.
      (3)   MEDICAL USE OF MARIJUANA. The acquisition, possession, cultivation,
manufacture, use, internal possession, delivery, transfer or transportation of
marijuana or paraphernalia relating to the administration of marijuana to treat
or alleviate a registered qualifying patient’s debilitating medical condition
or symptoms associated with the debilitating
medical condition, as defined under the state’s Medical Marijuana Act, PA 2008,
Initiated Law 1, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.
   MASTER PLAN. The plan adopted by the city in accordance with the state’s
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended.
   MEZZANINE. A partial story between two main stories of a building.
   MINI-WAREHOUSE/SELF STORAGE FACILITY. A building or a group of buildings in
a controlled-access compound where individual compartments, stalls or lockers
are rented out to tenants to store goods.
   MOBILE HOME. A manufactured home.
   MOTEL/HOTEL. A building or group of buildings on the same lot, containing
sleeping or dwelling units in which lodging is provided for compensation on a
transient basis. The term includes motor lodges, hotels and similar facilities.
   MOTOR HOME. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot lawfully existing on the effective date of this
chapter, or subsequent amendment, that does not meet the current area and/or
width requirements of the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING STRUCTURE. A building or any of its parts, lawfully existing
on the effective date of this chapter, or subsequent amendment, that does not
conform to the current provisions of the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use or activity lawfully existing on the effective date
of this chapter, or subsequent amendment, that does not conform to the current
use provisions of the zoning ordinance.
   NURSERY SCHOOL. See DAY CARE FACILITY.
   NURSING HOME. A nursing care facility, including a county medical care
facility, but excluding a hospital, or a facility created by Public Act 152 of
1885, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 36.1 to 36.12, which provide organized
nursing care and medical treatment to seven or more unrelated individuals,
suffering or recovering from illness, injury or infirmity.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.14 DEFINITIONS O-P.
   OFFICE. A room, suite of rooms or building in which a person transacts the
affairs of a business, profession, service, industry or government.
   OFFICE, SERVICED. Also known as DROP-IN OFFICES or VIRTUAL OFFICES. An
office space available for short-term rental or use, including periods as short
as one hour or less. Users are provided with connections to wireless networks,
and may also be provided access to telephones, printers and other office
machines. A SERVICED OFFICE also may or may not provide shared clerical and
other administrative services.
   OPEN SPACE. A parcel, or area of land or water, that may or may not be
improved and that is reserved for public or private use.
   OUTDOOR DISPLAY, SALES. The outdoor placement, storage or keeping, for
display purposes, of equipment, vehicles, trailers and other similar goods for
sale on a premises.
   OUTDOOR STORAGE. The outdoor placement of goods such as building or
construction materials, equipment, vehicles, trailers and other supplies, for
future use, production, assembly, preservation or disposal.
   PARKING LOT. An open area, outside a public right-of-way, used for the
parking of motor vehicles and accessory conveyances for a fee or as an
accommodation for clients, customers, residents or employees.
   PARKING SPACE. A defined space used to park a motor vehicle.
   PATIO. An uncovered at-grade courtyard or outdoor platform.
   PERMEABLE SURFACE. A porous material that permits storm water to percolate
or infiltrate into the soil below. Examples of permeable materials include:
pervious concrete; porous asphalt; paving stones; or concrete or plastic-based
pavers.
   PERSONAL SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. A business providing services involving the
care of a person, or the care or repair of personal goods or apparel.
   PERSONAL TRAILER. A wheeled vehicle that is not self-propelled, but capable
of transporting contents. It is designed to be towed by a motor vehicle, but
not designed or intended to be used as a living quarters.
   PET, DOMESTICATED OR HOUSEHOLD. An animal commonly domesticated as a
companion and kept in a home or yard. Examples include dogs, cats, birds, fish,
rabbits, small rodents and similar animals, which do not present an unusual
risk to a person or property.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The City of East Grand Rapids Planning Commission.
   PLANTS.
      (1)   PLANTS, GROUND COVER. Low-growing plants such as perennial flowers,
grasses and vines. Chipped wood, bark mulch, concrete, gravel and similar
materials, or artificial plants, are not considered GROUND COVER.
      (2)   PLANTS. SHRUBS. Woody plants with several stems arising from the
base.
   PLAT. A map of a subdivision of land, recorded with the County Register of
Deeds, pursuant to the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 to 560.293, Land Division Act, Public Act 591 of 1996,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., as amended.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. See BUILDING, PRINCIPAL.
   PRINCIPAL USE. See USE, PRINCIPAL.
   PRODUCT SHOWROOM. A business establishment that includes a defined space in
which merchandise samples are displayed to prospective buyers but are generally
available only for viewing and must be ordered. Typical product examples
include flooring, cabinetry, appliances and similar bulky household items.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 9-14-2019)
§ 5.15 DEFINITIONS Q-R.
   RADIO AND TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATION. An establishment consisting of a
studio, transmitter and antennas engaged in transmitting audio or video
programs to the public.
   RECREATION FACILITY, INDOOR. A facility, open either to the general public
or to members and their guests, located in an enclosed building designed to
accommodate sports, recreational activities, training or related enterprises.
Also included are accessory uses that clearly support the primary use, such as
sporting goods shops, food service and party/banquet facilities serving patrons
of the indoor recreation use, spectator accommodations, changing/locker rooms
and employee offices.
   RECREATION FACILITY, OUTDOOR. A recreation facility operated primarily for
outdoor recreation uses, and related buildings and structures that are
accessory to the primary outdoor nature of the activities. Included are golf
courses and related support facilities, court games, field sports, shooting
ranges, winter sports, swim clubs, campgrounds and resorts, or combination of
such uses.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE/ RECREATIONAL UNIT.
      (1)   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A travel, camping or tent trailer; motor
home; truck camper or similar vehicle designed primarily as temporary living
quarters for recreational, camping or travel use. It is either self-powered or
mounted on or drawn by another vehicle. It does not does not include a
manufactured home. For purposes of this chapter, utility trailers shall also be
considered RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL UNIT. A vehicle used primarily for recreation, such as
a boat, jet ski, snowmobile, all-terrain vehicle, dune buggy or similar vehicle
or equipment. A recreational unit mounted on a personal trailer is considered a
single RECREATIONAL UNIT.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.16 DEFINITIONS S-T.
   SCREEN WALL. A solid wall or fence erected to shield, buffer and/or screen
incompatible uses.
   SCREENING or BUFFERING. A way of visually shielding or obscuring one
abutting or nearby structure or use from another, using a fence, wall, berm or
vegetation.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. See MINI- WAREHOUSE/SELF STORAGE FACILITY.
   SERVICE AREA. An outdoor area related to a nonresidential use that is used
for loading and unloading operations and to receive and temporarily store
goods, materials and equipment.
   SERVICED OFFICE. See OFFICE, SERVICED.
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance, measured from the lot
lines (see Figure 2-5) for structures on a lot to be separated from the lot
lines, as follows.
      (1)   FRONT SETBACK LINE. The line marking the required distance from the
street right-of-way or easement which establishes the minimum front yard
setback.
      (2)   REAR SETBACK LINE. The line marking the required distance from the
rear lot line which establishes the required rear yard setback.
      (3)   SIDE SETBACK LINE. The lines marking the required distance from the
side lot lines, which establishes the required side yard setbacks.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2105.png]
 
   SIGN. Any device, panel, banner or structure constructed or maintained with
words, numbers or characters thereon for the purpose of an advertisement,
announcement or giving information. (See city sign ordinance.)
   SINGLE OWNERSHIP. A parcel of land in separate and distinct ownership from
adjacent parcels.
   SITE PLAN. A plan of a proposed project that shows all relevant features
necessary to determine if it meets the requirements and standards of this
chapter.
   STORY. The part of a building, except a mezzanine or basement, that is
between the surface of one floor and the surface of the next floor above it. If
there is no floor above, then a STORY is the space between the floor and the
above ceiling. See also BASEMENT and MEZZANINE.
   STORY, HALF. The uppermost habitable story under a sloped roof with a usable
floor area that does not exceed 50% of the floor area of the story immediately
below; provided, the area contains at least 200 square feet with a clear height
of at least seven and a half feet.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare, used or intended to be used for
passage or travel by motor vehicles. STREET also includes the term ROAD.
      (1)   STREET, PRIVATE. A privately owned and maintained street serving
three or more lots, parcels, buildings or dwellings, and constructed on a
privately owned easement.
      (2)   STREET PUBLIC. An easement, right-of-way or other interest that has
been conveyed to and accepted by a governmental body for the purpose of
providing access to abutting land.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected requiring a permanent location
in, or on the ground, or that must be attached to something having such a
permanent location. STRUCTURES include, but are not limited to: parking lots;
access drives; buildings; swimming pools and signs.
   TELECOMMUTING. The use of internet, email, telephone, fax, and similar
technologies to work in a secondary business office where the business has its
principal office, staff, and equipment located elsewhere.
   TEMPORARY STORAGE UNIT. A transportable, box-like container or structure
designed and used primarily for temporary storage of personal property,
household goods and other such materials for use on a temporary basis. A
TEMPORARY STORAGE UNIT is not considered an accessory structure and does not
include a truck trailer, or other part of a motor vehicle, nor any type of
wheeled vehicle or conveyance, except when attached to a truck for delivery and
removal. A TEMPORARY STORAGE UNIT may also be termed a portable storage
container (PSC).
   TEMPORARY USE. See USE, TEMPORARY.
   TRAILERS. See RECREATIONAL VEHICLE.
   TREE, CANOPY. A deciduous shade tree.
   TREE, EVERGREEN. A tree with foliage that persists and remains green
throughout the year.
   TREE, ORNAMENTAL. A small deciduous tree grown for its foliage and/or
flowers.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. passed 3-30- 2023)
§ 5.17 DEFINITIONS U-V.
   USE. Any purpose for which land or a structure is designed, arranged,
intended, used, maintained or occupied.
      (1)   ACCESSORY USE. A use customarily incidental and subordinate to the
principal use of the structure or premises.
      (2)   PRINCIPAL USE. The primary purpose for which land or a structure
may be used.
      (3)   SPECIAL LAND USE. A principal or accessory use that may be
permitted within a zoning district, subject to compliance with certain
procedures, requirements and conditions necessary to ensure its compatibility
with other uses allowed in the district or surrounding area.
      (5)   TEMPORARY USE. A use or uses that occur on private property which
are inherently temporary or which are proposed to be engaged in for only a
short period of time. Examples include: parade-of-homes type events, street
fairs, art exhibits, weddings and gatherings or events in residential
neighborhoods involving large groups of people. TEMPORARY USES do not include
garage sales which are regulated separately, nor would they include events or
activities which occur entirely within a park, street or other property owned
or controlled by the city or the schools in the event the activity has been
approved by the city or the schools.
      (5)   USE PERMITTED BY RIGHT. A principal or accessory use that is
permitted within a zoning district as a matter of right; provided, all
dimensional and other general requirements of that district are met.
   VARIANCE. An allowed modification to the requirements of this chapter, as
authorized by the Zoning Board of Appeals under the provisions of this chapter
and Public Act 207 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 to 125.590, as amended.
   VEHICLE SERVICE STATION. An establishment where motor vehicle fuel is sold,
along with accessory uses such as minor vehicle repair services; the sale of
related products and accessories which may also be installed on the premises
and the sale of convenience items. Convenience retail sales include such things
as snacks, food and beverages and/or fast food where food is prepared and
ordered either indoors, or via a drive-through and consumed on or off the site.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.18 DEFINITIONS W-Z.
   WAREHOUSE. A building primarily used to store goods, materials and
commodities, including associated driveways and vehicle circulation and parking
areas. A WAREHOUSE may include goods, materials and commodities stored on a
wholesale basis before being distributed for retail sale and also a self-
storage warehouse where customers deliver and store goods and remove them when
storage is terminated.
   WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS).
      (1)    Is a combination of:
         (a)   A surface area (typically a blade, rotor or similar device),
either variable or fixed, for utilizing the wind for electrical power;
         (b)   A shaft, gearing, belt or coupling utilized to convert the
rotation of the surface area into a form suitable for driving a generator,
alternator or other electricity-producing device;
         (c)   The generator, alternator or other device to convert the
mechanical energy of the surface area into electrical energy, generally housed
in a nacelle;
         (d)   The tower, pylon, building mount or other structure upon which
any, all or some combination of the above are mounted;
         (e)   Other components not listed above, but that are associated with
the normal construction, operation and maintenance of a WECS; and
         (f)   A WECS may have a horizontal axis, with a rotor that spins
perpendicular to the ground or a vertical axis, with a rotor that spins
parallel to the ground.
      (2)   WECS HEIGHT. The distance measured between the ground (at normal
grade) and the highest point of a WECS (for a horizontal axis WECS, the
measurement shall be to the tip of the rotor blade when the blade is in the
full vertical position). The height of a building mounted WECS shall be
measured from the grade of the building upon which it is attached.
      (3)   WECS, ON-SITE SERVICE. A single WECS placed upon a lot or parcel
with the primary intent to service the energy needs of only the structures and
uses on the same lot or parcel. (See Figure 2-6.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2107.png]
 
   WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATION TOWER. A freestanding structure or one that is
attached to another structure, supporting one or more antennas for telephone,
radio or other communication.
   YARD. The open spaces on a lot located between a building and a lot line.
The term REQUIRED YARD refers to the portion of the yard lying between the lot
lines and required setback lines. (See Figure 2-7.)
      (1)   YARD, FRONT. The space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the shortest horizontal distance between the front lot line
and the nearest wall of the principal structure(not including a covered porch,
deck or patio attached to it).
      (2)   YARD, REAR. The space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the shortest horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the nearest wall of the principal building or a covered porch, deck or
patio attached to it. A through lot is not considered to have a REAR YARD.
      (3)   YARD, SIDE. The space between a principal building and the side lot
line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is the
shortest horizontal distance from the side lot line to the nearest wall of the
principal building or a covered porch, deck or patio attached to it.
      (4)   YARD, REQUIRED. The area within the required setback, on all four
sides of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2109.png]
 
    ZONING ACT. The state’s Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as amended.
   ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS. The City of East Grand Rapids Zoning Board of
Appeals.
   ZONING DISTRICT (ZONE). A portion of the city within which certain uses of
land or buildings are permitted and within which certain regulations and
requirements apply under the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 3-15-2019)
ARTICLE III. ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 5.19 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   The following zoning districts are established:
   (A)   Residential districts:
      (1)   Single-family districts:
         (a)   R-1 Single-Family Residential;
         (b)   R-2 Single-Family Residential; and
         (c)   R-3 Single-Family Residential.
      (2)   MFR Multiple-Family Residential.
   (B)   Commercial district: C-1 Commercial District.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.20 ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The locations and boundaries of these descriptions are hereby
established on a map entitled “City of East Grand Rapids Zoning Map” which is
hereby adopted and declared to be a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Regardless of any published copies of the zoning map, the official
zoning map shall be located in the office of the City Clerk and shall be the
final authority as to the current zoning status of all land in the city. A
record is to be kept by the City Clerk of all changes made or required to be
made to the official zoning map.
   (C)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
City Clerk.
   (D)   (1)   The official zoning map shall be kept up to date and accessible
to the general public.
      (2)   Once a change to the map becomes effective, it shall be reflected
on the official zoning map.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-17-2014; Ord. effective 2-26-2016;
Ord. effective 7-28-2017; Ord. effective 9-14-2024)
§ 5.21 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES INTERPRETED.
   Where the boundaries of a zoning district, as shown on the official zoning
map, are uncertain, the following rules shall apply.
   (A)   Where boundaries approximately follow streets, alleys or highways,
their centerlines or those lines extended shall constitute the zoning district
boundaries.
   (B)   Where boundaries approximately follow lot lines, they shall be
construed as following those lot lines.
   (C)   Where boundaries approximately follow city limits lines, they shall be
construed as following those lines.
   (D)   Where boundaries are approximately parallel to the centerline of a
street or highway, they shall be construed as being parallel to the centerline
and at the distance from the centerline as indicated on the official zoning
map. If a distance is not given, the location on the map shall be determined by
using a scale.
   (E)   Where boundaries follow the shoreline of a stream, lake or other body
of water, they shall be construed to follow that shoreline. In the event the
shoreline changes, the boundaries shall be construed as moving with the
shoreline. Boundaries indicated as approximately following the centerline of
streams, rivers, drainage ditches or other bodies of water shall be construed
to follow those centerlines.
   (F)   Where the application of these rules leaves a reasonable doubt as to
the boundaries between two districts, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
interpret the boundary location.
   (G)   If a parcel or lot is divided by a zoning district boundary, the
entire parcel or lot shall be subject to the requirements of the district
encompassing the larger area within the parcel or lot.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.22 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   When a street, alley or other public way is vacated by governmental action,
and when the lands within the boundaries of such a facility are attached to and
become a part of the lands adjoining the vacated street, alley or public way,
the lands formerly within the boundaries of the facility shall be subject to
the same zoning regulations as apply to the adjoining lands.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.23 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Upon annexation of any land to the city, the annexed property shall be zoned
R-1 upon annexation. The property owner, City Commission or Planning Commission
may thereafter initiate a rezoning amendment to rezone the annexed property
into the appropriate district.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.24 RESERVED.
§ 5.25 RESERVED.
ARTICLE IV. RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 5.26 INTENT.
   (A)   Single-family districts. The single-family dwelling districts are
established to encourage a suitable environment for the development of single-
family neighborhoods and compatible and supportive recreational, institutional
and educational uses. These districts are intended to protect single-family
neighborhoods from encroachment by uses that are incompatible with the density
and character of established single-family neighborhoods. The following single-
family residential districts are established:
      (1)   R-1 Single-Family Residential District;
      (2)   R-2 Single-Family Residential District; and
      (3)   R-3 Single-Family Residential District.
   (B)   Multiple-family districts. MFR Multiple-Family Residential District.
The MFR District is established to accommodate a mix of complementary housing
options within specific locations where varied unit types and higher densities
create a suitable transition from adjacent land uses, accommodate varied
lifestyle choices, provide affordable options, and support the recommendations
of the City Master Plan.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 5-13-2022)
§ 5.27 SCHEDULE OF USES.
   Uses permitted in the districts are listed in Table 5.27 Schedule of Uses:
Residential Districts. Additional requirements related to a specific use, if
any, are referenced in the “Additional Requirements” column. Any use not
specifically listed shall be prohibited, unless the use is determined to be a
similar use according to §
5.75(A).The requirements in footnotes are an integral part of this chapter and
shall apply in all instances.
Table 5.27 Schedule of Uses: Residential Districts
P = Permitted use by right
S = Special land use (See Article XI R-1 R-2 R-3 MFR Additional Requirements
for procedures and requirements)
Table 5.27 Schedule of Uses: Residential Districts
P = Permitted use by right
S = Special land use (See Article XI   R-1 R-2 R-3 MFR Additional Requirements
for procedures and requirements)
Accessory
Accessory buildings, structures and    P   P   P   P   §
uses                                                   5.70(A)
Accessory dwelling units               P   P   P   P   §
                                                       5.70(E)
Home occupation                        P   P   P   P   §   
                                                       5.70 (B)
Adult foster care family home          P   P   P
Adult foster care group home               S   S
Day care home, family                  P   P   P
Day care home, group                       S   S
Foster family home                     P   P   P   P
Foster family group home                   S   S
Residential
Independent and assisted living                    S   §
                                                       5.74(A)
                                                       §§
Multiple-family dwellings, new                     S   5.28 (A),
construction                                           5.30,
                                                       5.77(A)
                                                       §§
Single-family conversions to multi-                P   5.28 (A),
family dwellings, up to four units                     5.30,
                                                       5.77(A)
Single-family dwellings                P   P   P   P
                                                       §§
Two-family dwellings                               P   5.28 (A),
                                                       5.30,
                                                       5.77(A)
Recreation/Cultural
Parks and recreational facilities,     P   P   P   P
publicly owned
Public facilities (government
buildings, public museums, public      S   S   S   S
galleries, public libraries and the
like)
Public and Institutional
Churches and places of worship         S   S   S   S   §
                                                       5.73(A)
Convalescent and nursing homes                     S   §
                                                       5.73(B)
Hospital                               S   S           §
                                                       5.77(A)
Private or parochial school            S   S   S   S   §
                                                       5.73(C)
School residential campus              S   S   S   S   §
                                                       5.73(C)
Services
Child care center                                  S
Other Uses
Essential services                     P   P   P   P   §
                                                       5.66
Similar uses                           P/S P/S P/S P/S §
                                                       5.75(A)
Wind energy conversion systems         S   S           §
                                                       5.75(C)
Wireless telecommunications facilities S   S   S   S   §
                                                       5.75(D)
 
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 11-18-2016; Ord. effective 5-13-
2022; Ord. effective 3-30-2023; Ord. effective 2-19-2024)
§ 5.28 AREA, HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Dimensional requirements. Building height, setbacks, lot coverage and
minimum lot area for development in the residential districts shall conform to
the requirements of Tables 5.28-1 and 5.28-1a for the R-1, R-2 and R-
3 Districts, and Table 5.28-2 for the MFR District. The requirements in
footnotes are an integral part of this chapter and shall apply in all
instances.
Table 5.28-1 Dimensional Requirements: Single-Family Residential Districts
Requirement/District R-1 R-2 R-3
Table 5.28-1 Dimensional Requirements: Single-Family Residential Districts
Requirement/District                                         R-1    R-2   R-3
Minimum area (sp. ft.)                                       12,000 7,200 5,000
Distance from street line in which minimum area must be met  120    100   100
(ft.)1
Minimum lot width (ft.)                                      100    72    50
                            Front                            30     25    25
                                  Total                      24     18    14
Minimum yard setback (ft.)2 Side3 Least side                 10     7     7
                                  Adjoining a street         24     20    12
                            Rear4                            25     25    25
Maximum building height     Feet                             35     35    35
                            Stories                          2.5    2.5   2.5
1. The minimum lot area shall be determined by measuring from the front street
line the specified distance along the side lot lines from the intersection of
each side lot line with the front street line, and connecting the points thus
determined with a single straight line. The minimum lot area shall be met
within the polygon thus created.
2. See additional requirements or exceptions in §§
5.28(B), (C), (D), and 5.114.
3. The stated side yard setbacks shall apply only to the principal dwelling on
single-family lots. For all other permitted principal buildings, the side yard
shall not be less than the stated requirement or 20 feet, whichever is greater.
4. A corner lot that adjoins in the rear a lot in a residential district may
have no rear yard; see §§
5.28(C) and 5.62.
 
Table 5.28-1a Maximum Lot Coverage
                   Maximum Building Maximum Impervious Maximum Not-to-Exceed
Lot Size (sq. ft.) Coverage1        Surface            Impervious Surface (sq.
                                                       ft.)
5,000 SF           35%              50%                2,500 SF
5,000 – 7,199 SF 35%              50%                3,240 SF
7,200 – 11,999   35%              45%                4,800 SF
12,000 SF          35%              40%
1. Includes principal and accessory buildings and structures, including
covered walkways; but does not include unroofed structures such as porches,
patios or decks.
Table 5.28-2 Dimensional Requirements: MFR Multiple-Family Residential
District
Requirement Single-Family Two-Family Multiple-Family
Table 5.28-2 Dimensional Requirements: MFR Multiple-Family Residential District
Requirement                      Single-Family Two-Family      Multiple-Family
                                               For single-
                                               family
                                               conversions:
Minimum area per unit (sq. ft.)  4,000         2,000;          1
                                               For new
                                               construction:
                                               2,500
                                               For single-
                                               family
Minimum lot width (ft.)          40            conversions: 40 n/a
                                               For new
                                               construction:
                                               50
                Front            10            10              10
                     Total       10            10              20
Minimum yard    Side Least side  5             5               10
setback (ft.)        Adjoining a 12            12              12
                     street
                Rear             25            25              25
Maximum yard    Front            25            25              25
setback
                                                               For properties
                                                               fronting on
                Feet             35            35              Croswell Ave. or
                                                               Bagley Ave., 40;
                                                               for all other
Maximum                                                        areas, 35
building height                                                For properties
                                                               fronting on
                Stories          2.5           2.5             Croswell Ave. or
                                                               Bagley Ave., 3;
                                                               for all other
                                                               areas, 2.5
Maximum lot     Buildings        2             50              60
coverage        Pavement and     2             65              80
(percent)       buildings
1. See §
5.30.
2. Lot coverage requirements for single-family dwellings shall be as specified
in
Table 5.28-1a.
 
   (B)   Established front yard setback (See Figure 1). In the R-1, R-2 and R-
3 Districts, if 25% or more of all of the parcels on one side of a street
between two intersecting streets contain a principal structure, the minimum
front yard setback shall be the average of the front yards established by the
principal structures located on lots on the same side of the street within the
same block that are within 200 feet in each direction from the subject property
(not including corner lots where the front setback is on the intersecting
street), provided:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2270.png]
 
      (1)   If this average results in a setback that is greater than the
established front yard setbacks of the principal structures on both of the lots
adjacent to the property in question, the required setback shall be the average
of the established setback of the adjacent lots;
      (2)   For a double frontage (through) lot, the requirements of this
division (B) shall apply only to the established setbacks from the street upon
which the lot is addressed. The setback from the opposite street shall be
subject to the minimum front yard setback requirements of the zoning district.
In the case of a row of three or more contiguous double frontage lots, these
requirements shall apply only to the established setbacks from the
street upon which the majority of the lots are addressed; and
      (3)   If less than 25% of the parcels on one side of a street between two
intersecting streets contain a principal structure, the required front setback
shall be as required for the zoning district.
   (C)   Corner Lots. Where the rear yard of a corner lot in the R-1, R-2 or R-
3 District adjoins any residential district, no part of the principal building
within 25 feet of the common lot line shall be nearer the side street than the
established front yard on the adjoining lot; however, any portion of the
principal structure on the corner lot that lies beyond the established front
yard on the adjoining lot may be erected to the minimum least side yard
requirement of that zone district. (See Figure 2.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2126.png]
 
   (D)   Through lots.
      (1)   Primary front yard.
         (a)   The Director of Public Works shall designate the primary front
street upon which the principal structure shall face and be addressed.
         (b)   The primary front yard shall abut the primary front street and
the opposite street shall be the secondary front street. The primary front yard
setback shall be determined through division (B) above.
         (c)   The designation of primary front street will consider the
following.
            1.   Location and orientation of existing or proposed buildings on
the through lot in relation to existing buildings on properties in the same
general neighborhood, historic development patterns and existing developed
through lots; and
            2.   Location and impact of existing vegetation, water or other
natural features affecting the location of buildings or structures on the lot
in question.
      (2)   Secondary front yard.
         (a)   The secondary front yard setback shall be a line parallel to the
secondary street and shall be established by a line that is the continuation of
a required rear setback line of an adjacent interior lot addressed on the
primary street.
         (b)   In the case of two differing rear setback lines on adjacent
lots, the more restrictive shall apply.
      (3)   Established through lot development. In the case of three or more
contiguous through lots recorded prior to the date of adoption of this chapter,
the secondary front setback shall be established by the minimum front setback
requirements of the zoning district in which the lots are located.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 2-27- 2015; Ord. effective 10-2-
2015; Ord. effective 5-13-2022)
§ 5.29 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO SINGLE- FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   All dwelling units located outside of manufactured housing communities shall
comply with the following requirements.
   (A)   All dwelling units shall provide a minimum height between the interior
floor and ceiling of seven and one-half feet or if a manufactured home, it
shall meet the requirements of the United States Department of Housing and
Urban Development Regulations, entitled Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards, effective June 15, 1976, as amended.
   (B)   The minimum width of any single-family dwelling unit shall be 24 feet
for at least 67% of its length, measured between the exterior part of the walls
having the greatest length.
   (C)   (1)   All dwellings without basements shall provide a crawl space
below the entire floor of the dwelling four feet in depth, with a vapor barrier
consisting of two inches of concrete on the floor of the crawl space.
      (2)   The crawl space shall also be provided with adequate drains to
drain any accumulation of water in the crawl space.
      (3)   The building official may allow an alternative building plan to be
utilized if consistent with the approved construction code of the city.
   (D)   All dwellings shall be firmly attached to the foundation so as to be
watertight as required by the construction code adopted by the city or, if a
manufactured home, shall be anchored to the foundation by an anchor system
designed and constructed in compliance with the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development Regulations entitled “Mobile Home Construction
and Safety Standards”.
   (E)   The wheels, pulling mechanism and tongue of any manufactured home
shall be removed prior to placement on a foundation.
   (F)   All dwellings shall be connected to a public sanitary sewer and water
supply system.
   (G)   (1)   All dwellings shall provide steps or porch areas, permanently
attached to the foundation where there exists an elevation differential of more
than one foot between any door and the surrounding grade.
      (2)   All dwellings shall provide a minimum of two points of ingress and
egress.
   (H)   All additions to dwellings shall meet all the requirements of this
chapter.
   (I)   (1)   Prior to issuance of a building permit for any dwelling unit,
construction plans, including a plot plan adequate to illustrate compliance
with the requirements of this chapter, shall be submitted to the Building
Official.
      (2)   If the dwelling unit is a manufactured home, there shall also be
submitted adequate evidence to assure that the dwelling complies with the
standards applicable to manufactured homes set forth in this section.
   (J)   All manufactured homes shall meet the standards for manufactured home
construction contained in the United States Department of Housing and Urban
Development Regulations entitled “Mobile Home Construction and Safety
Standards” effective June 15, 1976, as amended. All other dwellings shall meet
the requirements of the Construction Code adopted by the city.
   (K)   (1)   A minimum of 150 square feet of enclosed storage space,
excluding closets, shall be provided for each dwelling.
      (2)   The required enclosed storage space may consist of a basement,
garage, shed or other structure approved by the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.30 STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO TWO- FAMILY AND MULTIPLE FAMILY DWELLINGS.
   Two-family and multiple family dwellings in the MFR Residential District
shall comply with the following standards.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   Single-family conversions to multi-family dwellings shall be
encouraged to promote the intent of the MFR Residential District while
preserving the existing character and housing stock to the greatest extent
possible. For the purposes of this section, SINGLE-FAMILY CONVERSIONS are
defined as the repurposing of a single-family home to accommodate up to four
dwelling units. All other development shall be considered new construction.
      (2)   All developments in the MFR District shall conform to the standards
in Table 5.30.
 
Table 5.30 Development Standards in MFR Residential District
Lot Size (square feet)           Single-Family Conversion  New Construction
                                 Studio: 300                 Studio: 350
                                1 bedroom: 450              1 bedroom: 550
Minimum unit size (square feet)  2 bedroom: 650              2 bedroom: 800
                                 3 bedroom: 850              3 bedroom: 1,000
Minimum lot area per unit (s.ft. Duplex: 2,000               Duplex: 2,500
per unit)                        3 - 4 units: 1,660          3+ units: 2,100
 
      (3)   Wherever two or more different building materials are used on a
building façade, the heavier material in weight or appearance shall be placed
below the lighter material.
      (4)   In the case of multiple family buildings where the dwelling units
are accessed from a common hallway or gathering area, the main entrance to the
building shall face a public street and be directly accessible from the
sidewalk adjoining the front yard.
      (5)   Rooftop terraces or patios atop a flat roof structure shall subject
to the following.
         (a)   No part of the rooftop terrace or patio, including the floor or
base level, shall exceed the maximum allowable building height except as
provided in §
5.59 of the zoning ordinance.
         (b)   Rooftop terraces shall maintain the following setbacks:
            i.   Minimum 20 feet from the front lot line;
            ii.   Minimum 25 feet from the rear lot line; and
            iii.   Minimum ten feet from each side lot line, but in no case
less than five feet from the side exterior building walls.
         (c)   Lighting for a rooftop terrace or patio shall not exceed three
foot height from the terrace surface and shall comply with §
5.69 of the zoning ordinance.
      (6)   A minimum of 40 square feet of enclosed storage space, excluding
closets, shall be provided for each dwelling unit. The required enclosed
storage space may be located within a basement, garage, or other structure
approved by the Director of Public Works.
   (B)   Standards for single-family conversions.
      (1)   No more than four dwelling units shall be developed in a single-
family conversion.
      (2)   Single-family conversions may increase their existing livable floor
area, provided that such expansion does not exceed 25% of the existing livable
floor area of the home, and that no more than a combined 25% of the existing
exterior wall and roof area of the home is removed or demolished.
      (3)   Existing porches in the front of the building shall be retained or
replaced with porches of comparable or greater size and character.
      (4)   Surface parking for single-family conversions shall be located in
the rear or side yard only. However, in no case shall any portion of a parking
structure, parking lot, or attached garage be located closer to the front lot
line than the main entry of the building.
   (C)   Standards for new construction.
      (1)   For new two family and multiple family structures, windows shall be
incorporated into all façades, covering at least 25% of the front wall and 10%
of all other walls. For the purposes of calculating the required area, only
wall areas that cover habitable floors or stories may be used. Walls less than
five feet in width shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   To promote compatibility with the existing character of the MFR
Residential Districts, all new two family and multiple family structures shall
incorporate a minimum of four of the following architectural or design
elements:
         (a)   Porches, patios, or balconies for each dwelling unit. Porches
shall be a minimum six feet deep and 10 feet wide;
         (b)   Gable, hip, or gambrel roof;
         (c)   Brick, stone, or similar masonry materials, covering at least
50% of the exterior façades;
         (d)   Horizontal siding, excluding vinyl siding;
         (e)   Decorative columns and dormers;
         (f)   Windows featuring shutters, muntins, grills, or transoms;
         (g)   Windows covering at least 25% of each exterior wall, not
including walls less than five feet in width. For the purposes of calculating
this area, only wall areas that cover habitable floors or stories may be used;
         (h)   Bay, bow, or similarly articulated windows;
         (i)   Decorative pediments over front and side entries; or
         (j)   Foundation plantings along the front façade, minimum four foot
depth.
      (3)   No uninterrupted building façade that faces a public street shall
exceed 30 feet in length. Building wall offsets of at least one foot
(projection or recesses), cornices, pilasters, and plinths shall be acceptable
means to break up the building mass.
      (4)   Surface parking or detached parking structures for new construction
shall not be located in the front or side yards. In addition, such parking
areas or structures shall be screened from public view from adjoining streets
and adjacent properties to the extent practical. Where attached parking garages
are provided, garage doors and entries shall be located behind the frontmost
façade of the principal building and shall be oriented toward the side or rear
of the lot only.
      (5)   For multiple family developments with five or more dwelling units,
access to parking areas shall be provided by a driveway with a minimum 24 foot
width. Such driveway shall have a minimum five foot setback from side lot
lines.
(Ord. effective 5-13-2022)
§ 5.31 RESTRICTIONS ON DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   Limit on number of dogs. No owner, as defined below, of a dog nor any
person who owns, leases, or is otherwise in control of any premises within the
city, shall keep dogs or permit dogs to be kept within the city except in
compliance with the following:
      (1)   Not more than two dogs may be kept in or about the premises of a
dwelling unit in a duplex, apartment, condominium, or other multiple family
dwelling unit.
      (2)   Not more than three dogs may be kept in or about the premises of
any single family dwelling.
      (3)   No dog may be kept in or about the premises other than occupied
dwelling units except upon application filed with the Director of Public Works
setting forth in detail the request and the reasons therefor. The Director of
Public Works may grant written approval upon finding that a valid reason exists
for granting the request and that the granting of the request will not have an
adverse effect on neighboring properties or on the general public. If approval
is denied, the applicant may appeal the decision of the Director of Public
Works to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Both the Director of Public Works and the
Zoning Board of Appeals are authorized to place conditions on any approval
which is granted.
      (4)   Dogs born to a female dog kept in compliance with the provisions of
this section may be kept on the premises with said female dog for a period of
not more than six months following the date of birth, notwithstanding the
provisions of divisions (A)(1) and (A)(2) above.
   (B)   Limit on number of cats. No owner, as defined below, of a cat nor any
person who owns, leases, or is otherwise in control of any premises within the
city, shall keep cats or permit cats to be kept within the city except in
compliance with the following:
      (1)   Not more than two cats may be kept in or about the premises of a
dwelling unit in a duplex, apartment, condominium, or other multiple family
dwelling unit.
      (2)   Not more than three cats may be kept in or about the premises of
any single family dwelling.
      (3)   No cat may be kept in or about the premises other than occupied
dwelling units except upon application filed with the Director of Public Works
setting forth in detail the request and the reasons therefor. The Director of
Public Works may grant written approval upon finding that a valid reason exists
for granting the request and that the granting of the request will not have an
adverse effect on neighboring properties or on the general public. If approval
is denied, the applicant may appeal the decision of the Director of Public
Works to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Both the Director of Public Works and the
Zoning Board of Appeals are authorized to place conditions on any approval
which is granted.
      (4)   Cats born to a female cat kept in compliance with the provisions of
this section may be kept on the premises with said female cat for a period of
not more than six months following the date of birth, notwithstanding the
provisions of divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
   (C)   Definition of owner. When applied to the proprietorship of an animal,
OWNER means every person having a right of property in the animal and every
person who keeps or harbors the animal or has it in his or her care and every
person who permits an animal to remain on or about the premises occupied by him
or her. For purposes of this section, any person keeping or harboring any
animal for seven consecutive days shall be deemed the owner thereof within the
meaning of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 9-16-2023)
§ 5.32 PROHIBITED ANIMALS.
   No farm animal, wild animal, or non-domestic animal, such as a horse, cow,
swine, sheep, goat, goose, chicken, duck, snake, reptile, or bees shall be kept
in any dwelling or on the same lot or premises of any dwelling without
obtaining written approval from the Director of Public Works. In reviewing such
request, the policy adopted by the city regarding the keeping of such animals
shall be used in determining the response to the request. If approval is
denied, the applicant may appeal the decision of the Director of Public Works
to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Both the Director of Public Works and the
Zoning Board of Appeals are authorized to place conditions on any approval
which is granted.
(Ord. effective 9-16-2023)
§ 5.33 RESERVED.
§ 5.34 RESERVED.
ARTICLE V. C-1, COMMERCIAL DISTRICT
§ 5.35 INTENT.
   The C-1 Commercial District is designed primarily to provide services to the
adjacent residential area and to provide shopping and entertainment that
appeals to an area-wide market.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.36 SCHEDULE OF USES.
   (A)   Uses permitted in the nonresidential districts are listed in Table
5.36. Additional requirements related to a specific use, if any, are referenced
in the “Additional Requirements” column.
   (B)   Any use not specifically listed shall be prohibited, unless the use is
determined to be a similar use according to §
5.75(A).
Table 5.36 Schedule of Uses: Commercial District
P = Permitted use by right C-1 Additional Requirements
S = Special land use
Table 5.36 Schedule of Uses: Commercial District
P = Permitted use by right                                                  C-1           Additional
S = Special land use                                                                      Requirements
Accessory
Accessory outdoor customer service activities such as delivery of products                §
to customers’ vehicles, grocery cart use, escorting of customers and home P             5.70(C)
delivery
Accessory outdoor dining                                                    P             §
                                                                                          5.70(C)
Accessory outdoor sales and display (including temporary sales)             P             §
                                                                                          5.70(C)
Accessory outdoor storage                                                   S             §
                                                                                          5.70(C)
Accessory uses clearly ancillary to the principal use, including home                     §
occupations (accessory structures are not permitted)                        P             5.70(B)
                                                                                           
Dining and Entertainment
Micro brewery or brew pub                                                   S             §
                                                                                          5.71(A)
Restaurants, including standard service and carry-out, excluding drive-     P
through service and entertainment/floor shows
Soda fountain, ice cream shop or candy store                                P
Recreation/Cultural
Art gallery/studio                                                          P
Parks and recreational facilities, publicly owned                           P
Public facilities (government buildings, public museums, public galleries,  S
public libraries and the like)
Residential
Residential dwelling above the ground floor of a commercial building        P             §
                                                                                          5.74(B)
Residential dwelling on the ground floor of a commercial building           S             §
                                                                                          5.74(C)
Retail
Retail food/grocery, up to 50,000 sq. ft. gross floor area, which may also  P
include food items prepared on site for sale on the premises
Retail sales other than food/groceries, up to 10,000 sq. ft. gross floor    P
area
Services
Automatic teller machines, walk-up only, accessory to or separate from a    P
bank or similar financial institution
Banks and similar financial institutions, without drive-through facilities  P
Business service establishments, including printing/copy centers, postal    P
centers, travel agents, graphics services
Dance or music studio                                                       P
Drive-through facilities for banks and pharmacies, but not including any    S
other uses
Dry cleaner/laundry (including pick-up stations and self-service laundries) P
Health clubs and fitness centers, and private sports and recreational
instructional facilities not including physical therapy clinics staffed by  P
medical professionals
Hotels, including bed and breakfasts                                        S             §
                                                                                          5.74(D)
Personal service establishments, including small electronics/appliance
repair, shoe repair, dressmakers/tailors, tanning salons, barber or beauty  P
salon, decorating and upholstery shops, and other similar repair shops
Photographer                                                                P
                                                                                          Specific
                                                                            On     Above  Requirements
Offices                                                                     Ground Ground (Special
                                                                            Floor  Floor  Land Uses
                                                                                          Only)
Medical/dental offices and clinics of physicians, dentists, psychologists,                §
chiropractors, optometrists, physical therapists and similar or allied      P      P      5.72(A)
professions, and non-boarding veterinary services with no outside uses
Non-profit professional, civic, social, fraternal, political and religious  S      P      §
organizations                                                                             5.72(A)
Professional office services such as: insurance, real estate, legal, sales  P      P      §
and similar or allied professions                                                         5.72(A)
Product showrooms and similar mixed office with product display uses        P      P      §
                                                                                          5.74(C)
Serviced offices                                                                   P      §
                                                                                          5.72(B)
Other Uses
Essential services                                                          P             §
                                                                                          5.59
Radio and television broadcasting stations                                  P
Similar uses                                                                P/S           §
                                                                                          5.75(A)
Wireless telecommunications systems                                         S             §
                                                                                          5.75(D)
 
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 9-14- 2019; Ord. effective 3-30-
2023)
§ 5.37 AREA, HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
All lots in the nonresidential districts shall conform to the requirements of
Table 5.37. The requirements in footnotes are an integral part of this article
and shall apply in all instances.
Table 5.37 Dimensional Requirements: C-1 Commercial District
Requirement C-1
Table 5.37 Dimensional Requirements: C-1 Commercial District
Requirement                                              C-1
Minimum area per unit (sq. ft.)                          0
Minimum lot width (ft.)                                  0
                        Front                            0 1
                               Adjoining C-1 or MFR      0
Minimum yard setback    Side   Adjoining R-1, R-2 or R-3 7
(ft.)                          Adjoining a street        0
                        Rear 2 Adjoining C-1             0
                               Adjoining Residential     24
Maximum building height Feet                             40
                        Stories                          3
Maximum lot coverage                                     N/A
1. Buildings shall be located at the right-of-way line; provided, the Planning
Commission (and if applicable, the City Commission) may approve a site plan
for a commercial building in the C-1 District that is set back no more than 15
feet from the right-of-way line, if one or more of the following conditions is
present:
   A.   The proposed building or addition is in line with a setback
established by existing buildings located on either side of the subject
property;
   B.   The setback is necessary to provide for clear vision around corners or
at driveway entrances; or
   C.   The proposed use is a restaurant that will provide outdoor seating in
the front yard.
2. Where an alley separates the C-1 District from property in a residential
district, the full alley width may be counted as part of the required rear
yard.
 
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 10-1-2021; Ord. effective 5-13-2022)
§ 5.38 USES SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITED.
   Although any use not listed in Table 5.36 is not permitted, the following
uses are specifically determined to be contrary to the intent and character of
the C-1 District and shall not be permitted:
   (A)   Drive-through and drive-in restaurants; and
   (B)   Medical marijuana dispensaries. No medical marijuana dispensary shall
be commenced, conducted, operated or utilized from any property in the C-
1 District. Any person who violates this section shall be subject to a fine
and/or imprisonment as provided in §
1.13 of the city code of ordinances. In addition, any medical marijuana used or
possessed in violation of this section shall be seized and forfeited to the
city.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.39 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS APPLYING TO THE COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   All sales of products on the premises, whether primary or incidental,
shall be at retail.
   (B)   All business and service activities or uses shall be conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building, except accessory outdoor uses
according to §
5.70.
   (C)   The production, fabrication or processing of goods within the C-
1 District is prohibited unless specifically permitted in the schedule of uses
or under the following conditions:
      (1)   Production, fabrication or processing of goods may be carried on as
an accessory use to a permitted principal use;
      (2)   The entire output shall be sold at retail on the premises; and
      (3)   A maximum of 25% of the floor area occupied by the principal use
may be used for production, fabrication or processing.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.40 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VI. PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT (PUD)
§ 5.41 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this article is to offer an alternative to conventional
development by permitting flexibility in the regulations for development. The
standards in this article are intended to promote and encourage development on
parcels of land that are suitable in size, location and character for the uses
proposed while ensuring compatibility with adjacent land uses.
   (B)   The PUD rezoning process is provided as a design option to allow for
one or more of the following:
      (1)   Encourage innovation in land development in terms of variety,
design, layout and type of structures constructed;
      (2)   Promote the efficient use of land to facilitate a more economic
arrangement of buildings, circulation systems, land use and utilities;
      (3)   Encourage the adaptive re-use of significant or historic buildings;
      (4)   Provide the opportunity to mix compatible uses or residential
types;
      (5)   Preserve and protect significant natural features, open space and
cultural/historic resources;
      (6)   Ensure that new development is consistent with the character of the
community;
      (7)   Promote efficient provision of public services and utilities;
      (8)   Minimize adverse traffic impacts and accommodate safe and efficient
pedestrian access and circulation;
      (9)   Encourage development of convenient recreational facilities;
      (10)   Encourage the use and improvement of land where site conditions
make development under conventional zoning difficult or less desirable; or
      (11)   Allow a density for any residential portion of a planned unit
development that is greater than would otherwise be allowed by the zoning
ordinance, yet is still appropriate and compatible with other uses both within
the planned unit development and adjacent to it and with the density of
adjacent properties.
   (C)   The PUD process and standards provide for flexibility in design and
permit variation of the specific bulk, area, and in some situations, the
density requirements of this chapter on the basis of the total PUD plan,
subject to the approval of the PUD by the Planning Commission in accordance
with the requirements set forth herein. A PUD shall not be sought primarily to
avoid the standards and requirements of other zoning districts.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.42 QUALIFYING CONDITIONS.
   The following criteria shall apply to all planned unit developments (PUDs).
   (A)   Unified control. The planned unit development shall be under the
control of one owner or group of owners and shall be capable of being planned
and developed as one integral unit.
   (B)   Recognizable benefit. The applicant shall demonstrate that the PUD
provides at least four of the following site design elements, which could not
be attained through a project designed under conventional zoning:
      (1)   Mixed-use development with residential and nonresidential uses or a
variety of housing types;
      (2)   Pedestrian/transit-oriented design with buildings oriented to the
sidewalk and parking to the side or rear of the site;
      (3)   High quality architectural design beyond the site plan requirements
of this chapter;
      (4)   Extensive landscaping beyond the site plan requirements of this
chapter;
      (5)   Preservation, enhancement or restoration of natural resources
(trees, slopes, wetland areas, views to Reeds Lake, and the like);
      (6)   Preservation or restoration of significant or historic resources;
      (7)   Provision of open space or public plazas or features;
      (8)   Efficient consolidation of poorly dimensioned parcels or property
with difficult site conditions (e.g. topography, shape and the like);
      (9)   Effective transition between higher and lower density uses, and/or
between nonresidential and residential uses; or allowing incompatible adjacent
land uses to be developed in a manner that is not possible using a conventional
approach;
      (10)   Shared vehicular and pedestrian access between properties or uses;
      (11)   Mitigation to offset impacts on public facilities (such as street
improvements); or
      (12)   Significant use of sustainable building and site design features
such as: water use reduction, water efficient landscaping, innovative
wastewater technologies, low impact storm water management, optimize energy
performance, on-site renewable energy, passive solar heating, reuse/recycled/
renewable materials, indoor air quality or other elements identified as
sustainable by established groups such as the U.S. Green Building Council
(LEED) or ANSI National Green Building Standards.
   (C)   Compatibility with adjacent uses. The proposed location of uses or
structures that are of a significantly different scale or character than the
abutting residential districts, such as access drives, parking areas, waste
receptacles, swimming pools, tennis courts and facilities of a similar nature,
shall not be located near the perimeter of the PUD or so as to negatively
impact the residential use of adjacent lands.
   (D)   Public utilities. All uses within the PUD shall be served by public
water and sewer systems.
   (E)   Master plan. The proposed PUD shall be consistent with the city’s
master plan.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.43 PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Any use permitted by right or by special land use allowed in any
district may be permitted in a planned unit development, provided that all of
the objectives and standards of this article are determined to be met and there
is compliance with the procedures of this article.
   (B)   Residential and nonresidential uses may be permitted in combination to
create an integrated, mixed-use development based upon the recommendations of
the city’s master plan.
   (C)   Approval of a PUD shall include the identification of the specific
uses permitted within the PUD, and only those uses so approved shall be
permitted.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.44 GENERAL DEVELOPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential density. The PUD concept plan shall state the residential
zoning district, as provided in Article IV, upon which the proposed density is
based. For projects that include single-family developments, the PUD concept
plan narrative shall state a minimum lot size for single-family development
based on the minimums for single-family dwellings listed in this chapter for
the R-1, R-2, R-3 and MFR Districts. For projects that include multiple- family
dwellings, the density of the multiple-family development shall be based upon
the lot area per multiple-family unit as required for the MFR District. Any
deviation from these minimums shall be included in the table of modifications
as required in §
5.47(A).
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. The area, height and placement requirements
for each portion of the PUD shall be based upon a stated zoning district, as
provided in Articles IV and V. The PUD concept plan narrative shall state the
area, height and placement requirements for each portion of the PUD, based upon
the appropriate zoning district and the residential density determined in
division (A) above.
      (1)   Residential developments shall meet the area, height and placement
requirements of the R-1, R-2 , R-3 or MFR Districts, depending upon the type
and character of the development.
      (2)   Commercial developments shall meet the area, height and placement
requirements of the C-1 District.
      (3)   Each use in mixed use developments (containing both residential and
commercial development) shall meet the height, area and placement requirements
of the zoning district that corresponds to each element of the proposed
development, as listed in divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
      (4)   Deviations from the minimums set forth above shall be included in
the table of modifications as required in §
5.47(A).
   (C)   Modifications. To encourage flexibility and creativity consistent with
the intent of the PUD, the City Commission, after recommendation from the
Planning Commission, may permit modifications from the density, area, height
and placement requirements for the stated district(s).
      (1)   Any regulatory modification shall be approved through a finding by
the City Commission, after recommendation by the Planning Commission, that the
modification results in a higher quality of development than would be possible
using conventional zoning standards.
      (2)   All deviations from dimensional requirements shall be listed in the
table of modifications required in §
5.47(A). Unless modifications are specifically requested and approved by the
city, the site plan shall comply with the appropriate requirements of the
identified zoning districts, as specified in divisions (A) and (B) above.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.45 PUD REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The PUD review and approval process includes the following three steps.
   (A)   Pre-application. Pre-application conference with city staff and
consultants to review the PUD concept and discuss the review process.
   (B)   Concept plan.
      (1)   Planning Commission review of PUD concept plan and scheduling of
public hearing;
      (2)   Planning Commission public hearing; review and recommendation on
PUD rezoning and PUD concept plan; and
      (3)   City Commission public hearing; approval of PUD rezoning and PUD
concept plan.
   (C)   Final PUD Plan.
      (1)   Planning Commission review of final site plan and PUD agreement;
and
      (2)   City Commission approval of final site plan and PUD agreement.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.46 PRE-APPLICATION CONFERENCE.
   A pre-application conference shall be held with city staff for the purpose
of determining the eligibility of the request for consideration as a PUD.
   (A)   A request for a pre-application conference shall be made to the
Director of Public Works. As part of the pre-application conference, the
applicant shall submit at least five copies of a sketch plan that shows the
property location, boundaries, significant natural features, vehicular and
pedestrian circulation, and land use for the entire site.
   (B)   The city shall advise the applicant of the conformance of the PUD
concept with the intent and objectives of a PUD in the city, whether the
concept qualifies under the requirements of this article, and whether the
general concept is substantially consistent with the city’s master plan.
   (C)   Formal action shall be not taken at a pre-application conference, and
statements made at the pre-application conference shall not be considered
binding commitments or an approval of the concept.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.47 PUD CONCEPT PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   PUD concept plan submittal.
      (1)   PUD concept site plan. The PUD concept site plan shall be drawn to
an engineer’s scale of not less than one inch equals 50 feet for property less
than three acres, or one inch equals 100 feet for property three acres or more
in size, that includes all of the following:
         (a)   Title block with sheet number/title; name, address and telephone
number of the applicant and firm or individual who prepared the plans; and date
(s) of submission and any revisions;
         (b)   Scale and north-point;
         (c)   Location map drawn to a separate scale;
         (d)   Legal description of property;
         (e)   Zoning classification of site and all abutting parcels;
         (f)   Net acreage (minus rights-of-way) and total acreage;
         (g)   Existing lot lines, building lines, structures, parking areas
and other improvements on the site and within 100 feet of the site;
         (h)   Proposed lot lines, lot dimensions, property lines, setback
dimensions and other improvements;
         (i)   Location and height of all proposed buildings or structures;
         (j)   Location of existing and proposed streets, driveways, parking
lots, sidewalks and pathways on or within 250 feet of site;
         (k)   Proposed off-street parking lots and number of spaces;
         (l)   Conceptual landscape plan;
         (m)   The general location of existing plant material;
         (n)   Location of existing drainage courses, floodplains, rivers and
MDEQ regulated wetlands;
         (o)   Location of existing and proposed sanitary sewers;
         (p)   Location of existing and proposed water mains;
         (q)   Storm water retention and detention pond locations and existing,
or proposed storm sewers;
         (r)   Number, type and location of residential units;
         (s)   Density calculations by type of residential unit; and
         (t)   Location and size of recreation and open space areas.
      (2)   Concept plan narrative. The PUD concept plan shall be accompanied
by a narrative that describes the proposed PUD, the proposed timeframe of
development, the zoning district(s) upon which the proposed density and the
area, height and placement requirements are based, and documentation indicating
how the qualifying conditions in §
5.42 and the standards of §
5.49 are met.
      (3)   Table of modification.
         (a)   The application shall include a table detailing all
modifications from the use, density, area, height and placement requirements of
the zoning district identified in the concept plan narrative.
         (b)   The table shall also detail all modifications from off-street
parking regulations, general provisions, or subdivision regulations that would
otherwise be applicable to the uses and development proposed in the absence of
the proposed PUD.
         (c)   This table shall clearly identify the allowed regulation in
comparison to the requested modification.
      (4)   Phasing plan.
         (a)   For projects proposed to be developed in phases, the PUD concept
for the entire site shall be submitted for PUD concept approval.
         (b)   A map showing boundaries of individual phases shall be
submitted, along with a proposed timeline for development of each phase.
      (5)   Additional information. Any additional information requested by the
Planning Commission to better assist in the determination of PUD qualification
such as, but not limited to: market studies; fiscal impact analysis; traffic
impact studies; and environmental impact assessments.
   (B)   PUD concept plan Planning Commission review.
      (1)   Review and public hearing.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall review the draft PUD concept plan
at a regular or special meeting.
         (b)   Upon determination by the Planning Commission that the
application meets the requirements of this article, a public hearing shall be
set for a date certain. Notice of the public hearing shall conform to the
requirements of the Zoning Act.
      (2)   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall review the PUD
concept plan in consideration of public hearing comments, technical reviews
from city staff and consultants, correspondence from applicable review agencies
and compliance with the standards of this article and other applicable
standards and requirements of this chapter. The Planning Commission shall
recommend approval, approval with conditions or denial of the PUD to the City
Commission. The recommendation shall be based on the following:
         (a)   Whether all applicable provisions of this article and this
chapter are met;
         (b)   Whether the proposed PUD meets the intent of this article, as
outlined in §
5.41;
         (c)   Whether the qualifying conditions in §
5.42 are met; and
         (d)   Whether the standards of approval in §
5.49 are met.
   (C)   City Commission review of PUD zoning and PUD concept plan.
      (1)   City Commission action. Following receipt of a recommendation from
the Planning Commission on the PUD rezoning and PUD concept plan, the City
Commission shall, after a public hearing, review the rezoning and concept plan
and either approve, deny, or approve with conditions.
      (2)   Rezoning. Upon approval by the City Commission, the property
subject to the PUD shall be rezoned to PUD, which shall become effective after
notification and publication according to the state’s Zoning Enabling Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq. (Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended).
   (D)   Conditions. In accordance with the state’s Zoning Enabling Act,
reasonable conditions may be attached to the approval of a PUD for the purpose
of ensuring that public services and facilities affected by a proposed land use
or activity will be capable of accommodating increased service and facility
loads caused by the land use or activity; protecting the natural environment
and conserving natural resources; ensuring compatibility with adjacent uses of
land; promoting the use of land in a socially and economically desirable
manner; and furthering implementation of the city’s master plan. Conditions
attached to the approval shall be incorporated into the PUD agreement required
to be submitted with the final PUD site plan.
   (E)   Time limits for concept plan approval.
      (1)   Approval of the PUD concept plan by the City Commission shall
confer upon the owner the right to proceed through the subsequent final
planning phase for a period not to exceed two years from date of approval. If
application for final site plan approval for the PUD or a phase of the PUD is
not requested within this time period, the PUD concept plan approval shall
automatically become null and void and all rights thereunder shall terminate.
      (2)   The City Commission may for good cause approve one extension of up
to one year, if requested in writing by the applicant prior to the expiration
date of the original concept plan approval or subsequent one year extension.
      (3)   Upon expiration of a PUD concept plan, the City Commission may
direct the Planning Commission to conduct a public hearing and make a
recommendation to revoke the PUD zoning and rezone the property to its original
designation or other district as appropriate.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.48 FINAL PUD SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Following PUD concept plan approval, a final PUD site plan for the
entire PUD or individual phases of the PUD shall be submitted in accordance
with §
5.86.
   (B)   All final PUD site plans subsequently submitted shall conform with the
PUD concept plan, all conditions attached to preliminary approval, the PUD
agreement and the requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   The final PUD site plan shall be accompanied by a PUD agreement for
review and recommendation by the Planning Commission after review by the City
Attorney. The agreement shall provide:
      (1)   A survey of the acreage comprising the proposed development;
      (2)   The manner of ownership of the developed land;
      (3)   The manner of the ownership and of dedication or mechanism to
protect any areas designated as common areas or open space;
      (4)   Provision assuring that open space areas shown on the plan for use
by the public or residents of the development will be or have been irrevocably
committed for that purpose; the city may require deed restrictions, conveyances
or other documents to be placed in escrow to accomplish this;
      (5)   Satisfactory provisions shall be made to provide for the future
financing of any improvements shown on the plan for site improvements, open
space areas and common areas which are to be included within the development
and that maintenance of such improvements is assured by a means satisfactory to
the Planning Commission;
      (6)   The cost of installing, improving and maintaining streets and the
necessary utilities has been assured by a means satisfactory to the city;
      (7)   Provisions to ensure adequate protection of natural features;
      (8)   Statements binding the agreement and approved final PUD site plan
to any future owner; and
      (9)   Any other commitment determined necessary to ensure that the PUD is
developed and operated in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. The
final PUD site plan shall be incorporated by reference and attached as an
exhibit.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall review the final PUD site plan and PUD
agreement and shall determine that the plan and agreement are in conformance
with the approved PUD concept plan.
      (1)   Minor changes from the approved PUD concept plan may be approved
according to §
5.50(A).
      (2)   Any changes from the approved concept plan not determined to be
minor shall require that a new PUD concept plan be submitted and approved
according to §
5.47 before further consideration of the changed plan(s).
   (E)   (1)   If the Planning Commission determines that the final PUD site
plan and PUD agreement are in conformance with the approved PUD concept plan,
it shall recommend approval to the City Commission.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may recommend, and the City Commission may
approve, additional conditions if it determines that the conditions are
necessary to ensure conformity with the approved PUD concept plan.
   (F)   The City Commission shall consider the recommendation of the Planning
Commission and shall approve the final PUD site plan and PUD agreement if they
conform to the requirements of this article. Upon approval, the final PUD
agreement shall be executed by all parties (including the city) and shall be
recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.49 STANDARDS OF APPROVAL.
   A PUD shall only be approved if it complies with each of the following
standards as well as applicable standards established elsewhere in this
chapter:
   (A)   The proposed PUD complies with the intent and all qualifying
conditions of §§
5.41 and
5.42 of this article, respectively;
   (B)   The uses conducted within the proposed PUD, the PUD’s impact on the
community and other aspects of the PUD are consistent with the city’s master
plan;
   (C)   The proposed PUD shall be designed, constructed, operated and
maintained in a manner harmonious with the character of adjacent property, the
surrounding uses of land, the natural environment and the capacity of public
services and facilities affected by the development;
   (D)   The PUD shall not change the essential character of the surrounding
area;
   (E)   The PUD shall not be hazardous to adjacent property or involve uses,
activities, materials or equipment which will be detrimental to the health,
safety or welfare of persons or property through the excessive production of
traffic, noise, smoke, fumes or glare; and
   (F)   The PUD shall not place demands on public services and facilities in
excess of current or anticipated future capacity.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.50 DEVIATIONS FROM APPROVED FINAL PUD SITE PLAN.
   Changes to an approved PUD shall be permitted only under the following
circumstances.
   (A)   Minor changes.
      (1)   The holder of an approved final PUD site plan shall notify the
Director of Public Works of any desired changes to the approved PUD. A minor
change may be approved administratively, according to the requirements of this
section.
      (2)   A change that would alter any specified conditions imposed as part
of the original approval or any condition of the approved PUD agreement may not
be considered as a minor change.
   (B)   Minor changes approved by the Director of Public Works. The following
minor changes may be approved administratively by the Director of Public Works.
The Director shall determine that the change will not alter the basic design or
intent of the approved PUD.
      (1)   Reduction of the size of any building and/or sign.
      (2)   Movement of buildings or signs by no more than three feet, provided
setbacks are not reduced.
      (3)   Landscaping approved in the final development plan that is replaced
by similar landscaping to an equal or greater extent.
      (4)   Changes in floor plans of up to 5% of the total floor area which do
not alter the character of the use or increase the amount of required parking.
      (5)   Internal rearrangement of a parking lot which does not affect the
number of parking spaces, access locations or design.
      (6)   Changes required or requested by the city, the county or other
state or federal regulatory agency to conform with laws or regulations.
   (C)   Other minor changes.
      (1)   A minor change that is not listed in division (B) above may be
submitted to the Planning Commission to determine if the change is minor in
scope and/or effect and that the change would not alter the basic design or
intent of the approved PUD.
      (2)   If Planning Commission determines that the proposed change is
minor, the Director of Public Works shall be authorized to approve it
administratively.
   (D)   Major changes. A change that the Director of Public Works or Planning
Commission determines is not minor must be submitted as an amendment to the PUD
and shall be processed in the same manner as the original PUD application.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.51 EXPIRATION AND EXTENSION.
   Each development shall be under meaningful construction within one year
after the date of approval of the final PUD site plan, except as follows.
   (A)   Expiration. If meaningful construction does not commence during the
one-year period or any approved extension, the final PUD site plan and PUD
agreement shall be null and void.
   (B)   Extension. The City Commission may grant extensions of up to one year
each, if the applicant applies for the extension, in writing, prior to the
expiration of the original PUD final site plan approval or any subsequent
extension. In order to qualify for an extension, the applicant shall present
reasonable evidence that the development has encountered unforeseen
difficulties beyond the control of the applicant and the PUD requirements and
standards have not changed.
   (C)   PUD zoning designation. If a final PUD site plan expires, the property
shall remain zoned PUD unless the city rezones the property to a different
zoning designation. If any applicant thereafter intends to develop a PUD on the
property, the applicant shall be required to submit a new PUD application and
follow the same process as the original approval.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.52 APPEALS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have no jurisdiction to hear appeals
of or make interpretation of any decisions regarding this article or a proposed
PUD concept plan or site plan.
   (B)   This shall not prevent an individual lot owner from seeking a variance
following the final approval of the PUD according to the procedures and
standards of Article XII; provided that:
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may only grant variances from area,
height and placement requirements imposed by the PUD; and
      (2)   A variance shall not be considered that would affect any condition
of the approved PUD, any requirement of the approved and recorded PUD agreement
or would increase the residential density of the project.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.53 RESERVED.
§ 5.54 RESERVED.
§ 5.55 RESERVED.
ARTICLE VII. GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 5.56 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   Except as specified in this chapter, no building, structure or premises
shall be used or occupied, and no building or part of any building or other
structures shall be erected, razed, moved, placed, reconstructed, extended,
enlarged or altered, except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.57 USES PER LOT.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter (including approved planned
unit developments), there shall be only one principal use per lot of record.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.58 ACCESS.
   All lots and parcels shall have frontage upon and be accessed from a public
right-of-way or private street easement. All parcels or lots created after the
effective date of this article shall provide the required frontage by meeting
the minimum lot width requirement along the public or private street, as
required for the zoning district within which the parcel or lot is located.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.59 HEIGHT EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The following structures may exceed the height requirements of the
district by not more than 15 feet:
      (1)   Belfries;
      (2)   Chimneys;
      (3)   Church spires;
      (4)   Cooling towers;
      (5)   Cupolas;
      (6)   Elevator bulkheads;
      (7)   Public monuments;
      (8)   Radio and television antennas and towers; and
      (9)   Roof structures housing necessary mechanical appurtenances.
   (B)   Parapet walls may exceed the height requirements of the district by
not more than four feet. In any case, a parapet wall shall not exceed four feet
in height, measured from the adjoining roof.
   (C)   An enclosed stairway used to access a rooftop terrace or patio in the
MFR Residential District may exceed the height requirements of the district by
not more than nine feet, provided that the area of the enclosed stairway above
the allowable building height does not exceed 160 square feet. Only one such
enclosed stairway exceeding the height requirement shall be permitted per
building.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 5-13-2022)
§ 5.60 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS.
   All setbacks shall be measured from the property lines. In the case of a
private street or similar access easement, setbacks shall be measured from the
easement line. A building shall not be erected, converted, enlarged,
reconstructed or structurally altered, except in conformity with the setback
requirements of the district in which it is located.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.61 ENCROACHMENTS INTO REQUIRED YARD SETBACKS.
   (A)   The following elements and appurtenances may encroach into or over a
required yard setback as provided in Table 5.61.
Table 5.61 Encroachments into Required Yard Setbacks
Type Allowed Encroachment into a Setback
     Front Yard Side Yard Rear Yard
Table 5.61 Encroachments into Required Yard Setbacks
Type                Allowed Encroachment into a Setback
                    Front Yard          Side Yard          Rear Yard
Accessory
structures,         See §
residential,        5.70
detached
Accessible ramps,   Least encroachment necessary to meet state or federal
wheelchair lifts    requirements, but no more than 8 ft; must maintain a 3-foot
and similar         side yard setback
structures
Air conditioning                        3 ft.              3 ft.
units, generators                       No more than 5 ft. from the building;
and other           None                no closer than 2 ft. to all property
mechanical                              lines
equipment1
Arbors, trellises
and pergolas
(attached to        5 ft.               3 ft.              10 ft.
principal building)
Awnings and
canopies
Balconies           5 ft.               None               10 ft.
Bay windows         3 ft.               3 ft.              3 ft.
Chimneys            3 ft.               3 ft.              3 ft.
Eaves and gutters   1 foot              1 foot             1 foot
Fences and walls    See §
                    8.61 of the city code of ordinances
Flagpoles           Permitted up to 6 ft. from all lot lines
Light poles (not
including ground-   Permitted up to 6 ft. from all lot lines
mounted lights)
Paved patios and
similar at-grade
structures (not                         Up to 3 ft. from a Up to 3 ft. from a
including driveways 10 ft.              side lot line      rear lot line
and sidewalks), un-
roofed and
unenclosed2
Porches, decks and
stoops, uncovered   5 ft.               3 ft.              10 ft.
and unenclosed2
Porches, decks and  6 ft. or 20% of
stoops, covered but required setback    None               None
unenclosed3         (whichever is less)
Signs               See city code
                    Chapter 83
Stairways (not
including steps to
main floor entry)   None                3 ft.              10 ft.
and below-grade
stairwells
Swing sets and
similar play        None                Up to 3 ft. from a Up to 3 ft. from a
structures                              side lot line      rear lot line
(attached)
Window wells and
egress windows,     3 ft.               3 ft.              3 ft.
below grade
Footnotes:
1. See §
5.68 for screening requirements.
2. Any covered or roofed porch, deck, patio, stoop or similar structure shall
be considered part of the principal building and shall comply with the required
setbacks for the principal building.
3. There shall be no walls, windows or screens. A railing, not exceeding 36
inches in height measured from the floor of the porch, shall be permitted;
provided, it shall comprise individual spokes or slats evenly spaced and not
more than 50% opaque on all sides.
 
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided for in this chapter, no element or
appurtenance listed in this section, other than fences, that is attached to an
accessory building shall be located closer than two feet to any property line.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 3-15-2019; Ord. effective 3-30-2023;
Ord. effective 2-19-2024)
§ 5.62 CORNER LOTS.
   (A)   A corner lot with two street frontages shall have a front lot line and
front yard, a street side lot line and street side yard, an interior side lot
line and interior side yard and a rear lot line and rear yard, except as noted
in §
5.28. The front lot line and front yard shall be determined by the Director of
Public Works or designee,
according to one or more of the following considerations:
      (1)   The narrower of the street lines shall be the front lot line;
      (2)   The front lot line shall be adjacent to the street upon which the
building is addressed;
      (3)   The front lot line shall be adjacent to the street upon which the
front of the building, including its main entrance, is oriented; or
      (4)   A street line has been designated on the plat of subdivision as the
front lot line.
   (B)   For corner lots with two street frontages, if the Director of Public
Works or designee cannot determine the front lot line according to the above
criteria, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall determine the front lot line under
its powers to interpret the meaning and intent of this chapter, according to
Article XII.
   (C)   A corner lot with street frontage on three sides shall have the
following lot lines and yards.
      (1)   If the dwelling is oriented toward one of the two parallel streets,
the lot shall have two front lot lines and two front yards, a street side lot
line and street side yard, an interior side lot line and interior side yard,
and no rear lot line and rear yard. The Director of Public Works or designee
shall consider the following when determining orientation of the dwelling:
         (a)   Location and orientation of existing or proposed buildings on
the through lot in relation to existing buildings on properties in the same
general neighborhood, historic development patterns and existing developed
through lots; and
         (b)   Location and impact of existing vegetation, water or other
natural features affecting the location of buildings or structures on the lot
in question.
      (2)   If the dwelling is oriented toward the middle street, the lot shall
have three front lot lines and three front yards abutting the streets, and a
rear lot line and rear yard.
(Ord. effective 2-27-2015)
§ 5.63 THROUGH LOTS.
   (A)   A through lot shall have two front lot lines and two front yards, two
interior side lot lines and two interior side yards, and no rear lot line or
rear yard.
   (B)   Access to the lot shall only be from the primary street. Where a
driveway or other access to the lot exists from the secondary street, such
driveway or access shall be removed prior to a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. effective 2-27-2015)
§ 5.64 TEMPORARY USES AND SPECIAL EVENTS.
   The requirements of this section are intended to provide for regulation of
certain listed temporary uses and associated events on private property. Where
expressly permitted by this section, temporary uses and special events may take
place outdoors, notwithstanding any limitation or prohibition against outdoor
activity otherwise provided by the zoning regulations of the city. A temporary
use shall meet all of the following requirements.
   (A)   Nuisance, hazardous features. The temporary use shall not result in
any hazard or nuisance to the adjacent users or uses of property or otherwise
be contrary to the public health, safety or welfare of the community.
   (B)   Traffic and circulation. The temporary use shall not create hazardous
vehicular or pedestrian traffic conditions on or adjacent to the site of the
temporary use or event, or result in traffic in excess of the capacity of the
street serving the use. The temporary use shall not:
      (1)   Unreasonably interfere with the use of the street or sidewalk for
pedestrian or vehicular traffic;
      (2)   Unreasonably interfere with the view of, access to, or use of
property adjacent to the street;
      (3)   Interfere with street cleaning or snow removal activities;
      (4)   Cause damage to the sidewalk or street or to trees, benches,
landscaping or other objects lawfully located in the right-of-way;
      (5)   Cause violation of any state or local laws; or
      (6)   Reduce the effectiveness or access to any utility pole, street
lighting, sign or other traffic control device.
   (C)   Public facilities and services. Adequate utility, drainage, refuse
management, sanitary facilities, emergency services and access, and similar
necessary facilities and services must be available for the temporary use.
   (D)   Natural environment. The temporary use shall not have a substantial
adverse impact on the natural environment.
   (E)   Site suitability. The site must be suitable for the temporary use,
considering flood hazard, drainage, soil and other conditions which might
constitute a danger to life, health or property.
   (F)   Building, electrical and other codes. The temporary use and all
associated temporary improvements, including, but not limited to, tents,
stands, temporary electrical systems, temporary heating systems and temporary
lighting systems must comply with all applicable provisions of the building
code, the electrical code and such other codes as are from time to time adopted
or amended pursuant to the city code.
   (G)   Duration. A temporary use shall occur only for as short a time as
practicable. In no case shall a temporary use exist for a period in excess of
30 days in any 12-month period, nor shall any property be used for a temporary
use in excess of 30 days during any 12-month period.
   (H)   Maintenance and cleanup of premises.
      (1)   The area occupied by the temporary use must be kept in a neat and
well kept manner at all times.
      (2)   Within 24 hours after the closing of the sale or event, the owner
or operator of the temporary use shall remove and properly dispose of all
temporary improvements, signs, trash and debris resulting from the temporary
use.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of the use to
abandon the premises without such cleaning and removal.
      (4)   If any owner or operator fails to do such cleaning and removal, the
city may enter upon the premises, do such cleaning and removal, and charge the
cost thereof to the owner or operator of the event.
   (I)   Uses of public property; approval required; liability insurance
required.
      (1)   No portion of a temporary use may take place on the public right-
of-way or other publicly-owned property, unless the applicant shall have first
obtained approval for such use from the public body or department having
jurisdiction over the property.
      (2)   (a)   Prior to receiving approval for a temporary use that will
take place, wholly or in part, on publicly-owned property, the applicant shall
obtain comprehensive general liability insurance of amounts of at least
$500,000 per occurrence for bodily injury and property damage and $1,000,000 in
the aggregate, with a company or companies authorized to do business in the
state.
         (b)   The insurance shall insure the applicable against liability for
death or bodily injury to persons or damage to property which may result from
the temporary use or conduct incident thereto, and shall name the city as an
additional insured party.
         (c)   The insurance shall remain in full force and effect in the
specified amounts for the duration of the temporary use. Proof of such
insurance shall be furnished to the city.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.65 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No business, other than hotels or bed and breakfast establishments which are
allowed to operate 24 hours a day, shall be open to the public between the
hours of 12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 5:00 a.m.; provided, however, that on New
Year’s Eve, businesses may be open until 1:00 a.m. on January 1.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 9-14-2019)
§ 5.66 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted in all districts, subject to prior
review of all plans by the Planning Commission to determine that the yard,
parking and landscaping (if any) requirements are met, and that all planned
facilities are designed to be compatible with surrounding uses.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.67 VOTING PLACE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not interfere with the temporary use of
any property as a voting place in connection with a federal, state, county,
city or other public election.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.68 MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT SCREENING.
   (A)    Mechanical units located on the ground shall be located in the rear
or side yard not closer than two feet to adjoining property. When attached to a
building, the mechanical equipment shall be architecturally integrated or
appropriately screened by shrubbery or fencing so as to not be visible from
neighboring property.Fences shall comply with the requirements of §
8.61 of the city’s code of ordinances.
   (B)   If located on the roof of a building or in a location that cannot
otherwise be screened, the equipment shall be enclosed or designed in a manner
that is architecturally integrated with the building where it is located.
   (C)   A permit shall be required for any mechanical equipment proposed to be
placed within a side yard or adjacent to an accessory building, in accordance
with the following.
      (1)   A request shall be filed with the Director of Public Works on a
form provided for that purpose, along with a filing fee in an amount
established by the City Commission.
      (2)   In evaluating the permit request, the Director of Public Works
shall consider the following:
         (a)   The proposed type and quality of screening;
         (b)   The adjacent land use;
         (c)   The width of the side yard and distance to neighboring
buildings;
         (d)   The proximity of residential uses;
         (e)   The level of noise or sound to be emitted by the mechanical
equipment; and
         (f)   Such other factors relevant to the specific proposed location.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 3-30-2023; Ord. effective 2-19-2024)
§ 5.69 LIGHTING.
   Outdoor light fixtures, except for architectural lighting that provides
accent lighting directly on a building facade, shall be direct cut-off
fixtures, designed to prevent light spill or trespass beyond the boundaries of
the property where the fixture is located.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
ARTICLE VIII. ADDITIONAL USE REQUIREMENTS
§ 5.70 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS, STRUCTURES AND USES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings and structures.
      (1)   An accessory building or structure attached to a principal building
shall be considered a part of the principal building and shall be subject to
all height and setback requirements of the principal building; however, certain
attached accessory structures may be permitted to encroach within required yard
setbacks, according to §
5.61.
      (2)   Detached accessory buildings and structures are not permitted in
the C-1 Commercial District, except for mechanical appurtenances such as air
conditioning units and similar devices serving a principal building or use;
provided, such devices may not be located within any front yard or any right-
of-way and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of §
5.68.
      (3)   The permitted number and size of detached accessory buildings on
any lot containing a single- or two-family dwelling shall be in accordance with
the requirements specified in Table 5.70-1, based on whether a garage is
attached to the principal dwelling and the number of vehicle stalls provided
within such attached garage.
Table 5.70-1 Maximum Size and Number of Accessory Buildings
              Number of Maximum Total Size (Sq. Ft.) Allowed for All Accessory
Lot Size (Sq. Accessory Buildings1
Ft.)          Buildings If No Attached If One Stall If Two Stalls If Three or
              Allowed   Garage         Attached     Attached      More Stalls
                                                                  Attached
Table 5.70-1 Maximum Size and Number of Accessory Buildings
               Number of Maximum Total Size (Sq. Ft.) Allowed for All Accessory
Lot Size (Sq.  Accessory Buildings1
Ft.)           Buildings If No Attached If One Stall If Two Stalls If Three or
               Allowed   Garage         Attached     Attached      More Stalls
                                                                   Attached
< 5,000        1         576            336          120           0
5,000 – 7,1992         864            576          336           120
7,200 – 11,992         864            576          336           336
12,000 –     2         1,008          720          432           336
21,999
22,000 –     2         1,296          1,008        720           432
43,560
≥ 43,560 (1  3         1,296
acre)
1. Regardless of the sizes specified, no more than 25% of the rear yard shall
be occupied by accessory buildings.
 
      (4)   Multiple-family dwellings may have a maximum of one detached garage
or carport per unit; provided, detached garages or carports shall not be
permitted for any dwelling unit that contains an attached garage. In any case,
one detached storage building per development, not exceeding 200 square feet,
may be provided.
      (5)   A detached accessory building less than 200 square feet in area
shall not exceed a maximum of height of 12 feet. All other accessory buildings
may be up to one and one-half stories or 16 feet in height, whichever is less;
provided, the height of the accessory building shall not exceed the height of
the principal building on the site.
      (6)   A detached accessory building shall be located at least ten feet
from any principal building situated on the same lot and at least six feet from
any other accessory building on the same lot.
      (7)   A detached accessory building shall be located at least three feet
from both side and rear lot lines.
      (8)   Except as otherwise provided in this division (A), accessory
buildings shall be erected only in the rear yard.
         (a)   A detached garage may be located in a rear or side yard not
closer to the street than the principal building on the lot, or the principal
building on the lot immediately abutting the location of the garage, whichever
is greater.
         (b)   A detached building accessory to a swimming pool that is
constructed in accordance with the provisions of
Chapter 82 of the city code may be located in a side yard if it is adjoining
the pool and is located at least 60 feet from any street right-of-way line.
      (9)   No portion of any accessory building may be used as a dwelling unit
except as provided in division (E) below, and all accessory buildings may only
be used in a manner which is appropriate, subordinate and incidental to that of
the principal building or premises.
      (10)   On a lot with a residential use, a covered walkway may be
constructed between a detached garage and the principal building, provided that
the minimum separation and setback requirements in divisions (A)(6) and (A)(7)
above are met. The covered walkway may not exceed five feet in width, shall
consist of a roof supported by posts or columns and must remain perpetually
unenclosed; however, a railing and/or kneewall, constructed no higher than 36
inches above the walkway surface, is permitted. The walkway surface may not be
constructed more than six inches above grade, excluding any steps necessary to
access the garage and/or the principal building. The covered walkway may not be
used for living space, gathering space (i.e., a deck), or for
storage purposes. A garage attached to a principal building via a covered
walkway meeting these requirements shall not be considered to be attached to
the principal building and may meet the reduced setback allowed for accessory
buildings.
      (11)   A carport shall not be used for storage of materials other than a
vehicle, unless the items stored are completely enclosed in a closet or
specially designed compartment.
   (B)   Home occupations. The city recognizes that working from home is a
growing trend and that some residents may wish to operate a small part-time or
low-impact business from their home in order to provide more flexible sources
of income and allow residents to operate businesses with lower barriers to
entry. At the same time, the city wishes to keep principal residential uses as
the primary character of these districts and protect this character from
adverse impacts generated by home occupation activities. The intent of these
regulations is to provide guidelines for how home occupations may be operated
while also ensuring the compatibility of home occupations within the existing
residential districts. Home occupations are permitted if the activity meets all
of the following criteria:
      (1)   The principal residence of the owner/operator of every home
occupation shall be the dwelling unit on the premises in which the business
operates. Employees of a home occupation shall be limited to the immediate
family members living on premises plus one additional employee.
      (2)   Home occupation uses.
         (a)   The following uses shall be permitted as home occupations,
subject to the regulations of this section.
            1.   Professional office services as defined in §
5.36.
            2.   Studios for artists, sculptors, musicians, photographers, and
authors.
            3.   Craft making services such as sewing, apparel design and
production, cabinetry, woodworkers, and jewelry making.
            4.   Instruction of a craft or fine art.
            5.   Tutoring and similar instructional services.
            6.   Therapists and counselors.
            7.   Personal fitness training.
            8.   Computer based-uses such as computer programming, data
processing, website design, and IT services.
            9.   Food-based businesses that comply with the Michigan Cottage
Food Law (PA 113 of 2010).
         (b)   The following uses shall be exempt from the regulations in this
section but may be subject to other relevant parts of the zoning ordinance and
city code.
            1.   Garage sales and estate sales.
            2.    Telecommuting involving only members of the owner/occupant's
family residing on the premises.
            3.   Lemonade stands and similar food-based sales operated by a
minor, as determined by the Director of Public Works or their designee.
            4.   Sales of goods or services related to a school or non-profit
group fundraising activity as determined by the Director of Public Works or
their designee.
         (c)   The following uses shall not be permitted as home occupations:
            1.   Bed and breakfasts.
            2.   Short-term rentals.
            3.   Retail sales, except for goods solely produced on premises or
for products incidental to the business operation. Such products shall not be
displayed or visible from public view or adjacent properties.
            4.   Medical, dental, or wellness clinics requiring a medical
license.
            5.   Mechanical, maintenance, and repair work on motor vehicles and
mechanical devices.
            6.   Storage of items not owned or rented by the property owner.
            7.   Any use or activity that involves hazardous materials or
hazardous waste.
            8.   Any use that would not be permitted in the C-1 Commercial
District.
         (d)   Since not every potential home occupation use can be accounted
for, the Director of Public Works or their designee shall have the authority to
approve a home occupation for a use not specifically provided for in this
section. A person seeking such approval shall submit a description of the
proposed use, including its location, its compliance with the performance
standards in this section, its overall compatibility within the general
neighborhood, and other relevant information as may be requested. If it is
determined that the proposed home occupation meets the spirit and intent of
this section, then the Director of Public Works or their designee shall issue
written approval of the proposed use. Reasonable conditions regarding the
operation of the proposed home occupation may be attached with such approval.
If the approval is denied, the applicant may appeal the decision to the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
      (3)   Home occupations may be located in a dwelling unit or an enclosed,
permanent accessory building. However, in no case shall more than 25% of the
gross floor area of the dwelling unit and associated accessory buildings on the
lot be used for the home occupation. The use of the dwelling unit and
associated accessory buildings for the home occupation shall be clearly
incidental and subordinate to its use for residential purposes by its
occupants.
      (4)   Home occupations shall be conducted entirely within the dwelling
unit or accessory building involved except for a passenger vehicle or light
truck used for the business. Such vehicles may be parked outside provided they
are owned by the property owner and are otherwise in compliance with all
applicable parts of the city code.
      (5)   There shall be no change in the outside appearance of the buildings
involved or other visible evidence of the conduct of such home occupation on
the property. Outside operations or storage associated with the home
occupation, including outside storage of vehicles related to the business, is
prohibited except as provided for in this section.
      (6)   Mechanical, maintenance and repair work on motor vehicles and
repair of small engines and mechanical devices is prohibited except for such
work on items owned or leased by the occupant for his/her personal use.
      (7)   Parking and traffic.
         (a)   There shall be no traffic generated by a home occupation in
greater volume or intensity than would normally be expected in a residential
neighborhood.
         (b)   No more than five client visits per business day may be hosted
by a home occupation. Visits lasting less than five minutes shall not count
against this maximum. All visits shall be restricted to the hours between 8:00
a.m. and 6:00 p.m. from Monday-Friday, except that no visits shall be allowed
on Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Years Day. Home occupations involving
instruction of a craft or fine art shall be exempt from this requirement.
         (c)   On-street parking may be used for the operation of the home
occupation. However, no more than two non-resident vehicles attributable to a
home occupation may be parked on-site or on-street at the same time.
         (d)   No off-street parking area, including a residential driveway,
may be created or expanded solely for the purpose of a home occupation.
         (e)   All deliveries of bulk material or supplies to any home
occupation shall be limited to the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. from
Monday-Friday. No vehicle with three or more axles shall be allowed for such
deliveries.
      (8)   There shall be no equipment or process used in a home occupation
that creates noise, vibration, glare, fumes, or odors detectable to the normal
senses, or which creates visual or audible interference that disturbs radio,
television or other telecommunications receivers off the premises. In addition,
the home occupation must also comply with the provisions of
Chapters 91 and
97 of the city code dealing with noise.
      (9)   There shall be no business sign or other outdoor displays related
to the home occupation.
   (C)   Accessory outdoor customer service, outdoor dining and outdoor sales
and display (including temporary sales).
      (1)   All business and service activities or uses shall be conducted
entirely within a completely enclosed building, except the following uses may
occur outdoors:
         (a)   Limited outdoor customer service activities such as delivery of
products to customers’ vehicles, grocery cart use, escorting of customers and
home delivery;
         (b)   Outdoor table, bench and waiter/waitress services for
restaurants, provided that adequate accessible maneuvering space on the public
sidewalk is provided;
         (c)   Outdoor displays of products, provided that adequate accessible
maneuvering space is maintained on the sidewalk, and any products are removed
and taken indoors at the end of each business day; and
         (d)   Temporary outdoor or sidewalk sales, provided that such sales
are of a limited duration and that adequate accessible maneuvering space is
maintained on the sidewalk.
      (2)   Prior to establishment of an outdoor use or activity upon city-
owned property or the public right-of-way, the owner or applicant shall
annually submit a site plan for review and approval and issuance of a permit by
the City Manager or his or her designee. The city may require that uses located
upon the public right-of-way provide proof of insurance in an amount approved
by the city, and that the city be named as an additional named insured on the
proprietor’s liability insurance policy.
   (D)   Outdoor storage.
      (1)   Outdoor storage shall only be permitted as a special use, accessory
to principal uses in the C-1 District.
      (2)   The outdoor storage area shall be screened from view of adjoining
properties, in accordance with the following specifications:
         (a)   A solid, sight-obscuring fence or wall shall surround the
storage area;
         (b)   The fence or wall shall not contain any openings other than a
gate of access, which shall be closed at all times when not in use; and
         (c)   The fence or wall shall be constructed of masonry, treated wood
or other material approved as part of the special use approval; provided, the
material is determined to be durable, weather resistant, rust proof and easily
maintained. Chain link and barbed wire fences shall not be permitted.
      (3)   If approved as part of the special use approval, the required
screening may be comprised of suitable plant material, upon a determination
that the alternate materials will provide the same degree or better of opacity,
screening and compatibility with adjoining properties as a fence or wall.
   (E)   Accessory dwelling units. The city recognizes that accessory dwelling
units (ADUs) are an increasingly popular type of housing development,
particularly for aging adults, young adults, and other people for whom
traditional housing options may not be best suited for their needs. The city
further recognizes that allowing the development of ADUs is useful and
desirable to provide additional and more varied housing choices for all
demographics. Doing so would help meet the goals of the city master plan to
include a focus on additional diverse housing opportunities for new families,
aging in place, and young professionals. The intent of these regulations is to
provide standards for how ADUs may be developed while also ensuring their
compatibility within the existing residential districts.
      (1)   No more than one ADU shall be developed on a lot.
      (2)   No more than one family as defined in this chapter shall occupy an
ADU.
      (3)   An ADU shall only be permitted on a lot where a single-family home
has already been developed or in conjunction with the development of a single-
family home.
      (4)   A nonconforming building shall not be expanded or altered to
accommodate an ADU unless the existing foundation and setbacks of the building
are unchanged.
      (5)   A deed or title restriction that is enforceable by the city shall
be recorded with the Kent County Register of Deeds prior to the issuance of a
building permit. All proposed deed or title restrictions shall be reviewed by
the City Attorney before such recording. The deed or title restriction shall
include language stating the following:
         (a)   The ADU shall remain in the same ownership as the primary
dwelling and shall not be bought, sold, or conveyed separately from the primary
dwelling.
         (b)   The property owner shall occupy one of the dwelling units on the
parcel.
         (c)   The ADU shall not be used as a short-term rental, bed and
breakfast, or for any other use not allowed by the zoning ordinance.
         (d)   The city reserves the right to revoke any ADU approval if it is
found to violate the provisions of this chapter. If necessary, the city shall
further have the right to require the removal of the ADU from the property,
including but not limited to the removal of any facilities that would qualify
it to be used as a legal dwelling unit.
      (6)   General development standards.
         (a)   The minimum size of all ADUs shall be 300 square feet.
         (b)   The maximum size of all ADUs shall be 864 square feet or 50% of
the foundation area of the primary dwelling on the same lot, whichever is less.
However, in no case shall more than 25% of the rear yard be occupied by
accessory buildings, including ADUs.
         (c)   Detached and garage ADUs shall be located in the rear yard only
and shall count toward the maximum number of allowable accessory buildings as
set forth in Table 5.70-1 of this zoning ordinance.
         (d)   The maximum height for a garage ADU located above a detached
garage shall be 25 feet and two stories. The maximum height for all other
garage and detached ADUs shall be 14 feet and one story. However, in no case
shall the height of an ADU be greater than that of the principal dwelling unit.
         (e)   The minimum overall lot area for developing detached and garage
ADUs shall be as follows:
            1.   R-1 District: 12,000 square feet.
            2.   R-2 District: 7,200 square feet.
            3.   R-3 and MFR Districts: 5,000 square feet.
         (f)   Setbacks for detached and garage ADUs shall be as follows:
            1.   Front yard: not permitted.
            2.   Side and rear yard: equal to the minimum required side yard
setback for the underlying zoning district.
            3.   Street side yard: equal to the minimum required street side
yard for the underlying zoning district, but in no case closer to the street
than the principal building.
            4.   Principal building: ten feet.
            5.   All other accessory buildings on the lot: six feet.
         (g)   In addition to the required off-street parking for the primary
residence, one additional off-street parking space shall be provided for all
ADUs.
      (7)   General design standards.
         (a)   For ADUs located above the main floor of an accessory building,
no windows taller than 12 feet in height shall be located on the wall of an ADU
that faces the rear lot line or nearest side lot line. To promote privacy, the
sill height of all such windows shall be a minimum of six feet above the floor
level. Walls that are at least 25 feet away from the rear or nearest side lot
line are exempt from this requirement.
         (b)   Detached ADUs on the ground floor shall be screened by privacy
fencing or min. six feet height landscaping sufficient to provide a visual
buffer.
         (c)   For sound abatement purposes, detached and garage ADUs shall
incorporate sound-insulating materials as specified in the Michigan Residential
Code and Michigan Building Code as relevant.
         (d)   Outside access to an attached or interior ADU shall not be
visible from any abutting street.
         (e)   The following design elements shall be prohibited except for
those existing at the time of the passage of this division:
            1.   Exterior stairs used to access an ADU that is not on the main
level of the building.
            2.   Balconies and decks located above the floor level of the main
floor.
         (f)   Where an existing building is enlarged to house an ADU, the
addition shall be architecturally complimentary with the existing building,
including, but not limited to, siding, roofing materials, windows, and building
trim materials.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 10-2-2015; Ord. effective 3-30-2023;
Ord. effective 2-19-2024)
§ 5.71 DINING AND ENTERTAINMENT USES.
   (A)   Brew pub.
      (1)   Revenue from food sales shall constitute more than 50% of the total
business revenues.
      (2)   No more than 50% of the total gross floor area of the establishment
shall be used for the brewery function including, but not limited to, the brew
house, boiling and water treatment areas, bottling and kegging lines, malt
milling and storage, fermentation tanks, conditioning tanks and serving tanks.
      (3)   Except as otherwise specifically permitted by this division (A),
retail carryout of beer shall not be permitted.
      (4)   Brew pubs may sell beer in keg containers larger than a U.S. gallon
(3,785 ml/128 U.S. fluid ounces) only for the following purposes and in the
following amounts:
         (a)   An unlimited number of kegs for special events, the primary
purpose of which is the exposition of beers brewed by brew pubs and micro
breweries, which include the participation of at least three such brewers; and
         (b)   An unlimited number of kegs for city co-sponsored events where
the purpose of the event is not for commercial profit and where the beer is
dispensed by employees of the brew pub and not wholesaled to the event co-
sponsors.
      (5)   All mechanical equipment visible from the street (excluding
alleys), an adjacent residential use or residential zoning district shall be
screened using architectural features consistent with the principal structure.
      (6)   Loading bays shall not face toward any street, excluding alleys.
      (7)   Loading bays facing an adjacent residential use or residential
zoning district, shall have the doors closed at all times, except during the
movement of raw materials, other supplies and finished products into and out of
the building.
      (8)   Loading and unloading of materials and equipment shall be permitted
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
      (9)   Outdoor storage shall not be allowed. This prohibition includes the
use of portable storage units, cargo containers and tractor trailers.
   (B)   Micro brewery.
      (1)   The micro brewery shall produce no more than 15,000 barrels
(465,000 U.S. gallons/17,602.16 hectoliters) of beer per year.
      (2)   This use shall be permitted only in conjunction with a restaurant,
in accordance with the following:
         (a)   No more than 75% of the total gross floor space of the
establishment shall be used for the brewery function, including, but not
limited to, the brew house, boiling and water treatment areas, bottling and
kegging lines, malt milling and storage, fermentation tanks, conditioning tanks
and serving tanks;
         (b)   The facade of any accessory use(s) shall be oriented toward the
street, excluding alleys, and, if located in a multi-tenant building, to the
common space where the public can access the use; and
         (c)   Pedestrian connections shall be provided between the public
sidewalks and the primary entrance(s) to any accessory use(s).
      (3)   All mechanical equipment visible from the street (excluding
alleys), an adjacent residential use or residential zoning district, shall be
screened using architectural features consistent with the principal structure.
      (4)   Access and loading bays are discouraged from facing toward any
street, excluding alleys.
      (5)   Access and loading bays facing any street, adjacent residential use
or residential zoning district, shall have the doors closed at all times,
except during the movement of raw materials, other supplies and finished
products into and out of the building.
      (6)   Loading and unloading materials and equipment shall be permitted
only between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
      (7)   Outdoor storage shall not be allowed, including the use of portable
storage units, cargo containers and tractor trailers.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.72 OFFICE USES.
   (A)   Professional offices on the ground floor. In approving office use on
the ground floor, the following standards are met.
      (1)   Professional offices on the ground floor of a commercial building
are subject to the off-street parking requirements in Article 9 of this
chapter; provided, the required parking may be permitted to be located off site
if the following requirements are met:
         (a)   The required parking spaces are located off-street within 300
feet of the entrance to the office;
         (b)   The parking area meets all applicable requirements of this
chapter for off-street parking;
         (c)   The owner provides written assurance that the spaces will be
permanently available; and
         (d)   A maintenance agreement is provided to ensure the continued
upkeep of the parking area.
      (2)   If a building has both retail/service/ entertainment uses and
office uses on the ground floor, the retail/service/entertainment use(s) shall
be located in the storefront, adjacent to the public sidewalk; however, a
single entry door in the façade that leads to the office use shall be
permitted.
      (3)   The structure containing the office use shall maintain a retail
character, with ground floor display windows, facades, signs and lighting
similar in nature to and compatible with that provided by retail uses.
         (a)   For existing structures, existing windows, doors or other wall
openings shall not be eliminated or enclosed, unless the Planning Commission
finds that any eliminated windows/doors are compensated by new windows, doors
or other wall openings and that the retail character and nature of the building
is retained.
         (b)   For new structures, any ground floor wall facing a street shall
have transparent areas, equal to at least 70% of its portion of the façade,
between one and eight feet from the ground. Walls on upper floors facing a
street shall have transparent areas equal to at least 35% of its portion of the
façade.
         (c)   Glass shall be clear or lightly tinted only. Opaque applications
shall not be applied to the glass surface, except for window signs as permitted
in
Chapter 81, Signs.
   (B)   Serviced offices (drop-in office). Parking shall be provided at the
ratio required for professional offices.
   (C)   Product showrooms and similar mixed office with product display uses.
      (1)   Must be open during regular business hours, at a minimum five days
a week for at least five continuous hours a day.
      (2)   Must allow walk-in customers (not just by appointment).
      (3)   A minimum of 70% of the street facing façade on the ground level
must contain display windows that allow outside pedestrians to see into the
building.
      (4)   If associated fleet/service vehicles are to be parked onsite, they
must either be parked inside a building or must be screened so that they are
not visible from the street right-of-way.
      (5)   The square footage of office space must be equal to or lesser than
the square footage of display and storage areas.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 9-14-2019)
§ 5.73 PUBLIC AND INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   (A)   Churches and places of worship. The purpose of these requirements is
to integrate churches into the fabric of the city’s neighborhoods, but not at
the expense of the residential character of those areas. Therefore, the scale
of the church, parking lots and related uses shall be compatible with abutting
homes and in character with the surrounding neighborhood.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be one acre.
      (2)   The minimum lot width shall be 150 feet.
      (3)   At least one property line shall abut and have direct access to an
arterial or collector street.
      (4)   To the extent possible, shared parking arrangements should be
employed with other uses in the vicinity, consistent with §
5.78(B)(1) to minimize the number of spaces required on the church property.
   (B)   Convalescent and nursing homes.
      (1)   The required minimum lot size shall be determined by multiplying
the number of persons comprising the approved resident capacity of the facility
by 2,500 square feet; provided, the lot shall be no less than two acres in any
event.
      (2)   Parking shall be provided at a ratio of one space per employee,
plus one space for each resident (based on approved capacity).
      (3)   The building shall be at least 25 feet from all side and rear
property lines for one story buildings and 40 feet for all buildings or
portions of buildings two or more stories in height.
      (4)   The facility shall be licensed in accordance with all applicable
requirements of the state.
   (C)   Private or parochial school. The purpose of these requirements is to
integrate schools into the fabric of the city’s neighborhoods, but not at the
expense of the residential character of those areas. Therefore, the scale of
the school, parking lots and related uses shall be compatible with abutting
homes and in character with the surrounding neighborhood.
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be one acre.
      (2)   The minimum lot width shall be 150 feet.
      (3)   At least one property line shall abut and have direct access to an
arterial or collector street.
      (4)   All buildings, parking areas and outdoor activity areas (ball
fields, playgrounds, bleachers and the like) shall be set back a minimum of 40
feet from any side or rear property line abutting a residential district.
      (5)   A six-foot high fence shall be constructed along any side or rear
property line abutting a residential district.
      (6)   Lighting for night time activity areas shall be directed and
shielded so the light source is not visible from any residential use within 150
feet of the light fixture. All lighting, including building and security
lighting, shall be located to prevent glare on adjacent properties and streets.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.74 RESIDENTIAL USES.
   (A)   Independent and assisted living.
      (1)   The minimum required lot size shall be five acres or 2,500 square
feet per dwelling unit, whichever is greater.
      (2)   Parking shall be provided at a ratio of one space per employee,
plus one space per dwelling unit.
      (3)   The building shall be at least 25 feet from all side and rear
property lines for one story buildings and 40 feet for all buildings or
portions of buildings two or more stories in height. A front setback of at
least 25 feet shall be provided.
   (B)   Residential dwellings above the ground floor in a commercial building.
Nonresidential uses, including storage, shall not be located on the same floor
as a dwelling unit.
   (C)   Residential dwellings on the ground floor in a commercial building.
      (1)   Dwelling units shall not occupy any space along the front of a
commercial building, except for the entry door and hallway leading towards
dwelling.
      (2)   The entire width of the building, except for the entry door and
associated hallway of a dwelling, along any street frontage must be occupied by
a nonresidential use otherwise allowed in the C-1 District.
   (D)   Hotels and bed and breakfast establishments. A parking plan must be
submitted with the applicant’s site plan during the special land use approval
process. This parking plan shall include at the minimum at least one dedicated
parking spot for 75% of the available rooms.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 9-14-2019)
§ 5.75 OTHER USES.
   (A)   Similar uses. Since every potential use cannot be addressed in this
chapter, each district provides for similar uses, referencing this section. All
applications for a use not specifically listed in any zoning district shall be
submitted to the Director of Public Works for review and decision, based on the
following standards.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works shall find that the proposed use is
not listed as a named permitted or special land use in any zoning district.
      (2)   If the use is not addressed in any district, the Director of Public
Works shall review the uses listed as permitted and special land uses in the
zoning district in which the use is proposed and determine if a use listed in
the district closely resembles the proposed use. This determination shall be
based upon criteria such as potential impact on properly values, nature of use,
traffic generated, aesthetics, noise, vibration, dust, smoke, odor, glare and
other objectionable impacts on the health, safety and welfare in the city.
      (3)   If a use is determined to be similar to a named use within the
district, the proposed use shall comply with any specific standards or other
ordinance requirements that apply to the named use. If the named use is a
special land use, the similar use may only be approved according to the
requirements of §
5.94.
      (4)   The Director of Public Works may, at his or her discretion, submit
the proposed use to the Planning Commission for determination of the
appropriateness of the use.
      (5)   Where the Director of Public Works or Planning Commission
determines a proposed use is not similar to any named use addressed within the
district, the applicant may petition for an amendment to this chapter.
      (6)   The determination as to whether a proposed use is similar in nature
and class to another named permitted or special land use within a district
shall be considered as an interpretation of the use regulations, and not as a
use variance; this determination may be appealed as provided in Article XII.
      (7)   Upon determination by the Director of Public Works or Planning
Commission that a use is similar to a named use, the Director of Public Works
shall initiate an amendment to this chapter to list the similar use in the
schedule of uses for the zoning district.
   (B)   Temporary storage units.
      (1)   Registration of temporary storage units.
         (a)   Prior to or within 72 hours of the initial delivery of a
temporary storage unit or units, the property owner, occupant of the premises
(if not the owner) or storage unit supplier shall register the placement of the
storage unit with the Director of Public Works; provided, however, such
registration shall not be required if the storage unit is removed within 72
hours of its delivery.
         (b)   Registration requires the following:
            1.   Completing the required application form and providing the
property owner’s or occupant’s name (if not the owner), number and size of the
temporary storage units to be registered, the address at which the storage unit
(s) will be placed, delivery date, removal date and a sketch illustrating the
location and placement of the storage unit(s); and
            2.   Written approval of the application by the Director of Public
Works.
         (c)   The effective date of the registration shall be the date of the
Director of Public Works approval.
      (2)   Placement requirements.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to place or permit the placement of a
temporary storage unit on property located within the city unless it is
registered with the Director of Public Works, as required in division (B)(1)
above.
         (b)   Temporary storage units shall only be placed upon or within a
driveway or a parking area or, if access exists at the side or rear of the lot,
the side or rear yard.
         (c)   No temporary storage unit shall be placed upon or within public
property or a public place, including, without limitation, a street, sidewalk
or outlawn.
         (d)   The temporary storage unit shall not be located at the
registered address for more than 30 consecutive days, including the days of
delivery and removal.
         (e)   Each lot is limited to a maximum of one registration per six-
month period.
         (f)   The temporary storage unit shall not exceed eight feet in
height, eight feet in width and 16 feet in length.
         (g)   The temporary storage unit shall be secured in a manner that
does not endanger the safety of persons or property in the vicinity of the
unit.
         (h)   The temporary storage unit shall be maintained in good
condition, free from evidence of deterioration, weathering, discoloration,
graffiti, rust, ripping, tearing or other holes or breaks at all times.
         (i)   No temporary storage unit shall be used for human occupancy or
to store solid waste, construction debris, demolition debris, business
inventory, commercial goods, goods for property other than the property where
the storage unit is located or any other illegal or hazardous material. Upon
reasonable notice, the city may inspect the contents of any temporary storage
unit at any reasonable time to ensure compliance with these requirements.
         (j)   Any temporary storage unit which is not removed a the end of the
time for which it may lawfully remain in place, may be removed by the city
immediately, without notice, and the cost of such removal may be assessed
against the property on which the unit was located.
         (k)   A sign identifying the storage unit supplier, mounted on the
temporary storage unit, shall not require a sign permit; provided, the storage
unit is in compliance with this §
5.76(B) and all other applicable ordinances.
   (C)   Wind energy conversion systems. In addition to the uses specified
elsewhere in this section, this subsection establishes on-site service wind
energy conversion systems (WECS) as a special use in the R- 1 and R-2 Districts
and provides standards for the installation and operation of a WECS within the
city.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ON-SITE SERVICE WECS. A WECS placed upon a lot or parcel with the
primary intent to service the energy needs of the structures and uses on the
same lot or parcel.
         WECS HEIGHT. The distance measured between the ground (at normal
grade) and the highest point of a WECS (for a horizontal axis WECS, the
measurement shall be to the tip of the rotor blade when the blade is in the
full vertical position). The height of a building-mounted WECS shall be
measured from the grade of the building upon which it is attached.
         WIND ENERGY CONVERSION SYSTEM (WECS). A combination of:
            1.   A surface area capable of being set into motion by the wind
(typically a blade, rotor or similar device), either variable or fixed, for
utilizing the wind for electrical power;
            2.   A shaft, gearing, belt or coupling that converts the movement
of the surface area into a form suitable for driving a generator, alternator or
other electricity-producing device;
            3.   The generator, alternator or other device to convert the
mechanical energy of the surface area into electrical energy, generally housed
in a nacelle;
            4.   The tower, pylon, building mount or other structure upon which
any, all or some combination of the above are mounted;
            5.   Other components not listed above but associated with the
normal construction, operation and maintenance of a WECS; and
            6.   A WECS may have a horizontal axis, with a rotor that spins
perpendicular to the ground, or a vertical axis, with a rotor that spins
parallel to the ground.
      (2)   Review requirements.
         (a)   An on-site service WECS shall be allowed as a special land use
in the R-1 and R-2 Residential Districts, subject to the requirements of this
section.
         (b)   An application and site plan shall include the following
information:
            1.   Name of applicant, name of site plan preparer, name of WECS
manufacturer and name of WECS installer, with contact information;
            2.   A scaled drawing of the property, showing dimensions of all
property lines and the area of the lot in square feet;
            3.   Location and setback of all structures on the site, including
any overhead utility lines;
            4.   Proposed location of the WECS on the building;
            5.   Setbacks of the WECS, in accordance with the setback
requirements of this section, from property lines;
            6.   A scaled elevation drawing of the WECS installation (including
the building) showing WECS height, rotor diameter and all other applicable
elements to confirm conformance with the requirements of this section; and
            7.   Certification that the WECS system and mount meet all
applicable standards.
      (3)   General requirements.
         (a)   Only building-mounted on-site service WECS shall be allowed.
         (b)   Power rating of the WECS turbine shall not be greater than 20
kW.
         (c)   The WECS shall provide energy only to the structures and uses on
the same property upon which the WECS is located and must be owned or leased by
the owner of the same property; however, this does not prevent the distribution
to the local utility company, through net metering, of any power that is
generated beyond the needs of the structures or uses on the property.
         (d)   No sound attributed to the WECS in excess of 35 dBA shall be
discernible at the property line.
         (e)   There shall be no signs on the WECS other than the name of the
manufacturer and applicable safety information. There shall be no lighting on
or directed to the WECS.
         (f)   The WECS shall be painted in a neutral matte color, or may be
painted in similar colors to those on the building.
         (g)   A WECS shall have an automatic braking, governing or feathering
system to prevent uncontrolled rotation or over speeding. Emergency shut-off
information shall be in a location easily accessible and viewable.
         (h)   A WECS shall be designed to prevent unauthorized access.
         (i)   A WECS shall not be installed in any location where its
proximity to existing fixed broadcast, re-transmission or reception antenna for
radio, television or wireless phone or personal communication systems would
produce electromagnetic interference with signal transmission or reception.
         (j)   A WECS shall be removed when the device or equipment is no
longer operating or when it has been abandoned. A WECS shall be deemed
abandoned when it has not produced electrical energy for six consecutive
months.
         (k)   An existing and approved WECS may be repaired and maintained;
however, a WECS may only be replaced with a new or replacement WECS upon
approval of the Director of Public Works, provided that the new WECS is of the
same or more restrictive height, rotor diameter, setback and the like as the
WECS it replaces. For the purposes of this division (C)(3)(k), a NEW OR
REPLACEMENT WECS shall mean all of the WECS, excluding the tower or support
structure.
      (4)   Site and location requirements.
         (a)   Number. There may be more than one building mounted on-site
service WECS on a single property, provided that each individual WECS meets all
of the requirements in this section, and each WECS shall be separated from any
other WECS no less than ten feet, measured between the maximum extension of the
rotors.
         (b)   Attachment.
            1.   A building mounted WECS shall be attached to the principal
structure. The WECS shall not be mounted to the vertical face of a gable end,
dormer or other facade visible from the street, or visible from the lakeside on
a waterfront lot, other than a roof surface.
            2.   To the greatest degree possible, the WECS shall be mounted to
the building in the least visible location from the street, or from the
lakeside of any waterfront lot.
         (c)   Setback. The WECS shall be mounted so that it is set back from
adjoining property lines a distance equal to the WECS height. The setback shall
be measured from the property line (considered as a plane extending from the
ground to the highest point of the WECS) to the closest extension of the rotor
relative to the property line. (See graphic.)
         (d)   WECS height. The WECS height shall be limited by available
setbacks as required in division (C)(4)(c) above; however, no WECS shall exceed
the maximum permitted height for principal buildings in the district, plus 20
feet; nor shall any WECS extend more than 20 feet above the highest point on
the roof of the building upon which it is mounted.
         (e)   Rotor diameter. The diameter of the rotor shall not exceed 15
feet.
      (5)   Discretionary conditions. The City Commission may impose other
terms and conditions regulating the construction, installation, use,
maintenance, repair and removal of any WECS. Such other terms and conditions
may include, but are not limited to, the following:
         (a)   The preservation of existing trees and other existing vegetation
not required to be removed for installation of a WECS;
         (b)   The reasonable replacement of trees or other vegetation removed
or destroyed during the construction or installation of a WECS;
         (c)   Altering the location of the WECS to prevent impacts on
neighboring properties, provided that all other requirements of this section
are met; and
         (d)   Requiring a performance bond or letter of credit, in favor of
the city, and conditioned upon the timely and faithful performance of all
required conditions of the special land use, including, but not limited to, the
timely and complete removal of a WECS, regulated under the terms of this
section, when required. Such performance bond or letter of credit shall remain
in effect during and after the operation of a WECS until its operations have
ceased and it has been removed.
   (D)   Wireless telecommunications facilities.
      (1)   (a)   The application for special use approval for a wireless
telecommunications tower shall be submitted jointly by the owner/operator of
the tower and the owner of the property on which the tower is to be located.
         (b)   In addition to the application submittal requirements specified
in §
5.94, a visual impact analysis shall be submitted which includes graphic
depictions of the anticipated appearance of the tower from important vantage
points in the surrounding area.
         (c)   Methods used in preparing the analysis shall be reviewed and
approved by the Director of Public Works.
      (2)   A wireless communications tower shall be exempt from building
height limitations; provided, however, that the tower height shall be no higher
than the minimum height necessary to serve its intended function and, in no
case shall exceed 199 feet.
      (3)   If the height required for the tower to serve its intended function
decreases from the installed height, due to technological advancement,
additional tower installations at other locations or other factors, the tower
shall be lowered to such decreased minimum height.
      (4)   The wireless communication tower shall be set back from all
property lines a distance equal to the height of the tower, including antennas.
      (5)   It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to demonstrate to
the satisfaction of the City Commission that it is not feasible to provide
equivalent service by locating the antenna on an existing tower or other
existing structure in the city.
      (6)   The tower shall not have an adverse impact on significant views
from properties within one-quarter mile of the tower site. For purposes of this
division (D), a SIGNIFICANT VIEW is defined as a view from a residential
property that has one or more of the following characteristics:
         (a)   A view from a residence and its immediate perimeter which
encompasses landscape features substantially free of human-made alteration, as
a result of the unique topographic siting of the home;
         (b)   A view which is a dominant feature of a residential building
site and which contributes significantly to its value, as evidenced by the
siting of a home on the property, the size, number and orientation of windows
on the home, and the location and orientation of improved outdoor spaces, such
as patios and decks, on the home site; or
         (c)   The fact that the proposed tower may be visible from a residence
shall not alone be considered an adverse impact on a significant view.
      (7)   (a)   The tower and any ancillary building housing equipment needed
for operation of the tower shall be of a size, type, color and exterior
materials that are aesthetically and architecturally compatible with the
surrounding area, and as unobtrusive as possible.
         (b)   Landscape screening may be required by the City Commission to
accomplish screening of equipment buildings.
      (8)   (a)   The applicant shall provide documentation of any lighting to
be installed on the tower.
         (b)   If tower lighting is required or proposed, the tower location
may not be approved unless the City Commission determines that it will not have
a significant adverse impact on properties and residents of the surrounding
area.
      (9)   The tower shall be designed to accommodate, and the owner/operator
of the tower shall agree to permit, use of the tower by other communications
services providers, including local government agencies, on reasonable terms,
so long as such use does not conflict with the owner/operator’s use of the
tower.
      (10)   (a)   If, for any reason, the tower ceases operation or is
abandoned, the city may order its removal from the site by the owner of the
tower and/or the owner of the property on which the tower is located.
         (b)   The tower shall be removed within 90 days of the date of such
notification. If the tower is not removed within 90 days of notification by the
city, the city may arrange for the removal of the tower and shall bill the cost
of removal, plus 10% of the cost, to the owner of the tower and the owner of
the property on which the tower is located.
      (11)   (a)   These parties shall be jointly liable for removal of the
tower.
         (b)   If the charges are not paid within 30 days after billing, they
shall be collected as a single lot assessment in accordance with the City
Charter and §
5.117 of this code.
   (E)   Small cell wireless facilities.
      (1)   General.
         (a)   The collocation of a small cell wireless facility and associated
support structure within a public right of way (“ROW” is not subject to zoning
reviews or approvals under this chapter to the extent exempt from such reviews
under Act 365 of 2018, as amended (“Act 365”), and Act 366 of 2018, as amended
(“Act 366”). In such case, a utility pole in the ROW may not exceed 40 feet
above ground level without special land use approval (pursuant to division (E)
(5) hereof) and a small cell wireless facility in the ROW shall not extend more
than five feet above a utility pole or wireless support structure on which the
small cell wireless facility is collocated.
         (b)   Collocation of a small cell wireless facility or installation of
an associated support structure shall require that the wireless provider apply
for and obtain a permit from the city consistent with the city code.
         (c)   Small cell wireless facilities (as defined below) and associated
wireless support structures not exempt from zoning reviews are only permitted
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and Act 365, and upon
application for and receipt from the city of a permit consistent with the city
code.
   2.   Definitions. For the purposes of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements would fit within an imaginary
enclosure of not more than six cubic feet.
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, and
vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT. The set of equipment and network
components used in the provision of wireless communication services, including,
but not limited to, antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, equipment
shelters, cabinets, emergency generators, power supply cables, coaxial and
fiber optic cables, but excluding wireless communications support structures.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A structure that is designed
to support, or is capable of supporting, wireless communications equipment. A
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SUPPORT STRUCTURE may include a monopole, lattice
tower, guyed tower, water tower, utility pole or building.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure designed to support
or capable of supporting small cell wireless facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT
STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole (as defined in Act 365).
      (3)   Wireless communications equipment.
         (a)   Wireless communications equipment (but not a wireless
communications support structure) is a permitted use and allowed in all zoning
districts. Wireless communications equipment does not have to be related to the
principal use of the site. Wireless communications equipment is not subject to
zoning review and special land use approval if all of the following
requirements are met:
            1.   The wireless communications equipment will be collocated on an
existing wireless communications support structure or in an existing equipment
compound.
            2.   The existing wireless communications support structure or
existing equipment compound is in compliance with this chapter or was approved
by the City Commission.
            3.   The proposed collocation will not do any of the following:
               A.    Increase the overall height of the wireless communications
support structure by more than 20 feet or 10% of its original height, whichever
is greater.
               B.    Increase the width of the wireless communications support
structure by more than the minimum necessary to permit collocation.
               C.    Increase the area of the existing equipment compound to
greater than 2,500 square feet.
            4.   The proposed collocation complies with the terms and
conditions of any previous final approval of the wireless communications
support structure or equipment compound by the City Commission.
         (b)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, wireless communications equipment
otherwise exempt hereunder must still comply with all other applicable city
codes, including a determination by the building inspection that the
collocation will not adversely impact the structure to which it is attached.
         (c)   A collocation that meets the requirements of divisions (E)(3)
(a)1. and 2. , above, but which does not meet divisions (E)(3)(a)3. or 4., is
subject to special land use review by the City Commission in accordance with
the provisions hereof, §
5.75(D) and Article XI of this chapter, and Section 514 of Act 366, M.C.L.A. §
125.3514(2) through (6). Any equipment placed in a residential district shall
not be erected at a height that requires lighting. Any equipment placed
adjacent to a residential district or use that requires lighting shall be a
continuous red beacon at night.
      4.   Special land use standards—Wireless communications equipment and
wireless communications support structures.
         (a)   A wireless communications support structure must be installed on
a lawful lot for the zoning district in which it is located, either as a
principal use, or as an accessory use related to the principal use.
         (b)   Wireless communication equipment that is not attached to an
existing structure (thus requiring the installation of a new wireless
communications support structure) or that is not exempt under §
5.75(E)(3) hereof, is subject to special land use review consistent with §
5.75(D) and Article XI of this chapter; provided, however, that in the event of
conflict between these provisions and Act 366, the provisions of Act 366 shall
control. Processing of a special land use application is subject to the
following requirements:
            1.   Within 14 business days after receiving an application under
this section, the City Commission shall notify the applicant in writing whether
the application is complete. The notice tolls the running of the 14-business-
day period.
            2.   The running of the time period tolled under division (E)(4)
(a)1. resumes when the applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to
the City Commission’s notice of incompleteness.
            3.   If the application is for a collocation of wireless
communications equipment that satisfies the requirements of divisions (E)(3)
(a)1. and 2. hereof, but does not satisfy the requirements of divisions (E)(3)
(a)3. and 4. hereof, then the City Commission shall approve or deny the
application and notify the applicant in writing within 60 days after an
application is deemed complete by the City Commission.
            4.   If the application is for a new wireless communications
support structure and accompanying wireless communications equipment, then the
City Commission shall approve or deny the application and notify the applicant
in writing within 90 days after an application is deemed complete by the City
Commission.
            5.   The fee for zoning review of a special land use and associated
site plan shall be as established by the City Commission by resolution from
time to time, but shall not exceed the lesser of (i) the City Commission’s
actual, reasonable costs to review and process the special land use
application, or (ii) $1,000.
         (c)   Small cell wireless facilities and wireless support structures
not exempt under Act 365 shall be subject to special land use approval pursuant
to §
5.75(E)(5) hereof.
      (5)   Special land use standards for non-exempt small cell wireless
facilities. The modification of existing or installation of new small cell
wireless facilities or the modification of existing or installation of new
wireless support structures used for such small cell wireless facilities that
are not exempt from zoning review in accordance with the Act 365 shall be
subject to special land use review and approval in accordance with the
following procedures and standards:
         (a)   The processing of a special land use application is subject to
all of the following requirements:
            1.   Within 30 days after receiving an application under this
division (F)(5), the City Commission shall notify the applicant in writing
whether the application is complete. The notice tolls the running of the 30-day
period.
            2.   The running of the time period tolled under division (F)(5)
(a)1. resumes when the applicant makes a supplemental submission in response to
the City Commission’s notice of incompleteness.
            3.   The City Commission shall approve or deny the application and
notify the applicant in writing within 90 days after an application for a
modification of a wireless support structure or installation of a small cell
wireless facility is received or 150 days after an application for a new
wireless support structure is received. The time period for approval may be
extended by mutual agreement between the applicant and the City Commission.
         (b)   The City Commission shall base its review of the special land
use request on the standards contained in §
5.94 and Article XI of this chapter; provided, however, that a denial shall
comply with all of the following:
            1.   The denial is supported by substantial evidence contained in a
written record that is publicly released contemporaneously.
            2.   There is a reasonable basis for the denial.
            3.   The denial would not discriminate against the applicant with
respect to the placement of the facilities of other wireless providers.
         (c)   In addition to the provisions set forth in §
5.94 and Article XI of this chapter, in the City Commission’s review:
            1.   An applicant’s business decision on the type and location of
small cell wireless facilities, wireless support structures, or technology to
be used is presumed to be reasonable. This presumption does not apply with
respect to the height of wireless facilities or wireless support structures.
            2.   An applicant shall not be required to submit information about
its business decisions with respect to any of the following:
               A.   The need for a wireless support structure or small cell
wireless facilities.
               B.   The applicant’s service, customer demand for the service,
or the quality of service.
            3.   The City Commission may impose reasonable requirements
regarding the appearance of facilities, including those relating to materials
used or arranging, screening, or landscaping.
            4.   The City Commission may impose spacing, setback, and fall zone
requirements substantially similar to spacing, setback, and fall zone
requirements imposed on other types of commercial structures of a similar
height in a similar location.
         (d)   The fee for zoning review of a special land use and associated
site plan shall be as established by the City Commission by resolution from
time to time, but shall not exceed (i) $500 for a new small cell wireless
facility or modification to an existing small cell wireless facility, and (ii)
$1,000 for a new wireless support structure or a modification to an existing
wireless support structure.
         (e)   Within one year after a zoning approval is granted, a small cell
wireless provider shall commence construction of the approved structure or
facilities that are to be operational for use by a wireless services provider,
unless the City Commission and the applicant agree to extend this period or the
delay is caused by a lack of commercial power or communications facilities at
the site. If the wireless provider fails to commence the construction of the
approved structure or facilities within the time required the zoning approval
is void.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
ARTICLE IX. OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 5.76 OFF-STREET PARKING, LOADING, ACCESS AND CIRCULATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as may be exempted below, there shall be provided in all
districts, at the time of erection or enlargement of any main building or
structure, vehicular off-street parking space, with unrestricted access to all
spaces, in accordance with the requirements of this article.
   (B)   (1)   If the computation of the minimum number of parking spaces
results in a fraction, any fractional amount of 0.5 or greater shall be rounded
up to the next whole number.
      (2)   All other fractional results shall be rounded down to the previous
whole number.
   (C)   (1)   For any use not specifically listed, the Director of Public
Works shall determine if the use is similar to any listed uses, and shall apply
that parking requirement.
      (2)   If the use is not similar to any listed uses, the Planning
Commission shall determine a reasonable parking space requirement, based upon a
parking generation study provided by the applicant.
      (3)   The Planning Commission, in reviewing this study, may require it to
be reviewed by a traffic engineer, transportation planner or similar
professional prior to making a decision.
   (D)   Required parking shall be installed prior to issuance of a certificate
of occupancy.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.77 MINIMUM PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Residential and institutional uses. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces by type of use shall be determined in accordance with the
Residential and Institutional Parking Space Requirements Table below.
Residential and Institutional Parking Space Requirements
Use Minimum Number of Parking Spaces Per Unit of Measurement
Residential and Institutional Parking Space Requirements
Use                                    Minimum Number of Parking Spaces Per
                                       Unit of Measurement
Institutional Uses
Churches and similar places of worship One space for each three seats or six
                                       feet of pews in the main unit of worship
                                       Two for each one inpatient bed, plus
                                       four spaces per each 1,000 square feet
Hospitals                              of usable floor area dedicated to
                                       administrative offices, pharmacies,
                                       medical clinics and similar uses
Private and parochial elementary and   One space for each teacher, employee or
junior high schools                    administrator
Private and parochial senior high      One space for each teacher, employee or
schools                                administrator, and one space for each
                                       ten students
Residential Uses
Single-family residential uses         Two spaces per dwelling unit
                                       Efficiency, studio, and one-bedroom
                                       units: 1.1 parking spaces per dwelling
Two family and multiple family         unit
residential uses                       Two-bedroom units: 1.4 parking spaces
                                       per dwelling unit
                                       Units with more than two bedrooms: 1.8
                                       parking spaces per dwelling unit
 
      (1)   No person shall park a vehicle, as defined in § 79 of the state’s
Vehicle Code (Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to 257.923), in
the front yard of any residential lot except on an improved driveway. For
purposes of this section, IMPROVED DRIVEWAY shall mean a driveway constructed
of concrete, asphalt or a permeable surface approved by the Director of Public
Works. No improved driveway shall occupy more than 40% of the front yard.
      (2)   The following requirements shall apply to all parking areas located
within residential zones, except for parking spaces that service one- and two-
family dwellings.
         (a)   Parking areas shall conform to the front yard setback
requirements of the residential zone in which it is located; provided, where a
setback line has been established by existing residential buildings occupying
50% or more of the frontage within the same block, such established setback
shall apply.
         (b)   Parking areas shall have a minimum side yard greenbelt of ten
feet on any side that is adjacent to property in single-family residential
districts. All required front and side yards shall be planted and landscaped
and properly maintained to screen the adjoining properties. These parking areas
shall be enclosed by a fence or wall six feet in height sufficient to screen
the parking lot from adjoining residential areas.
         (c)   Parking areas shall be used solely for the parking of passenger
automobiles and other vehicles of less than 7,000 pounds gross vehicle weight.
No commercial repair work or services or storage of any kind shall be conducted
on such parking lot.
         (d)   No sign, other than entrance, exit and condition of use signs
shall be maintained; all signs shall conform to the provisions of Chapter 81,
Signs, of the city code.
         (e)   Where the parking lot access adjoins a commercial zone, access
shall be from the street on which the commercial zoned property has frontage,
wherever practical, and shall be at least 20 feet from any adjacent property
line in a R-1 District and five feet from any adjacent property in a R-
2 District.
   (B)   Business uses. Except as otherwise modified or exempted in §
5.78, uses in the C-1 Commercial District shall comply with the parking space
requirements in the C-1 District Parking Space Requirements Table below.
C-1 District Parking Space Requirements
Use Required Parking Spaces
C-1 District Parking Space Requirements
Use                                      Required Parking Spaces
                                         One space for each 200 square feet of
Banks                                    usable floor area, including employee
                                         work space
Beauty parlor or barber shop             Two spaces for each beauty or barber
                                         shop chair
Dry cleaners, laundries and drop-off     One space for each 500 square feet of
stations                                 usable floor area
                                         One space for each 800 square feet of
Furniture and appliance, household       usable floor area. For floor area used
equipment, repair shops, showroom of a   in processing, one additional space
decorator or similar trade               shall be provided for each two
                                         processing employees
                                         One space for each 200 square feet of
Health and fitness clubs, dance studios  usable floor area, plus one space per
or other similar uses                    employee, plus two spaces for each
                                         indoor tennis or racquetball court
Offices for business, professional or    One space for each 330 square feet of
service uses, except medical             usable floor area
Offices for doctors, dentists or similar One space for each 200 square feet of
medical professions                      usable floor area
Permitted residential uses               One and one-half spaces per dwelling
                                         unit
Personal and business service            One space for each 300 square feet of
establishments except as otherwise       usable floor area
specified in this table
Restaurants                              One space for each 100 square feet of
                                         usable floor area
Retail stores except as otherwise        One space for each 300 square feet of
specified in this table                  usable floor area
Supermarkets/grocery stores/convenience  One space for each 250 square feet of
stores and other retail food sales       usable floor area
 
      (1)   Every parcel of land used as a community or private parking area in
the C-1 zone shall be developed and maintained in accordance with the following
requirements.
         (a)   Off-street parking areas shall be effectively screened on any
side adjoining or facing a residential zone district or institutional use by a
solid, uniformly painted fence or wall not less than four nor more than six
feet in height, maintained in good condition; provided, where the adjacent
owners agree in writing, a screening of hedge or other natural landscaping may
be substituted for the required fence or wall. Fences or hedges adjacent to
parking spaces shall be protected from vehicles by curbs or wheel stops.
         (b)   All off-street parking areas and loading areas shall be surfaced
and maintained with an approved asphalt, bituminous or Portland cement binder
pavement, to provide a durable and dustless surface and shall be graded and
drained to dispose of all surface water. Permeable surface materials may
satisfy this requirement, if approved by the Director of Public Works.
            1.   Surface water from any off-street parking or loading area of
1,000 square feet or more must be disposed of through an underground drainage
system. The underground system must include such catch basins, manholes, storm
sewer connection and other structures necessary to properly dispose of surface
water. In the event that a public storm sewer system is not available for
connection, then plans for disposal of storm water shall be approved by the
Director of City Services. No off-street parking or loading area drainage
system may be connected to a sanitary sewer system.
            2.   Off-street parking and loading areas shall be enclosed by
fences, walls or barriers necessary to ensure that motor vehicles may not enter
or exit at points other than those expressly provided for that purpose and that
motor vehicles using the parking area or loading area may not encroach on
adjacent public rights-of-way or private property.
            3.   Lighting provided for off-street parking or loading areas
shall be arranged to reflect away from the adjoining residence buildings or
streets.
      (2)   Application for the approval of construction or paving of parking
or loading areas shall be made in accordance with the requirements of Article
X, Site Plan Review.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 5-13-2022)
§ 5.78 MODIFICATIONS AND EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Exemptions. Uses within certain locations in the Gaslight Village
Business District shall be exempt from the parking requirements otherwise
applicable, as specified in the C-1 District Parking Space Requirements Table.
      (1)   Exempt zone defined. For the purposes of this section, the EXEMPT
ZONE shall include all properties zoned C-1 within the following described
areas:
         (a)   All properties that have frontage on the south side of Wealthy
Street;
         (b)   The properties with frontage on the north side of Wealthy
Street, beginning at the northeast corner of Wealthy Street and Lovett Street,
extending 133 feet southeasterly along the north side of Wealthy Street;
         (c)   The east side of Lovett Street;
         (d)   The east and west sides of Croswell Street; and
         (e)   The east and west sides of Bagley Street.
      (2)   Non-exempt uses. Regardless of location, however, the following
uses shall not be exempt from the C-1 District Parking Space Requirements
Table:
         (a)   Any permitted residential use shall comply with the requirements
of the table; and
         (b)   Special land uses shall provide off-street parking as required
in the table, subject to all other specific conditions applicable to that use.
      (3)   Existing parking.
         (a)   Any public or private off-street parking space existing on or
created after the effective date of this article shall comply with all
applicable requirements of this article with respect to required size and
location of parking facilities.
         (b)   Any public or private off-street parking spaces existing on the
effective date of this article shall be maintained and the number of existing
parking spaces on any property shall not be reduced, unless approved by the
Planning Commission. In making a determination that a reduction is warranted,
the Planning Commission shall find that the property meets one or more of the
requirements of division (B) below.
   (B)   Modification of parking requirements. The minimum number of parking
spaces required by this article may be modified by the Planning Commission in
consideration of the following factors.
      (1)   Shared parking by multiple uses is feasible where there will be a
high proportion of multipurpose visits, or uses have peak parking demands
during differing times of the day or days of the week.
         (a)   Shared parking areas shall be on the same lot, upon an adjacent
lot or lots, or within 300 feet (measured from the nearest edge of the parking
lot to the front door of the business) of the business(es) served by the shared
parking area. However, the city may approve a shared parking agreement that
does not meet this requirement, provided the following conditions are met:
            1.   The applicant(s) shall provide a parking study showing how the
use of on-site, adjacent and/or remote lots meet the requirements of this
chapter;
            2.   Remote parking spaces shall be designated for use by employees
only. The City Commission, after recommendation by the Planning Commission, may
permit remote spaces to be occupied by vehicles belonging to non-employees if
the applicant provides a valet service from the place of business.
            3.   The applicant shall provide a means of motorized transit
between remote lots and the place of business, when any remote lot is more than
500 feet from the place of business (measured from the nearest pedestrian
access of the parking area, along the nearest public pedestrian pathway, to the
front door or employee entrance of the business).
         (b)   Pedestrian and vehicular connections shall be maintained between
the lots and the business(es) served.
         (c)   Shared parking agreements shall be filed with the County
Register of Deeds and the city.
      (2)   Convenient municipal off-street parking is available to meet peak
time parking demands of the use. The City Commission may require payment of
fees to offset acquisition, construction and maintenance costs in accordance
with the community parking provisions of this article.
      (3)   On-street parking spaces located along the site’s frontage are
available.
      (4)   Walk-in trade can reasonably be expected due to sidewalk
connections to adjacent residential neighborhoods, employment centers or other
nearby commercial uses, where it can be determined that some portion of the
patronage of these businesses comes from other uses (e.g., employees of area
offices patronizing restaurants, and the like).
         (a)   The site design shall incorporate pedestrian connections to the
site and on-site pedestrian circulation providing safe and convenient access to
the building entrance.
         (b)   The reduction in the required number of spaces allowed under
this division (B) shall not exceed 20%.
      (5)   Other forms of travel such as transit are available and can
reasonably be expected to off-set some parking demand. The Planning Commission
may require the site design incorporate pedestrian connections to nearby
transit stops or bicycle parking facilities.
      (6)   A parking study, prepared by a qualified traffic engineer or
transportation planner, has been submitted by the applicant demonstrating that
another standard would be more appropriate based on actual number of employees,
expected level of customer traffic or actual counts at a similar establishment.
The Planning Commission may require a parking study to document that any one of
the criteria of divisions (B)(1) to (B)(6) above would be met.
   (C)   Mixed uses. In the case of mixed uses, the total requirements for off-
street parking areas shall be the sum of the requirements of the individual
uses computed separately. Collective provision for off-street parking areas for
two or more buildings or uses shall be permitted; provided, the total off-
street parking spaces shall not be less than the sum of the requirements for
the various uses computed separately. Cumulative parking requirements for
mixed-use occupancies or shared facilities may be reduced by the Planning
Commission, in accordance with the provisions of division (B) above.
   (D)   Community parking. The provisions of this article relative to
nonresidential off-street parking may be met by participation in a municipal or
community parking program designed to serve the area in which the use is
located. Any community parking program shall be established by city ordinance,
which shall designate the parking area; the area to be served by the parking
program and the allocation of the cost of the program. The ordinance shall
provide for open space to be distributed throughout the parking area, as the
City Commission deems necessary for the public health, safety and general
welfare.
   (E)   Maximum parking. In order to minimize excessive areas of pavement that
detract from aesthetics, contribute to high rates of storm water runoff and
generate added heat, the minimum parking space requirements of this article
shall not be exceeded by more than 10%, unless approved by the Planning
Commission as part of site plan review. In considering additional parking, the
Planning Commission shall determine, based on documented evidence, that the
parking is needed to accommodate the use on a typical day.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.79 OFF-STREET PARKING FACILITY LOCATION AND DESIGN.
   (A)   Location. Off-street parking facilities shall be located as
hereinafter specified.
      (1)   For all residential uses and for all nonresidential uses within
residential zones, required parking shall be provided on the same parcel as the
building.
      (2)   For all nonresidential uses in the C-1 zone, required parking
spaces shall be provided within 300 feet of the building being served, measured
along public rights-of-way from the nearest point of the parking facility to
the nearest point of the building.
         (a)   Required parking may be provided off-site, on a lot or lots
where there is a lease or shared parking agreement to accommodate parking,
provided such arrangement is approved by the Planning Commission. Any lease or
shared parking agreement shall include a provision that requires notification
to the building official of any change in the terms or expiration. The building
official may allow modifications to parking agreements where parking compliance
is achieved in some other manner or a parking variance is granted by the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
         (b)   All off-street parking required to meet the standards of this
article shall be provided within the same zoning district as the principal use
and shall be within a convenient walking distance of the building entrances, as
determined by the Planning Commission, except that valet parking may be
provided elsewhere.
   (B)   Parking design. Wherever off-street parking is provided, it shall be
laid out in accordance with the following table.
 
Parking Pattern  Parking Maneuvering Lane Parking Space Width Space Length
(Degree)         Width Minimum
0 (parallel)     12 ft.                   8 ft.               23 ft.
30 to 53         12 ft.                   8 ft. 6 in.         18 ft.
54 to 74         15 ft.                   8 ft. 6 in.         18 ft.
75 to 90         24 ft.                   9 ft.               18 ft.
 
      (1)   The location and design of entrances, exits, surfacing,
landscaping, marking and lighting shall be subject to the approval of the
Director of Public Works to ensure adequate regulation to traffic safety and
protection of the adjacent residential area.
      (2)   If parking spaces are adjacent to and accessed from a two-way
parking maneuvering lane, the minimum width of the lane shall be 24 feet,
regardless of the parking angle.
      (3)   Except for one- and two-family dwellings, all parking spaces shall
be designed so ingress and egress to each space is unobstructed at all times.
On properties with a one- or two-family dwelling, the parking spaces may be
designed so a space is blocked by a vehicle occupying another space.
      (4)   All parking spaces and driveways shall be hard surfaced and
drained. Permeable surfaces approved by the Director of Public Works may be
used to satisfy this requirement.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.80 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   In all districts, every building, or part thereof, hereafter erected, which
is to be occupied by a retail store or block of stores of over 10,000 square
feet, hospital, laundry, dry cleaning or other uses similarly requiring the
receipt or distribution in vehicles of materials or merchandise, there shall be
provided and maintained on the same premises with the same building, off-street
loading spaces in relation to gross floor area as follows:
   (A)   Up to 20,000 square feet GFA: one space;
   (B)   Twenty thousand and one to 50,000 square feet GFA: two spaces;
   (C)   Fifty thousand and one to 100,000 square feet GFA: three spaces; and
   (D)   One additional space for each additional 100,000 square feet GFA or
part thereof, provided that:
      (1)   Each loading space shall have the following dimensions:
         (a)   For conventional trucks: at least ten feet in width, 25 feet in
length and 14 feet in height; and
         (b)   For tractor/trailers: at least ten feet in width, 50 feet in
length and 14 feet in height.
      (2)   A loading space may occupy all or any part of any required yard or
court space, except that no loading space may be located in the front yard.
      (3)   No such space shall be located closer than 50 feet to any lot in
any residence district unless wholly within a completely enclosed building or
enclosed on all sides by a wall or uniformly painted solid board or masonry
fence of a uniform appearance not less than six feet in height.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.81 STORAGE AND REPAIR OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Recreational vehicles and recreational units in residential districts.
No recreational vehicle or recreational unit may be kept or stored outdoors on
any property in a residential district for a period longer than 72 hours,
except in compliance with all of the following conditions:
      (1)   The recreational vehicle or unit is owned by the occupant of the
property on which it is stored;
      (2)   Storage shall be in the rear yard only;
      (3)   The vehicle shall be kept in good repair and in a sightly
condition; and
      (4)   Recreational vehicles and recreational units shall be shielded from
view from streets or adjacent lots, by shrubbery or fencing compatible with the
general appearance of the neighborhood and the requirements of this article.
   (B)   Inoperable vehicles. No unlicensed, inoperable, partially dismantled,
wrecked, junked or discarded motor vehicle, recreational vehicle or
recreational unit shall be parked or stored on any premises in any residential
district for longer than seven days, except if stored in a fully enclosed
building.
   (C)   Mechanical work. Within a residential district, mechanical work on
vehicles not owned or leased by the occupant of a dwelling for his or her
personal use is prohibited. In any case, such mechanical work that is permitted
shall only occur within an enclosed garage.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.82 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   Commercial vehicles shall not be located on any property within a
residential zone, unless parked or stored within a completely enclosed garage
or building. This shall not prevent the temporary location of any such vehicle
on property while engaged in a delivery, pickup or service run to the property
where located.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
ARTICLE X. SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 5.83 INTENT.
   The purpose of this article is to establish a uniform set of requirements
for the planning and design of developments within the city in order to achieve
the following objectives: to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter; to promote the orderly development of the city; to prevent
depreciation of land values; to ensure a consistent level of quality throughout
the community; to ensure a harmonious relationship between new development and
the existing natural and human-made surroundings; to achieve the purposes of
the city’s master plan; to promote consultation and cooperation between
applicants and the city in order that applicants may accomplish their
objectives in the utilization of land, consistent with the public purposes of
this chapter and the master plan.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.84 USES REQUIRING REVIEW.
   (A)   Commission review. Site plan review by the Planning Commission shall
be required for the creation of a use or construction of a building under the
following circumstances:
      (1)   Any use permitted by right in the C-1 District;
      (2)   Any use, other than a single- or two-family dwelling, in a
Residential District;
      (3)   Any special land use;
      (4)   Site condominiums in any district;
      (5)   The creation of three or more lots or condominium units from a
single parcel or lot within a five-year period;
      (6)   Any private park, common area or jointly used property which is
used or designed for recreational use or lake or stream access and which is
designed, used or available for use by the owner or occupants of any other lot
of record; and
      (7)   Any change, alteration to or expansion of any of the above, except
as included under administrative review.
   (B)   Administrative review. The Director of Public Works shall have the
authority to review and approve site plans under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Expansion of an existing building or structure by not more than
1,000 square feet or 25% of the existing gross floor area, whichever is less;
      (2)   The reconfiguration of an existing parking area that does not alter
the number of parking spaces; and
      (3)   Addition or relocation of:
         (a)   Driveways and entrances;
         (b)   Landscaping;
         (c)   Lighting;
         (d)   Refuse containers;
         (e)   Retention/detention ponds;
         (f)   Sidewalks; and
         (g)   Signs.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1- 28-2023)
§ 5.85 SITE PLAN AND SKETCH PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   The process for reviewing a site plan shall be as follows.
   (A)   Application. A complete site plan (either sketch plan or final site
plan), in sufficient number as required by the city, and an electronic version,
in a format specified by the city, shall be submitted to the Director of Public
Works, along with an application for that purpose and a fee, as established by
the City Commission.
   (B)   Completeness. The Director of Public Works shall review the
application and plans for completeness and, if all requirements are met, will
process them as follows. Incomplete applications shall be returned to the
applicant without further processing.
   (C)   Distribution. Upon determining that the application and plans are
complete, the Director of Public Works shall review the plan, if a sketch plan,
or transmit the plan to the Planning Commission, if a site plan, for
consideration at its next meeting. The Director of Public Works shall not be
required to submit any site plan for Planning Commission review which was
submitted less than 20 days prior to the next regularly scheduled Planning
Commission meeting. In addition, at his or her sole discretion, the Director of
Public Works may provide copies to city departments and/or consultants for
review.
   (D)   Decision. The Director of Public Works or Planning Commission, as
applicable, shall consider the respective sketch plan or site plan along with
comments from departments and consultants, if any.
      (1)   If the plan is a sketch plan, the Director of Public Works shall
provide comments to the applicant based on the plan’s conformance with
applicable zoning requirements, compatibility with neighboring property,
vehicular access and internal circulation, and other relevant considerations.
Following revisions to the plan, if any, or based on the originally submitted
plan, the Director of Public Works shall, based on the applicable standards of
§
5.87, either:
         (a)   Approve the sketch plan as submitted;
         (b)   Approve the sketch plan with conditions; or
         (c)   Deny approval of the sketch plan, if the applicable requirements
and standards have not been met.
      (2)    If the plan is a site plan, the Planning Commission shall consider
the site plan and the standards for approval contained in §
5.87 and shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the site plan
application.
   (E)   Acceptance. If approved, two copies of the sketch plan or site plan
shall be signed and dated by the Director of Public Works and the applicant.
One copy shall be kept on file with the city and one copy shall be returned to
the applicant or his or her designated representative. If the plan is approved
with conditions, a revised plan shall be submitted reflecting those conditions
and signed by the applicant and the Director of Public Works, prior to issuance
of any permits.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-28-2023)
§ 5.86 SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   Each sketch plan or site plan shall contain the following information, as
applicable, unless waived by the Director of Public Works as unnecessary or not
applicable to the proposed project. Incomplete plans will be returned to the
applicant without further processing.
Required Information Sketch Plan Site Plan
Required Information                                      Sketch Plan Site Plan
General Information
Date, north arrow and scale                               X           X
Name and firm address of the professional individual      X           X
responsible for preparing site plan
Name and address of the property owner or petitioner      X           X
Location sketch showing site, adjacent streets and        X           X
properties within 500 feet
Legal description of the subject property                             X
Size of subject property in acres (square feet, if less   X           X
than one acre)
Boundary survey                                                       X
Preparer’s professional seal                                        X
Existing Conditions
Existing zoning classification of subject property        X           X
Property lines and required setbacks (dimensioned)        X           X
Location, width and purpose of all existing easements     X           X
Location and dimension of all existing structures on the  X           X
subject property
Location of all existing driveways, parking areas and
total number of existing parking spaces on subject        X           X
property
Abutting street right-of-way width                                    X
Location of all existing structures, driveways and
parking areas within 300 feet of the subject property’s             X
boundary
Existing water bodies (lakes, rivers, creeks, wetlands    X           X
and the like)
Existing landscaping and vegetation on the subject        X           X
property
Size and location of existing utilities                               X
Location of all existing surface water drainage                       X
facilities
Proposed Development
Location and dimensions of all proposed buildings         X           X
Driveways, interior streets and parking areas (including  X
number of parking spaces required and proposed)
Location of all proposed drives (including dimensions and
radii), acceleration/deceleration lanes, sidewalks,
walls, fences, signs (location, number and size),
exterior lighting (location and type of fixture),                     X
curbing, parking areas (including dimensions of a typical
parking space and the total number of spaces required and
to be provided) and unloading areas
Recreation areas, common use areas, dedicated open space              X
and areas to be conveyed for public use
Floodplain areas and basement and finished floor                      X
elevations of all buildings
Landscape plan (showing location of proposed materials,               X
size and type)
Layout and typical dimensions of proposed parcels and                 X
lots
Number of proposed dwelling units (by type), including                X
typical floor plans for each type of unit
Number and location (by code, if necessary) of efficiency             X
and one or more bedroom units
All deed restrictions or covenants                                    X
Brief narrative description of the project including
proposed use, existing floor area (square feet), size of  X           X
proposed expansion (square feet) and any change in the
number of parking spaces
Engineering
Proposed method of handling sanitary sewage and providing X
potable water
Location and size of proposed utilities, including                    X
connections to public sewer and water supply systems
Location and spacing of fire hydrants                                 X
Location and type of all proposed surface water drainage              X
facilities
Grading plan at no more than five-foot contour intervals              X
Proposed streets (including pavement width, materials and             X
easement or right-of-way dimensions)
Building Details
Description of building materials                         X           X
Typical elevation views of all sides of each building                 X
type
Gross and net floor area                                              X
Elevation views of building additions                     X           X
Building height                                           X           X
Additional Information
Any other information required by the Director of Public
Works, Planning Commission or City Commission to          X           X
demonstrate compliance with other applicable provisions
of this chapter
 
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.87 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   A site plan shall be approved only upon a finding of compliance with the
following standards.
   (A)   The site plan must comply with all standards of this article and all
applicable requirements of this chapter and all other applicable laws and
regulations.
   (B)   The site must be designed in a manner that is harmonious, to the
greatest extent possible, with the character of the surrounding area.
   (C)   The site must be designed so as to minimize hazards to adjacent
property, and to reduce the negative effects of traffic, noise, smoke, fumes
and glare to the maximum extent possible.
   (D)   Unless a more specific design standard is required by the city through
a different ordinance, all uses and structures subject to site plan review
shall comply with the following design standards.
      (1)   Traffic circulation. The number, location, size of access and entry
points, and internal vehicular and pedestrian circulation routes shall be
designed to promote safe and efficient access to and from the site, and
circulation within the site. In reviewing traffic features, the number, spacing
and alignment of existing and proposed access points shall be considered
relative to their impact on traffic movement on abutting streets and adjacent
properties.
      (2)   Storm water. Storm water detention and drainage systems shall be
designed so the removal of surface waters will not adversely affect neighboring
properties or public storm water drainage systems. Unless impractical, storm
water shall be removed from all roofs, canopies and paved areas by underground
surface drainage system.
      (3)   Landscaping. The landscape shall be preserved in its natural state,
insofar as practicable, by minimizing unnecessary tree and soil removal, and
any grade changes shall be in keeping with the general
appearance of neighboring developed areas. Provision or preservation of
landscaping, buffers or greenbelts may be required to ensure that the proposed
uses will be adequately buffered from one another and from surrounding
property.
      (4)   Screening. Where nonresidential uses abut residential uses,
appropriate screening shall be provided to shield residential properties from
noise, headlights and glare.
      (5)   Lighting. Lighting shall be designed to minimize glare on adjacent
properties and public streets. As a condition of site plan approval, reduction
of lighting during non-business hours may be required.
      (6)   Utility service. All utility service shall be underground, unless
impractical.
      (7)   Exterior uses. Exposed storage areas, machinery, heating and
cooling units, service areas, loading areas, utility buildings and structures,
and similar accessory areas shall be located to have a minimum negative effect
on adjacent properties, and shall be screened, if reasonably necessary, to
ensure compatibility with surrounding properties.
      (8)   Emergency access. All buildings and structures shall be readily
accessible to emergency vehicles.
      (9)   Water and sewer. Water and sewer installations shall comply with
all city specifications and requirements.
      (10)   Signs. Permitted signs shall be located to avoid creating
distractions and visual clutter.
      (11)   Building design. New or substantially remodeled buildings shall be
reasonably compatible in appearance with, or shall enhance, the established
general character of other buildings in the immediate vicinity.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.88 CONDITIONS OF APPROVAL.
   Conditions intended to ensure compliance with the intent of this chapter and
all other regulations of the city may be imposed upon the approval of a site
plan.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.89 VALIDITY OF APPROVED PLANS.
    Site plan approval shall expire one year after the date of approval, unless
substantial construction has commenced and is being carried on. The Director of
Public Works, in the case of a sketch plan, or the Planning Commission, in the
case of a site plan, may grant one extension of up to one additional year;
provided, the applicant requests, in writing, an extension prior to the date of
expiration of the plan. The extension shall be approved if the applicant
presents reasonable evidence to the effect that the development has encountered
unforeseen difficulties beyond the control of the applicant, and the project
will proceed within the extension period. If the above provisions are not
fulfilled or the extension has expired prior to construction, the site plan
approval shall become null and void.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-28-2023)
§ 5.90 AMENDMENT TO APPROVED PLANS.
   (A)    Any proposed change to an approved sketch plan may be approved by the
Director of Public Works; provided, at his or her sole discretion, the request
for a change may be referred to the Planning Commission for action.
   (B)   Minor changes to an approved site plan may be approved by the Director
of Public Works without requiring a resubmittal to the Planning Commission;
provided that the applicant or property owner notifies the Director of Public
Works of any proposed amendment to the plan prior to making the change on the
site, and the Director of Public Works determines the proposed minor revision
does not alter the basic design nor any specified conditions imposed as part of
the original approval. Minor changes shall include the following:
      (1)   Reduction in building size or increase in building size up to 5% of
the total approved floor area;
      (2)   Movement of buildings or other structures by no more than ten feet;
      (3)   Replacement of plant material specified in the landscape plan with
comparable materials of an equal or greater size;
      (4)   Changes in building materials to a comparable or higher quality;
      (5)   Building additions, of up to 25% of the total floor area but not
more than 1,000 square feet, which do not alter the character of the use; and
      (6)   Changes required or requested by county, state or federal
regulatory agencies in order to conform with other laws or regulations.
   (C)   Where the modifications are not determined to be minor, the site plan
shall require resubmittal in accordance with §
5.85 for Planning Commission review, as required for the original approval.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-28-2023)
ARTICLE XI. SPECIAL LAND USES
§ 5.91 INTENT.
   Special uses are generally consistent with the purpose of the zoning
district in which they are permitted but, due to unique operational
characteristics, may not be desirable or compatible in all locations. Factors
such as traffic, hours of operation, noise, odor or similar potential effects
require that the special use be evaluated relative to its appropriateness on a
case-by-case basis. Therefore, special uses may be permitted within a zoning
district, with city approval, following a review of the use and its potential
impact on its surroundings. This article establishes the review procedures for
special uses and the general standards that must be met for all special uses.
Some specific uses are also subject to additional standards and requirements to
mitigate their potential negative impacts.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.92 SCOPE.
    A special use shall be permitted only when the Planning Commission has
approved the proposed use and the associated site plan, as provided by this
article and other applicable provisions of this chapter. Except as otherwise
expressly provided by this chapter, the general procedures, standards and
requirements in this article shall apply to all special uses and shall be in
addition to any other requirements applicable to particular special uses. In
those cases where the specific requirements of this article are more
restrictive than other provisions of this chapter, the special use requirements
shall apply.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-28-2023)
§ 5.93 PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Application. A person owning or having an interest in a property may
apply for a special use as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Filing. An application shall be filed with the Director of Public
Works at least 30 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting at which it is
first to be considered. Further consideration and scheduling before the
Planning Commission shall not occur unless the application is found to be
complete.
   (C)   Fees. A non-refundable fee shall be paid when an application is filed.
The application shall not be considered until all fees, established by
resolution of the City Commission, have been paid in full.
   (D)   Application requirements. A completed application, signed by the
property owner, must be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Copies of a site plan that meet the standards and requirements of
Article X;
      (2)   A statement indicating that the proposed use complies with the
general standards for approval in §
5.94, any specific requirements for the use and with all other applicable
ordinance requirements; and
      (3)   Any additional information deemed necessary to determine the impact
of the proposed special land use on adjacent properties, public infrastructure
and the community as a whole. Information may include, but is not limited to,
traffic impact analyses, environmental impact assessments, market studies (to
determine market demand and feasibility), fiscal impact analyses or reports
and/or testimony by officials representing state, county or local departments
of public safety (police and fire), health, highways or streets and/or
environment. Any additional studies deemed necessary may be completed by an
individual or firm of the city’s choosing, but at the applicant’s expense.
   (E)   Scheduling for special use and site plan review. The Director of
Public Works will review the application and, if determined to be complete,
shall schedule the special use request before the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Review and action.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works or designee shall review the
application and, if determined to be complete, shall schedule a public hearing
to consider the special land use. The public hearing shall be noticed as
required by the state’s Zoning Enabling Act.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing and also
review the site plan submitted with the application.
      (3)   Following the public hearing, the Planning Commission shall
consider the application, public comments, the accompanying site plan, and the
standards of §
5.94 and shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny the special use
request.
      (4)   Upon approval or approval with conditions of both the special use
request and the site plan, the Director of Public Works shall issue a special
use permit, which shall be subject to the conditions of approval, if any, and
all other applicable requirements for the proposed use and the zone district.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-28-2023)
§ 5.94 REVIEW STANDARDS.
   A special use application shall be approved only when it meets all of the
standards of this section and any specific standards that apply to the use as
listed in Article VIII.
   (A)   The proposed use will comply with the general objectives and land use
policies of the city’s master plan.
   (B)   The proposed use will be designed, constructed, operated and
maintained so it is appropriate and harmonious with the intended character and
appearance of the surrounding area; will be compatible with the intent of the
zone district; and will not change the essential character of the surrounding
area.
   (C)   The establishment, maintenance, location or operation of the use will
not impede the normal and orderly development and improvement of surrounding
property for uses permitted in that zone district.
   (D)   The establishment, maintenance, location or operation of the proposed
use will not be detrimental to or endanger the health, safety or general
welfare of any persons; will not be injurious to or conflict with the use or
enjoyment of neighboring property for the purposes permitted; and will not
result in any significant adverse impact on the natural environment.
   (E)   The proposed use will not involve activities, processes, materials and
equipment or conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons,
property or the general welfare by reason of excessive production of traffic,
noise, smoke, fumes, glare or odors.
   (F)   Adequate utilities, highways, streets, access, drainage structures,
police and fire protection, refuse disposal, schools and other necessary
services or facilities have been or will be provided to serve the proposed use;
the proposed use will not place undue demands on public services or facilities
that result in exceeding their capacity.
   (G)   The proposed use will, in all other respects, conform to the
applicable regulations of the zone district in which it is located, specific
requirements of Article VIII, all conditions of approval, and all other
applicable provisions of law, ordinance or statute.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.95 VALIDITY OF PERMIT.
    The special use or activity must commence within one year of approval or it
shall expire. The Planning Commission may approve one extension for up to one
additional year, if a request is made by the applicant in writing prior to the
initial expiration.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-28-2023)
§ 5.96 AMENDMENTS, EXPANSIONS AND CHANGE IN USE.
   The site plan approved in conjunction with the special land use shall become
part of the approval record. Any improvements relative to the authorized use
shall be consistent with the approved site plan, unless a change is approved,
in accordance with §
5.90. Any change in use shall be subject to the applicable requirements of the
zoning district in which the property is located and site plan review in
accordance with Article X.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.97 REVOCATION OF AN APPROVED SPECIAL LAND USE.
    The Planning Commission shall have the authority to revoke a special use
permit when the applicant has failed to comply with any of the applicable
requirements of this article, other applicable sections of this chapter, or the
conditions of approval. The Planning Commission may revoke a previous approval
if it finds that a violation exists and has not been remedied. The special use
permit may be suspended or revoked according to the following procedures.
   (A)   Conditions that may result in a suspension or revocation include, but
are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The special use was not constructed in conformance with the
approved plans, or the property is not being used in conformance with the
approved special use;
      (2)   Compliance with the special use permit and any conditions have not
been consistently demonstrated, and administrative attempts to secure
compliance have been unsuccessful;
      (3)   The special use permit has been issued erroneously based on
incorrect or misleading information supplied by the applicant and/or his or her
agents;
      (4)   The operation of the use granted by the special use permit has
created a risk or danger to the public health, safety or welfare; or
      (5)   The special use violates any provision of this chapter or other
city, county, state or federal regulations.
   (B)   If the Director of Public Works determines that a special use permit
should be suspended or revoked, he or she shall prepare a report specifying the
factual details of the violation and the reasons to suspend or revoke the
permit.
   (C)   The Director of Public Works shall file the report with the Planning
Commission and provide a copy to the owner, authorized agent or employee by
certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (D)   Within 30 days of filing the report with the Planning Commission, a
hearing date will be set within 60 days from when the hearing date is set for
the Planning Commission to consider the alleged violation(s) to determine if
the special use permit should be suspended or revoked. The owner or authorized
agent shall be notified personally or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, not less than 15 days before the scheduled hearing.
   (E)   The owner shall have an opportunity to respond to any allegations made
by: questioning adverse witnesses; presenting witnesses on his or her behalf;
and presenting arguments, personally or through legal counsel in his or her own
behalf.
   (F)   The Planning Commission shall prepare a written report of its findings
within 30 days of completing all hearings and provide them to the owner either
personally or by certified mail, return receipt requested. If the Planning
Commission concludes that the special use permit must be suspended or revoked,
the owner shall immediately cease to conduct, operate or carry on the business
or use for which the special use permit was granted.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-28-2023)
§ 5.98 APPEALS.
    The Planning Commission’s decision regarding approval or denial of a
special use application may not be appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
However, prior to consideration of a special use, a variance to a dimensional
requirement related to the building or property in question may be filed with
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-28-2023)
§ 5.99 RESTRICTIONS ON RESUBMITTAL OF A SPECIAL LAND USE REQUEST.
   A special use application that has been denied may not be re-submitted for
one year from the date of denial, except when new evidence or information found
sufficient by the Director of Public Works justifies an earlier re-application.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
ARTICLE XII. ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 5.100 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)    A Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established having the powers,
duties, and membership which are set forth in Act 110 of Michigan Public Acts
of 2006, as amended, and in accordance with the City Charter.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of seven members appointed
by the City Commission who are electors residing in the city, one of whom shall
be a member of the Planning Commission, and one of whom shall be a member of
the City Commission, plus two alternate members.
   (C)   Members shall be appointed for terms of three years, except that the
terms for the Planning Commission or City Commission members shall be the same
as that for their office. Members can be reappointed. Terms shall be staggered
so that at least two members are up for appointment every year. Of the initial
members, some shall be appointed for a one-year term, some for a two-year term,
and some for a three-year term so that the terms of approximately one-third of
the members will expire each year. All vacancies for unexpired terms shall be
filled for the remainder of the term.
   (D)   The City Commission shall appoint two alternate members to serve on
the Zoning Board of Appeals, who shall also serve for three- year terms. The
alternate members shall have the same voting rights as a regular member and
shall sit as regular members of the Zoning Board of Appeals in the absence of a
regular member, or for the purpose of reaching a decision on a case in which
the regular member has abstained for reasons of conflict of interest. Once an
alternate has been called to serve in a particular case, the alternate shall
continue to participate in that case until a decision has been rendered.
   (E)   Members of the Zoning Board of Appeals or alternates shall be
removable by the City Commission for malfeasance, misfeasance, or nonfeasance
in office upon filing of written charges and following a public hearing.
   (F)   A member shall disqualify themselves from a vote in which the member
has a conflict of interest. Failure of a member to disqualify themselves from a
vote in which the member has a conflict of interest constitutes malfeasance in
office. Any Planning Commission or City Commission member on the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall abstain from any vote on an issue which they had previously
voted upon as a member of the Planning Commission or the City Commission.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-1-2022)
§ 5.101 PROCEEDINGS.
   (A)    Meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of
the Chairperson and at other times as the Zoning Board of Appeals may specify
in its Rules of Procedure.
   (B)   A record of the proceedings of each meeting shall be kept by the
Board, relating evidence presented by the applicant and the resolution by the
Board, the vote of each member on each question, or, if absent or failing to
vote, indicating such fact. These shall be a public record and immediately
filed in the office of the Board.
   (C)   The Board shall receive reasonable assistance from other departments
in carrying out the functions of the Board.
   (D)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not consider any application or
appeal without the payment of an application fee in an amount established by
the City Commission. The application or appeal shall be filed with the Director
of Public Works, who shall transmit the application, together with all plans,
specifications and other papers pertaining to the application or appeal, to the
secretary of the Board.
   (E)   An appeal from any ruling of the Director of Public Works or other
administrative officer administering any portion of this chapter may be taken
by any person, including the city, affected or aggrieved. Notice of such appeal
shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall specify the grounds of such
appeal, and it shall be filed within 15 days after the order, requirements,
decision or determination appealed from is made.
   (F)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from unless the building inspector certifies to the Board, after
notice of appeal shall have been filed, that by reason of facts stated in this
certificate, a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent peril to life
or property. In such case, proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by
restraining order which may, on due course shown, be granted by the Board or by
the circuit court on application, after notice to the Director of Public Works.
   (G)   When an application or appeal has been filed in proper form and with
the required data, the secretary of the Board shall immediately place the
application or appeal upon the calendar for hearing and cause notices stating
the time, place and object of the hearing to be served. Such notices shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city and served
personally or by mail at least 15 days prior to the day of such hearing, upon
the applicant or the appellant, the Director of Public Works and the owners of
record and occupants of property within 300 feet of the premises in question,
which notices, if by mail, shall be addressed to the respective property owners
of record at the address given in the last assessment roll. Any party may
appear at the hearing in person or by attorney.
   (H)   Upon the day for hearing any application or appeal, the Board may
adjourn the hearing in order to permit the obtaining of additional information,
or to cause such further notice as it deems proper to be served upon such other
property owners as it decides may be interested in said application or appeal.
In the case of an adjourned hearing, persons previously notified and persons
already heard need not be notified of the time of resumption of said hearings
unless the Board so decides.
   (I)   No application for a variance which has been denied wholly or in part
by the Board shall be resubmitted except upon proof of changed conditions
satisfactory to the Director of Public Works or the Director’s designee.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-1- 2022)
§ 5.102 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Zoning Board of Appeals, in conformity with the provisions of this
chapter and Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., as
amended, may reverse or affirm, wholly or in part, or may modify the order,
requirements, decision or determination appealed from, and shall make such
order, requirement, decision or determination as in its opinion ought to be
made in the premises, and to that end shall have all the powers to hear and
decide all matters referred to it or upon which it is required to pass under
this chapter.
   (B)   The provisions of this article are to be construed as consistent with
the applicable provisions of the statutes of the state, as established by the
state’s Zoning Enabling Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq. (Public Act 110
of 2006, as amended). In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this
article and said statutory provisions, the statutory provisions are to prevail.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.103 DECISIONS.
   (A)    The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Zoning Board
of Appeals is necessary to reverse an order, requirement, decision, or
determination of the administrative official or body or to decide in favor of
the applicant on a matter upon which the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to
pass under the Zoning Ordinance or to grant a variance to the Zoning Ordinance,
except that a concurring vote of two-thirds of the members of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall be necessary to grant a variance from the uses of land
permitted in this chapter. A copy of the Board's decision shall be transmitted
to the applicant or appellant and to the Director of Public Works. Such
decision shall be binding upon the Director of Public Works and observed by him
or her, and he or she shall incorporate the terms and conditions of the same in
the permit to the applicant or appellant whenever a permit is authorized by the
Board. The decision of the Board shall be final.
   (B)   The Board, after public hearing, shall have the power to decide
applications, filed as hereafter provided, for variances:
      (1)   Where it is alleged by the appellant that there is error or
misinterpretation in any order, requirement, decision, grant, or refusal made
by the Director of Public Works or other administrative officer in the carrying
out or enforcement of the provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Where there are practical difficulties (dimensional variance) or
unnecessary hardship (use variance) in the way of carrying out the strict
letter of this chapter relating to the construction, structural changes in
equipment, or alterations of buildings or structures, or the use of land,
building, or structures, so that the spirit of this chapter shall be observed,
public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
   (C)   A dimensional variance from the provisions or the requirements of this
chapter shall be authorized only upon an affirmative finding by the Board,
based upon competent material and substantial evidence on the whole record,
that the following criteria required by state law (MCL 125.3604(7)) are all
satisfied:
      (1)   That there are practical difficulties in complying with the
requirements of this chapter with respect to the dimensional characteristics of
the property in question because of exceptional or extraordinary physical
conditions involving land, a building or structure, or any of them. A practical
difficulty may include the exceptional narrowness, shallowness, shape or area
of land; exceptional conditions in the elevations of land; the presence of
unbuildable areas such as wetlands or a floodplain; or other exceptional or
extraordinary physical condition of the property. The exceptional or
extraordinary condition alleged by the applicant shall apply only to the
dimensional characteristics of the property, but shall not apply to the
applicant personally. An applicant's alleged economic hardship or potential for
financial profit shall not be grounds for the granting of a dimensional
variance.
      (2)   The practical difficulties in carrying out the provisions or
requirements of this chapter shall not have been created by or resulted from
the actions of the current owner or any previous owner of the property.
      (3)   Authorizing a variance will not be contrary to the spirit and
purpose of this chapter.
      (4)   A non-conforming structure, lot or use of the property and/or a
nonconforming structure, lot or use on neighboring properties shall not, in
itself, be considered grounds for granting a variance.
      (5)   A dimensional variance, if granted, shall be the minimum necessary
variance in order to grant relief from the practical difficulty alleged by the
applicant.
   (D)   A use variance request shall be subject to the following requirements
and criteria. In addition to the information required for dimensional variance
requests, an application for a use variance shall include a plan drawn to scale
detailing the specific use and improvements proposed by the applicant, and a
summary of the facts which support each of the following conclusions:
      (1)   Applicant's property cannot be used for the purposes permitted in
the zoning district;
      (2)   Applicant's plight is due to unique circumstances peculiar to his
property and not to general neighborhood conditions;
      (3)   Applicant's suggested use would not alter the essential character
of the area;
      (4)   Applicant's problem in carrying out the provisions or requirements
of this chapter shall not have been created by or result from the actions of
the applicant or of any previous owner of the property;
      (5)   Unavailability of administrative relief which may afford reasonable
use of applicant's property.
   (E)   Any party aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals may
appeal to the Circuit Court.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-1-2022; Ord. effective 1-29-2022;
Ord. effective 12-1-2022)
§ 5.104 TIME LIMIT ON VARIANCES AND TERMINATION OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specifically provided by the Board as a condition of
approval, any variance granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
automatically become null and void after a period of 24 months from the date
granted, unless the owner or his or her agent has demonstrated that substantial
steps have been taken for effecting the variance.
   (B)   If a building or structure, a part of which was constructed in
reliance upon a variance granted by the city, is demolished, destroyed, or
damaged to an extent of more than 60% of its replacement value, exclusive of
the foundation, the variance which was previously granted for the building or
structure is terminated. The property owner may apply for a new variance.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 1-29- 2022)
§ 5.105 AUTOMATIC TERMINATION OF USE VARIANCE.
   Any use variance granted by the Board shall automatically become null and
void if either of the following conditions is found to exist: the use approved
by the Board ceases or is otherwise discontinued for a period of 12 consecutive
months or more; or the use to which the property is put is a use allowed by the
existing zoning district.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
ARTICLE XIII. AMENDMENTS AND REZONING
§ 5.106 INITIATION OF REZONING AND TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter may be initiated by the City Commission on its
own motion or, in the manner and pursuant to the procedure herein set forth,
may be initiated by any person, firm or corporation filing an application with
the city. The Planning Commission may, at its discretion, also initiate
amendments to this chapter through the Director of Public Works and also
recommend amendments to the City Commission for adoption.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.107 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   Amendments shall be processed as provided for in the state’s Zoning Enabling
Act, including notification to adjoining property owners and occupants, where
applicable, and a public hearing. If an amendment is requested by a person,
firm or corporation, the request shall be filed on a form provided for that
purpose and accompanied by an application fee, as set by the City Commission.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.108 REZONING AND TEXT AMENDMENT GUIDELINES.
   The following guidelines shall be used by the Planning Commission, and may
be used by the City Commission in consideration of amendments to the zoning
ordinance.
   (A)   Text amendment.
      (1)   The proposed text amendment would clarify the intent of the
ordinance.
      (2)   The proposed text amendment would correct an error or oversight in
the ordinance.
      (3)   The proposed text amendment would address changes to the state
legislation, recent case law or opinions from the state’s Attorney General.
      (4)   The proposed text amendment would promote compliance with changes
in other county, state or federal regulations.
      (5)   In the event the amendment will add a use to a district, that use
shall be fully consistent with the intent of the district and the character of
the range of uses provided for within the district.
      (6)   The amendment will not create incompatible land uses within a
zoning district, or between adjacent districts.
      (7)   The proposed text amendment is supported by the findings of
reports, studies or other documentation on functional requirements,
contemporary building practices, environmental requirements and similar
technical items.
      (8)   As applicable, the proposed change shall be consistent with the
city’s ability to provide adequate public facilities and services.
      (9)   The proposed change shall be consistent with the city’s desire to
protect the public health, safety and welfare of the community.
   (B)   Map amendment (rezoning).
      (1)   Whether or not the proposed rezoning is consistent with the goals,
policies and future land use map of the city’s master plan; or, if conditions
have changed significantly since the master plan was adopted, consistency with
recent development trends in the area.
      (2)   Whether the proposed district and the uses allowed are compatible
with the site’s physical, geological, hydrological and other environmental
features. The potential uses allowed in the proposed zoning district shall also
be compatible with surrounding uses in terms of land suitability, impacts on
the community, density, potential influence on property values and traffic
impacts.
      (3)   Whether, if rezoned, the site is capable of accommodating the uses
allowed, considering existing or planned infrastructure, including streets,
sanitary sewers, storm sewer, water, sidewalks and street lighting.
      (4)   Other factors deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission or City
Commission.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.109 AMENDMENT CONSIDERATIONS.
   Upon receipt of a report and summary of public hearing comments from the
Planning Commission, as provided for in the state’s Zoning Enabling Act, the
City Commission may modify and subsequently adopt the proposed amendment, or
adopt it as presented by the Planning Commission. The City Commission may refer
any proposed modifications back to the Planning Commission for additional
comment.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.110 CONDITIONAL REZONING.
   It is recognized that there are certain instances where it could be in the
best interests of the city, as well as advantageous to property owners seeking
a change in zoning boundaries, if certain conditions could be proposed by
property owners as part of a rezoning request. It is the intent of this section
to permit a process, consistent with the provisions of § 405 of the state’s
Zoning Enabling Act (M.C.L.A. § 125.3405), by which an owner seeking a rezoning
may voluntarily offer conditions regarding the use and/or development of land
as part of the rezoning request.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
ARTICLE XIV. NONCONFORMITIES
§ 5.111 INTENT.
   Within the districts established by this chapter or any subsequent
amendments, there exist lots, structures and uses of land and structures which
were lawful, either as conforming or nonconforming uses before this chapter was
effective, but which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the
terms of this chapter or amendments hereto.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit these nonconformities to
continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their continuance. It is
further the intent of this chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged,
expanded or extended, or be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses
prohibited elsewhere in the same district, except by appeal to the Zoning Board
of Appeals.
   (B)   Such uses are declared to be incompatible with the permitted lots,
structures, and uses in the districts involved.
   (C)   A nonconforming lot, a nonconforming use of a structure, a
nonconforming use of land or a nonconforming use of a structure and land shall
not be extended or enlarged after the passage of this chapter by attachment on
a building, structure or premises of additional signs intended to be seen from
off the premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature which would be
prohibited in the district involved.
   (D)   To avoid undue hardship or practical difficulties, nothing in this
chapter shall be deemed to require a change in the plans, construction or
designated use of any building or lot on which actual construction was lawfully
begun prior to the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter and
upon which actual building construction has been continuously and diligently
carried on. ACTUAL CONSTRUCTION is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner; except that where demolition or removal of an existing building has
been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such demolition or removal
shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided that work shall be
continuously and diligently carried on until completion of the building
involved.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 7-29-2022)
§ 5.112 NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   A nonconforming use shall not be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of the
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
   (B)   No part of any nonconforming use shall be moved, unless such movement
eliminates the nonconformity.
   (C)   If a nonconforming use is abandoned for any reason for a period of
more than 12 months, any subsequent use shall conform to the requirements of
this chapter. A nonconforming use shall be determined to be abandoned if one or
more of the following conditions exists, and which shall be deemed to
constitute an intent on the part of the property owner to abandon the
nonconforming use:
      (1)   Utilities, such as water, gas and electricity to the property, have
been disconnected;
      (2)   The property, buildings and grounds have fallen into disrepair;
      (3)   Signs or other indications of the existence of the nonconforming
use have been removed;
      (4)   Equipment or fixtures necessary for the operation of the
nonconforming use have been removed; or
      (5)   Other actions, which in the opinion of the Director of Public
Works, constitute an intention of (on) the part of the property owner or lessee
to abandon the nonconforming use.
   (D)   A nonconforming use may be changed to another nonconforming use
provided all of the following determinations are made by the Zoning Board of
Appeals:
      (1)   The proposed use shall be as compatible or more compatible with the
surrounding neighborhood than the previous nonconforming use;
      (2)   The proposed nonconforming use shall not be enlarged or increased,
nor extended to occupy a greater area of land or building than the previous
nonconforming use; and
      (3)   That appropriate conditions and safeguards are provided to ensure
compliance with the intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.113 NONCONFORMING BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Where a lawful building or structure exists at the effective date of
this chapter, or an amendment thereto, that does not comply with the
requirements of this chapter because of restrictions such as lot area,
coverage, width, height or yards, that building or structure may be continued
so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
      (1)   The building or structure shall not be enlarged or altered in a way
that increases its nonconformity, except in cases in which the setback of a
building or structure is nonconforming by 50% or less of the distance required
by this chapter. Only in these cases may the nonconforming setback be extended
along the same plane as the existing nonconforming setback, provided that in so
doing, the setback itself is not further reduced.
      (2)   If a nonconforming building or structure is destroyed or
significantly damaged, the following shall apply.
         (a)   If destroyed or damaged to an extent of more than 60% of its
replacement value, exclusive of the foundation, the building or structure shall
be reconstructed only in conformance with the applicable requirements of the
zoning district in which it is located.
         (b)   If a nonconforming building or structure is destroyed or damaged
to an extent less than 60% of its replacement value, it may be reconstructed as
it existed at the time of such destruction or damage, if reconstruction
commences and progresses meaningfully within six months of the destruction or
damage. Otherwise, it shall be reconstructed only in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   If a nonconforming building or structure is moved for any reason
and for any distance, it shall be moved to a location which complies with the
requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   None of the provisions of this section are meant to preclude normal
repairs and maintenance, or improvements of any nonconforming building or
structure which do not increase the nonconforming condition; or to prevent
strengthening or correcting of any unsafe condition of the building or
structure.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.114 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   Subject to the requirements of division (B) of this section, if a lot
in any zone district in which single-family dwellings are permitted does not
satisfy the requirements stated in this chapter for a conforming lot in that
zone district, a single-family dwelling and accessory buildings may be erected
on any lot of record that existed on the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Height of the dwelling shall not exceed two and one-half stories or
25 feet, whichever is less. The height will be measured as provided in this
chapter regarding the definition of BUILDING, HEIGHT OF.
      (2)   Side yards may be reduced by the same percentage that the area of
the lot bears to its own district requirements, subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   The side yard in no instance shall be less than five feet.
         (b)   In no case shall the side yard setback on the side street of a
corner lot be reduced from that required by the zoning district.
         (c)   In no case shall any required setback in any yard abutting Reeds
Lake, Fisk Lake or the Reeds Lake/Fisk Lake channel be reduced.
(Ord. effective 10-2-2015)
   (B)   If two or more lots or a combination of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements stated in this chapter for lot width or area for conforming lots
in the zone district in which the lots are located, then all of the following
conditions apply, unless a variance is granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals:
      (1)   The land involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for
zoning purposes.
      (2)   No portion of the parcel which does not meet the lot width and area
requirements stated in this chapter for a conforming lot in the zone district
in which the land is located shall be separately used or occupied.
      (3)   No division of the parcel shall be made which leaves remaining any
lot width or area below the requirements stated in this chapter for a
conforming lot in the zone district in which the parcel is located, unless a
lot is divided and legally combined with an adjacent lot or lots in accordance
with the provisions of the Subdivision Control Ordinance.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.115 NONCONFORMING RESULTING FROM RIGHT-OF-WAY DEDICATION.
   Where a nonconforming front yard setback, parking lot setback or greenbelt
is created as a result of additional street right-of-way width being acquired
by a street agency, the building or parking lot may be improved or expanded
without the need to obtain a variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals,
provided the following conditions are met.
   (A)   The building or parking lot complies with the front yard setback prior
to the acquisition of the additional street right-of-way.
   (B)   The building or parking lot expansion will not reduce the depth of the
front yard setback.
   (C)   All other requirements of this chapter are met and necessary approvals
obtained.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.116 ELIMINATION OF NONCONFORMITIES.
   In accordance with the state’s Zoning Enabling Act, the city may acquire
private property by purchase condemnation or otherwise for removal of
nonconforming lots, nonconforming uses, and nonconforming structures; provided,
the property shall not be used for public housing.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013; Ord. effective 7-29-22)
ARTICLE XV. ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 5.117 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any building erected, altered or converted, or any use carried out in
violation of any provision of this chapter, is hereby declared to be a nuisance
per se. Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits, neglects
or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of this chapter shall have
committed a civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more
than $500.
   (B)   Each day that a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense, as follows.
      (1)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall be
no less than $500, plus costs and other sanctions.
      (2)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $1,000, plus costs and other
sanctions.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.118 DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   Except where otherwise stated, the provisions of this chapter shall be
administered by the Director of Public Works who shall have the power to:
   (A)   Grant certificates of occupancy;
   (B)   Make inspections of buildings and premises necessary to carry out the
duties of administration and enforcement of this chapter;
   (C)   Issue and serve appearance tickets on any person with respect to any
violation of this chapter where there is reasonable cause to believe that the
person has committed such an offense; and
   (D)   Perform such other functions necessary and proper to enforce and
administer the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.119 PLOT PLAN/SURVEY.
   Every application for a building permit shall be made as required by the
Building Code and shall designate the existing or intended use of the structure
or premises or part thereof which it is proposed to alter, erect or extend, and
the number of dwelling units, if any, to occupy it. The application shall be
accompanied by ink, blueprint or photostat copies of drawings in a quantity
specified by the Director of Public Works, drawn to scale, showing the actual
lines, angles and dimensions of the lot to be built upon or used and the exact
size and location on the lot of all existing and proposed structures and uses,
together with specifications. The application shall contain other information
with respect to the lot and adjoining property as may be required by the
Director of Public Works. One copy of both plans and specifications shall be
filed in and retained by the office of the Director of Public Works and the
other shall be delivered to the applicant when the application has been
approved and the permit issued. In cases of minor alterations, the Director of
Public Works may waive portions of the foregoing requirements obviously not
necessary for determination of compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.120 PERMITS.
   (A)   Zoning review. In conjunction with the issuance of a building permit,
a zoning review shall be performed prior to erection, alteration, movement or
substantial repair of any building, structure, or commercial sign.
   (B)   Building permits.
      (1)   A building permit shall not be issued for the erection, alteration
or use of any building or structure or for the use of any land which is not in
accordance with all provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   The holder of every building permit for the construction, erection,
alteration, repair or moving of any building or structure shall notify the
Director of Public Works immediately upon completion of the work authorized by
the permit for a final inspection.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy.
      (1)   Vacant land shall not be used and an existing use of land shall not
be changed to a different class of use, unless a certificate of occupancy is
first obtained for the new or different use.
      (2)   A building or structure which is hereafter erected or altered shall
not be occupied or used unless and until a certificate of occupancy has been
issued for the building or structure.
      (3)   Certificates of occupancy, as required by city’s Building Code,
shall also constitute certification of compliance with the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   A record of all certificates of occupancy issued shall be kept on
file in the office of the Director of Public Works and copies shall be
furnished upon request to any person owning or renting the property which is
the subject of the certificate.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.121 FEES.
   (A)   The City Commission shall by resolution establish fees for the
administration of the city’s zoning ordinance, including all proceedings and
matters that may arise. A listing of current fees shall be available for review
by the public during office hours at City Hall. Such fees may be changed from
time to time by resolution of the City Commission. The applicant shall pay all
applicable fees upon the filing of any application, proposed plan or other
request or application under this chapter, including, but are not limited to
the following:
      (1)   Requests to the Zoning Board of Appeals;
      (2)   Site plan review;
      (3)   Rezoning requests and zoning ordinance amendments;
      (4)   Special land use requests;
      (5)   Site condominium review;
      (6)   Planned unit development or amendments to planned unit
developments;
      (7)   Sign permits and other zoning and building permit fees;
      (8)   Private streets;
      (9)   Plat (subdivision) review; and
      (10)   Any other requests or reviews referred to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   In addition to regularly established fees, the City Commission, in its
discretion, may also require an applicant to submit to the city (prior to city
review of an application or proposed site plan) an amount of money determined
by the city to be a reasonable estimate of the fees and costs which may be
incurred by the city in reviewing and acting upon such application or related
matters, to be known as an escrow fund. The city shall not charge fees or
assess costs for the time expended by city employees (except when authorized
under appropriate provisions of the Freedom of Information Act) or for
incidental costs and expenses, but may charge fees or assess costs for all
other reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the city doing and in
connection with the review process and other related proceedings, whether or
not the application is granted. Such reimbursable costs and expenses may
include, but shall not be limited to, City Attorney fees, city engineering
fees, costs and fees for services of outside consultants, fees and expenses of
other professionals who may assist the city, costs and fees for studies and
reports pertaining to the matters in question, special meeting costs and other
reasonable costs and expenses. Escrow funds shall be retained by the city for
reimbursement of such costs and expenses. Any escrow funds paid or deposited by
an applicant which are not used or spent by the city shall be refunded to the
applicant. In the event an applicant fails to comply with escrow fund
requirements and all matters pertaining thereto, in addition to all other
remedies available, the city shall impose a single lot assessment on the
subject premises in accordance with §
1.306 of the city code of ordinances.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.122 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   (A)   As a condition of approval of a private street, site plan review,
special land use or planned unit development, the Planning Commission or City
Commission, whichever is designated as the approving authority, may require a
financial guarantee of sufficient sum to assure the installation of features or
components of the approved activity or construction which are considered
necessary to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public and of users
or inhabitants of the proposed development. Those features or components,
hereafter referred to as “improvements”, may include, but shall not be limited
to, streets, curbing, landscaping, fencing, walls, screening, lighting,
drainage facilities, sidewalks, driveways, utilities and similar items.
   (B)   Performance guarantees shall be processed in the following manner.
      (1)   Prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy, the applicant
shall submit an itemized estimate of the cost of the required improvements
subject to the performance guarantee. The estimate shall be reviewed by the
Director of Public Works and may, in his or her sole discretion, be forwarded
to other departments and/or consultants for review. The amount of the
performance guarantee, as approved by the Director of Public Works, shall be
100% of the cost of purchasing materials and installing the required
improvements, plus the cost of necessary engineering and a reasonable amount
for contingencies, not to exceed 125% of the estimated cost of materials and
installation.
      (2)   The required performance guarantee may be in the form of a cash
deposit, certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit or surety bond
acceptable to the city.
      (3)   Upon receipt of the required performance guarantee, the Director of
Public Works shall issue a building permit for the subject development or
activity, provided it is in compliance with all other applicable provisions of
this chapter and other applicable ordinances of the city.
      (4)   The Director of Public Works, upon the written request of the
guarantor, shall rebate portions of the performance guarantee upon
determination that the improvements for which the rebate has been requested
have been satisfactorily completed. The portion of the performance guarantee to
be rebated shall be in the same amount as stated in the itemized cost estimate
for the applicable improvements.
      (5)   When all of the required improvements have been completed, the
guarantor shall send written notice to the Director of Public Works of
completion of the improvements. The Director of Public Works shall then inspect
all of the improvements and approve, partially approve or reject the
improvements with a statement of the reasons for any rejections. If partial
approval is granted, the cost of the improvement rejected shall be set forth.
Where partial approval is granted, the guarantor shall be released from
liability pursuant to relevant portions of the performance guarantee, except
for that portion sufficient to secure completion of the improvements not yet
approved.
   (C)   A record of authorized performance guarantees shall be maintained by
the Director of Public Works.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
ARTICLE XVI. ENACTMENT PROVISIONS
§ 5.123 REPEAL OF ORDINANCES.
   
Chapter 50, Title V of the code of ordinances, known as the “City of East Grand
Rapids Zoning Ordinance”, adopted on May 20, 1974, and all amendments thereto,
are hereby repealed. The repeal does not affect any act done or offense
committed, or any liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment acquired
thereunder. The repeal does not include the Official Zoning Map of the City of
East Grand Rapids Zoning Ordinance, which is hereby adopted as a part of this
chapter. The repeal also does not include any existing approved PUD ordinances.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.124 SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts, sentences, paragraphs, sections and clauses of this
chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph,
section or clause of this chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a
court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the constitutionality or
validity of any remaining provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
§ 5.125 ENACTMENT AND EFFECTIVE DATE.
   A public hearing having been held as required by the state’s Zoning Enabling
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., the provisions of this chapter are
hereby adopted, and shall take effect on November 29, 2013.
(Ord. effective 11-29-2013)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2130.png]
 
CHAPTER 51: PLANNING COMMISSION
Section
   
5.200   Planning Commission established
   
5.201   Organization
   
5.202   Contracts for special services
   
5.203   Contents of master plan
   
5.204   Master plan referred to City Commission
   
5.205   Hearing on master plan
   
5.206   Adoption of master plan
   
5.207   Authorization for public works
   
5.208   Control of building within public ways
   
5.209   Public works appeal procedure
   
5.210   Capital improvement plans
   
5.211   Zoning
   
5.212   Subdivision regulations
   
5.213   Plat approval
   
5.214   General powers
§ 5.200 PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   A city Planning Commission is hereby created pursuant to the provisions of
Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3811 through 125.3825, and shall
be accorded all powers, duties, and functions established by said Public Act 33
of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3811 through 125.3825, and Public Act 222 of
1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.51 et seq., as amended, including, but not limited
to, the powers, duties and functions herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 5.200)
§ 5.201 ORGANIZATION.
    The Commission shall consist of nine members who shall, insofar as
possible, represent different professions or occupations. One of the members
shall be a City Commissioner. The City Commissioner shall be an "Ex Officio"
member as defined in MCL 125.3803(d). The members shall be appointed by the
Mayor subject to the approval of a majority vote of the members elect of the
City Commission. The term of each member shall be three years, except that
three members of the first Commission shall serve for terms of one year, three
for terms of two years, and three for terms of three years; provided, however,
the term of the City Commission member shall expire with his or her term on the
City Commission as provided in MCL 125.3815(5)(c). Members of the Planning
Commission shall serve without compensation and hold no other municipal office
except the City Commission member and one member may also be a member of the
City Zoning Board of Appeals. Terms of office shall commence on July 1 and
terminate on June 30 except for the City Commission member. The Mayor and City
Manager or other administrative official designated by the City Manager may
attend meetings of the Planning Commission but shall have no vote. The Planning
Commission shall, during the first meeting in the month of July each year,
elect from its members a chairperson, a vicechairperson and a secretary, and
shall from time to time adopt rules of procedure which shall become effective
upon ratification by the City Commission. The Planning Commission shall hold at
least one regular meeting in each month when there is business to be transacted
and shall keep a record of its resolutions, transactions, findings, and
determinations, which record shall be a public record.
(Prior Code, § 5.201) (Ord. effective 6-30-2023)
§ 5.202 CONTRACTS FOR SPECIAL SERVICES.
   The Planning Commission may contract with city planners, engineers,
architects and other consultants for such services as it may require. The
expenditures of the Planning Commission shall be within the amounts
appropriated for the purpose by the City Commission, which shall provide the
funds, equipment and accommodations necessary for the work of the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 5.202)
§ 5.203 CONTENTS OF MASTER PLAN.
   It shall be the function and duty of the Planning Commission to make and
adopt a master plan for the physical development of the city, including any
areas outside of its boundaries which bear relation to planning within the
city. Such plan, with the accompanying maps, plats, charts and descriptive
matter, shall show the recommendations of the Planning Commission for the
development and maintenance of said territory. The plan shall be made with the
general purpose of guiding and accomplishing a coordinated, adjusted and
harmonious development of the city and its environs which will, in accordance
with present and future needs, best promote health, safety, morals, order,
convenience, prosperity and general welfare, as well as efficiency and economy
in the process of development; including, among other things, adequate
provision for traffic, the promotion of safety from fire and other dangers,
adequate provision for light and air, the promotion of the healthful and
convenient distribution of population, the promotion of good civic design and
arrangement, wise and efficient expenditure of public funds, and the adequate
provision of public utilities and other public requirements. The Planning
Commission may adopt the plan as a whole by a single resolution, or may by
successive resolutions adopt successive parts of the plan, said parts
corresponding with major geographical sections of the city or with functional
subdivisions of the subject matter of the plan, and may adopt any amendment or
extension thereof or addition thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5.203)
§ 5.204 MASTER PLAN REFERRED TO CITY COMMISSION.
   Before holding a public hearing on the proposed plan or any part thereof or
any amendment, extension or addition thereto, the Planning Commission shall
certify the same to the City Commission for its review and advice back to the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall, following such
certification, take no further action with regard to said plan or any public
hearing thereon until a period of 30 days shall have expired from the date the
same was certified to the City Commission. The City Commission, within 30 days
from the receipt of the same from the Planning Commission, shall forward to the
Planning Commission its recommendations and advice, which shall be advisory
only on the Planning Commission. In the event that the City Commission forwards
no such recommendations or advice within such 30-day period, it shall be
presumed that the City Commission is in accord with the said plan, amendment,
extension or addition thereto.
(Prior Code, § 5.204)
§ 5.205 HEARING ON MASTER PLAN.
   Before the adoption of the plan or any part thereof, or any amendment,
extension or addition thereto, the Planning Commission shall hold at least one
public hearing thereon; notice of the time and place of which shall be given
not less than 15 days prior to such hearing by one publication in a newspaper
of general circulation in the city and by registered or certified United States
mail to each public utility company operating within the division of the city
affected.
(Prior Code, § 5.205)
§ 5.206 ADOPTION OF MASTER PLAN.
   The adoption of the plan or of any part or amendment or extension or
addition shall be by resolution of the Planning Commission carried by the
affirmative vote of not less than six members of the Planning Commission. An
attested copy of the plan or part thereof shall be certified to the City
Commission and to the County Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 5.206)
§ 5.207 AUTHORIZATION FOR PUBLIC WORKS.
   Whenever the Planning Commission shall have adopted the master plan, no
street, park or other public way, ground or open space, or public building or
structure, shall be authorized by the City Commission until the location,
character and extent thereof shall have been submitted to and approved by the
Planning Commission. Provided, that in case of disapproval, the Planning
Commission shall communicate its reasons to the City Commission, which shall
have the power to overrule such disapproval by a recorded vote of not less than
two-thirds of its entire membership. Provided, further, that if the public way,
ground, space, building, structure or utility is one, the authorization or
financing of which does not fall within the province of the City Commission,
then the submission to the Planning Commission shall be by the board,
commission or body having such jurisdiction and the Planning Commission’s
disapproval may be overruled by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the
membership of said board, commission or body.
(Prior Code, § 5.207)
§ 5.208 CONTROL OF BUILDING WITHIN PUBLIC WAYS.
   (A)   In accordance with Public Act 222 of 1943, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.51 et
seq., the Planning Commission shall have the power to make, or cause to be
made, and thereafter to amend, and to certify to the City Commission detailed
and precise plats showing proposed future outside lines of one or more new,
extended or widened streets, avenues, places or other public ways, or of one or
more parks, playgrounds or other public grounds or extensions thereof shown on
such adopted master plan.
   (B)   The City Commission may, by ordinance, adopt any such precise plat, or
amendment thereto, certified to it by the Planning Commission; provided, that
prior notice be given as required by statute. No permit shall be issued for,
and no building or structure or part thereof shall be erected on any land
located within the proposed future outside lines of any new, extended or
widened street, avenue, place or other public way, or of any park, playground
or other public grounds or extension thereof shown on any such certified and
adopted plat.
(Prior Code, § 5.208)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.51 and 125.52
§ 5.209 PUBLIC WORKS APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall have the power on appeal filed with
it by the owner of such land to authorize the granting of a permit for the
erection of a building or structure, or part thereof, within the lines of any
such mapped street, park, playground or other public ground in any case in
which such Board finds upon the evidence and arguments presented to it on such
appeal:
      (1)   That the entire property of the appellant located in whole, or in
part, within the lines of such mapped street, park, playground or other public
ground cannot yield a reasonable return to the owner unless such permit be
granted; and
      (2)   That, balancing the interest of the municipality in preserving the
integrity of the adopted map and the interest of the owner of the property in
the use and benefits of his or her property, the granting of such permit is
required by considerations of justice and equity.
   (B)   Before taking any such action, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall hold
a public hearing thereon, at least ten days’ notice of the time and place of
which shall be given to the appellant by mail at the address specified by the
appellant in his or her appeal petition. In the event that the Board of Zoning
Appeals decides to authorize a building permit, it shall have the power to
specify the exact location, ground area, height and other details and
conditions of size, character and construction, and also the duration of the
building or structure, or part thereof, to be permitted.
(Prior Code, § 5.209)
§ 5.210 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLANS.
   The Planning Commission shall, from time to time, recommend to the
appropriate public officials programs for public structures and improvements
and for the financing thereof. It shall be part of its duties to consult and
advise with public officials and agencies, public utility companies, civic,
educational, professional and other organizations, and with citizens, with
relation to the protecting or carrying out of the plan.
(Prior Code, § 5.210)
§ 5.211 ZONING.
   The Planning Commission shall advise the City Commission on matters relating
to the administration of the zoning chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.211)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Chapter 50
§ 5.212 SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall adopt regulations governing the subdivision of
land within the city. Such regulations may provide for proper arrangement of
streets in relation to other streets and to the master plan, for adequate and
convenient open spaces for traffic, utilities, access of firefighting
apparatus, recreation, light and air, and for avoidance of congestion of
population. Such regulations may further provide the extent to which streets
and other ways shall be graded and improved and to which water and sewer and
other utility mains, piping or other facilities shall be installed as a
condition precedent to the approval of the plat. All such regulations shall be
published as provided by law for the publication of ordinances and before
adoption a public hearing shall be held thereon. A copy thereof shall be
certified by the Planning Commission to the County Register of Deeds.
(Prior Code, § 5.212)
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision control, see
Chapter 54
§ 5.213 PLAT APPROVAL.
   Whenever the Planning Commission shall have adopted that portion of a master
plan relating to the major street system and shall have filed a certified copy
of such plan in the office of the County Register of Deeds, and whenever the
Planning Commission shall have adopted subdivision regulations as herein
provided, then no plat of a subdivision of land within the city shall be filed
or recorded until it shall have been approved by the Planning Commission and
the City Commission. The Planning Commission shall approve, modify or
disapprove of a plat within 60 days after the submission thereof to it;
otherwise such plat shall be deemed to have been approved; provided, however,
that the applicant for plat approval may waive this requirement and consent to
an extension of such period. Provided, also, that a public hearing be held on
each proposed plat and notice thereof be given as provided by statute.
(Prior Code, § 5.213)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 125.52
§ 5.214 GENERAL POWERS.
   In general, the Planning Commission shall have such powers as may be
necessary to enable it to fulfill its functions, promote city planning and
carry out the purposes of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.214)
CHAPTER 52: REGULATION OF ANTENNAS
Section
   
5.221   Antenna defined
   
5.222   Exemption; definition of width
   
5.223   Permit required
   
5.224   Regulations
   
5.225   Amateur (HAM) radio antennas
   
5.226   Appeal; reasonable accommodation
   
5.227   Permit fees
§ 5.221 ANTENNA DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANTENNA. Any fixture or apparatus located outdoors which is designed or
utilized to transmit or receive radio, microwave, television or similar waves,
signals or electrical impulses. The term ANTENNA shall include, but shall not
be limited to, television antennas, citizen band radio antennas, amateur radio
antennas and satellite dishes.
(Prior Code, § 5.221) (Ord. effective 2-17-1995)
§ 5.222 EXEMPTION; DEFINITION OF WIDTH.
   This chapter shall not apply to any satellite dish antenna which does not
exceed one meter in diameter in a residential zone or two meters in diameter in
a commercial zone. In addition, this chapter shall not apply to any antenna
which does not exceed one meter in width and which does not exceed 60 inches
(including the pole or post) in height, as measured from the ground or roof (if
mounted on top of the roof) to the top of the antenna. Such antenna shall still
be subject to applicable building codes (if any). For purposes of this chapter,
the width of an antenna shall be measured at its widest diameter, dimension or
girth, and for an antenna with several sides or appendages, shall be measured
from tip to tip. The width of an antenna shall not include the supporting pole
or post.
(Prior Code, § 5.222) (Ord. effective 2-17-1995; Ord. effective 9-27-1996)
§ 5.223 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as exempted by §
5.222 of this chapter and as otherwise provided in §
5.225 of this chapter, no antenna shall be installed outdoors until and unless
an antenna permit has been issued by the city pursuant to this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.223) (Ord. effective 2-17-1995)
§ 5.224 REGULATIONS.
   In order to protect the public health and safety and to minimize the visual
impact of antennas, the city adopts the following regulations regulating
antennas. Antennas are permitted in all zoning districts subject to the
following requirements.
   (A)   The antenna shall be permanently secured to a stable foundation.
   (B)   No portion of the antenna shall conduct or display any advertising,
message or other graphic representation other than the manufacturer’s name.
   (C)   A freestanding antenna or tower (i.e., not mounted on a roof) shall be
located only in the rear yard or the side yard and shall not be closer to a
property line than its height or the depth of the required rear or side yard
setback, whichever is the greater.
   (D)   All antennas must be grounded to protect against damage from
lightning.
   (E)   In determining whether to issue an antenna permit, the City Services
Department shall apply the following standards.
      (1)   The antenna shall be installed and placed so as not to constitute a
safety hazard due to wind or storm.
      (2)   The antenna shall not block areas which will hamper firefighting
equipment.
      (3)   The antenna shall be placed so as not to be too close to electrical
lines or tree limbs.
      (4)   The antenna shall not be located or placed as to have a serious
adverse impact or effect on adjacent or nearby properties or land uses.
      (5)   A commercial or public antenna, including accessory buildings or
structures, shall comply with the use regulations of the zoning district where
it is located and shall be fully enclosed by a sturdy fence, securely gated,
having such height as is reasonably determined by the City Services Department.
      (6)   The antenna and the construction, installation, maintenance and
operation thereof shall comply with all federal, state and local laws,
ordinances and regulations.
   (F)   (1)   The City Services Department, in its reasonable discretion, may
impose other terms and conditions regulating the construction, installation,
use and maintenance of antennas. Such other terms and conditions may include,
though need not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   The screening or buffering of an antenna or tower and any
accessory buildings or structures thereof;
         (b)   The timely removal of unused or unsafe antennas or towers or
accessory buildings or structures thereof;
         (c)   For commercial or public antennas, the prohibition on the
construction of occupancy of dwellings or other buildings or the construction
and use of other structures within a specified isolation distance from an
antenna or tower; and
         (d)   If an antenna tower is involved, shields, fences, removal of
ladders or other safety precautions can be required to prevent unauthorized
persons from climbing the tower.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, no condition shall be imposed which
would hinder the ability of the antenna to receive or send signals.
   (G)   An applicant for an antenna permit can appeal a decision of the City
Services Department to the City Commission pursuant to §
5.226 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.224) (Ord. effective 2-17-1995; Ord. effective 9-27-1996)
§ 5.225 AMATEUR (HAM) RADIO ANTENNAS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter, an AMATEUR RADIO ANTENNA shall be
defined as an antenna operated for the purpose of receiving or transmitting
communications by a radio station as described in of 47 U.S.C. § 153 and which
is operated under license issued by the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC). Amateur radio antennas shall not be subject to the requirements of this
chapter, except as follows. No outdoor amateur radio antenna shall be installed
until and unless an amateur radio antenna permit has been issued by the City
Services Department. Amateur radio antenna permits are not transferrable and
shall automatically expire when the person issued the permit no longer owns the
property involved or that person’s license from the FCC is no longer valid. The
City Services Department shall not issue an amateur radio antenna permit until
the applicant has presented proof of a current FCC license and the following
requirements are met.
      (1)   If the antenna is to be installed in a rear yard, side yard or on
the roof, the permit shall be issued upon presentment of the FCC license to the
City Services Department.
      (2)   No permit shall be issued for the installation of an antenna in the
front yard unless the requirements of §
5.224 of this chapter have been met.
   (B)   If the effect of any of the requirements of division (A)(2) above will
be to preclude or prevent the operation of an amateur radio antenna, the
antenna shall not be subject to those provisions which precludes or prevents
such operation and the City Services Department shall issue the amateur radio
antenna permit.
(Prior Code, § 5.225) (Ord. effective 2-17-1995)
§ 5.226 APPEAL; REASONABLE ACCOMMODATION.
   Where the effect of any of the provisions of this chapter would be to
prevent or preclude the effective operation of an antenna (including the
ability to send or receive signals where applicable), such antenna may be
approved by the City Commission if it is reasonably demonstrated that the
effect of the application of any of the provisions of this chapter would be to
preclude or prevent the operation of such antenna. In granting approval for an
antenna, the City Commission may impose reasonable conditions upon such
approval, but such conditions shall not interfere with the reasonable use of
the antenna and such conditions, if any, shall be no more than the minimum
practicable regulations necessary to accomplish the city’s legitimate purposes
in regulating such antennas.
(Prior Code, § 5.226) (Ord. effective 2-17-1995)
§ 5.227 PERMIT FEES.
   The City Commission may establish the fees for permits hereunder from time
to time by resolution. The City Commission need not require a permit fee.
(Prior Code, § 5.227) (Ord. effective 2-17-1995)
CHAPTER 53: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
5.301   Statement of purpose
   
5.302   Definitions
   
5.303   General provisions
   
5.304   Administration
   
5.305   Provisions for flood hazard reduction
§ 5.301 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to promote the public health, safety and
general welfare, and to minimize public and private losses due to flood
conditions in specific areas.
(Prior Code, § 5.301)
§ 5.302 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless specifically defined below, words or phrases used in this chapter
shall be interpreted so as to give them the meanings they have in common usage
and to give this chapter its most reasonable application.
   APPEAL. A request for a review of the local administrator’s interpretation
of any provision of this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within the
community subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided in which the Federal
Insurance Administration has provided flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation, or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   LOCAL ADMINISTRATOR. The Director of City Services or his or her designee.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the “start of construction” commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or footings or any work
beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction does not include land
preparation, such as clearing, grading and filling, nor does it include the
installation of streets and/or walkways; nor does it include excavation for a
basement, footings, piers or foundations or the erection of temporary forms;
nor does it include the installation on the property of accessory buildings,
such as garages or sheds not occupied as dwelling units or not as part of the
main structure. For a structure without a basement or poured footings, the
START OF CONSTRUCTION includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the
structure or any part thereof on its piling or foundation.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, or a gas or liquid storage tank,
that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. 
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 5.302) (Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
§ 5.303 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lands to which this chapter applies. This chapter shall apply to all
areas of special flood hazards within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (B)   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard. The areas of
special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance Administration in a
scientific and engineering report entitled “The Flood Insurance Study for East
Grand Rapids,” dated March, 1980, with accompanying flood insurance rate map is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
flood insurance study is on file at the office of the Director of City
Services.
   (C)   Floodway protection standards. New construction, substantial
improvements and all other development, including fill, shall be prohibited
within zone number A1 on the FIRM, except where it is demonstrated to the
administrator that the cumulative effect of the proposed development when
combined with all other existing and anticipated development will not harmfully
increase the water surface elevation of a base flood. In determining whether a
harmful increase will occur, compliance with Public Act 451 of 1994, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.1301 et seq. shall be required, provided that the allowable
increase shall not exceed one foot. Zone A1 on the FIRM shall be considered to
be the floodway.
   (D)   Penalties for noncompliance. No structure or land shall hereafter be
constructed, located, extended, converted or altered without full compliance
with the terms of this chapter and other applicable regulations. Violation of
the provisions of this chapter by failure to comply with any of its
requirements (including violations of conditions and safeguards established in
connection with conditions) shall constitute a misdemeanor. For each violation,
and in addition, the violator shall pay all costs and expenses involved in the
case. Nothing herein contained shall prevent the city from taking such other
lawful action as is necessary to prevent or remedy any violation.
   (E)   Abrogation and greater restrictions. This chapter is not intended to
repeal, abrogate or impair any existing easements, covenants or deed
restrictions. However, where this chapter and other provisions of this code,
easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap, whichever imposes
the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 5.303)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions,
    see M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1301 et seq.
§ 5.304 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Zoning compliance permit required. Development, including the erection
of structures, within a flood hazard area shall not occur except upon issuance
of a zoning compliance permit in accord with the requirements of the zoning
chapter and the following standards.
      (1)   The requirements of the underlying zoning district and applicable
provisions of this chapter must be met.
      (2)   All necessary development permits shall have been issued by
appropriate local, state and federal authorities including a floodplain permit,
approval or letter of no authority from the state’s Department of Natural
Resources under authority of Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.1301
et seq. Where a development permit cannot be issued prior to the issuance of a
zoning compliance permit, a letter from the issuing agency indicating intent to
issue contingent only upon proof of zoning compliance shall be acceptable.
   (B)   Development permit. A development permit shall be obtained before
construction or development begins within any area of special flood hazard
established in §
5.303(B). Application for a development permit shall be made on forms furnished
by the local administrator and may include, but not be limited to, plans in
duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question; existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities; and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level of the lowest floor
(including basement) of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
5.305(B)(2); and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
   (C)   Designation of the local administrator. The local administrator is
hereby appointed to administer and implement this chapter by granting or
denying development permit applications in accordance with its provisions.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities of the local administrator. Duties of the
local administrator shall include, but not be limited to, the following.
      (1)   Permit review.
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied.
         (b)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required.
      (2)   Information to be obtained and maintained.
         (a)   Obtain and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean sea
level) of the lowest habitable floor (including basement) of all new or
substantially improved structures, and whether or not the structure contains a
basement.
         (b)   For all new substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            1.   Verify and record the actual elevation (in relation to mean
sea level); and
            2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in division
(B)(3) above.
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Interpretation of FIRM boundaries. Make interpretations where
needed, as to the exact location of the boundaries of the areas of special
flood hazards (for example, where there appears to be a conflict between a
mapped boundary and actual field conditions). The person contesting the
location of the boundary shall be given a reasonable opportunity to appeal the
interpretation as provided in division (E) below.
   (E)   Variance procedure.
      (1)   Appeal Board.
         (a)   The Zoning Board of Appeals as established by the city shall
constitute the Appeal Board under this chapter and hear and decide appeals and
requests for variances from the requirements of this chapter.
         (b)   The Appeal Board shall hear and decide appeals when it is
alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made by
the local administrator in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
         (c)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Appeal Board, or any
taxpayer, may appeal such decision to the appropriate court.
         (d)   In passing upon such applications, the Appeal Board shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and:
            1.   The danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
            2.   The danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion
damage;
            3.   The susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents
to flood damage and the effect of such damage on the individual owner;
            4.   The importance of the services provided by the proposed
facility to the community;
            5.   The necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
            6.   The availability of alternative locations for the proposed use
which are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
            7.   The compatibility of the proposed use with existing and
anticipated development;
            8.   The relationship of the proposed use to the master plan and
floodplain management program of that area;
            9.   The safety of access to the property in times of flood for
ordinary and emergency vehicles;
            10.   The expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and
sediment transport of the flood waters and the effects of wave action, if
applicable, expected at the site; and
            11.   The costs of providing governmental services during and after
flood conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems, and streets and
bridges.
         (e)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (E)(1)(d) above
and the purposes of this chapter, the appeal board may attach such conditions
to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the purposes of
this chapter.
         (f)   The local administrator shall maintain the records of all appeal
actions, including technical information, and report any variances to the
Federal Insurance Administration upon request.
      (2)   Conditions for variances.
         (a)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of one-half acre or less in
size contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed
below the base flood level, providing divisions (E)(1)(d)1. through (E)(1)
(d)11. above have been fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the
one-half acre, the technical justification required for issuing the variance
increases.
         (b)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation
or restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places
or the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
         (c)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if
any increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
         (d)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
         (e)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
            1.   A showing of good and sufficient cause;
            2.   A determination that failure to grant the variance would
result in exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
            3.   A determination that the granting of a variance will not
result in increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety,
extraordinary public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud or victimization of
the public as identified in division (E)(1)(d) above, or conflict with existing
local laws or ordinances.
         (f)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given
written notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest
floor elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood
insurance will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the
reduced lowest floor elevation.
(Prior Code, § 5.304)
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Chapter 50
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1301 et seq.
§ 5.305 PROVISIONS FOR FLOOD HAZARD REDUCTION.
   (A)   General standards. In all areas of special flood hazards, the
following standards are required.
      (1)   Anchoring. All new construction and substantial improvements shall
be anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral movement of the
structure.
      (2)   Construction material and methods.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood damage.
         (b)   All new construction and substantial improvements shall be
constructed using methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
      (3)   Utilities.
         (a)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall be designed
to minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the system;
         (b)   New and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall be designed to
minimize or eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and
discharge from the systems into floodwaters; and
         (c)   On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to avoid
impairment to them or contamination from them during flooding.
      (4)   Subdivision proposals.
         (a)   All subdivision proposals shall be consistent with the need to
minimize flood damage;
         (b)   All subdivision proposals shall have public utilities and
facilities such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems located and
constructed to minimize flood damage;
         (c)   All subdivision proposals shall have adequate drainage provided
to reduce exposure to flood damage; and
         (d)   Base flood elevation data shall be provided for subdivision
proposals and other proposed developments which contain at least 50 lots or
five acres (whichever is less).
   (B)   Specific standards. In all areas of special flood hazards where base
flood elevation data have been provided as set forth in §
5.303(B), basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard, the
following standards are required.
      (1)   Residential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any residential structure shall have the lowest floor, including
basement, elevated to or above base flood elevation.
      (2)   Nonresidential construction. New construction and substantial
improvement of any commercial, industrial or other nonresidential structure
shall either have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to the level
of the base flood elevation; or, together with attendant utility and sanitary
facilities, shall:
         (a)   Be floodproofed so that below the base flood level the structure
is watertight with walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water;
         (b)   Have structural components capable of resisting hydrostatic and
hydrodynamic loads and effects of buoyancy; and
         (c)   Be certified by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the standards of this division (B) are satisfied. Such certifications
shall be provided to the official as set forth in §
5.304(D)(2)(b).
(Prior Code, § 5.305)
CHAPTER 54: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
5.401   Title and purpose
   
5.402   Platting procedure
   
5.403   Requirements for lots
   
5.404   Requirements for utilities
   
5.405   Requirements for streets and sidewalks
   
5.406   Municipal review of all land divisions
§ 5.401 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “East Grand Rapids Subdivision
Control Ordinance”.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the division
and subdivision of land, including the creation of plats and unplatted land
divisions by metes and bounds legal descriptions, within the city in order to
promote the safety, public health and general welfare of the community.
(Prior Code, § 5.401) (Ord. effective 6-28-1991; Ord. effective 5-16-1997)
§ 5.402 PLATTING PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Preliminary plats. Preliminary plats shall be submitted and filed for
approval under §§ 112 to 120 of the state’s Subdivision Control Act, Public Act
288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 to 560.293, as amended. The City
Commission shall either reject the preliminary plat and give its reasons or set
forth in writing the conditions for granting of approval within the time frame
required by the Subdivision Control Act, as amended.
   (B)   Final plats.
      (1)   Final plats shall be prepared and submitted as provided for in the
Subdivision Control Act, as amended.
      (2)   The subdivider shall submit proof of ownership of the land included
in the final plat.
      (3)   The City Commission may require such other information as it deems
necessary to establish whether the proper parties have signed the plat.
      (4)   The City Commission shall review the final plat at its next regular
meeting or at a meeting to be called within 20 days of receipt of the plat. The
City Commission shall either approve the plat or disapprove the plat. If
disapproved, the City Commission shall give the subdivider its reasons in
writing.
(Prior Code, § 5.402) (Ord. effective 6-28-1991)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions,
    see M.C.L.A. §§ 560.111 to 560.120
§ 5.403 REQUIREMENTS FOR LOTS.
   All lots, whether shown in a proposed plat or resulting from any type of
land division, shall comply with all the requirements (including, but not
limited to, minimum width requirements and lot size for a conforming lot in the
zone district in which the lots are located) of
Chapter 50 of this title, as amended. Furthermore, even if the proposed
resulting lots from a land division meet the requirements of Chapter 50 of this
title for a conforming lot in the zone district in which the lots are located,
the procedures of §
5.406 of this chapter shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 5.403) (Ord. effective 6-28-1991; Ord. effective 5-16-1997; Ord.
effective 1-26-2001)
§ 5.404 REQUIREMENTS FOR UTILITIES.
   All public utility lines and easements shall be shown on the plat.
Extensions of public utilities shall be consistent with the system already in
place.
(Prior Code, § 5.404) (Ord. effective 6-28-1991)
§ 5.405 REQUIREMENTS FOR STREETS AND SIDEWALKS.
   All streets and sidewalks shall be shown on the plat. Streets and sidewalks
shall complement the existing streets and sidewalks in the city.
(Prior Code, § 5.405) (Ord. effective 6-28-1991)
§ 5.406 MUNICIPAL REVIEW OF ALL LAND DIVISIONS.
   All land divisions that require site plan review shall be handled by the
Planning Commission or the City Commission as provided in Article X of
Chapter 50. All other land divisions or boundary line alterations shall be
handled by administrative review; provided, however, the Public Works Director,
in his or her sole discretion, may refer a proposed land division or boundary
line alteration to the Planning Commission for review and action.
   (A)   Platted lots and site condominiums. No platted lot or site condominium
unit (“lot”) shall be split or divided or combined with another lot, nor shall
the boundary line of a lot be altered, unless approved beforehand by the Public
Works Director, his or her designee, the Planning Commission or the City
Commission pursuant to the following standards:
      (1)   Each resulting lot must have an area not less than required by
Chapter 50 of this title, as amended, for a conforming lot in the zone district
in which the lot is located; provided, a lot that is nonconforming due to area
or width may be split or altered if such change does not increase the
nonconformity of the lot, no new nonconformities are created, and the change is
not in violation of §
5.114(B) of the Zoning Ordinance.
      (2)   Each proposed resulting lot must have adequate easements for public
utilities from the lot to existing public utility facilities.
      (3)   The proposed land division will not adversely affect adjacent uses
or properties and will be consistent and harmonious with the character of
properties in the surrounding area within 500 feet of the proposed split. The
review will include consideration of the following:
         (a)   The location and size of the resultant parcels shall be
generally consistent to the size, shape and area of lots in the surrounding
area of the proposed split. In reviewing conformity with properties in the
surrounding area, factors which should be considered are total size of the
parcels created, the width of such parcels, and the width-to-depth ratio of the
parcels;
         (b)   The existence of and effect upon floodplain areas, wetlands,
drainage courses, and terrain and the ability to develop building sites on each
parcel without unreasonable disturbance of such features; and
         (c)   The relationship of front, side, and rear yards to yards and
orientation of buildings on other existing parcels within the surrounding area.
      (4)   The proposed land division will not place demands on public
services, roads and facilities in excess of their current capacities.
      (5)   The proposed land division shall not result in any lot that is
likely to necessitate one or more setback variances in order to make it
reasonably usable.
      (6)   The reviewing body may attach reasonable conditions to the approval
of the platted land division or boundary line alteration.
   (B)   Unplatted lots. No land division (apart from platted lots or site
condominium units, as governed by division (A) of this section) and no boundary
line alteration shall occur until and unless the proposed land division or
boundary line alteration has been approved by the Public Works Director, his or
her designee, the Planning Commission or the City Commission pursuant to the
following standards.
      (1)   Land division and boundary line alteration requests shall be
approved or denied within 30 days after the filing of a complete application
and the required supporting documents, all applicable fees have been paid, and
the requirements of this chapter have been met.
      (2)   In addition to a complete application and payment of any applicable
fees, the applicant must file an adequate and accurate legal description and a
tentative parcel map for each proposed resulting parcel showing area, parcel
lines, public utility easements and accessibility. The tentative parcel map
shall be a scale drawing showing the approximate dimensions of the proposed
lots or parcels.
      (3)   Each resulting parcel must have an area not less than required by
Chapter 50 of this title, as amended, for a conforming lot in the zone district
in which the lot is located; provided, a parcel that is nonconforming due to
area or width may be split or altered if such change does not increase the
nonconformity of the lot, no new nonconformities are created, and the change is
not in violation of §
5.114(B) of the Zoning Ordinance.
         (4)   Each proposed resulting parcel must have adequate easements for
public utilities from the parcel or lot to existing public utility facilities.
      (5)   The proposed land division or boundary adjustment shall not result
in any parcel that is likely to necessitate one or more setback variances in
order to make it reasonably usable.
   (C)   Effect of approval under this section. Municipal approval under this
section confers land division or boundary line alteration approval only and the
ability to record the land division with the County Register of Deeds Records.
Municipal approval hereunder does not infer, imply or guarantee that the
resulting lots or parcels are buildable or meet all city ordinance or code
requirements. If discretionary city approvals are required either pursuant to
Chapter 50 of this title, as amended, or other city ordinances, the property
owner is still responsible for obtaining any such approvals and ensuring
compliance with all applicable laws and ordinances.
   (D)   Application and fee for municipal review. The City Commission shall
establish by resolution the fee for consideration of a proposed land division
or boundary line alteration. A request for approval of a land division or
boundary line alteration shall not be considered until the required fee is
paid. In addition, an application for a division of land or boundary line
alteration shall be filed. The application shall be signed by all owners of the
subject land and delivered to the City Clerk. The following information shall
be provided in or with the application:
      (1)   The names of all owners of any legal or equitable interest in the
land and their signatures;
      (2)   The legal description of the parcel and a description of all
buildings thereon;
      (3)   A survey prepared by a registered surveyor of the parcel as it
exists, including all buildings located on the parcel, and showing the proposed
lot division or partition, including the minimum building setback lines as
required for the zoning district in which the property is located for each
resulting parcel. In addition, the city will provide a drawing showing all
adjoining properties and existing buildings within 500 feet of the subject
property;
      (4)   Any restrictions or covenants which currently exist that impact the
proposed resulting parcels and any restrictions or covenants which the owner
intends to place on the resulting parcels should the proposed land division be
approved. The applicant shall provide a copy of a title search showing
restrictions applicable to the parcel;
      (5)   The applicant's statement of impact on properties in the
surrounding area resulting from the proposed submission. This statement shall
include, but not be limited to, a review of the standards set forth in §
5.406(A)(3) of this section; and
      (6)   Such other information as is requested by city staff, such as
information regarding the location of drainage courses.
   (E)   Procedure for public hearing by Planning Commission or City Commission
(when required). When an application for land division or boundary line
alteration is sent to the Planning Commission or the City Commission for review
and action, once the application has been filed in proper form with the
required information, the application shall be placed on an agenda for the
Planning Commission or the City Commission for consideration following a public
hearing. Notices of such hearing shall be served personally or by mail at least
15 days prior to the day of such hearing upon the applicant and owners of
record of property within 500 feet of the premises in question, which notices,
if by mail, shall be addressed to the respective property owners of record at
the address given in the last assessment roll. A notice of public hearing shall
also be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the city at least 15
days prior to the day of such hearing. Only land divisions or boundary line
alterations that are to be reviewed and acted upon by the Planning Commission
or the City Commission shall require a public hearing.
   (F)   Appeal of boundary line alteration. A request for a boundary line
alteration that is decided by an administrative review may be appealed to the
city's Zoning Board of Appeals by any person or entity aggrieved by the
decision. A request for an appeal must be filed with the Zoning Board of
Appeals within 30 days of the administrative decision or the boundary line
alteration.
(Prior Code, § 5.406) (Ord. effective 5-16-1997; Ord. effective 7-7-1998; Ord.
effective 1-26-2001; Ord. effective 2-16-2007; Ord. effective 9-1-2023)
CHAPTER 55: REGULATION OF ADULT BUSINESSES
Section
   
5.501   Uses subject to controls
   
5.502   Definitions
   
5.503   Requirements
Cross-reference:
   Adult-oriented businesses, see
Chapter 75
§ 5.501 USES SUBJECT TO CONTROLS.
   Uses subject to the controls of this chapter are as follows:
   (A)   Adult-oriented businesses; and
   (B)   Massage establishments.
(Prior Code, § 5.501) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
§ 5.502 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business or commercial establishment engaging in
one or more of the following enterprises (as such enterprises are defined in
the adult-oriented businesses ordinance, Chapter 75 of this code):
      (1)   Adult cabaret;
      (2)   Adult merchandise store;
      (3)   Escort agency;
      (4)   Nude model studio; and
      (5)   Sexual encounter center.
   MASSAGE. Any method of applying pressure on, friction against, stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating the external
parts of the body, for remedial or hygienic or other purposes, with the hands,
with or without the aid of any mechanical, magnetic or electrical apparatus or
appliances, with or without supplementary aids such as rubbing alcohol,
liniments, antiseptics, oils, powder, creams, lotions, ointments or other
similar preparations.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, room, place or establishment where body
massage is regularly practiced on the human body, to club members or to the
general public for a charge. The term MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT shall not include:
      (1)   Hospitals, nursing homes or medical clinics;
      (2)   The office of a state-licensed physician, surgeon, osteopath or
chiropractor;
      (3)   The establishment of a barber, manicurist, beautician or
cosmetologist who is duly licensed under the laws of this state, or another
state within the United States, or the federal government, and who practices
within the established limits of his or her license, and who administers a
massage in the normal course of his or her duties in which massages are
administered only to the scalp, face, neck, hands, feet or shoulder; or
      (4)   The establishment of a myomassaologist who is a current member of
the American Massage Therapy Association or other national massage therapy
organization with comparable prerequisites for certification.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA and SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Have the same
meaning for the purposes of this chapter as those terms have in the adult-
oriented businesses ordinance (Chapter 75 of this code).
(Prior Code, § 5.502) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
§ 5.503 REQUIREMENTS.
   Any of the regulated uses listed in §
5.501 of this chapter is permitted if each of the following requirements is
satisfied.
   (A)   A regulated use may be located only within a zone district where the
use is normally permitted.
   (B)   A regulated use shall not be located within a 500-foot radius of any
lot zoned or occupied for residential purposes, or upon which is located a
school, public park, library, childcare facility, or church or place of
worship.
   (C)   A regulated use shall not be located within a 500-foot radius of any
other regulated use.
   (D)   For the purpose of this section, the measurement of a radius shall be
measured in a straight line from the property line of the use to the nearest
property line of the residential property, public park, school, childcare
facility, church or place of worship, or other regulated use.
   (E)   A regulated use shall not be located in the same structure or on the
same parcel as another regulated use.
   (F)   All on-site parking areas shall comply with the requirements of this
chapter and additionally shall be illuminated on any days the business is open
from sunset until closing.
(Prior Code, § 5.503) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
TITLE VI: FOOD AND HEALTH
   Chapter
      
61.   FOOD AND HEALTH STANDARDS
      
62.   SALE OF DRUG RELATED PARAPHERNALIA
      
63.   TRASH AND DEBRIS
CHAPTER 61: FOOD AND HEALTH STANDARDS
Section
   
6.1   Food service establishments
   
6.2   Milk or milk products
   
6.3   Fumigation businesses
§ 6.1 FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   No food service establishment as defined in Part 129 of Public Act 368 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as the same may be amended from time
to time, shall be located or operated in the city unless it complies with the
provisions of said Act and of all rules and regulations promulgated by the
state’s Department of Agriculture and the County Health Department pertaining
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6.1)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 333.12901
§ 6.2 MILK OR MILK PRODUCTS.
   No person shall sell, offer to sell, deliver or have in his or her
possession for the purpose of sale any milk or milk products unless such person
complies with the provisions of the laws of the state and the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Department of Agriculture and the County Health
Department pertaining thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6.2)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 333.12901
§ 6.3 FUMIGATION BUSINESSES.
   No person shall engage in the business of fumigation or in the occupation of
fumigation in the city without first obtaining a license therefor from the
County Health Department. No person shall engage in such business or occupation
unless he or she complies with the provisions of the laws of the state and
rules and regulations promulgated by the state’s Department of Health and the
County Health Department pertaining thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6.3)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 600.2916
CHAPTER 62: SALE OF DRUG RELATED PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
6.21   Definitions
   
6.22   Possession or delivery of drug paraphernalia
   
6.23   Penalties and remedies
   
6.24   Evidentiary rules
§ 6.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. That term as defined in Public Health Code § 7104,
being M.C.L.A. § 333.7104, as amended.
   DELIVER or DELIVERY. The actual or constructive transfer from one person to
another of drug paraphernalia, whether or not there is an agency relationship.
For purposes of this chapter, it also includes an offer to sell drug
paraphernalia. Proof of an offer to sell must be corroborated by a person other
than the offeree or by evidence other than a statement of the offeree.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. That term as defined in Public Health Code § 7451, being
M.C.L.A. § 333.7451, as amended.
   MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, 2008 IL 1, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq., as amended.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, 2018 IL 1,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as amended.
(Prior Code, § 6.21) (Ord. effective 10-4-1982; Ord. effective 10-18-2019)
Cross-reference:
   Use or possession of marijuana, see §
9.56 
§ 6.22 POSSESSION OR DELIVERY OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally use or possess with intent
to use drug paraphernalia, to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest,
manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack,
repack, store, contain or conceal a controlled substance in violation of the
Public Health Code, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7401 et seq., as amended, or to
inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of the Public Health Code, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7401 et
seq.
   (B)   No person shall knowingly or intentionally deliver, possess with
intent to deliver or manufacture with intent to deliver drug paraphernalia
knowing that the person who receives or who is intended to receive the drug
paraphernalia intends that it be used to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow,
harvest, manufacture, compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test,
analyze, pack, repack, store, contain or conceal a controlled substance in
violation of the Public Health Code, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7401 et seq., as
amended, or to inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human
body a controlled substance in violation of the Public Health Code, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7401 et seq.
   (C)   This chapter does not apply to:
      (1)   Persons licensed or permitted to manufacture, distribute, prescribe
or dispense controlled substances in accordance with the Public Health Code §
7303, being M.C.L.A. § 333.7303, as amended.
      (2)   The possession, use, manufacture, sale, or delivery of marihuana
accessories by a person 21 years of age or older in connection with the
recreational use of marihuana who is acting in strict compliance with the
MRTMA, as amended.
      (3)   The possession, use, manufacture, or delivery of drug paraphernalia
in connection with the medical use of marihuana by a person acting in strict
compliance with the MMMA, as amended.
(Prior Code, § 6.22) (Ord. effective 10-4-1982; Ord. effective 10-18-2019)
§ 6.23 PENALTIES AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   Every person convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be subject
to fine and/or imprisonment as provided in §
1.13 of this code.
   (B)   Any drug paraphernalia used or possessed in violation of this chapter
shall be seized and forfeited to the city.
(Prior Code, § 6.23) (Ord. effective 10-4-1982; Ord. effective 10-18-2019)
§ 6.24 EVIDENTIARY RULES.
   In considering whether an item is drug paraphernalia under this chapter, a
court or other authority shall consider, in addition to all other logically
relevant factors, but subject to current rules of evidence:
   (A)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of an object concerning
its use;
   (B)   The existence of any residue of controlled substance on the object;
   (C)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner or of
anyone in control of the object to deliver it to persons whom he or she knows
or should reasonably know intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of
this chapter (the innocence of an owner or of anyone in control of the object
as to a direct violation of this chapter does not prevent a finding that the
object is intended for use or designed for use as drug paraphernalia);
   (D)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its
use;
   (E)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   (F)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   (G)   Whether the owner or anyone in control of the object is a supplier of
similar or related items to the community, such as a licensed distributor or
dealer of tobacco products;
   (H)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the object
to the total sales of the business enterprise;
   (I)   The existence of scope of uses for the object in the community;
   (J)   The physical design characteristics of the item; and
   (K)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(Prior Code, § 6.24) (Ord. effective 10-4-1982; Ord. effective 10-18-2019)
CHAPTER 63: TRASH AND DEBRIS
Section
   
6.31   Definitions
   
6.32   Accumulation; placement
   
6.33   Penalty
§ 6.31 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Include any person, legal entity, corporation or business.
   TRASH and DEBRIS. Are used synonymously and each as herein used shall
include the following: automobile bodies; parts of machinery; junked or
discarded machinery; appliances; used lumber; garbage; empty cans; food
containers; bottles; utensils of any kind; barrels; boxes; pieces of iron or
other metal; and all other articles customarily considered TRASH or DEBRIS and
which may be a harborage for rodents, insects and other creatures.
(Prior Code, § 6.31) (Ord. effective 10-1-2004)
§ 6.32 ACCUMULATION; PLACEMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to accumulate, place, or allow or permit
the accumulation or placing on any premises in the city of trash or debris
unless it is housed in a building or placed in a waste container for
collection.
(Prior Code, § 6.32) (Ord. effective 10-1-2004)
§ 6.33 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be responsible
for a municipal civil infraction and shall be punished by a civil fine of not
less than $100 for a first violation, $200 for a second violation, and $500 for
a third or subsequent violation, and shall also be liable for payment of costs
of prosecution. Each day that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a
distinct and separate offense, and shall make the violator liable for the
imposition of a fine for each day. The civil fine shall be in addition to the
abatement of the violating condition and injunctive or other relief prescribed
by the laws of the state for the abatement of a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6.31) (Ord. effective 10-1-2004)
TITLE VII: BUSINESSES AND TRADES
   Chapter
      
71.   LICENSES AND PERMITS
      
72.   FEES
      
73.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
      
74.   TAVERN AND CLASS C LIQUOR LICENSES
      
75.   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
      
76.   FILLING STATIONS
      
77.   RECREATION, AMUSEMENTS AND GAMES
      
78.   LAWN CONTRACTORS AND SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTORS
      
79.   MULTI-CHANNEL VIDEO PROVIDERS
      
79A.   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE RATE REGULATION
      
79B.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
      
79C.   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS AND FACILITIES
      
79D.   SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES
CHAPTER 71: LICENSES AND PERMITS
Section
   
7.1   License required
   
7.2   Multiple licenses required
   
7.3   State licensed businesses
   
7.4   License application
   
7.5   License period
   
7.6   Compliance with provisions
   
7.7   Agreement by applicant
   
7.8   Certification required
   
7.9   Bond or insurance
   
7.10   Payment of fees
   
7.11   License renewals
   
7.12   Late renewals
   
7.13   Exemptions from fees
   
7.14   Suspension or revocation of license or permit
   
7.15   Cause defined
   
7.16   Issuance of license or permit
   
7.17   Denial of a license or permit
   
7.18   Exhibition of license
   
7.19   Display of license on vehicle and machine
   
7.20   Displaying invalid license; surrender required
   
7.21   Transfer, alteration or misuse of license
§ 7.1 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, as owner, agent, manager, employee or otherwise, shall operate,
conduct, maintain or otherwise be engaged in the carrying on of any trade,
business, profession, occupation, amusement, activity or privilege for which
any license is required by any provision of this code without first obtaining a
license from the city in the manner provided for herein. Any person duly
licensed on the effective date of this code shall be deemed licensed hereunder
for the balance of the current license year.
(Prior Code, § 7.1) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.2 MULTIPLE LICENSES REQUIRED.
   The granting of a license or permit to any person operating, conducting,
maintaining or otherwise carrying on any trade, profession, business,
occupation, amusement, activity or privilege which contains within itself, or
is composed of, trades, professions, businesses or privileges which are
required by this code to be licensed, shall not relieve the person to whom such
license or permit is granted from the necessity of securing individual licenses
or permits for each such trade, profession, business, amusement or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 7.2) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.3 STATE LICENSED BUSINESSES.
   The fact that a license or permit has been granted to any person by the
state to engage in the operation, conduct or carrying on of any trade,
profession, business, occupation, amusement, activity or privilege shall not
exempt such person from the necessity of securing a license or permit from the
city if such license or permit is required by this code. No license required by
this code shall be issued to any person who is required to have a license or
permit from the state until such person shall submit evidence of having
obtained the required state license or permit and having paid all fees
appertaining thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7.3) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.4 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Unless otherwise provided for by law or in this code, every person required
to obtain a license as provided for in this code shall make application for
such license on forms provided or prescribed by the City Clerk. The application
shall require such information to be provided as will enable the Clerk to
determine whether the applicant, if licensed, will serve the public in a fair,
honest, safe and competent manner and in compliance with the requirements of
this code and all other applicable federal, state and local laws, ordinances,
rules and regulations. The person making application for any license shall
state under oath or affirmation that the information provided on such
application is true and shall provide such other information relative to the
granting of the license or to the applicant’s qualifications as the Clerk may
require. No person shall make a false statement or false representation on any
license application or in connection with the application for any license.
(Prior Code, § 7.4) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.5 LICENSE PERIOD.
   Except as otherwise herein provided as to certain licenses, the license
period shall begin May 1 of each year and shall terminate at midnight on April
30 of the following year. Licenses shall be issued for any part of a license
period at the full license fee. License applications for license renewal shall
be accepted and licenses issued during the period of 15 days prior to the
annual expiration date. In all cases where the provisions of this code permit
the issuance of licenses for periods of less than one year, the effective date
of such licenses shall be for the period provided on the face of the license by
the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7.5) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.6 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   No license shall be issued to any applicant until such applicant has
complied with all the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7.6) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.7 AGREEMENT BY APPLICANT.
   (A)   All licenses are issued subject to the following conditions, which
shall be noted on the application form.
      (1)   The applicant agrees to permit inspection of the licensed premises
and/or activity at reasonable times by any properly identified official or
employee of the city.
      (2)   The applicant agrees to the temporary suspension of the license
without prior notice or hearing when, in the judgment of the appropriate
officials, such a suspension is necessary to preserve the public health, safety
or welfare.
      (3)   The applicant agrees that he or she will keep aware of and comply
with all applicable federal, state and local law, ordinances, rules and
regulations during the term of the license.
      (4)   The applicant agrees that he or she will not engage in the licensed
trade, business, profession, occupation, amusement, activity or privilege at
any time after the license has expired without having been reissued, or at any
time when the license is suspended or revoked.
      (5)   No license shall be issued unless and until the applicant has paid
all personal property taxes assessed him or her and unless the applicant has
paid all other debts due and owing to the city.
   (B)   Each applicant shall sign a statement indicating that he or she has
read the foregoing and agrees with its provisions prior to the issuance of any
license.
(Prior Code, § 7.7) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.8 CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   In each case where the certification by any of the following officials or
employees shall be required prior to the issuance of the license by the City
Clerk, such certification shall be based upon such inspection or investigation
as may be deemed appropriate by the official or employee named and shall
indicate a determination that the applicable requirements have been complied
with. No license shall be granted until the required certification is made.
   (A)   Public Safety Director. The provisions of the Fire Code and all other
applicable regulations and requirements of the city and the state relative to
fire safety have been complied with and that the criminal history of the
applicant, if any, has been checked and that there is no indication that the
applicant cannot serve the public in the licensed area in a fair, honest and
open manner.
   (B)   Building Inspector. The building requirements of this code and of the
state have been complied with and that the zoning and other land use provisions
of this code will permit the licensed activity at its proposed location.
(Prior Code, § 7.8) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Fire Code, see §
9.102,
   Zoning and subdivisions, see Chapters
50 and
54
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 29.1 et seq.
§ 7.9 BOND OR INSURANCE.
   Where a provision of this code requires that the applicant for any license
or permit furnish a bond, such bond shall be furnished in an amount deemed
adequate by the proper city official or, where the amount thereof is specified
in this code, in the amount so required; the form of such bond shall be
acceptable to the City Attorney. In lieu of a bond, an applicant for a license
or permit may furnish one or more policies of insurance in the same amounts and
providing the same protection as called for in any such bond; any such policies
of insurance shall be approved as to substance by the city official issuing
said license or permit and as to form by the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 7.9) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.10 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The fee required by this code for any license or permit shall be paid at the
office of the Director of Finance/Treasurer upon or before the granting of said
license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 7.10) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.11 LICENSE RENEWALS.
   It shall be the responsibility of all persons engaging in any trade,
business, profession, occupation, amusement, activity or privilege required to
be licensed to obtain all licenses required by this code prior to engaging in
or continuing in the licensed trade, business, profession, occupation,
amusement, activity or privilege. To assist in the renewal of licenses to
license holders, the City Clerk may send a license renewal application and
invoice for the license fee to license holders prior to the end of a license
year. Upon receipt of the completed application and the appropriate fee, and
after such investigation as he or she deems necessary, the Clerk may issue a
license for the following year. If a licensee fails to file an application for
renewal and/or fails to pay the license renewal fee prior to the expiration of
a license year, that application shall be considered to be an application for a
new license and compliance with the provisions of §
7.12 shall be required prior to the granting of a license.
(Prior Code, § 7.11) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.12 LATE RENEWALS.
   All fees for the renewal of any license which are not paid at the time said
fee shall be due, shall be paid as late fees with an additional 25% of the
license fee required for such licenses under the provisions of
Chapter 72 for the first 15 days that such license fee remains unpaid and
thereafter the license fee shall be that stipulated for such licenses under
Chapter 72, plus 50% of such fee. No new or renewal license shall be issued
until such fee shall have been paid.
(Prior Code, § 7.12) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.13 EXEMPTIONS FROM FEES.
   No license fee shall be required from any person exempt from such fee by
state or federal law. Such person shall comply with all other provisions of
this chapter. The City Clerk shall in all such cases issue to such persons
licenses which are clearly marked as to said exemption and the reasons
therefor.
(Prior Code, § 7.13) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any license issued by the city may be suspended or revoked by the City
Manager for cause as herein defined. Any permit issued by the city may be
suspended or revoked by the issuing official for cause as herein defined. In
either case, a hearing shall be scheduled to be held by the City Manager or the
City Manager’s designee or the issuing official, provided that a written
request for a hearing is filed with the City Clerk within five days after
receipt of such suspension or revocation. Depending upon the necessity for
prompt action, the hearing shall be held in accordance with one of the
following provisions.
      (1)   If there is no immediate threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, the hearing shall be held to determine whether the license or permit
should be suspended or revoked. The holder of the license or permit shall be
notified of the time, date and place of the hearing and shall be notified of
the reason or reasons for the proposed suspension or revocation. The license or
permit holder shall be entitled to be represented by counsel, to submit
evidence, to cross-examine testifying witnesses, and to make arguments
concerning the factual and legal issues. The hearing officer or body shall
render a written decision stating the reasons for the decision within five
days.
      (2)   If there is an immediate threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, the license or permit may be suspended prior to the hearing. If a
license or permit is suspended prior to the hearing, the hearing shall be
commenced as soon as is practical, but in no case more than ten days after the
suspension. The hearing shall be held to determine whether to terminate or
extend the suspension or whether the suspension should be converted into a
revocation of the license or permit. The holder of the license or permit shall
be notified of the time, date and place of the hearing and shall be notified of
the reason or reasons for the already imposed suspension and for any
contemplated future action. The license or permit holder shall be entitled to
be represented by counsel, to submit evidence, to cross-examine testifying
witnesses, and to make arguments on factual and legal issues. The hearing
officer or body shall render a written decision stating the reasons for the
decision within five days.
   (B)   In any hearing held pursuant to the provisions of this chapter, the
rules of evidence shall be followed as far as practicable. The hearing officer
or body may admit evidence of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent
people in the conduct of their affairs. Irrelevant, immaterial or unduly
repetitious evidence may be excluded. Notice may be taken of facts within the
general knowledge of the community.
   (C)   Any person dissatisfied with the decision of the City Manager or other
appropriate hearing officer or body may appeal to the City Commission, provided
that a written request for such an appeal shall be filed within seven days of
the date of the decision to be appealed.
   (D)   The City Commission shall schedule a hearing on the appeal within 15
days of the receipt of the request for appeal by the City Clerk. The hearing
shall be scheduled and held before the entire City Commission or a committee
thereof, as the City Commission shall determine. The factual record made in the
hearing below shall constitute the basic record for the appeal. Argument as to
relevant factual and legal issues shall be permitted. The decision of the City
Commission shall be by majority vote. The Commission may affirm, reverse or
modify any action taken relative to a license. The decision of the City
Commission shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 7.14) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.15 CAUSE DEFINED.
   The term CAUSE, as used in this chapter, shall include the doing or omitting
of any act, the permitting of any condition to exist in any trade, business,
profession, occupation, amusement, activity or privilege for which a license is
provided under the provisions of this code, or upon the premises or facilities
used in connection therewith, which act, omission or condition is:
   (A)   Contrary to the health, morals, safety or welfare of the public;
   (B)   A violation of any applicable federal, state or local law, ordinance,
rule or regulation;
   (C)   Unlawful, fraudulent or deceptive in nature;
   (D)   Unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license or permit granted;
   (E)   An abandonment of the licensed trade, business, profession,
occupation, amusement, activity or privilege; and/or
   (F)   A failure to communicate with customers regarding complaints.
(Prior Code, § 7.15) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.16 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Where proper application is made for a license or permit and the conditions,
requirements and prerequisites for the issuance of the license or permit have
been met, the license or permit applied for shall be issued by the City Clerk,
provided that no cause, as that term is defined herein, exists for denial of
the license.
(Prior Code, § 7.16) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.17 DENIAL OF A LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Where proper application is made for a license or permit and such a license
or permit is denied by the City Clerk or other issuing person or body, the
applicant shall have the right to appeal such a denial. For purposes of this
section, denial of a license shall include refusal to issue an original license
or refusal to renew or reissue an existing license. Within ten days of
notification of denial of a license from the City Clerk, an applicant shall
file with the City Clerk a written notice of appeal. The Clerk shall refer a
copy of this notice to the City Manager. Upon receipt of a notice of appeal,
the City Clerk shall confer with the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee to set a hearing time as soon as is practical but not later than ten
days after the filing of the notice of appeal with the City Clerk. The hearing
provided for may be conducted by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee and it shall be conducted as provided for in §
7.14, except that the issue to be determined is whether the denial of the
license was proper. The person conducting the hearing shall render a written
decision stating the reasons for the decision within five days.
(Prior Code, § 7.17) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.18 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Where certain premises are licensed or where a licensed trade,
business, profession, occupation, amusement, activity or privilege is carried
on at a fixed place or establishment, all licenses shall be conspicuously
displayed upon the premises, or at the fixed place or establishment in an area
that is open to the public.
   (B)   Where there is no premises, fixed place or establishment, the licensee
shall display the license or licenses issued on his or her person at all times
when conducting, carrying on or otherwise engaging in the licensed trade,
business, profession, occupation, amusement, activity or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 7.18) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.19 DISPLAY OF LICENSE ON VEHICLE AND MACHINE.
   Each license granted for a vehicle or machine as required under this code
shall include the issuance of a tag, insignia or sticker which shall be
prominently displayed on the vehicle or machine.
(Prior Code, § 7.19) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.20 DISPLAYING INVALID LICENSE; SURRENDER REQUIRED.
   No person shall display any expired license, any license for which a
duplicate has been issued, or any license which has been suspended or revoked,
nor shall any person display any license which has not been duly and regularly
issued to or on behalf of the person displaying it for the trade, business,
profession, occupation, amusement, activity or privilege in, at or for which
the license is displayed. It shall be the duty of every licensee or any
employee, agent or representative of a licensee to surrender to any properly
identified representative of the city, upon demand, any license which is
expired, suspended, revoked, altered, amended, modified, changed or damaged or
any license for which a duplicate has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 7.20) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
§ 7.21 TRANSFER, ALTERATION OR MISUSE OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under the provisions of this code shall be transferable or
assignable unless specifically authorized by this code. No person shall
transfer or assign or attempt to transfer or assign any license and no person
shall receive or attempt to receive a transferred or assigned license. No
person shall, except as authorized by the City Clerk, write upon, alter, amend,
modify, change or damage any license.
(Prior Code, § 7.21) (Ord. effective 1-16-1989)
CHAPTER 72: FEES
Section
   
7.31   Schedule established
   
7.32   Fees for licenses
§ 7.31 SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED.
   The fees required to be paid to obtain any license to engage in the
operation, conduct or carrying on of any trade, profession, business or
privilege for which a license is required by the provisions of this code shall
be as provided in this chapter. No license shall be issued to any applicant
unless the applicant first pays to the City Clerk the fees required for the
type of license desired.
(Prior Code, § 7.31)
§ 7.32 FEES FOR LICENSES.
   A number of sections of the city code refer to §
7.32 as containing a fees for various licenses which are issued by the city. In
order to expedite the implementation of such fees and to facilitate the
updating of fees, the fees to be set by this section will now be set by
resolution of the City Commission with such resolutions being updated from time
to time without a formal amendment of the city code.
(Ord. effective 1-1-2010)
CHAPTER 73: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
7.35   Definitions
   
7.36   License and identification card required
   
7.37   Bond
   
7.38   License application
   
7.39   License fee
   
7.40   Fixed stands prohibited
   
7.41   Prohibited areas
   
7.42   Practices prohibited
   
7.43   Indebtedness to the city
   
7.44   Exempt persons
   
7.45   Rules and regulations
   
7.46   Violations; penalty
§ 7.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation or partnership.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. Includes, shall mean, any canvasser, peddler, solicitor
or hawker as defined hereinbelow.
      (1)   CANVASSER. See SOLICITOR below.
      (2)   HAWKER. Any person who offers goods, property or services for sale
in the streets, highways, thoroughfares or public rights-of-way of the city by
crying out, signals, music or other noise.
      (3)   SOLICITOR. Any person who travels either by foot, wagon, vehicle or
other conveyance, from place to place, house to house, or street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares and
merchandise, books or magazines, personal property of any nature whatsoever for
future delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed, whether or not
such a person has, carries or exposes for sale a sample of the subject of such
sale or whether such person is collecting advance payments on such sales or
not, and such definition shall include any person who, for himself or herself,
or for another person, hires, leases, uses or occupies any building, structure,
tent, boat, lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city
for the sole purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future
delivery. The word SOLICITOR shall include the word CANVASSER.
(Prior Code, § 7.35) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.36 LICENSE AND IDENTIFICATION CARD REQUIRED.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
7.44 below, no person shall engage in the business of being a transient
merchant without first having obtained a license. No such license shall be
granted except upon certification of the Director of Public Safety, as provided
in §
7.8 of this code, and upon satisfaction of other requirements and conditions as
set forth herein. Each licensed transient merchant shall be required to obtain
from the city a transient merchant identification card, and shall pay such fees
as required for the furnishing thereof. Such identification card shall be
conspicuously displayed on his or her person at all times while any person is
engaging in the business of being a transient merchant.
   (B)   Any person who carries on or engages in the activities of a transient
merchant but is exempt from licensing pursuant to §
7.44 shall conspicuously display on his or her person a card or tag which
identifies the person by name and the organization which the person represents.
(Prior Code, § 7.36) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.37 BOND.
   The City Clerk shall determine whether the nature of the business to be
conducted under such license requires that a bond be furnished for the
protection of the city or the public and may require the posting of a bond with
sureties satisfactory to the city in an amount, to be determined by the City
Clerk in accordance with a schedule of fees adopted by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.37) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.38 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Persons desiring a license as provided for in this chapter shall file an
application pursuant to
Chapter 71 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 7.38) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.39 LICENSE FEE.
   The fees for a license pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall be
as specified in
Chapter 72 of this code (§
7.32).
(Prior Code, § 7.39) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.40 FIXED STANDS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person or transient merchant shall stop or remain in any one
location in any street, alley or public place within the city to conduct
business as a transient merchant except to make a sale to a bona fide customer
and for only as long as is necessary to make a sale to a bona fide customer
wishing to engage in a transaction.
   (B)   A transient merchant using a vehicle shall place the vehicle parallel
to and within 12 inches of the curb when stopped and shall depart from such
place immediately after he or she has completed sales with bona fide customers
actually present.
(Prior Code, § 7.40) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.41 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   (A)   No person or transient merchant shall obstruct any street, alley,
sidewalk or driveway except as may be necessary and reasonable to consummate a
sale to a bona fide customer wishing to exchange in a transaction.
   (B)   Business shall be transacted in such a manner that customers of or
traders with transient merchants do not congregate, occupy or stand within the
limits of any street, lane, highway, alley or public place within the city.
   (C)   No person or transient merchant shall remain, barter, sell, offer or
expose for sale any goods, wares or merchandise adjacent to any property
against the wish or desire of the property owner or the tenant or occupant of
such property nor within 500 feet of the entrance of any school building
between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on the days when school is in
session nor on those portions of streets on which a public park abuts. No
person shall engage in the business of being a transient merchant on any
street, alley or public place after having been requested to desist by any
public safety officer of the city because of congested or dangerous traffic
conditions.
(Prior Code, § 7.41) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.42 PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No transient merchant shall, while in any public place, shout or cry
out his or her goods or merchandise, nor blow any horns, ring any bell,
broadcast or play any sound, or use any other similar device to attract the
attention of the public in a loud or offensive manner.
   (B)   No transient merchant shall appear at any dwelling or residence
without an appointment except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. on
any day of the week. No transient merchant shall appear without an appointment
at any dwelling or residence where a sign is displayed stating “no peddlers, no
solicitors, no salesmen, no trespassing”, or words of similar import or
meaning.
(Prior Code, § 7.42) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
9.14C,
9.14G and
9.403A
§ 7.43 INDEBTEDNESS TO THE CITY.
   No license shall be granted to any person owing any personal property taxes
or other indebtedness to the city, or who contemplates using any personal
property on which personal property taxes are owing, in the operation of being
a transient merchant.
(Prior Code, § 7.43) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.44 EXEMPT PERSONS.
   The following persons shall be exempt from §§
7.36A,
7.37,
7.38,
7.39 and
7.43 of this chapter, but shall be subject to all other sections of this
chapter:
   (A)   Any person under 19 years of age, when engaged in the business of
being a transient merchant on foot in the neighborhood of his or her residence
under the direct supervision of any school or recognized charitable
organization, religious organization or nonprofit organization;
   (B)   Any person exempt from the licensing requirements of this chapter by
virtue of state or federal law;
   (C)   Persons licensed as food establishments by the County Health
Department; and
   (D)   Any person who is the duly authorized representative or agent of any
church, charitable, educational, fraternal or nonprofit organization, and who
is seeking funds or membership or contacting members or electors.
(Prior Code, § 7.44) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.45 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager shall promulgate and may amend, from time to time, rules
and regulations to be followed to ensure compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Such regulations shall include, but not be limited to, hours and
methods of operation, and the manner of compliance with the requirements of
this chapter. Such rules and regulations and any changes therein shall be filed
with the City Commission. Unless reversed or modified by the City Commission at
the first meeting after such filing with the City Commission, the rules and
regulations shall take effect immediately after said first meeting of the City
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.45) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989)
§ 7.46 VIOLATIONS; PENALTY.
   Upon a violation of any provision of this chapter, including any rule or
regulation promulgated pursuant to §
7.45 of this chapter, the city may seek legal and/or equitable relief in a
court of competent jurisdiction. In addition, any person who shall violate any
provision of this chapter shall have committed a civil infraction and may be
ordered to pay a civil fine of not more than $500. Each day that a violation
occurs or continues shall constitute a separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 7.46) (Ord. effective 2-20-1989; Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
CHAPTER 74: TAVERN AND CLASS C LIQUOR LICENSES
Section
   
7.48   Definitions
   
7.49   Qualification of applicant
   
7.50   Requirements for a tavern license or Class C license
   
7.51   Insurance
   
7.52   Application procedures
Cross-reference:
   Miscellaneous offenses, see
Ch. 93
§ 7.48 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. Any person who seeks approval from the city for a tavern or Class
C license.
   CLASS C LICENSE. Any place licensed to sell at retail beer, wine and spirits
for consumption on the premises.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association or corporation.
   SPIRITS. Any beverage which contains alcohol obtained by distillation, mixed
with potable water or other substances, or both, in solution, and includes wine
containing the alcoholic content of more than 21% by volume, except sacramental
wine.
   TAVERN LICENSE. Any place licensed to sell at retail beer and wine for
consumption on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 7.48) (Ord. effective 1-26-2001)
§ 7.49 QUALIFICATION OF APPLICANT.
   (A)   No application for a tavern license or a Class C license shall be
approved unless the applicant is the legal age for consumption of alcoholic
liquor in this state. If the applicant is a partnership or corporation, all
partners or shareholders must be the legal age for consumption of alcoholic
liquor in this state unless the partnership interest or stock is held in a
fiduciary capacity.
   (B)   No application for a tavern license or Class C license shall be
approved if the applicant has been convicted of three or more liquor violations
or a felony, in any court or before the Liquor Control Commission, within a
period of five years preceding the receipt of the application.
   (C)   No application for a tavern license or a Class C license shall be
approved if the City Commission shall find that the conduct of the applicant
has been such as to reasonably justify the conclusion that the applicant will
either intentionally violate or neglect to comply with the provisions of this
chapter.
   (D)   No application for a tavern license or a Class C license shall be
approved unless the applicant shall produce satisfactory evidence that the
applicant has sufficient financial resources to permit him to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.49) (Ord. effective 1-26-2001)
§ 7.50 REQUIREMENTS FOR A TAVERN LICENSE OR CLASS C LICENSE.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, no tavern license or
Class C license shall be approved for any establishment that is not a bona fide
restaurant. An establishment shall be deemed to be a bona fide restaurant if
its gross receipts from the sale of food and beverages, other than alcoholic
beverages, exceed 50% of the total gross receipts of the establishment. The
establishment shall cause its independent accountants to provide and certify
financial information on an annual basis to the City Clerk to confirm that this
standard is not being violated. In addition, the establishment shall maintain
accurate records of receipts and disbursements in such a manner that receipts
from the sale of food and beverages, other than alcoholic beverages, can be
readily distinguished from receipts from the sale of alcoholic beverages. Such
records shall be available for inspection by the City Manager or his or her
designee during normal business hours. At any time when the standard contained
herein is violated, the establishment must immediately reduce the sale of
alcoholic beverages so that such sales fall within this limitation.
   (B)   The city may approve a tavern license for an establishment that is not
a bona fide restaurant if all of the following requirements are met.
      (1)   The sale of alcoholic beverages shall be incidental and subordinate
to other permitted uses upon the premises, such as food sales or a recreational
activity. At least 50% of the gross receipts for the establishment shall be
derived from the other permitted uses upon the premises. The establishment
shall provide and certify its financial information, maintain records and
reduce the sale of alcoholic beverages if required as set forth in division (A)
above.
      (2)   A counter or bar used primarily for dispensing alcoholic beverages
shall not occupy more than 20% of the floor space of the establishment.
      (3)   The establishment shall have at least one variety of deli-style or
snack food available for consumption on the premises during all hours of
operation, whether the food be provided free of charge or made available for
purchase.
   (C)   Should the licensee or establishment fail to comply with this section,
the city may seek revocation of the tavern license or Class C license and may
also seek all other legal and equitable remedies, including limiting the
operation of the establishment up to and including the closing of the
establishment. A violation of this section shall also be treated as an
ordinance violation punishable as provided in §
1.13 of this code. Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this
section occurs shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Ord. effective 5-18-2012)
§ 7.51 INSURANCE.
   Any tavern license or Class C license holder is required to carry liquor
liability insurance with limits of at least $1,000,000 per claim and provide
written evidence of such insurance to the City Clerk. If such insurance
coverage is not reasonably available, the license holder may apply to the City
Commission for relief from this requirement and the City Commission may allow a
lower level of insurance without the necessity of modifying this section. If
the licensee fails to carry the required insurance, the city may seek
revocation of the tavern license or Class C license and may also seek all other
legal and equitable remedies, including limiting the operation of the
establishment up to and including the closing of the establishment. A violation
of this section shall also be treated as an ordinance violation punishable as
provided in §
1.13 of this code. Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this
section occurs shall be deemed a separate violation.
(Prior Code, § 7.51) (Ord. effective 1-26-2001)
§ 7.52 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   An applicant shall make a request for approval by the city of a tavern
license or Class C license upon forms provided by the City Clerk. A fee
established by resolution of the City Commission shall accompany all
applications made pursuant to this chapter. Upon receipt of such application,
the City Clerk shall transmit the same to the Director of Public Safety, the
Director of Finance/Treasurer and the Building Inspector. These departments
shall investigate the premises to ensure compliance with all laws and
regulations and shall check the applicant’s records to be certain that all
taxes are paid and that there are no outstanding citations or criminal charges.
Once the review of these departments is complete, the application shall be
considered by the City Commission for approval or denial.
(Ord. effective 1-1-2010)
CHAPTER 75: ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
7.53   Definitions
   
7.54   General requirements
   
7.55   Registration
   
7.56   Prohibited conduct
   
7.57   Violations
   
7.58   Severability
Cross-reference:
   See Title V,
Chapter 55 of this code
§ 7.53 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT CABARET. A nightclub, restaurant or other establishment which
regularly features or displays:
      (1)   Live performances predominantly characterized by an emphasis on the
exposure of any specified anatomical area or by any specified sexual activity;
or
      (2)   Films, motion pictures, videocassettes, slides, other photographic
reproductions or visual media predominantly characterized by an emphasis on the
depiction or description of any specified sexual activity or any specified
anatomical area.
   ADULT MERCHANDISE STORE. An establishment that emphasizes merchandise that
is predominantly distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to any specified sexual activity or any
specified anatomical area. An establishment emphasizes merchandise that is
predominantly distinguished by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing or
relating to any specified sexual activity or any specified anatomical area if
any one or more of the following applies to the establishment:
      (1)   Twenty five percent or more of the establishment’s retail floor
space (i.e., excluding bathrooms, office areas, fitting rooms, eating areas,
storage rooms/closets and the like) is used for the sale of merchandise that is
predominantly distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to any specified sexual activity or any
specified anatomical area;
      (2)   Twenty five percent or more of the establishment’s visible
inventory is comprised of merchandise that is predominantly distinguished or
characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
any specified sexual activity or any specified anatomical area;
      (3)   Twenty five percent or more of the establishment’s gross revenues
are generated by the sale or rental of merchandise that is predominantly
distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to any specified sexual activity or any specified anatomical area;
      (4)   The establishment is operated consistent with its being an adult-
oriented business (e.g., advertising is directed to an “adults only” market;
the establishment self-imposes (or imposes consistent with state or federal
law) prohibitions on minors being present in the establishment; segregated
areas of the business are devoted predominantly to the sale or rental of such
merchandise; and the like);
      (5)   The establishment displays merchandise that is predominantly
distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter depicting, describing
or relating to any specified sexual activity or any specified anatomical area
such that that merchandise is visible to patrons in the store and without cover
(as opposed to a situation where a de minimis amount of such merchandise, while
available for sale or rental, is covered or otherwise shielded from the view of
patrons); or
      (6)   A comparison between:
         (a)   The establishment’s ratio of general product to merchandise that
is predominantly distinguished or characterized by its emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to any specified sexual activity or any
specified anatomical area; and
         (b)   Other retail establishments’ ratio of general product to
merchandise that is predominantly distinguished or characterized by its
emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to any specified sexual
activity or any specified anatomical area, indicates that the establishment
emphasizes merchandise depicting, describing or relating to any specified
sexual activity or any specified anatomical area.
   ADULT-ORIENTED BUSINESS. A business or commercial establishment engaging in
one or more of the following enterprises:
      (1)   Adult cabaret;
      (2)   Adult merchandise store;
      (3)   Escort agency;
      (4)   Nude model studio; or
      (5)   Sexual encounter center.
   ESCORT. A person who, for any form of consideration and regardless of who
pays that consideration, agrees to act or offers to act as a companion or date
for another person, or who agrees or offers to privately model lingerie or to
privately perform a striptease for another person.
   ESCORT AGENCY. A person or entity which furnishes, offers to furnish, or
advertises to furnish escorts as one of its primary business purposes for a
fee, tip or other consideration. An ESCORT AGENCY is deemed to be operated in
the location where a request for an escort is received, or the escort and the
person requesting the escort are together.
   MATERIAL. Anything tangible, whether through the medium of reading,
observation, sound or in any other manner, including, but not limited to,
anything printed or written, any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, picture,
drawing, pictorial representation, motion picture, photograph, videotape, video
disk, film, transparency, slide, audiotape, audiodisk, computer tape,
holographic images, or any other medium used to electronically produce or
reproduce images, or any mechanical, chemical or electronic reproduction.
MATERIAL includes undeveloped photographs, molds, printing plates and other
latent representational objects whether or not processing or other acts are
required to make the content of the material apparent. This definition is
intended to include material which is the product of any technology, whether
that technology is available on the effective date of this chapter or becomes
available after that date.
   MERCHANDISE. Material and novelties.
   NOVELTY. Any instrument, device or paraphernalia which depicts or describes
any specific anatomical area or any specific sexual act, or which is designed
for use, or commonly used, in connection with specific sexual activities,
excluding condoms and other birth control and disease prevention products.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person displays any specified
anatomical area is provided to be observed, sketched, drawn, painted,
sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by any other person who pays
money or any form of consideration.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. An establishment, except that which is part of the
practice of and under the supervision and control of a physician, psychologist
or psychiatrist licensed to practice in the state that offers:
      (1)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons exposes or displays any specified
anatomical area; or
      (2)   The matching and/or exchanging of persons for any specified sexual
activities.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA. Any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, anus or
female breast at or below the top of the areola; or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITY. Any of the following:
      (1)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus or female breast;
      (2)   A sex act, actual or simulated, including intercourse, oral
copulation or sodomy;
      (3)   Masturbation, actual or simulated; or
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of
activities set forth in divisions (1) through (3) above.
(Prior Code, § 7.53) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
§ 7.54 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All adult-oriented businesses shall comply with the following.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall enter or be on the premises
of an adult-oriented business at any time the adult-oriented business is open,
nor shall any owner, partner, performer, contractor or employee of an adult-
oriented business sell or provide goods, merchandise or services to persons
under the age of 18.
   (B)   The following shall not be visible or audible to a person outside the
building in which an adult-oriented business is operated, whether through a
window or doorway or otherwise:
      (1)   Any depiction or description in any material of any specified
sexual activity or any specified anatomical area;
      (2)   Any novelty; or
      (3)   Any person engaging in any specified sexual activity or exposing
any specified anatomical area.
   (C)   No adult-oriented business shall allow the consumption of alcohol on
the premises of the business.
   (D)   No person or establishment shall operate an adult-oriented business:
      (1)   Before 8:00 a.m. or after 11:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday; or
      (2)   On any Sunday or legal holiday.
   (E)   No adult-oriented business shall engage in business unless each of the
following are satisfied:
      (1)   At least two employees, excluding entertainers, are on the premises
of the business at all times the business is open; and
      (2)   The business is equipped with operational security cameras which
shall be used at all times the business is open.
   (F)   Any booth, room or cubicle, located in any adult-oriented business,
used by patrons for the viewing of merchandise or any other entertainment must
comply with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   It must be unobstructed by any door, lock or other entrance and
exit control device;
      (2)   One side must be totally open to a public, lighted aisle so that
there is an unobstructed view at all times from the adjoining aisle of any
occupant;
      (3)   It must be illuminated such that a person of normal visual acuity
looking into the booth, room or cubicle from the entrance adjoining the public
lighted aisle can clearly determine the number of people within; and
      (4)   There shall be no holes or openings in any side or rear wall not
relating to utility, ventilation or temperature control services or otherwise
required by any governmental code or authority.
   (G)   No sign or advertising for an adult-oriented business may include any
photographs, silhouettes, drawings or other representations of any specified
anatomical area or any specified sexual activity.
   (H)   All adult-oriented businesses shall be open to inspection by the
city’s ordinance enforcement officer, the building inspector, any public safety
officer, any police officer, any sheriff deputy, and any Michigan State Police
Trooper for the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law at any time the
establishment is occupied or open for business.
   (I)   Each escort agency shall maintain permanent records on the premises
showing the name, address and telephone number of every person for whom an
escort is provided, the fee paid, the name of the escort or escorts so
provided, and the location where the escort and the person requesting the
escort initially meet. These records shall be made available, upon demand and
without prior notice, to any city official inspecting the premises pursuant to
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.54) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
§ 7.55 REGISTRATION.
   Each adult-oriented business shall register its existence with the City
Clerk and Zoning Administrator prior to commencing business. The registration
shall provide the following information:
   (A)   The name, residence address and business address, and telephone number
of the applicant and manager. If the applicant is a partnership, limited
liability company, corporation or similar business entity, the name and
residence address of each of the officers, directors, managers and each of the
owners, partners or shareholders owning 10% interest or more, either directly
or beneficially, shall also be provided;
   (B)   The name, address and telephone number of the owner of the building
where the business will be conducted; also, the name, address and telephone
number of the building manager (if different from the owner); and
   (C)   The location, mailing address and all telephone numbers where the
business is to be conducted.
(Prior Code, § 7.55) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
§ 7.56 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   No person within an adult-oriented business shall display to the view
of any other person any specified anatomical area.
   (B)   No person shall engage in any specified sexual activity on the
premises of an adult-oriented business.
(Prior Code, § 7.56) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
§ 7.57 VIOLATIONS.
   The following shall be a misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500
and cost of prosecution or by imprisonment for a period not to exceed 90 days,
or both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court:
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter;
   (B)   Permitting, allowing, encouraging or promoting any violation of any
provision of this chapter, including any owner, manager, employee, patron,
customer, officer, partner or other person;
   (C)   Aiding, assisting or abetting the violation of any provision of this
chapter; and
   (D)   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall also be a nuisance
per se and the city may seek an injunction against the violation.
(Prior Code, § 7.57) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
§ 7.58 SEVERABILITY.
   The phrases, sentences, sections and provisions of this chapter are
severable and the finding that any portion hereof is unconstitutional or
otherwise unenforceable shall not detract from or affect the enforceability of
the remainder of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.58) (Ord. effective 3-30-2001)
CHAPTER 76: FILLING STATIONS
Section
   
7.61   License required
   
7.62   Application for license
   
7.63   Location
   
7.64   Distance measurement
   
7.65   Gasohol
   
7.66   License fees
   
7.67   Retail delivery
   
7.68   Full service
   
7.69   Reserved
   
7.70   Reserved
§ 7.61 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No filling station for the storage and sale of gasoline or other motor
vehicle fuel shall be established or maintained within the city without first
obtaining a license therefor in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
No such license shall be issued until approved by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.61)
§ 7.62 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   The application for a license to operate a filling station shall state the
location of such proposed filling station and the capacity of the tank or tanks
to be used, and how such oil, gasoline and other fuels shall be stored and
sold.
(Prior Code, § 7.62)
§ 7.63 LOCATION.
   No license shall be granted for any such filling station hereafter
established for any location outside of the limits of the commercial (C-1)
district, as established by Chapter 50 of this code, nor for any location
where, by reason of traffic conditions or fire or explosion hazard, a filling
station would endanger and imperil the public safety, and no such license shall
be granted for any location within 200 feet of any school, church, theater,
park or any other place of public assembly which has a seating capacity of 200
or more persons, nor for any location within 200 feet of any building occupied
in whole or in part as a dwelling house; provided, that a license may be
granted for such filling stations for a location with less than 200 feet of any
building within said commercial district occupied in whole or in part as a
dwelling house, when the owners of not less than 75% of such buildings used for
dwelling house purposes within 200 feet of the proposed location consent
thereto in writing and such written consent is filed with the City Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 7.63)
§ 7.64 DISTANCE MEASUREMENT.
   The distance from a place of dwelling, school, church, theater or other
place of public assembly to the location of such filling station, as provided
in §
7.63, shall be measured from the nearest pump or tank to the front entrance, or
to the nearest portion of the dwelling or auditorium in which the public are
gathered. In case of a park, the measurements shall be from the nearest pump or
tank to the regular entrance to said park.
(Prior Code, § 7.64)
§ 7.65 GASOHOL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for anyone to store, sell, offer for sale,
dispense or otherwise handle fuel containing gasohol, or any similar product
(except that the provision of this section does not apply to that fuel which is
contained in the fuel tank or fuel supply system of a motor vehicle) without
first having obtained a special permit therefor from the city.
   (B)   The application for such a permit shall be submitted in writing and
shall be accompanied by:
      (1)   Certification that any tank to be used has been manufactured for
use with this type of fuel and that such tank has been accepted by a nationally
recognized testing laboratory or has been modified in an approved manner. This
certification must include assurance that the tank is not inter-connected with
any other tank which is not approved for this purpose;
      (2)   Certification that no alcohol-based pipe sealant compound has been
used anywhere in the piping system which will be used for this fuel;
      (3)   Certification that the dispensing equipment has been manufactured
or modified with seals which are compatible with this type of fuel;
      (4)   Certification that the tank vent system has been designed and
manufactured or modified for use with this type of fuel; and
      (5)   Such certifications shall be in such form as the licensing official
of the city shall specify.
(Prior Code, § 7.65)
§ 7.66 LICENSE FEES.
   Upon the granting of such license or special permit by the City Commission,
the City Clerk shall issue the same upon the payment of the fees prescribed in
Chapter 72.
(Prior Code, § 7.66)
§ 7.67 RETAIL DELIVERY.
   No person shall sell any gasoline or other motor fuel for delivery directly
into the tank upon any automobile, truck or other motor vehicle within the city
while the engine of such automobile truck or other motor vehicle is running,
and no gasoline shall be delivered into the tank of any automobile, truck or
other motor vehicle unless drawn from a tank buried at least three feet
underground.
(Prior Code, § 7.67)
§ 7.68 FULL SERVICE.
   All licensees shall maintain at least one full service island where the
dispensing of gasoline and other related services are performed by the station
owner, lessee, operator or employee.
(Prior Code, § 7.68) (Ord. effective 10-20-1986)
§ 7.69 RESERVED.
§ 7.70 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 77: RECREATION, AMUSEMENTS AND GAMES
Section
Article I. Poolrooms and Bowling
   
7.71   Definitions
   
7.72   License required; restrictions; contents
   
7.73   Closing hours
   
7.74   Minors
   
7.75   Public institutions exempt
Article II. Dance Halls or Studios
   
7.76   Public dance defined
   
7.77   License and certification required
   
7.78   Sanitary facilities
   
7.79   Building code requirements
   
7.80   Closing hours
Article III. Circuses, Shows and Exhibitions
   
7.81   Show license
   
7.82   Animal shows and exhibitions
   
7.83   Theaters
ARTICLE I. POOLROOMS AND BOWLING
§ 7.71 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOWLING ALLEY. Any place open to the public for bowling.
   POOLROOM. Any place open to the public for playing pool or billiards.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 7.72 LICENSE REQUIRED; RESTRICTIONS; CONTENTS.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating a poolroom or bowling
alley without first obtaining a license therefor. No license shall be granted
except upon certificate of the Public Safety Director and unless a complete set
of fingerprints of the applicant therefor are on file in the noncriminal
identification file of the Public Safety Department. Each license shall
designate the number of pool or billiard tables or bowling alleys permitted
thereunder, and no licensee shall keep or maintain more tables or alleys than
permitted by such license.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 7.73 CLOSING HOURS.
   No person shall keep open any poolroom or bowling alley between the hours of
12:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. of the succeeding morning.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 7.74 MINORS.
   No person who is less than 17 years of age may be or remain in or about any
premises licensed hereunder as a poolroom, nor shall any licensee permit any
such minor to remain in such poolroom. No person shall falsely represent
himself or herself to be 17 years or older in order to obtain admittance to or
remain in any licensed poolroom.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 7.75 PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS EXEMPT.
   This chapter shall not be applicable to bowling alleys or poolrooms operated
and owned by the city or a public school.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
ARTICLE II. DANCE HALLS OR STUDIOS
§ 7.76 PUBLIC DANCE DEFINED.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC DANCE. Any dance to which the general public is invited, expressly or
impliedly, except dances sponsored by the city or a public school.
(Prior Code § 7.76)
§ 7.77 LICENSE AND CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate or maintain any place in or on which public dances
are held or a dance studio where lessons are given without first obtaining a
license, and no person shall conduct a public dance except in or on premises
licensed hereunder. No license shall be granted except upon certification of
the building inspector and the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 7.77)
Cross-reference;
   License fees, see §
7.32
§ 7.78 SANITARY FACILITIES.
   No license shall be issued to any dance hall or studio or place where public
dances are held unless there is in said hall proper provision for ventilation,
either natural or mechanical, so that each person will be supplied with 1,200
cubic feet of air per hour, and sufficient toilet conveniences so that there
will be at least one women’s toilet in good sanitary condition per 2,000 square
feet of floor space, or fraction thereof; at least one men’s toilet and one
urinal in good sanitary condition per 4,000 square feet of floor space or
fraction thereof, and provision made for privacy therein; at least one
washstand in each toilet room provided with soap and sanitary towels; at least
one sanitary drinking fountain, either on the dance floor or reasonably
accessible thereto for each 4,000 square feet of floor space or fraction
thereof; sufficient fire exits free from all rubbish and inflammable material
as required by the regulations of the State Fire Marshal; and at least one free
and unobstructed means of exit from the premises in addition to the main
entrance thereto.
(Prior Code, § 7.78)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 29.3c
§ 7.79 BUILDING CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   No license shall be issued for any place in which public dances are held
unless the building code requirements of the city, as far as can be determined,
are being complied with.
(Prior Code, § 7.79)
Cross-reference:
   Building Code, see
Ch. 80
§ 7.80 CLOSING HOURS.
   No public dance hall shall remain open between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 2:
00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 7.80)
ARTICLE III. CIRCUSES, SHOWS AND EXHIBITIONS
§ 7.81 SHOW LICENSE.
   No person shall conduct a circus or show, except in a theater licensed under
the provisions of this chapter, without first obtaining a license therefor
which shall be known as a show license.
(Prior Code § 7.81)
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see §
7.32
§ 7.82 ANIMAL SHOWS AND EXHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct any dog or pony show or menagerie without
first obtaining a license therefor. Such license shall be known as an animal
show license.
   (B)   No person shall conduct any panorama, exhibition of statuary or
painting, or any other exhibition, not otherwise licensed under this chapter,
and for which an admission fee is charged, without first obtaining a license
therefor to be known as an exhibition license.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be applicable to any fair
held under the direct management and supervision of any recognized agricultural
association or society, nonprofit association or corporation, at which are
exhibited agricultural or industrial products, principally.
(Prior Code, § 7.82)
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see §
7.32
§ 7.83 THEATERS.
   (A)   No person shall conduct a moving picture show, vaudeville, opera
house, theater or other place for the giving of plays, and other theatrical
exhibitions where an admission fee is charged, without first obtaining a
license therefor to be known as a theater license.
   (B)   The requirements of this section shall not be applicable to
exhibitions or shows given for charity or for the benefit of schools or
benevolent, educational, fraternal or religious societies.
(Prior Code, § 7.83)
Cross-reference:
   License fees, see §
7.32
CHAPTER 78: LAWN CONTRACTORS AND SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTORS
Section
   
7.85   Lawn contractor defined
   
7.86   Lawn contractor license requirements
   
7.87   Muffler required on lawn contractor’s equipment
   
7.88   Lawn contractors to dispose of waste; littering prohibited
   
7.88-1   Regulations governing lawn care operations
   
7.89   Snow removal contractor defined
   
7.90   Snow removal contractor license requirements
   
7.91   Muffler required on snow removal contractor’s equipment
   
7.91-1   Regulations governing snow removal operations
   
7.92   Rules and regulations
§ 7.85 LAWN CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   The term LAWN CONTRACTOR, as used in this chapter, shall include any person,
partnership or corporation who offers to the general public, lawn care
services, including grass mowing, leaf pickup, shrubbery trimming and the
application of fertilizers or pesticides, other than a person under 21 years of
age who provides lawn care service to fewer than six private homes.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 7.86 LAWN CONTRACTOR LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No lawn contractor shall advertise its lawn care services in the city,
represent itself to be a licensed lawn contractor within the city, solicit or
enter into contracts for lawn care service with residents of the city, or
operate such business or service within the city without first obtaining a
license from the City Clerk’s office. The license fee shall be as set forth in
§
7.32 this code resolution to set fees. Licenses shall cover the period from
March 1 through February 28, and a new license must be secured for each such
license year. All such lawn contractors shall abide by such reasonable
regulations as to hours and methods of operation as the City Manager shall
promulgate and the City Commission shall approve. No lawn contractor licensed
under this chapter shall apply general use or restrictive use pesticides unless
licensed to do so by the Director of the state’s Department of Agriculture
under Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.8301 through 324.8336.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 7.87 MUFFLER REQUIRED ON LAWN CONTRACTOR’S EQUIPMENT.
   All motorized equipment utilized in the performance of lawn maintenance work
shall be equipped with an appropriate muffler if available commercially.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 7.88 LAWN CONTRACTORS TO DISPOSE OF WASTE; LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   Any waste material accumulated must be disposed of in accordance with the
provisions of Chapter 21 of this code. No leaves or grass will be permitted to
be blown into the street or sidewalk.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 7.88-1 REGULATIONS GOVERNING LAWN CARE OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Regulation No. 1. Each applicant for a lawn contractor’s license shall
file with the application certificates of insurance for both motor vehicle
insurance and general liability insurance (“occurrence basis”). The minimum
amounts for motor vehicle insurance shall be $1,000,000 per person, or a
combined single limit coverage of at least $1,000,000 for each occurrence and
$2,000,000 for general aggregate for a term not exceeding one year. None of
this coverage shall have any deductible amount, except for property damage
which shall have a deductible of not more than $500. The certificates must name
the applicant as the insured and the city as an additional insured, and must
include at least a 30-day notice of cancellation clause. The certificates must
state that they cover commercial operations or lawn maintenance operations, and
must either extend through the full license period (through February 28) or be
immediately renewed so as to avoid any lapse in coverage during the license
period. Proof of renewal shall be furnished to the city at least 15 days prior
to the insurance expiration date.
   (B)   Regulation No. 2. Any lawn contractor who applies pesticides shall be
licensed under, and comply with, all requirements of M.C.L.A. §§ 324.8301
through 324.8336. PESTICIDE means a substance or mixture of substances intended
for preventing, destroying, repelling or mitigating pests, or intended for use
as a plant regulator, defoliant or desiccant.
   (C)   Regulation No. 3. All lawn contractors shall comply with the
requirements of Chapter 98 of this code prohibiting the use of certain
fertilizers in the Reeds Lake Drainage District.
   (D)   Regulation No. 4. No lawn contractor shall apply a fertilizer other
than one which is acquired from a distributor or a manufacturer licensed under
M.C.L.A. § 324.8504.
   (E)   Regulation No. 5. All contractors shall comply with the regulations
governing the collection of yard rubbish contained in §
2.10 of this code.
   (F)   Regulation No. 6. All yard debris shall be placed on the outlawn of
the premises from which it originates, next to the curb, for collection. No
yard debris shall be placed or left in the streets or on boulevards.
   (G)   Regulation No. 7. All lawn contractors shall be responsible for
repairing any damage to property in the public right-of-way as a result of lawn
care operations. If any licensed lawn contractor shall, after written demand is
served upon him or her, fail to make repairs sufficient to place the property
in the same condition as it existed prior to such damage, the city may cause
the same to be repaired and the cost thereof shall become a debt to the city
from the lawn contractor and shall be collected as any other debt owing to the
city.
   (H)   Regulation No. 8. The term LAWN CONTRACTOR includes a person,
partnership, or corporation who offers to the general public any of the
services specified in §
7.85 of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Charter reference:
   Taxation, see
Charter Ch. XI
§ 7.89 SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTOR DEFINED.
   The term SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTOR, as used in this chapter, shall include any
person, partnership or corporation who performs for hire or offers to perform
for hire snow plowing services by the use of an automobile type motor vehicle.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 7.90 SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTOR LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No snow removal contractor shall advertise its snow plowing services in the
city, represent itself to be a licensed snow removal contractor within the
city, solicit or enter into contracts for snow plowing service with residents
of the city, or operate such business or service within the city, without first
obtaining a license from the City Clerk’s office. The license fee shall be as
set forth in §
7.32 of this title. Licenses shall cover the period from August 1 through May 1
and a new permit must be secured for each such permit year. All such
contractors shall abide by such reasonable regulations as the City Manager
shall promulgate and the City Commission shall approve.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 7.91 MUFFLER REQUIRED ON SNOW REMOVAL CONTRACTOR’S EQUIPMENT.
   All motor vehicles utilized in the performance of snow removal work shall be
equipped with an efficient muffler.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
§ 7.91-1 REGULATIONS GOVERNING SNOW REMOVAL OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Regulation No. 1. Snow removed from driveways and parking areas on
private property shall not be so deposited as to remain within the traveled
roadway after the departure of the contractor from the premises.
   (B)   Regulation No. 2. Snow shall be deposited behind the curb, where there
is one, and where there is not a curb, it shall be deposited off the traveled
roadway. In either case, it shall not be deposited across the street. It must
be distributed along the same side of the street as the drive or parking area
being plowed.
   (C)   Regulation No. 3. Snow may not be deposited onto fire hydrants or in
such manner as to impede access to fire hydrants.
   (D)   Regulation No. 4. Each applicant for a snow removal contractor’s
license shall file with the application certificates of insurance for both
motor vehicle insurance and general liability insurance (“occurrence basis”).
The minimum amounts for motor vehicle insurance shall be $1,000,000 per person,
or a combined single limit coverage of at least $1,000,000 for each occurrence
and $2,000,000 for general aggregate for a term not exceeding one year. None of
this coverage shall have any deductible amount, except for property damage
which shall have a deductible of not more than $500. The certificates must name
the applicant as the insured and the city as an additional insured, and must
include at least a 30-day notice of cancellation clause. The certificates must
state that they cover commercial operations or snow plowing operations, and
must either extend through the full license period (through April 30) or be
immediately renewed so as to avoid any lapse in coverage during the license
period. Proof of renewal shall be furnished to the city at least 15 days prior
to the insurance expiration date.
   (E)   Regulation No. 5. In addition to the equipment required by state
statutes, each vehicle used in snow removal operations shall be equipped with
lights which are mounted in such position as to be visible to traffic and
pedestrians. Said lights shall be on at all times during any snow plowing.
   (F)   Regulation No. 6. All snow removal contractors shall be responsible
for repairing any damage to property in the public right-of-way as a result of
snow plowing operations. If any licensed snow removal contractor shall, after
written demand is served upon him or her, fail to make repairs sufficient to
place the property in the same condition as it existed prior to such damage,
the city may cause the same to be repaired and the cost thereof shall become a
debt to the city from the snow removal contractor and shall be collected as any
other debt owing to the city.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Traffic Code, see §§ 10.4,
5.55C and
Charter Ch. XI
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 257.683 et seq.
§ 7.92 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The City Manager shall promulgate and may amend from time to time rules and
regulations to be followed by lawn contractors and snow removal contractors.
Such regulations shall include, but not be limited to, hours of operation,
insurance, license requirements, and requirements as to the manner in which
snow removed from driveways shall be deposited so as to not interfere with
traffic nor inconvenience other persons whose property adjoins the property
from which the snow is removed. Such rules and regulations and any changes
therein shall be submitted to the City Commission for approval. Failure of such
contractor to abide by said rules and regulations shall be grounds for
revocation of the license under which the contractor operates and shall
constitute a violation of this chapter. Any person who shall violate this
chapter shall have committed a civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a
civil fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. effective 7-28-2017)
CHAPTER 79: MULTI-CHANNEL VIDEO PROVIDERS
Section
   
7.95   Need for consent agreement or franchise
   
7.96   Definitions
   
7.97   Violations
   
7.98   Competition and choice
§ 7.95 NEED FOR CONSENT AGREEMENT OR FRANCHISE.
   No person may construct a multi-channel video system in the city to provide
multi-channel video service in the city without first obtaining from the city a
consent agreement or franchise authorizing the construction of such a system.
No multi-channel video provider may provide multi-channel video service to any
person in the city unless a consent agreement or franchise from the city
authorizing the same is in full force and effect at all times while that
service is provided.
(Prior Code, § 7.95) (Ord. effective 5-29-1998; Ord. effective 6-16-2000)
§ 7.96 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONSTRUCT. Includes:
      (1)   The installation of lines, fibers or facilities that are in or
cross any of the streets, highways or public rights-of-way within the city for
use as part of a multi-channel video system; or
      (2)   The connection of other facilities directly or indirectly to
previously existing lines, fibers or facilities that are in or cross any of the
streets, highways or public rights-of-way within the city for use as part of a
multi-channel video system.
   MULTI-CHANNEL VIDEO PROVIDER. A person who meets one or more of the
following tests:
      (1)   The person is a “cable operator”, as such term is defined in Title
VI of the Federal Communications Act of 1934, 47 U.S.C. §§ 521 et seq., or is
otherwise required to obtain a “franchise” as such term is defined in such Act;
      (2)   The person is an “open video system operator”, as such term is
defined under Title VI of the Federal Communications Act of 1934 and
implementing regulations;
      (3)   The person provides multi-channel video service, where such service
is transmitted in whole or in part via wires or lines that are in or cross any
of the streets, highways or public rights-of-way within the city. The preceding
sentence shall apply whether the provider owns, leases or otherwise obtains the
right to use such wires or lines including wires or lines of a
telecommunications provider used pursuant to tariff or otherwise for such
purpose; or
      (4)   The person provides multi-channel video service and is otherwise
required to obtain a franchise or similar approval under the city charter,
state law or federal law.
   MULTI-CHANNEL VIDEO SERVICE. Multiple channels of video programming where
some or all of the video programming is generally considered comparable to
programming provided by a television broadcast station. MULTI-CHANNEL CABLE
VIDEO SERVICE specifically includes, but is not limited to, “cable service” as
such term is defined in Title VI of the Federal Communications Act of 1934.
   MULTI-CHANNEL VIDEO SYSTEM. Includes all of the following:
      (1)   A “cable system”, as such term is defined in Title VI of the
Federal Communications Act of 1934;
      (2)   An “open video system”, as such term is defined under Title VI of
the Federal Communications Act of 1934 and implementing regulations;
      (3)   A system which provides multi-channel video service, where such
service is transmitted in whole or in part via wires or lines that are in or
cross any streets, highways or public rights-of-way within the city. The
preceding sentence shall apply whether the provider owns, leases or otherwise
obtains the right to use such wires or lines, including wires or lines of a
telecommunications provider used pursuant to tariff or otherwise for such
purpose; and
      (4)   Any other system providing multi- channel video service within the
city where under applicable law a franchise or similar permission or approval
from the city is required.
   PERSON. Individuals, corporations, partnerships, limited liability
corporations, limited liability partnerships and any other form of legal
entity.
(Prior Code, § 7.96) (Ord. effective 5-29-1998; Ord. effective 6-16-2000)
§ 7.97 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, trust, partnership or other legal
entity which violates this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and shall be subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than
$500 and not more than $5,000, plus costs and other sanctions for each
infraction. Each day that a violation continues shall be a separate civil
infraction.
   (B)   Repeat offenses under this chapter shall be subject to increased fines
as follows:
      (1)   First repeat offense: not less than $1,000 and not more than
$10,000; and
      (2)   Second or subsequent repeat offense: not less than $2,000 and not
more than $20,000.
   (C)   The rights and remedies provided for in this section are cumulative
and in addition to any other remedies provided by law or equity.
(Prior Code, § 7.97) (Ord. effective 5-29-1998)
§ 7.98 COMPETITION AND CHOICE.
   To provide residents and other persons in the city with competition and
choice in multi-channel video service, multi-channel video providers (other
than “cable operators” and “open video system operators” as those terms are
defined in § 7.96 of this chapter) providing multi-channel video service in the
city shall make up to two-thirds of the channels on their system available for
the carriage of programming from other video programming providers in
accordance with the principles and procedures established by the Federal
Communications Commission for the carriage of programming by open video system
operators.
(Prior Code, § 7.98) (Ord. effective 6-16-2000)
CHAPTER 79A: CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE RATE REGULATION
Section
   
7.101   Definitions
   
7.102   Purpose; interpretation
   
7.103   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
7.104   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
7.105   Proprietary information
   
7.106   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
7.107   Tolling order
   
7.108   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
7.109   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
7.110   Rate decisions and orders
   
7.111   Refunds; notice
   
7.112   Written decisions; public notice
   
7.113   Rules and regulations
   
7.114   Failure to give notice
   
7.115   Additional hearings
   
7.116   Additional powers
   
7.117   Failure to comply; remedies
   
7.118   Severability
§ 7.101 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as
amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, Pub. Law 102-385), and as may be amended from time to time.
      ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
      BASIC CABLE SERVICE. “Basic service”, as defined in the FCC Rules, and
any other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the
city pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
      FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
      INCREASE. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or customer
services.
   (B)   All other words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same
meaning as defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
(Prior Code, § 7.101) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.102 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the city.
   (B)   This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with the
Act and FCC Rules.
(Prior Code, § 7.102) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.103 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the city shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Prior Code, § 7.103) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.104 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the City Clerk. For purposes of this chapter, the filing
of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least ten
copies have been received by the City Clerk. The City Commission may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the city pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide all
information requested by the City Manager in connection with the city’s review
and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier and associated
equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The City Manager may establish
deadlines for submission of the requested information and the cable operator
shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Prior Code, § 7.104) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.105 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   In this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the city pursuant
to §
7.104(A) of this chapter, or any request for information pursuant to §
7.104(B) of this chapter, requires the production of proprietary information,
the cable operator shall produce the information. However, at the time the
allegedly proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request
that specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential
and withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the
information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those
reasons. The request for confidentiality will be granted if the city determines
that the preponderance of the evidence shows that non-disclosure is consistent
with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552. The city
shall place in a public file for inspection, any decision that results in
information being withheld. If the cable operator requests confidentiality and
the request is denied: where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase,
it may withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary
information will be returned to it; or the cable operator may seek review
within five working days of the denial in any appropriate forum. Release of the
information will be stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the city. The city shall weigh the policy considerations
favoring non-disclosure against the reasons cited for permitting inspection in
light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly notify the
requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the information as to
the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or condition a request. The
requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the decision by
filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be stayed pending
resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Prior Code, § 7.105) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.106 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
7.104(A) above, the City Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the City Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the City Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice is
published.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time and place of the meeting at which the City Commission shall first consider
the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be mailed by
first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition, if a
written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase is prepared for consideration of the City Commission, then the City
Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first-class mail to the cable operator
at least three days before the meeting at which the City Commission shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Prior Code, § 7.106) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.107 TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
7.104(A) above, unless the City Commission (or other properly authorized body
or official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 by
issuing a brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of
the date of filing. The City Commission may toll the 30-day deadline for an
additional 90 days in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an
additional 150 days in cases involving cost of service showings.
(Prior Code, § 7.107) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.108 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
7.107 of this chapter and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of
existing rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a
proposed increase in these rates, the cable operator shall submit to the city
any additional information required or requested pursuant to §
7.104 of this chapter. In addition, the City Commission shall hold a public
hearing to consider the comments of interested parties within the additional
90-day or 150-day period, as the case may be. The City Clerk shall publish a
public notice of the public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation
within the city which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at
such hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (B)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the City Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy of
the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Prior Code, § 7.108) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.109 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the City Manager shall cause a report to be
prepared for the City Commission which shall (based on the filing of the cable
operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s
review, and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the City Commission pursuant to §
7.110 of this chapter. The City Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the
cable operator by first-class mail not less than 20 days before the City
Commission acts under §
7.110 of this chapter. The cable operator may file a written response to the
report with the City Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by
the cable operator with the City Clerk within ten days after the report is
mailed to the cable operator, the City Clerk shall forward it to the City
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.109) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.110 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The City Commission shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the City Commission issues an order allowing the
existing rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it
shall also direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47
C.F.R. § 76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90
days after the tolling order under §
7.107 of this chapter, in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing.
The order shall be issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
7.107 of this chapter, in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Prior Code, § 7.110) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.111 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The City Commission may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47
C.F.R. § 76.942. Before the City Commission orders any refund to subscribers,
the City Clerk shall give at least seven days written notice to the cable
operator by first-class mail of the
date, time and place at which the City Commission shall consider issuing a
refund order and shall provide an opportunity for the cable operator to
comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by agent or by letter at such
time for the purpose of submitting comments to the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.111) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.112 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the City Commission pursuant to §
7.110 of this chapter or §
7.111 of this chapter shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by
the City Commission and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.
The Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a
newspaper of general circulation within the city which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   In addition, the City Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Prior Code, § 7.112) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.113 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
7.104 of this chapter, the City Commission may, by resolution or otherwise,
adopt rules and regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings
(including, without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the
Act and the FCC Rules.
(Prior Code, § 7.113) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.114 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the City Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceedings of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.114) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.115 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the City Commission may
hold additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the City
Commission, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Prior Code, § 7.115) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.116 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The city shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules, the
cable operator’s consent agreement and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules and this chapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise. The city may take any action
not prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public interest in
connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Prior Code, § 7.116) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.117 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The city may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s consent agreement with the city) for failure to comply with
the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determination of the city pursuant to this
chapter, any requirements of this chapter or any rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or
denial of renewal of a cable operator’s consent agreement.
(Prior Code, § 7.117) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
§ 7.118 SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts, sections and clauses of this chapter are hereby declared
to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section or clause is
adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
remainder of the chapter shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, § 7.118) (Ord. effective 9-18-1993)
CHAPTER 79B: TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS
Section
   
7.120   Purpose
   
7.121   Conflict
   
7.122   Definitions
   
7.123   Permit required
   
7.124   Issuance of permit
   
7.125   Construction/engineering permit
   
7.126   Conduit or utility poles
   
7.127   Route maps
   
7.128   Repair of damage
   
7.129   Maintenance fee
   
7.130   Modification of existing fees
   
7.131   Savings clause
   
7.132   Use of funds
   
7.133   Annual report
   
7.134   Cable television operators
   
7.135   Existing rights
   
7.136   Compliance
   
7.137   Police powers
   
7.138   Severability
   
7.139   Authorized city officials
   
7.140   Municipal civil infraction
§ 7.120 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and to exercise reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Act 48 of the Public Acts of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et
seq.) and other applicable law, and to ensure that the city qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Prior Code, § 7.120) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.121 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Prior Code, § 7.121) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.122 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Oversight
Act (Act 48 of the Public Acts of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.) ,
as amended from time to time.
   AUTHORITY. The metropolitan extension telecommunications rights-of-way
oversight authority created pursuant to the Act.
   CITY. The City of East Grand Rapids.
   CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of East Grand Rapids or its
designee. This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the City Commission.
   CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of Consumer
and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term “Commission”
in the Act.
   PERMIT. A nonexclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this chapter to
a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the city for
its telecommunications facilities.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association, governmental
entity or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway, highway,
street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include a
federal, state or private right-of-way.
   TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of Title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and service provided by
any wireless, two-way communication device.
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Those
terms as defined in § 102 of the state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179
of 1991, M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELE- COMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include a
person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally licensed
commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of the
Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the
following:
      (1)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
      (3)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Prior Code, § 7.122) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.123 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with the Act. A
telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
City Clerk, one copy with the City Manager and one copy with the City Attorney.
Applications shall be complete and include all information required by the Act,
including, without limitation, a route map showing the location of the
provider’s existing and proposed facilities in accordance with the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt
from the state’s Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq., as amended, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5), the telecommunications provider shall prominently so
indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, an
application shall be accompanied by a one time nonrefundable application fee in
the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the City Manager. If the city and the applicant cannot agree on
the requirement of additional information requested by the city, the city or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(2).
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(1), authorizations or permits previously issued by the city
under the state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 484.2101 et seq., as amended, and authorizations or permits issued
by the city to telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of the
state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §§
484.2101 et seq. but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of this
chapter. With the exception of fee provisions, which are now covered by Public
Act 48 of 2002, all provisions of the ordinance effective February 13, 1998
shall remain in full force and effect with regard to telecommunications
providers that obtained permits or consent agreements prior to November 1,
2002.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3105(3), within 180 days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, a telecommunications provider with facilities located in a public right-
of-way in the city as of such date, that has not previously obtained
authorization or a permit under the state’s Telecommunications Act, Public Act
179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.2101 et seq., as amended, shall submit to
the city an application for a permit in accordance with the requirements of
this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(3), a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this division (G)
is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D)
above. A provider under this division (G) shall be given up to an additional
180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the authority for good
cause, as provided in § 5(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(4).
(Prior Code, § 7.123) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.124 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3), the City Manager shall approve or deny an
application for a permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications
provider files an application for a permit in accordance with §
7.123(B) of this chapter for access to a public right- of-way within the city.
The City Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City Manager has granted or
denied a permit, including information regarding the date on which the
application was filed and the date on which permit was granted or denied. The
City Manager shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2)
and 15 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3106(1), (2) and 484.3115.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3115
(4), the City Manager may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which
conditions shall be limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and use
of the public right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3115(3), and without limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may
require that a bond be posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition
of the permit. If a bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost
to ensure that the public right- of-way is returned to its original condition
during and after the telecommunications provider’s access and use.
   (E)   Pursuant to the authority provided in division (C) above, the City
Manager may, where reasonably possible and consistent with the terms of the
METRO Act Permit, require providers to place flush mounted vaults rather than
above ground pedestals for equipment shelters if the city and the provider are
unable to reach an agreement on pedestal placement.
(Prior Code, § 7.124) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002; Ord. effective 7-30-2021)
§ 7.125 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required under this code, as amended, for
construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be charged for such
a construction or engineering permit.
(Prior Code, § 7.125) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.126 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   In accordance with the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees required
under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications provider
a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Prior Code, § 7.126) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.127 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3106(7), a
telecommunications provider shall, within 90 days after the substantial
completion of construction of new telecommunications facilities in the city,
submit route maps showing the location of the telecommunications facilities to
both the MPSC and to the city. The route maps should be in electronic format
unless and until the MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of
the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(8).
(Prior Code, § 7.127) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.128 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   A telecommunications provider undertaking an excavation or construction or
installing telecommunications facilities within a public right-of- way or
temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a
permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the street surface and all
installations under, over, below or within the public right-of-way and shall
promptly restore the public right-of-way to its preexisting condition.
(Prior Code, § 7.128) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.129 MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the nonrefundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
7.123(D) of this chapter, a telecommunications provider with tele-
communications facilities in the city’s public rights-of- way shall pay an
annual maintenance fee to the authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3108.
(Prior Code, § 7.129) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.130 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3113(1), the city hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and use of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the authority. In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4), the city also hereby approves modification
of the fees of providers with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-
way within the city’s boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees
required under § 8 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3108. The city shall
provide each telecommunications provider affected by the fee a copy of this
chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13(4) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4). To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications
providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are
otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be
contrary to the city’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error. In all other respects, the provisions of the ordinance effective
February 13, 1998 shall remain in full force and effect with regard to
telecommunications providers that obtained permits or consent agreements prior
to November 1, 2002.
(Prior Code, § 7.130) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.131 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(5), if § 8 of the
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3108 is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, the
modification of fees under §
7.130 of this chapter shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Prior Code, § 7.131) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.132 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(4), all amounts
received by the city from the authority shall be used by the city solely for
rights- of-way related purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all
funds received by the city from the authority shall be deposited into the Major
Street Fund and/or the Local Street Fund maintained by the city under Public
Act 51 of 1951, being M.C.L.A. §§ 247.651 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 7.132) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.133 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(5), the City
Manager shall file an annual report with the authority on the use and
disposition of funds annually distributed by the authority.
(Prior Code, § 7.133) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.134 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(6), the city shall
not hold a cable television operator in default or seek any remedy for its
failure to satisfy an obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the
effective date of this Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of
gross revenues from charges the cable operator received for cable modem
services provided through broadband internet transport access services.
(Prior Code, § 7.134) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.135 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3104(2), except as
expressly provided herein with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect
any existing rights that a telecommunications provider or the city may have
under a permit issued by the city or under a contract between the city and a
telecommunications provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Prior Code, § 7.135) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.136 COMPLIANCE.
   The city declares that its policy and intent in adopting this chapter is to
fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions of this
chapter should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose. The
city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including,
but not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from disclosure consistent with the Act
and state law as provided in §
7.123(C) of this chapter;
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
7.123(F) of this chapter;
   (C)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the city, in accordance
with §
7.124(A) of this chapter;
   (D)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
7.124(A) of this chapter;
   (E)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
7.124(A) of this chapter;
   (F)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
7.124(B) of this chapter;
   (G)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and use of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
7.124(C) of this chapter;
   (H)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
7.124(D) of this chapter;
   (I)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
7.125 of this chapter;
   (J)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
7.130 of this chapter;
   (K)   Submitting an annual report to the authority, in accordance with §
7.133 of this chapter; and
   (L)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
7.134 of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.136) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.137 POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(2), this chapter
shall not limit the city’s right to review and approve a telecommunication
provider’s access to and ongoing use of a public right- of-way or limit the
city’s authority to ensure and protect the health, safety and welfare of the
public.
(Prior Code, § 7.137) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.138 SEVERABILITY.
   The various parts, sentences, paragraphs, sections and clauses of this
chapter are hereby declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph,
section or clause of this chapter is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a
court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, the
unconstitutionality or invalidity shall not affect the constitutionality or
validity of any remaining provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.138) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.139 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal
Chapter Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by
this code.
(Prior Code, § 7.139) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
§ 7.140 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to such civil infraction fines and costs as provided for in
this code. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies
available to the city in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter
or a permit.
(Prior Code, § 7.140) (Ord. effective 11-1-2002)
CHAPTER 79C: MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS AND FACILITIES
Section
   
7.150   Definitions
   
7.151   Marihuana establishments and facilities prohibited
   
7.152   Rights unaffected by regulations
§ 7.150 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   IHRA. The Industrial Hemp Research Act, 2014 PA 547, M.C.L.A. §§ 286.841 et
seq.
   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT. That term as defined in the MRTMA.
   MARIHUANA FACILITY. That term as defined in the MMFLA.
   MMFLA. The Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, 2016 PA 281, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq., as amended.
   MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et
seq., 2008 IL 1, as amended.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A.
§ 333.27951, 2018 IL 1, as amended.
(Ord. effective 12-3-2018; Ord. effective 5-1-2020)
§ 7.151 MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS AND FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 6 of the MRTMA, marihuana establishments are prohibited
within the boundaries of the city.
   (B)   Marihuana facilities are prohibited within the boundaries of the city.
(Ord. effective 12-3-2018; Ord. effective 5-1-2020)
§ 7.152 RIGHTS UNAFFECTED BY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Except as specifically provided in §
7.151, this article shall not affect the rights or privileges of any individual
or other person preserved under the MRTMA.
   (B)   This article does not affect the rights or privileges of a marihuana
facility outside of the city to engage in activities within the city that it is
permitted to engage in under the MMFLA within a municipality that has not
authorized marihuana facilities to operate within its boundaries.
   (C)   This article does not affect the rights or privileges of registered
qualifying patients or registered primary caregivers under the MMMA or the
MMFLA.
   (D)   This article does not affect the rights or privileges of any
individual or other person under the IHRA.
   (E)   This article does not affect the rights or privileges of any
individual or other person under any other federal or state law, rule or
regulation related to the medical use of marihuana.
(Ord. effective 12-3-2018; Ord. effective 5-1-2020)
CHAPTER 79D: SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITIES
Section
   
7.160   Definitions
   
7.161   Permit required
   
7.162   Permitting process
   
7.163   Determination
   
7.164   METRO Act permit
   
7.165   Design parameters
   
7.166   Modification of design parameters
   
7.167   Repair of ROW
   
7.168   Discontinuance of use
   
7.169   Revocation of permit
   
7.170   Compliance with applicable law
   
7.171   Fees
§ 7.160 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. Public Act 365 of 2018, as amended, the Small Wireless
Communications Facilities Deployment Act.
      CO-LOCATE. To install, mount, maintain, modify, operate, or replace
wireless facilities on or adjacent to a wireless support structure or utility
pole. CO-LOCATION has a corresponding meaning. CO-LOCATE does not include make-
ready work or the installation of a new utility pole or new wireless support
structure.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY or ROW. The area on, below, or above a public
roadway, highway, street, alley, bridge, sidewalk, or utility easement
dedicated for compatible uses. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not include any of the
following:
         (a)   A private right-of-way.
         (b)   A limited access highway.
         (c)   Land owned or controlled by a railroad as defined in Section 109
of the Railroad Code of 1993, 1993 PA 354, M.C.L.A. § 462.109.
         (d)   Railroad infrastructure.
      SMALL CELL WIRELESS FACILITY. A wireless facility that meets both of the
following requirements:
         (a)   Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than six
cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna that has exposed elements,
the antenna and all of its exposed elements would fit within an imaginary
enclosure of not more than six cubic feet.
         (b)   All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
cumulatively not more than 25 cubic feet in volume. The following types of
associated ancillary equipment are not included in the calculation of equipment
volume: electric meters, concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation
boxes, grounding equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, and
vertical cable runs for the connection of power and other services.
      UTILITY POLE. A pole or similar structure that is or may be used in whole
or in part for cable or wireline communications service, electric distribution,
lighting, traffic control, signage, or a similar function, or a pole or similar
structure that does not exceed 40 feet above ground level unless a taller
height is agreed to by the city, and is designed to support small cell wireless
facilities. UTILITY POLE does not include a sign pole less than 15 feet in
height above ground.
      WIRELESS FACILITY. Equipment at a fixed location that enables the
provision of wireless services between user equipment and a communications
network, including, but not limited to, radio transceivers, antennas, coaxial
or fiber-optic cable, regular and backup power supplies, and comparable
equipment, regardless of technological configuration. WIRELESS FACILITY
includes a small cell wireless facility. WIRELESS FACILITY does not include any
of the following:
         (a)   The structure or improvements on, under, or within which the
equipment is co-located.
         (b)   A wireline backhaul facility.
         (c)   Coaxial or fiber-optic cable between utility poles or wireless
support structures or that otherwise is not immediately adjacent to or directly
associated with a particular antenna.
      WIRELESS INFRASTRUCTURE PROVIDER. Any person, including a person
authorized to provide telecommunications services in this state but not
including a wireless services provider, that builds or installs wireless
communication transmission equipment, wireless facilities, or wireless support
structures and who, when filing an application with the city under this
chapter, provides written authorization to perform the work on behalf of a
wireless services provider.
      WIRELESS PROVIDER. A wireless infrastructure provider or a wireless
services provider. WIRELESS PROVIDER does not include an investor-owned utility
whose rates are regulated by the MPSC.
      WIRELESS SERVICES. Any services, provided using permitted or unpermitted
spectrum, including the use of Wi-Fi, whether at a fixed location or mobile.
      WIRELESS SERVICES PROVIDER. A person that provides wireless services.
      WIRELESS SUPPORT STRUCTURE. A freestanding structure designed to support
or capable of supporting small cell wireless facilities. WIRELESS SUPPORT
STRUCTURE does not include a utility pole.
   (B)   All other terms and phrases used herein shall be defined consistent
with the Act.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.161 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A wireless provider may not co-locate a small cell wireless facility or
install, modify, or replace a utility pole or wireless support structure on
which a small cell wireless facility will be co-located within the public
right-of-way without first applying for and receiving a small cell wireless
permit from the city in a form and subject to such terms and conditions as are
acceptable to the city.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.162 PERMITTING PROCESS.
   The processing of an application for a permit under this section is subject
to all of the following:
   (A)   An application in such form as prepared by the city shall be completed
and submitted as set forth in this section.
   (B)   The city may require an applicant to provide information and
documentation to enable the city to make a compliance determination with regard
to the criteria in this section involving, without limitation, §
7.163(C). The city may also require a certificate of compliance with FCC rules
related to radio frequency emissions from a small cell wireless facility.
   (C)   The city may require proof of other necessary permits, permit
applications, or easements to ensure all necessary permissions for the proposed
activity are obtained.
   (D)   The city may require an applicant to attest that the small cell
wireless facilities will be operational for use by a wireless services provider
within one year after the permit issuance date, unless the city and the
applicant agree to extend this period or delay is caused by lack of commercial
power or communications transport facilities to the site.
   (E)   An applicant may, at the applicant’'s discretion, file a consolidated
application and receive a single permit for the co-location of up to 20 small
cell wireless facilities within the city. The small cell wireless facilities
within a consolidated application must consist of substantially similar
equipment and be placed on similar types of utility poles or wireless support
structures. The city may approve a permit for one or more small cell wireless
facilities included in a consolidated application and deny a permit for the
remaining small cell facilities.
   (F)   The application for a permit under this section shall be accompanied
by an application fee as set by resolution of the city from time to time.
   (G)   The permit application shall be accompanied by a map(s) for any
proposed small cell wireless facilities which shall be legible, to scale,
labeled with streets, and contain sufficient detail to precisely identify the
proposed small cell wireless facilities’ locations and surroundings. Where
applicable, the required map(s) shall include and identify any requested pole
height(s), all attachments and detailed drawings of any attachment.
   (H)   The permittee shall field-stake all proposed locations for small cell
wireless facilities which shall be subject to the advance approval of the city,
Kent County Road Commission and/or the Michigan Department of Transportation as
applicable. All approved small cell wireless facilities’ locations shall be on
a per pole/equipment/other basis.
   (I)   Once precise locations have been approved, the permittee shall provide
latitude and longitude coordinates for the small cell wireless facilities’
locations to the city’s Engineering Department as well as detailed as-built
drawings within 90 days of the completion of installation.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.163 DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Within 25 days after receiving an application, the city shall notify
the applicant in writing whether the application is complete. If the
application is incomplete, the notice shall clearly and specifically identify
all missing documents or information.
   (B)   Upon receipt of a complete application, the city shall approve or deny
the application and notify the applicant in writing within the following period
of time after the completed application is received:
      (1)   For an application for the co-location of small cell wireless
facilities on a utility pole, 60 days, subject to the following adjustments:
         (a)   Add 15 days if an application from another wireless provider was
received within one week of the application in question.
         (b)   Add 15 days if, before the otherwise applicable 60-day or 75-day
time period elapses, the city notifies the applicant in writing that an
extension is needed and the reasons for the extension.
      (2)   For an application for a new or replacement utility pole that meets
the height requirements of this chapter, and for an associated small cell
facility, 90 days, subject to the following adjustments:
         (a)   Add 15 days if an application from another wireless provider was
received within one week of the application in question.
         (b)   Add 15 days if, before the otherwise applicable 90-day or 105-
day time period elapses, the city notifies the applicant in writing that an
extension is needed and the reasons for the extension.
      (3)   If the city fails to comply with this division (B), an application
otherwise complete is considered to be approved subject to the condition that
the applicant provide the city not less than seven days’ advance written notice
that the applicant will be proceeding with the work pursuant to this automatic
approval and the applicant shall be responsible to comply with all provisions
of this chapter and the Act.
      (4)   The city and an applicant may extend a time period under this
division (B) by mutual agreement.
   (C)   The city may deny a completed application for a proposed co-location
of a small cell wireless facility or installation, modification, or replacement
of a utility pole that meets the height requirements of this chapter if the
proposed activity would do any of the following:
      (1)   Materially interfere with the safe operation of traffic control
equipment.
      (2)   Materially interfere with sight lines or clear zones for
transportation or pedestrians.
      (3)   Materially interfere with compliance with the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990, Public Law 101-336, or similar federal, state, or
local standards regarding pedestrian access or movement.
      (4)   Materially interfere with maintenance or full unobstructed use of
public utility infrastructure under the jurisdiction of the city.
      (5)   With respect to drainage infrastructure under the jurisdiction of
the city, either of the following:
         (a)   Materially interfere with maintenance or full unobstructed use
of the drainage infrastructure as it was originally designed.
         (b)   Not be located a reasonable distance from the drainage
infrastructure to ensure maintenance under the Drain Code of 1956, 1956 PA 40,
M.C.L.A. §§ 280.1 to 280.630, and access to the drainage infrastructure.
      (6)   Fail to comply with reasonable, nondiscriminatory, written spacing
requirements of general applicability adopted by the city by ordinance or
otherwise that apply to the location of ground-mounted equipment and new
utility poles and that do not prevent a wireless provider from serving any
location. The city’s design criteria for small cell facilities, support
structures, and poles can be found on the city’s website.
      (7)   Fail to comply with applicable codes.
      (8)   Fail to comply with the design parameters of this chapter.
      (9)   Fail to meet reasonable, objective, written stealth or concealment
criteria for small cell wireless facilities applicable in a historic district
or other designated area, as specified in an ordinance or otherwise and
nondiscriminatorily applied to all other occupants of the ROW, including
electric utilities, incumbent or competitive local exchange carriers, fiber
providers, cable television operators, and the city.
   (D)   Within one year after a permit is granted, a wireless provider shall
complete co-location of a small cell wireless facility that is to be
operational for use by a wireless services provider, unless the city and the
applicant agree to extend this period or the delay is caused by the lack of
commercial power or communications facilities at the site. If the wireless
provider fails to complete the co-location within the applicable time, the
permit is void, and the wireless provider may reapply for a permit.
   (E) Approval of an application authorizes the wireless provider to do both
of the following:
      (1)   Undertake the installation or co-location.
      (2)   Subject to relocation requirements that apply to similarly situated
users of the ROW and the applicant’s right to terminate at any time, maintain
the small cell wireless facilities and any associated utility poles or wireless
support structures covered by the permit for so long as the site is in use and
in compliance with the initial permit under this chapter.
   (F)   The city may propose an alternate location within the ROW or on
property or structures owned or controlled by the city within 75 feet of the
proposed location to either place the new utility pole or co-locate on an
existing structure. The applicant shall use the alternate location if, as
determined by the applicant, the applicant has the right to do so on reasonable
terms and conditions and the alternate location does not impose unreasonable
technical limits or significant additional costs. The city may request written
confirmation of any decision rendered by the applicant under this division (F)
and the specific basis for the same.
   (G)   Nothing herein shall prohibit the city from requiring a separate ROW
access permit for work that will unreasonably affect traffic patterns or
obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic in the ROW.
   (H)   As a condition of the issuance of a permit, the applicant shall obtain
and maintain a bond, in the amount of $1,000 per small cell wireless facility,
in a form reasonably satisfactory to the city, for the small cell wireless
facilities as applicable to similarly situated users of the ROW for one or more
of the following purposes:
      (1)   To provide for the removal of abandoned or improperly maintained
small cell wireless facilities, including those that an authority determines
should be removed to protect public health, safety, or welfare.
      (2)   To repair the ROW as provided under the Act.
      (3)   To recoup rates or fees that have not been paid by a wireless
provider in more than 12 months, if the wireless provider has received 60-day
advance notice from the authority of the noncompliance.
   (I)   It is a condition of any permit issued under this section that:
      (1)   A wireless provider, with respect to a small cell wireless
facility, a wireless support structure, or a utility pole, shall defend,
indemnify, and hold harmless the city and its officers, agents, and employees
against any claims, demands, damages, lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens,
losses, expenses, and attorney fees resulting from the installation,
construction, repair, replacement, operation, or maintenance of any wireless
facilities, wireless support structures, or utility poles to the extent caused
by the applicant, its contractors, its subcontractors, and the officers,
employees, or agents of any of these. A wireless provider has no obligation to
defend, indemnify, or hold harmless the city, or the officers, agents, or
employees of the city or governing body against any liabilities or losses due
to or caused by the sole negligence of the city or the city or its officers,
agents, or employees.
      (2)   A wireless provider, with respect to a small cell wireless
facility, a wireless support structure, or a utility pole, shall obtain
insurance, in an amount and of a type reasonably satisfactory to the city,
naming the city and its officers, agents, and employees as additional insureds
against any claims, demands, damages, lawsuits, judgments, costs, liens,
losses, expenses, and attorney fees. A wireless provider may meet all or a
portion of the city’s insurance coverage and limit requirements by self-
insurance. To the extent it self-insures, a wireless provider is not required
to name additional insureds under this division (I)(2). To the extent a
wireless provider elects to self-insure, the wireless provider shall provide to
the city evidence demonstrating, to the city’s satisfaction, the wireless
provider’s financial ability to meet the city’s insurance coverage and limit
requirements.
   (J)   It is the policy of the city to encourage the co-location of small
cell wireless facilities first, outside of public rights-of-way and,
secondarily, within the public rights-of-way. The co-location of uses shall be
a condition of approval of any permit granted for a new wireless support
structure or utility pole in the public right-of-way; provided, however, that
the co-location requirement may be waived if the pole or support structure is
disguised or stealthed so as to blend with the immediate environment (e.g.,
streetlights, power poles, etc.).
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.164 METRO ACT PERMIT.
   No person shall install or operate “telecommunications facilities,” as
defined in the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-Of-Way
Oversight Act, Act No. 48 of the Public Acts of 2002, as amended without first
obtaining a permit in accordance with that act from the city, including any
part of a small cell wireless facility, utility pole, or wireless support
structure constituting telecommunication facilities.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.165 DESIGN PARAMETERS.
   The following minimal design parameters shall apply to small cell wireless
facilities, utility poles and wireless support structures in the city’s public
rights-of-way:
   (A)   A wireless provider may, subject to approval by the city under this
section, co-locate small cell wireless facilities and construct, maintain,
modify, operate, or replace utility poles in, along, across, upon, and under
the ROW consistent with the following:
      (1)   A utility pole in the ROW installed or modified on or after the
effective date of the Act shall not exceed 40 feet above ground level, unless a
taller height is agreed to by the city consistent with all applicable laws.
      (2)   A small cell wireless facility in the ROW installed or modified
after the effective date of the Act shall not extend more than five feet above
a utility pole or wireless support structure on which the small cell wireless
facility is co-located.
   (B)   Such structures and facilities shall be constructed and maintained so
as not to obstruct or hinder the usual travel or public safety on the ROW or
obstruct the legal use of the city’s ROW or uses of the ROW by other utilities
and communications service providers.
   (C)   A wireless provider may co-locate a small cell wireless facility or
install, construct, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a utility pole, or a
wireless support structure, in, along, across, upon, and under the ROW only
upon issuance of a permit in accordance with this chapter.
   (D)   (1)   The following design and concealment measures shall apply to the
co-location of any small cell wireless facility or utility pole in an historic,
residential, or downtown district:
         (a)   Equipment on a supporting structure may not exceed an aggregate
width of four feet (centered on pole) and shall be secured a minimum of ten
feet from the ground surface or 18 feet where equipment may overhang the back
of curb line. Ground level equipment or shelters are not permitted.
         (b)   Small cell wireless facilities shall be located no closer than
18 inches from an existing sidewalk/face of curb or 18 inches from a proposed
future sidewalk/face of curb location.
         (c)   Small cell wireless facilities shall be located no closer than
ten feet from any driveway.   
         (d)   Small cell wireless facilities shall be located in line with a
side lot line and not in front of a residence.
         (e)   Unless otherwise required by the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC), the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), or applicable
codes, poles shall either maintain a galvanized silver, gray or concrete finish
or, subject to any applicable standards of the FAA, FCC or such codes, be
painted a neutral color so as to reduce visual obtrusiveness.
         (f)   At all pole sites related equipment shall use materials, colors,
textures, screening, and landscaping that will blend the facilities to the
natural setting and environment to the extent reasonably practical.
         (g)   All poles shall be of monopole design and construction unless
noted in §
7.166. Disguising or stealthing poles is encouraged.
      (2)   Any such requirements shall not have the effect of prohibiting any
wireless provider’s technology.
   (E)   A wireless provider shall comply with any prohibition on
communications service providers from installing structures on or above ground
in the ROW in an area designated solely for underground or buried cable and
utility facilities if each of the following apply:
      (1)   The city has required all cable and utility facilities, other than
city poles, along with any attachments, or poles used for street lights,
traffic signals, or other attachments necessary for public safety, to be placed
underground by a date that is not less than 90 days before the submission of
the wireless provider’s application.
      (2)   The city does not prohibit the replacement of city poles by a
wireless provider in the designated area.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.166 MODIFICATION OF DESIGN PARAMETERS.
   Upon the written request of an applicant for a permit, the city’s Department
of Public Works may modify or waive the design parameters of §§
7.165(D) and (E) in its discretion following a hearing and based on its review
of factors affecting the public health, safety and welfare including, but not
limited to, the following: the presence of existing poles or other structures
or equipment in the immediate vicinity; the ability to reasonably comply with
the design parameters set forth in §§
7.165(D) and (E); the visual and aesthetic impact of the proposed pole, antenna
or facilities on the adjacent area; the existing and planned character of the
adjacent area; public comment; the scale and scope of the poles, antennas or
facilities relative to the existing character of the area; whether granting the
modification will adversely impact public safety; and the recommendations of
city department heads (if any). Following its review, the city’s Department of
Public Works may grant, deny or grant with conditions a request to modify or
waive the design parameters and shall provide its decision and the basis for
the same to the applicant in writing. All applications for a waiver or
modification of the design parameters as set forth herein shall be addressed in
a uniform and nondiscriminatory manner. The applicant shall be responsible to
pay all costs of the city associated with the request to modify or waive the
design parameters.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.167 REPAIR OF ROW.
   As a condition to the issuance of a permit under this section, a wireless
provider is required to repair all damage to the ROW directly caused by the
activities of the wireless provider while occupying, constructing, installing,
mounting, maintaining, modifying, operating, or replacing small cell wireless
facilities, utility poles, or wireless support structures in the ROW and to
return the ROW to its functional equivalent before the damage. If the wireless
provider fails to make the repairs required by the city within 60 days after
written notice, the city may make those repairs and charge the wireless
provider the reasonable, documented cost of the repairs.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.168 DISCONTINUANCE OF USE.
   Before discontinuing its use of a small cell wireless facility, utility
pole, or wireless support structure, a wireless provider shall notify the city
in writing. The notice shall specify when and how the wireless provider intends
to remove the small cell wireless facility, utility pole, or wireless support
structure. The city may impose reasonable and nondiscriminatory requirements
and specifications for the wireless provider to return the property to its pre-
installation condition. If the wireless provider does not complete the removal
within 45 days after the discontinuance of use, the city may complete the
removal and assess the costs of removal against the wireless provider. A permit
under this section for a small cell wireless facility expires upon removal of
the small cell wireless facility.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.169 REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The city may revoke a permit, upon 30 days’ notice and an opportunity to
cure, if the permitted small cell wireless facilities and any associated
utility pole fail to meet the requirements of §
7.163(C).
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.170 COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE LAW.
   The permittee shall be responsible to comply with all applicable legal
requirements and to obtain any permits or approvals otherwise required by law
relative to the installation or operation of small cell wireless facilities in
the city’s public rights-of-way (e.g., electrical permits). The city, in
reviewing and authorizing a permit under the act and/or a permit referred to in
this section, and the permittee, in the establishment and operation of any
small cell wireless facilities, shall comply with all applicable federal and
state laws.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
§ 7.171 FEES.
   Fees for the permits as authorized under the Act shall be as provided for in
the Act or those documents and as periodically authorized by resolution of the
city; provided, however, that for installations of utility poles designed to
support small cell wireless facilities or co-locations of small cell wireless
facilities installed and operational in the ROW before the effective date of
the Act, the fees, rates, and terms of an agreement or ordinance for use of the
ROW remain in effect subject to the termination provisions contained in the
agreement or ordinance.
(Ord. effective 11-15-2019)
TITLE VIII: BUILDING REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
80.   BUILDING CODE
      
81.   SIGNS
      
82.   SWIMMING AND OTHER POOLS
      
83.   FENCES
      
84.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE AND HOUSING REGULATIONS
      
85.   REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS
      
88.   INSPECTION OF RENTAL UNITS
CHAPTER 80: BUILDING CODE
Section
   
8.1   Title
   
8.2   Adoption of State Construction Code by reference
   
8.3   Definitions and word usage
   
8.4   Civil infractions; fines
   
8.5   Construction Code Board of Appeals
   
8.6   Enforcement by Building Official
   
8.7   Records to be kept by Building Official
   
8.8   Building permit fees
   
8.9   Compliance and permit required; residential construction drainage
management requirements
   
8.10   Conflict with zoning ordinance
§ 8.1 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as “the East Grand Rapids
Building Code”.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.2 ADOPTION OF STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE BY REFERENCE.
   Pursuant to the provisions of §§ 8a and 8b of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1508a and 125.1508b, the city hereby adopts by reference the Construction
Code. The city assumes responsibility of the administration and enforcement of
the Construction Code and the Act within the city whether it be conducted by a
city building official or by a Cascade Charter Township building official.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.3 DEFINITIONS AND WORD USAGE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The State Construction Code Act, as amended (Public Act 230 of 1972,
as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.)
      CONSTRUCTION CODE. The State Construction Code promulgated from time to
time by the Director of the Department of Consumer and Industry Services
pursuant to § 4 of the Act consisting of the State Building Code, the State
Residential Code, the State Uniform Energy Code, the State Electrical Code, the
State Mechanical Code and the State Plumbing Code.
   (B)   The building official shall be the enforcing agency of the
Construction Code within the city pursuant to the Act, shall be responsible for
the administration and enforcement of the Construction Code and the Act, and
shall be responsible for reviewing permit applications and issuing permits
pursuant to the Construction Code.
   (C)   References in the Construction Code to “jurisdiction” and “name of
jurisdiction” shall mean the city. References in the Construction Code to
building official, code official, electrical inspector, mechanical inspector,
and plumbing inspector shall mean the employees of the city or Cascade Charter
Township.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.4 CIVIL INFRACTIONS; FINES.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of the
Construction Code or Act is responsible for a municipal civil infraction,
subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $100, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses shall be subject to the
increased fines. As used in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second or any
subsequent violation of the same requirement or provision of the Construction
Code or the Act committed by a person within any 90-day period and for which
the person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.5 CONSTRUCTION CODE BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 14 of the Act, the city hereby establishes a
Construction Code Board of Appeals by contracting with Cascade Charter Township
for the use of Cascade’s Construction Board of Appeals.
   (B)   If the building official refuses to grant an application for a
building permit, or makes any other decision pursuant or related to the Act or
the Construction Code, an interested person, or the person’s authorized agent,
may appeal in writing to the Board of Appeals. An application for appeal shall
be based on a claim that the true intent of the Construction Code or the rules
governing construction have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of the
Construction Code do not fully apply or an equally good or better form of
construction is proposed.
   (C)   When an appeal is made, notice of the hearing before the Board of
Appeals shall be given according to applicable state or local law. The Board of
Appeals shall hear the appeal and render and file its decision with a statement
of reasons for the decision with the enforcing agency from whom the appeal was
taken not more than 30 days after submission of the appeal. Failure by the
Board of Appeals to hear an appeal and file a decision within the time limit is
a denial of the appeal for purposes of authorizing the institution of an appeal
to the State Construction Code Commission. A copy of the decision and statement
of the reasons for the decision shall be delivered or mailed, before filing, to
the party taking the appeal.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.6 ENFORCEMENT BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The code official responsible for the administration and enforcement of the
Construction Code and the Act shall be the building official of Cascade Charter
Township on behalf of the city.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.7 RECORDS TO BE KEPT BY BUILDING OFFICIAL.
   The building official shall keep a reasonable and comprehensive record of
all permits issued by him or her and of all orders and other acts made and
taken by him or her, either by keeping a copy thereof or an accurate statement
thereof, which records shall at all times be available to the officials of the
city. He or she shall keep an account of all fees and other monies collected
and received by him or her as such official and the names of the persons from
whom such monies were obtained and the date thereof.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.8 BUILDING PERMIT FEES.
   The fee for any permit issued pursuant to the Construction Code shall be
established by resolution of the City Commission or the Cascade Charter
Township Board pursuant to § 22 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1522. No
permit shall be issued unless such fee has been paid.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.9 COMPLIANCE AND PERMIT REQUIRED; RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION DRAINAGE
MANAGEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Building construction and removal. It shall be unlawful for any person
to demolish, erect, construct, enlarge, alter, repair, improve, convert, equip,
use, occupy, maintain or move into within the city any building or structure
contrary to or in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter, the Act
or Construction Code, or to refuse to fail to obtain such permit, unless
written consent shall have been given by the building official to the
modification of such plan and drawings.
   (B)   Residential construction drainage management approval. For all new
building construction and additions, a drainage management plan is required. In
addition, for all new residential homes and large renovations or additions over
400 square feet in size, a drainage management plan sealed by a licensed
professional engineer is required. The city will from time to time adopt and
publish the current requirements for drainage management plans and will also
provide an impervious area worksheet that will be updated as necessary to
confirm compliance with §
5.28 of the zoning ordinance. Compliance with these plan requirements is
mandatory. Non-residential construction must adhere to the provisions of
Chapter 28 of the city code.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018; Ord. effective 9-19-2020)
§ 8.10 CONFLICT WITH ZONING ORDINANCE.
   If any provision of the Construction Code conflicts with any provision of
the city’s zoning ordinance, as amended from time to time, the most stringent
provision shall control.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
CHAPTER 81: SIGNS
Section
   
8.11   Intent and applicability of sign regulations
   
8.12   Definitions
   
8.13   Exempt signs
   
8.14   Prohibited signs
   
8.15   General regulations
   
8.16   Master sign plans
   
8.17   Signs in residential districts
   
8.18   Signs in the C-1 Commercial District
   
8.19   Schedule of sign regulations - C-1 District
   
8.20   Nonconforming signs
   
8.21   Sign permits
   
8.22   Compliance with city codes
   
8.23   Removal
   
8.24   Appeals, interpretations and variances
   
8.25   Board of Appeals hearings and decisions
§ 8.11 INTENT AND APPLICABILITY OF SIGN REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations are intended to regulate the placement, size,
construction and manner of display of signs and outdoor advertising in the
city, in order to protect public safety, health and welfare; protect the
constitutional right of free speech while imposing reasonable regulations;
create a positive environment for businesses; minimize abundance and size of
signs to reduce visual pollution, decrease distractions to motorists for safety
and prevent loss of sight distance; promote public convenience; preserve
property values; and promote aesthetics as a means of protecting the
community’s welfare and enhancing the aesthetic appearance and quality of life
within the city.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.12 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWNING, CANOPY OR MARQUEE. A permanent retractable or fixed shelter
constructed of non-rigid materials on a supporting framework that projects from
the exterior wall of a building.
   AWNING, CANOPY OR MARQUEE SIGN. A sign affixed flat against the surface of
an awning, canopy or marquee.
   BILLBOARD. See OFF-PREMISES SIGN.
   BUSINESS CENTER SIGN. A single sign providing advertising for two or more
businesses located upon the same premises, or upon two or more contiguous
parcels, which may include the name of the business center as well as the names
and/or logos of individual businesses within the center.
   CLEAR VISION TRIANGLE. A triangular area formed by the intersection of the
street right-of-way lines on a corner lot and a line connecting two points
located on those intersecting right-of-way lines 20 feet from the point of
intersection or the triangular area formed by the intersection of a street
right-of-way and a driveway, measured along the right-of-way line and the paved
edge of the driveway 20 feet from the point of intersection.
   DAY. For the purpose of these regulations, a calendar day.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign that gives directions, instructions or facility
information for the use on the lot on which the sign is located, such as
parking or exit and entrance signs.
   ELECTRONIC CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN. A sign whose alphabetic, pictographic or
symbolic informational content can be changed and is displayed electrically or
electronically
   GOVERNMENT SIGN. A sign erected by the city, county, state or federal
government.
   GROUND SIGN. A sign resting directly on the ground or supported by a
foundation or pedestal and not attached to a building or wall.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A small sign, emblem or decal informing the public of
goods, facilities or services available on the premises which is not intended
to be visible from the street or adjacent properties. Examples of INCIDENTAL
SIGNS include, but are not limited to, credit card signs, signs indicating the
hours of business, no smoking signs, signs used to designate bathrooms, and
signs providing information on business affiliations.
   NAMEPLATE. A non-electric on-premises identification sign usually giving
only the name, address and/or occupation of an occupant or group of occupants.
   OBSOLETE SIGN. A sign that advertises a product that is no longer available,
a business that has closed or an event that has passed.
   OCCUPANT FRONTAGE.
      (1)   For a stand-alone building designed for one tenant or business, the
width of the building parallel to the right-of-way (not including alleys).
      (2)   For a multi-tenant building, the width of the leased space for the
store measured on the wall parallel to the right-of-way (not including alleys),
or on the wall(s) containing the public entrance(s) to the building.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which identifies a use or advertises products and
services not available on the site or parcel on which the sign is located
(e.g., billboards, signs providing directions to a business).
   POLE OR PYLON SIGN. A sign which is erected upon or supported on one or more
poles, uprights or braces.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign affixed to any building or wall and extending
perpendicular for any distance from the wall.
   READER BOARD or MESSAGE BOARD. A portion of a sign, which is accessory and
incidental to a permanent sign, on which copy is changed manually.
   REAR ENTRY SIGN. A sign located at the rear, secondary or service entrance
to a building.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected upon or projecting above the roof of a building.
   SIGN. Any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs, pictures or trademarks
erected on or otherwise affixed to a building, wall board, plate or any other
structure, or on a vehicle or trailer, for the purpose of advertising or
identifying an establishment, product, service or activity.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign, banner or other advertising device constructed of
cloth, canvas, fabric, plastic or other light temporary material, with or
without a structural frame, or any other sign intended for a limited period of
display, but not including decorative display for holidays or public
demonstration. TEMPORARY SIGNS are divided into the following classes.
      (1)   BANNER, HORIZONTAL. A sign usually made of vinyl, canvas or other
durable and flexible material and designed to be freely hung from the corners
of the material.
      (2)   BANNER, LIGHT POLE. A sign usually made of vinyl, canvas or other
durable and flexible material and designed to be hung vertically from the short
edge.
      (3)   REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT SIGN. A sign erected during the development
of a new or expanded residential or non-residential project.
      (4)   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign designed to be moved easily and not
permanently attached to the ground, a structure or a building, including signs
with wheels and signs mounted on vehicles for advertising purposes. This
definition does not include any other temporary sign defined within this
section.
      (5)   POSTER PANEL SIGN. A self-supporting, moveable sign with one or two
faces that are adjoined at the top and displayed at an angle, which is not
permanently anchored or secured and designed to be placed upon a sidewalk,
plaza or other area where pedestrians walk or gather. Also referred to as
sandwich board signs and A-frame signs.
      (6)   RIGID FRAME SIGN. A sign that is commonly, but not always, made up
of wood, metal or vinyl posts and arm and is designed to be stuck in the ground
with equipment. Such signs are typically associated with real estate sales,
construction and the like.
      (7)   UMBRELLA SIGN. A sign printed on or otherwise attached to an
umbrella, including umbrellas used in outdoor seating areas.
      (8)   WINDOW SIGN, TEMPORARY. A temporary sign installed or affixed
inside a window and intended to be viewed from the outside for limited periods.
      (9)   WIRE FRAME SIGN. A sign that is commonly, but not always, made up
of a flexible wire frame and corrugated plastic face and designed to be stuck
in the ground without equipment. Such signs are typically associated with home
improvement projects, political expression, yard sales, open house events and
the like.
   WALL SIGN. A sign painted or attached directly to and parallel to the
exterior wall of a building not extending more than eight inches.
   WINDOW SIGN, PERMANENT. A sign permanently installed or affixed inside a
window and intended to be viewed from the outside.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.13 EXEMPT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be exempt from the requirement to obtain a sign
permit, subject to the provisions noted:
   (A)   Wire frame signs;
   (B)   Rigid frame signs;
   (C)   Temporary window signs, in conformance with the requirements of Table
1, §
8.19;
   (D)   Government signs;
   (E)   Address numbers with a numeral height no greater than 18 inches. One
address sign shall be permitted on each side of a building;
   (F)   Nameplates, not to exceed two square feet. A limit of one nameplate
sign per each side of a building facing a street or parking area shall be
permitted per business;
   (G)   Memorial signs or commemorative tablets, when carved into stone,
concrete or similar material or made of bronze, aluminum or other non-
combustible material and made an integral part of the structure. One sign, no
larger than five square feet, shall be permitted per building, except that if
the sign is set into the corner of a building, signs are permitted on both
faces;
   (H)   Signs on a bus, truck, trailer or other vehicle while operated and
used for transport in the normal course of a business;
   (I)   Regulatory, directional and street signs erected by a public agency in
compliance with the state’s Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, the
Uniform Federal Accessibility Standards and the state’s Barrier-Free Manual;
   (J)   Private traffic control signs which conform to the requirements of the
state’s Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices;
   (K)   Flags bearing the official insignia of a nation, state, municipality
or educational institution. There shall be no more than three flags per lot and
the maximum size of each flag shall be 50 square feet; however, flags on city-
owned or school-owned properties shall be exempt from the area restriction;
   (L)   Plaques or signs designating a building as a historic structure and
installed by a federal, state or local historical agency or group;
   (M)   Permanent signs on vending machines, ice containers or similar devices
indicating only the contents, provided that the sign area shall be limited to
the front panel of the device;
   (N)   Umbrella signs;
   (O)   Any sign that is located completely within an enclosed building and
not visible from outside the building;
   (P)   Incidental signs in the C-1 District, the aggregate size of which
shall not exceed three square feet;
   (Q)   Signs indicating the location of a polling place;
   (R)   Signs mounted upon rented or otherwise temporary equipment or
structures, such as temporary storage units, trash dumpsters, portable toilets,
and similar, provided that the rented or temporary equipment or structure is in
full compliance with all applicable ordinances; and
   (S)   Signs not visible from any street or parking area are exempt from the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.14 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are prohibited in all districts:
   (A)   Any sign not expressly permitted by this chapter;
   (B)   Signs held by pedestrians that advertise or direct attention to a
business, event or use of property;
   (C)   Signs that incorporate flashing or moving lights, including electronic
message signs, except as otherwise permitted by this chapter;
   (D)   Banners, balloons, pennants, inflatable figures, spinners and
streamers, unless specifically permitted by this chapter;
   (E)   Neon and LED rope lights, fiber optics or other similar types of
lights strung around window frames or outlining buildings, other than holiday
decorations;
   (F)   Search lights and beacons;
   (G)   Moving signs, including any sign having the appearance of movement,
has visible moving or revolving parts, or other visible mechanical movement,
achieved by electrical, electronic or mechanical means, including intermittent
electric pulsations or movement caused by normal wind current;
   (H)   Any sign or sign structure that:
      (1)   Is structurally unsafe;
      (2)   Constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate
maintenance, dilapidation or abandonment;
      (3)   Constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of blocking
views;
      (4)   Is capable of causing electric shock to any person who comes in
contact with it;
      (5)   Is unlawfully installed, erected or maintained;
      (6)   Is located in public street or utility right-of-way, except where
expressly permitted herein;
      (7)   Is not kept in good repair, such that it has broken parts, missing
letters or nonoperational lights; or
      (8)   Does not meet applicable requirements of the currently adopted
Building Code for the city.
   (I)   Any sign erected on a tree or utility pole, except signs of a
government or utility or a banner sign as permitted by this chapter;
   (J)   Any sign not attached to a building and erected within ten feet of a
fire hydrant;
   (K)   Portable signs;
   (L)   Any sign that obstructs free access to or egress from a required door,
window, fire escape or other required exit from a building or structure;
   (M)   Any sign which makes use of the words “Stop”, “Look” or “Danger”, or
any other words, phrases, symbols or characters, in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead or confuse drivers;
   (N)   Roof signs;
   (O)   Pole and/or pylon signs except temporary rigid frame signs otherwise
permitted in this section;
   (P)   Billboards;
   (Q)   Trailer-mounted signs;
   (R)   Signs on street furniture, such as benches and trash receptacles, not
including commemorative plaques or engravings not larger than one-half square
foot;
   (S)   Off-premises signs, other than wire frame signs as allowed by this
chapter;
   (T)   Ground signs are not permitted in the C-1 District; and
   (U)   No sign shall have pyrotechnic effects.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.15 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Signs permitted. Signs shall be permitted according to the zoning
district and/or land use of the property on which the sign is located, as
specified in §§
8.17 and
8.18 of this chapter.
   (B)   Sign location. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, only
governmental signs shall be located in, project or overhang into any public
right-of-way or public dedicated easement.
   (C)   Clear vision. Signs shall not be permitted within a clear vision
triangle upon any corner lot or within any clear vision triangle formed by the
intersection of a street and a driveway, except for a directional sign that
measures no more than 30 inches high.
   (D)   Measuring sign area.
      (1)   Sign area shall be measured as the square footage of the sign face
and any frame or other material or color forming an integral part of the
display or used to differentiate it from the background against which it is
placed.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2276.png]
 
      (2)   When a sign consists solely of lettering or other sign elements
printed, painted or mounted on a wall of a building without any distinguishing
border, panel or background, the calculation for sign area shall be measured by
enclosing the most protruding edges of the sign elements within a parallelogram
or rectangle.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2272.png]
 
      (3)   The area of a double-faced freestanding sign shall be computed
using only one face of the sign provided that the outline and dimensions of
both faces are identical, and the faces are back to back so that only one face
is visible at any given time.
      (4)   The maximum distance between parallel sign faces on a double-faced
sign shall be 20 inches, with the exception of projecting sign, where the
parallel sign faces shall be no more than six inches apart. Any double-faced
sign exceeding this distance shall be considered to have separate sign faces.
   (E)   Measuring sign height.
      (1)   The permitted height of all signs supported by the ground shall be
measured from the level of the ground, finished surface, adjacent to the sign.
      (2)   The permitted height of signs shall not be measured from an area of
the ground that has been built-up or constructed to provide for a higher sign
height than permitted by this chapter. Accordingly, the height of a berm shall
be subtracted from the maximum height of a sign to be placed on a berm.
   (F)   Design and construction.
      (1)   Signs shall be designed to be generally compatible with the
building and landscaping used on the property to promote an overall unified and
aesthetic effect in accordance with the standards set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   Signs shall not be constructed from materials that are remnants of
materials or structures manufactured for some other purpose; provided, atypical
sign materials may be used for signs in the C-1 District upon approval of the
Director of Public Works, if such materials are representative of the business
to which the sign relates and/or the materials are sturdy and the sign will be
in keeping with the character of the Gaslight District.
      (3)   The background of a business center signs, including individual
sign panels within the sign, shall be one color. However, individual businesses
may have different colored lettering or advertising.
      (4)   Ground signs shall be landscaped with a combination of low
shrubbery and perennial/annual plantings.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2274.png]
 
      (5)   Every sign shall be constructed and maintained in a manner
consistent with the city’s currently adopted Building Code provisions and
maintained in good structural condition at all times. All signs shall be kept
neatly painted, stained, sealed or preserved including all metal parts and
supports.
      (6)   All signs erected, constructed, reconstructed, altered or moved
shall be constructed to meet applicable state building standards.
      (7)   In no case, shall a projecting sign or a wall sign be allowed to
project above the roof line.
   (G)   Illumination.
      (1)   Signs shall be illuminated only by steady, stationary, shielded
light sources directed solely at the sign (i.e., front lit signs) or internal
to it (i.e., back lit signs).
         (a)   The background of front lit signs (external illuminated signs)
may be any color, provided they are not reflective at night. However, they may
use light reflecting lettering and messaging.
         (b)   The background of back lit signs (internally illuminated signs)
may be any color, provided the background is blacked out at night so that only
the lettering and message is illuminated.
      (2)   Use of glaring undiffused lights or bulbs shall be prohibited.
      (3)   All lighting fixtures or light sources for lighted signs shall be
positioned and/or shaded so that the light source is not visible from normal
pedestrian areas or project onto adjoining properties or thoroughfares.
      (4)   Underground wiring shall be required for all illuminated signs not
attached to a building.
      (5)   Lighting intensities for illuminated signs shall not exceed ten
foot-candles, measured at four feet from any surface.
      (6)   The use of LED lights as part of a sign display or border shall be
prohibited, except for approved electronic message signs.
   (H)   Electronic changeable message signs. An electronic message sign is
permitted where specifically allowed in this chapter, subject to the following
requirements:
      (1)   An electronic display is not permitted on a sign that has a reader
board.
      (2)   The entire sign face shall only convey a single message at any one
time.
      (3)   Message changes may occur no more frequently than once every six
seconds and shall be instantaneous.
      (4)   The electronic display background, color tones, lettering, logos,
pictures, illustrations, symbols and any other graphic or video display shall
not blink, flash, rotate, scroll, change in illumination intensity (except as
specifically required for changes in outdoor light levels), or otherwise change
in outward appearance, except when the message or display is changed to another
message or display.
      (5)   To reduce the potential negative effects of light and glare on
nearby residential properties, the background of the electronic display portion
of any sign located within 200 feet of a dwelling shall be muted color approved
as part of the sign permit. In no case, shall white be used as the background
color on any part of the electronic display portion of the sign.
      (6)   All electronic changeable message signs must be equipped with a
default mechanism that will stop the messaging or freeze the image in one
position when a malfunction in the electronic programming occurs.
      (7)   The electronic message sign must have an automatic dimmer control
to produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination level to a
lower level in relation to changes in the outdoor light levels.
      (8)   The electronic message sign shall not be illuminated between the
hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.16 MASTER SIGN PLANS.
   (A)   A master sign plan shall be submitted in conjunction with any request
for PUD approval and may be required, at the discretion of the Director of
Public Works, for uses in any zoning district where the development includes
multiple structures and/or substantial site area. Examples include hospitals,
shopping centers, churches and schools. Master sign plans shall require the
approval of the City Commission which may waive or modify the sign requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   If a site plan is required, per Article X of the zoning ordinance, the
master sign plan may be submitted as part of the site plan. Following approval
of the master sign plan, all signs on the property shall conform to the master
sign plan and shall be subject to the sign permit requirements of this section.
At a minimum, the master sign plan shall show:
      (1)   The location of all proposed signs on the property (or for the
individual business, if located in a multi-tenant building);
      (2)   The dimensions of those signs;
      (3)   The foundation details for ground signs and anchoring details for
wall signs;
      (4)   The construction materials for the proposed signs and support
structures;
      (5)   The height and setback dimensions (as applicable); and
      (6)   Lighting details.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.17 SIGNS IN RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   Signs for residential and non-residential uses in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and MFR
Residential Districts are subject to the following.
   (A)   Sign setbacks for all uses.
      (1)   All signs in a residential district shall be set back a minimum of
five feet from any right-of-way line or C-1 Zoning District boundary and shall
be located outside the clear vision triangle at all street and driveway
intersections.
      (2)   Adjacent to properties containing a residential use:
         (a)   Non-illuminated signs: ten feet from any side or rear property
line;
         (b)   Illuminated signs: 25 feet from any side or rear property line;
and
         (c)   LED electronic changeable message signs: 100 feet from side or
rear property line.
   (B)   Residential uses.
      (1)   Temporary wire frame signs shall not exceed six square feet in area
and three feet in height. Temporary rigid frame signs shall not exceed 16
square feet in area and six feet in height.
      (2)   No more than three temporary signs are permitted per lot at any
time; provided, there shall be no limit on the number of temporary wire frame
signs displayed between August 15 and November 15.
      (3)   Temporary signs shall be removed from the premises within 30 days
from the date of their obsolescence.
      (4)   Temporary signs on a lot occupied by any dwelling shall not be
illuminated at any time.
      (5)    Multiple-family development identification ground signs for five
dwelling units or more: one sign shall be permitted per frontage at the
entrance to the development, not to exceed 36 square feet in area and six feet
in height. A multiple-family development identification sign may be illuminated
in accordance with the requirements of §
8.15(G).
      (6)   Multiple-family development identification wall signs, up to four
dwelling units: one sign shall be permitted on the front of the building, not
to exceed four square feet in area. At least one edge of the sign shall be
located within one foot of the building entrance. Internal illumination and
external raceways for such signs are prohibited.
   (C)   Non-residential uses. Except as exempted below, a permit is required
for all signs serving non-residential uses.
      (1)   Directional signs for all non-residential uses. Directional signs
are permitted as necessary to direct the public to entrances and exits, parking
areas and activity areas, subject to the approval of the Director of Public
Works. No directional sign may exceed eight square feet. A freestanding
directional sign may not exceed three feet in height within a clear vision
triangle.
      (2)   Identification signs for non single-family residential uses during
construction. Such identification signs shall comply with the requirements
specified in Table 1 for temporary signs.
      (3)   Elementary, middle and senior high schools (including the
Administration Center at Woodcliff), churches and government facilities.
         (a)   Ground sign. One sign shall be permitted, not to exceed 50
square feet in area and six feet in height. A maximum of 50% of the sign area
may be dedicated to a reader board/message board or electronic changeable
message sign.
            1.   If the use has frontage on two or more streets, one additional
ground sign, with a maximum area of 16 square feet and five feet in height, is
permitted; provided a changeable message sign shall not be permitted on the
sign.
            2.   No more than one ground sign shall be permitted on any street.
            3.   Ground signs may be illuminated in accordance with the
requirements of §
8.15(G).
         (b)   Light pole banners. Light pole banner signs may be permitted, as
specified in §
8.19, Table 1.
         (c)   Wall sign. One wall sign per street frontage is permitted, with
an area equivalent to one square foot for each one linear foot of building wall
to which the sign is attached, but not exceeding a maximum size of 75 square
feet. Up to 25% of the sign area may be dedicated to a reader board/message
board if no such changeable message sign, manual or electronic, is located
within a ground sign along the same facing street. An electronic message sign
shall not be permitted within a wall sign. The wall sign may be illuminated in
accordance with the requirements of §
8.15(G).
         (d)   Awning, canopy or marquee signs. An awning, canopy or marquee
sign shall be considered a wall sign for the purposes of determining maximum
sign area.
         (e)   Horizontal banners. A church or school may display one
horizontal banner on a front facade of the building, subject to the following.
            1.   Maximum area shall be 18 square feet. The area of the banner
shall be applied toward the maximum sign area permitted for wall signs.
            2.   The application for a permit must show the location of the
sign, the material used for the banner and the means of attaching the banner to
the building.
            3.   No portion of the banner may extend beyond the sides or top of
the wall to which it is attached.
            4.   The banner shall be properly anchored to the wall so it will
not become loosened by wind, vibration or other means.
            5.   The banner may not be illuminated.
            6.   After the initial permit is issued, the banner may be replaced
with a different banner meeting all of the requirements of this section,
without need for an additional permit, provided that the banner is not changed
more than once in a calendar month.
         (f)   Fence banners. A church or a school may display a banner or
banners on a fence on their property, subject to the following.
            1.   No permit is required for fence banners.
            2.   The fence banner shall be removed within 72 hours of the end
of the event being advertised, but in no case shall a banner be displayed for
more than 60 days.
      (4)   Hospitals.
         (a)   Ground sign. One ground sign per street frontage, not exceeding
50 square feet in area and six feet in height, may be erected.
         (b)   Wall signs. One per frontage upon a public street, with a
maximum area equivalent to one square foot for each one linear foot of building
wall to which the sign is attached, but not exceeding a maximum size of 75
square feet.
         (c)   Awning, canopy or marquee signs. An awning, canopy or marquee
sign shall be considered a wall sign for the purposes of determining maximum
sign area.
      (5)   All other non-residential uses.
         (a)    Ground sign. One ground sign, not exceeding 36 square feet in
area and six feet in height, may be erected.
         (b)   Wall signs. One per frontage upon a public street, with a
maximum area of 24 square feet.
         (c)   Awning, canopy or marquee signs. An awning, canopy or marquee
sign shall be considered a wall sign for the purposes of determining maximum
sign area.
         (d)   Temporary yard signs. Wire frame and rigid frame signs shall be
subject to the same regulations as applied to such signs in the C-1 District,
in accordance with Table 1 of §
8.18.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017; Ord. effective 5-13-2022)
§ 8.18 SIGNS IN THE C-1 COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Permanent signs. See §
8.19, Table 1, Signs in the C-1 District. A permit is required for all
permanent signs.
   (B)   Temporary signs. See §
8.19, Table 1, Signs in the C-1 District. A permit is not required for
temporary signs. Temporary signs may not be illuminated.
   (C)   Insurance. Property owners or their lessees shall provide the city
with proof of insurance annually where a permanent sign encroaches in the
public right-of-way or onto public property.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.19 SCHEDULE OF SIGN REGULATIONS - C-1 DISTRICT.
   Table 1 - Signs in the C-1 District
Permanent Signs in the C-1 District
Permanent Signs in the C-1 District
Awning, Canopy and Marquee Signs
Number       One per frontage facing a street or parking area.
             A maximum of one-third of the area of the awning, canopy or
             marquee may contain lettering and/or graphics and shall be
Size         included within the maximum area allowed for a wall sign. A
             minimum of eight feet of clearance shall be maintained between the
             bottom of the awning and the ground and/or sidewalk.
             May project up to six feet into the public right-of-way, but no
Location     closer than three feet to the curb line, if approved by the City
             Commission.
Illumination Permitted.
             Proof of insurance may be required in an amount determined by the
Other        Director of Public Works and include the city as an additional
             insured.
Directional Signs
Number       As approved by Director of Public Works.
Size         Four square feet per sign, not exceeding four feet in height.
Location     As approved by Director of Public Works.
Illumination Permitted.
Projecting Signs
Number       One per each side of the building facing a street or parking area.
             Maximum area 16 sq. ft. A minimum of eight feet of clearance shall
Size         be maintained between the bottom of the sign and the ground and/or
             sidewalk.
             May project up to six feet into the public right-of-way, but no
Location     closer than three feet to the curb line, if approved by the City
             Commission.
             External, steady, stationary, shielded light source directed
             solely at the sign; provided, if the sign is less than six sq.
Illumination ft., it may alternatively be illuminated by an internal light
             source. Use of glaring, undiffused lights or bulbs shall be
             prohibited.
             a. No more than two parallel faces, a maximum of six inches thick
             shall be permitted.
            b. Projecting signs shall be constructed of rigid and permanent
Other        materials such as wood, metal or rigid polymer.
             c. The sign owner shall provide proof of insurance in an amount
             determined by the Director of Public Works and shall provide proof
             that the city is an additional named insured.
Rear Entry Signs
Number       One per business.
Size         Maximum six sq. ft.
Location     On the wall, next to a rear door designated for customers or
             deliveries.
Illumination Permitted.
Umbrella Signs
Size         Maximum one-third of the umbrella surface.
Illumination Not permitted.
Wall Signs
                                            For a single business located on a
             Individual business on a lot   lot: one per street frontage;
                                            provided only one sign is permitted
                                            on a wall.
                                            Where each tenant has an individual
                                            means of public access: one sign
Number                                      per tenant. Tenants occupying a
                                            corner space may have one sign on
             Business within a multi-tenant each wall facing a street or
             building                       parking area. Where tenants share a
                                            common building entrance: one wall
                                            sign shall be permitted per street
                                            frontage; provided only one sign is
                                            permitted on a wall.
                                            One sq. ft. per linear foot of
             Individual business on a lot   occupant frontage, not to exceed 50
                                            square feet.
                                            Where each business has an
                                            individual means of public access:
Size                                        10% of the wall area occupied by
             Business within a multi-tenant that business, not exceeding 25
             building                       square feet of sign area. Where
                                            tenants share a common entrance,
                                            one square foot for each linear
                                            foot of building facing the street,
                                            not to exceed 50 square feet.
Location     Flat against the building wall and not protruding above the roof
             line or beyond the wall.
Illumination Permitted.
Window Signs
Number       No limit; provided, the total area of all permanent window signs
             does not exceed the maximum permitted area specified below.
Size         Maximum 25% of the total area of all windows on the face of the
             building where the sign(s) is attached.
Illumination Not permitted.
Other        The area of the window sign shall be counted toward the maximum
             allowable area for a wall sign.
Temporary Signs in the C-1 District
Temporary Signs in the C-1 District
Banner, Horizontal
Number       One banner per lot.
Size         Maximum area of 18 sq. ft.
Location     Flat against the building wall, not protruding above the roof line
             or beyond the wall.
Illumination Not permitted.
             Banner shall be properly anchored to the wall to withstand wind,
Other        vibration, rain, snow and other weather conditions. The material
             to be used for the banner and the means of anchoring the banner to
             the building shall be specified on the permit application.
Banner, Light Pole
Number       As approved by the Director of Public Works.
             Maximum three feet in horizontal dimension, not exceeding eight
Size         feet in vertical dimension. The bottom edge of the banner shall be
             at least eight feet above the grade at the base of the pole to
             which it is attached.
             Banners may be placed on light poles in the following locations:
             a. On public property in the C-1 District and along Lakeside
             Drive;
Location     b. Within rights-of-way immediately adjacent to Spectrum Health-
             Blodgett Hospital; and
             c. On light poles within church, school and hospital parking areas
             and private drives.
Illumination Not permitted.
             Following receipt of the initial permit, a banner may be replaced
Other        with a new banner without requiring a new permit; provided, the
             new banner is the same size and is placed in the same location as
             the banner being replaced.
Identification Sign for Non Single-Family Residential Uses During Construction
Number       One ground sign per lot.
Size         Maximum 16 sq. ft.; maximum height six feet.
Location     Minimum setback of five feet from right-of-way or street easement
             line; 25 feet from any lot containing a dwelling unit.
Illumination Not permitted.
             Sign may be erected on the date on which a building permit is
Other        issued and shall be removed within one week after the last
             construction trade has left the site.
Poster Panel Sign
Number       One per each side of building facing a street or parking area.
Size         Maximum area of seven sq. ft. and no higher than three and one-
             half feet.
             Minimum of two feet from the edge of curb and at least five feet
Location     of the sidewalk shall be unobscured between the sign and the
             building wall.
Illumination Not permitted.
             a. The sign shall be constructed of weatherproof, durable material
             and kept in good repair.
             b. At least 35% of the sign face shall be permanently painted or
             affixed graphics. The remainder may be used for changeable letters
Other        or handwritten advertisements.
             c. The sign shall only be displayed during operating hours of the
             business and shall be stored inside at all other times.
             d. The business owner shall provide proof of insurance in an
             amount determined by the Director of Public Works and shall
             provide proof that the city is an additional named insured.
Rigid Frame Sign
Number       One per lot.
Size         Maximum 16 sq. ft. in area and six feet in height.
Location     Shall not be placed in any public right-of-way or private street
             easement.
Illumination Not permitted.
Other        No sign permit required.
Window, Temporary
Number       No limit; provided, the total area of all temporary window signs
             does not exceed the maximum permitted area specified below.
             Maximum permitted area shall not exceed 8% of the total area of
Size         all windows on the face of the building where the sign(s) is
             attached.
Illumination Not permitted.
Other        No sign permit is required.
            Wire Frame Sign
Number       Two per lot; provided, there shall be no limit on the number of
             yard signs between August 15 and November 15.
Size         Maximum six sq. ft. in area and three feet in height.
Location     Shall not be placed in any public right-of-way or private street
             easement.
Illumination Not permitted.
Other        No sign permit is required.
 
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.20 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Any permanent sign legally existing at the time of adoption of these
regulations which does not comply with all provisions shall be considered a
non-conforming sign and may be permitted to continue if the sign is properly
maintained and not detrimental to the health, safety and welfare of the
community.
   (B)   Nothing shall prevent the strengthening or restoring to a safe
condition of any portion of a permanent sign declared unsafe by the Director of
Public Works. The cost of improvements to these signs shall not exceed 50% of
the current market value of the existing sign structure. Planned improvements
exceeding this amount shall be required to conform to the current sign
requirements of this chapter.
   (C)   Subject to exceptions and amortization requirements below, any non-
conforming signs may be continued in operation and maintained after the
effective date of these regulations provided that the signs shall not be:
      (1)   Structurally altered so as to extend their useful life;
      (2)   Expanded;
      (3)   Relocated;
      (4)   Re-established after damage of more than 50% of the value at the
time of the damage or destruction; or
      (5)   Modified in any way that would increase the degree of non-
conformity.
   (D)   Once obsolete, as specified in §
8.23(B), the nonconforming status of a sign shall end.
   (E)   All portable signs, except those specifically permitted by these
regulations, shall be removed in accordance with the provisions of §
8.23(A)(3).
   (F)   Any temporary sign existing at the time of adoption of these
regulations which does not comply with all provisions shall not be considered
non-conforming and shall be subject to immediate removal by the Director of
Public Works.
   (G)   Any illegal signs that exist on the effective date of these
regulations shall be removed upon the effective date of this chapter and may be
replaced by signs that meet the requirements of this chapter. A permit shall be
obtained, if required by this chapter.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.21 SIGN PERMITS.
   (A)   Review and approval. Unless specifically exempted, every permanent or
temporary sign for which a permit is required shall be erected, structurally
altered or relocated only after review and approval from the Department of
Public Works.
   (B)   Application. A permit application form, provided by the Department of
Public Works, shall be completed in full and signed by the owner of the sign
and of the property owner, if different from that of the sign owner, along with
any other information the Director of Public Works may require to ensure
compliance with this chapter and other ordinances of the city. No application
shall be considered complete until all required and requested information is
provided.
   (C)   Staking of proposed sign location. The location of a proposed sign
(except wall-mounted signs) shall be staked by the property/sign owner to allow
the Public Works Department to determine compliance with required setbacks of
this chapter.
   (D)   Permit required. Upon approval, a sign permit will be issued by the
Public Works Department which shall issue a numbered permit for all approved
signs.
   (E)   Fees. All permit fees for signs shall be as established by the City
Commission and paid at the time of application for the sign permit.
   (F)   Nullification. A sign permit shall become null and void if the work
for which the permit was issued has not been completed within six months after
the date of the permit.
   (G)   Exceptions. The following shall not require a sign permit:
      (1)   Those signs listed as not requiring a permit in the preceding
sections;
      (2)   The changing of the advertising copy or message on a conforming and
approved sign which is specifically designed for the use of replaceable copy;
and
      (3)   Painting, repainting, cleaning or other normal maintenance or
repair of a sign or a sign structure, unless a structural change is made; and
      (4)   String lights, commonly referred to as “market string lights” and
“globe string lights”, having clear glass bulbs no larger than two inches in
diameter may be hung across buildings and public spaces in the C-1 District.
   (H)   Certificate of compliance. The property owner shall notify the Public
Works Department immediately upon erecting a sign to request a final inspection
for a certificate of compliance.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.22 COMPLIANCE WITH CITY CODES.
   (A)   All signs shall comply with the pertinent requirements of the city’s
adopted Building Code, as amended from time to time, except as may be modified
by this chapter.
   (B)   Signs for which a permit is required will be inspected prior to the
issuance of a certificate of compliance per §
8.21(E) and upon completion by a Public Works Department representative for
compliance with this chapter and any applicable ordinances of the city.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.23 REMOVAL.
   (A)   Removal.
      (1)   The Director of Public Works may order the removal of any permanent
sign and its supporting structure that violates the provisions of this chapter.
The Director of Public Works shall give 30 days’ notice in writing to the owner
of the sign and its supporting structure requiring him or her to bring it into
compliance within 60 days. Any sign of a temporary nature shall require written
notice of only three days.
      (2)   After notification, if not removed by the owner, the city may
remove the sign and its supporting structure, or remove the sign without notice
if the Director of Public Works determines that the sign and its supporting
structure presents an immediate safety threat. The cost of removal by the city
shall be assessed against the owner of the sign or the owner of the building,
structure or premises in the manner provided by law.
      (3)   Any portable sign, except as otherwise permitted by this chapter,
shall be removed within 30 days from the effective date of this chapter. The
City Commission may extend the date for removal up to an additional 30 days if
the owner is unable to comply with this time period due to conditions beyond
his or her control.
   (B)   Obsolete signs.
      (1)   A sign and sign structure conforming to the other provisions of
this chapter may remain in place up to 30 days from the date of its
obsolescence if the sign area is obscured by the use of a blank panel attached
within the frame of the sign.
      (2)   This removal requirement for a sign and sign structure that
conforms to this chapter shall not apply if a successor to an inactive business
agrees within 30 days of the date of written notice by the Director of Public
Works, to maintain the sign as provided for by this chapter.
   (C)   Costs of enforcement. Any costs or expenses incurred by the city in
enforcing these regulations shall be paid by the owner of the sign found to be
in violation, or, upon default thereof, by the owner of the property. In either
case, the responsible party shall be billed for those costs and expenses in the
manner permitted by law.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017)
§ 8.24 APPEALS, INTERPRETATIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall act as the Board
of Appeals for these regulations. The Board of Appeals shall have the authority
to interpret, consider appeals of administrative decisions and consider
requests for variances; provided, the Board of Appeals shall have no authority
to hear an appeal, interpret provisions or consider a variance from any matter
that relates to the construction or design specifications established by the
City Building Code. Such decisions shall be the sole province of the
Construction Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Director
of Public Works or Zoning Administrator in connection with any provision of
these regulations may appeal to the Board of Appeals within 30 days of the
decision or order.
   (C)   Interpretation. The Board of Appeals may interpret any aspect of the
regulations of this chapter. Such interpretation may be requested by an
applicant, business owner, city official, the Zoning Administrator or the
Director of Public Works.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals shall hear variance requests on all
applications that do not conform to the provisions of these regulations,
relating to the location, maintenance, design, illumination, size, height,
number and type of signs. The Board of Appeals may require the applicant to
present photographs of similar signs, color renderings of the proposed sign or
such other evidence, information or exhibits it determines to be necessary
prior to making a decision.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals shall use the following standards to determine
if a variance is warranted. All of the following standards shall be satisfied,
as applicable.
         (a)   The applicant has demonstrated a variance is needed due to a
practical difficulty on the site or unique condition that is more than mere
inconvenience or mere inability to attain a supposed higher financial return or
incur additional costs. These conditions may include varied topography,
horizontal or vertical road curvature, or presence of structures or desired
trees that limits visibility of a sign on the premises compared to similar
sites with conforming signs in the same zoning district.
         (b)   A variance is warranted due to circumstances exceptional and
peculiar to the property for which the variance is requested, and those
conditions do not exist generally throughout the city. These conditions may
include such considerations as the significantly larger size of the site,
frontage or building in comparison to other establishments in the same zoning
district.
         (c)   If applicable, a variance would significantly bring a
nonconforming sign closer to conformity with this chapter.
         (d)   That allowing the variance will result in substantial justice
being done, considering the public benefits intended by the regulations, the
rights of others whose property would be affected by the allowance of the
variance are not impaired, or adversely affect the health, safety and welfare
of the public.
         (e)   The variance will not be contrary to the purpose and intent of
the regulation(s) being considered for the variance.
         (f)   The variance granted will be the minimum necessary to allow the
applicant to enjoy the same rights as other establishments in the same zoning
district, and ensure a reasonable outlet for free speech where no others may
reasonably exist.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017; Ord. effective 1-1-2022)
§ 8.25 BOARD OF APPEALS HEARINGS AND DECISIONS.
   (A)   Notice regarding a proposed appeal, interpretation (if applicable to a
specific property) or variance shall be sent by mail at least 15 days prior to
the Board of Appeals meeting at which the request will be considered, to all
property owners of record within 300 feet of the property in question. The
notice shall contain a brief description of the request, the time and place of
the Board of Appeals meeting, the hours and location where the application may
be inspected, and the address to which written comments may be sent.
   (B)   Meetings to hear appeals, interpretations or variances may be held the
same evening as the regularly scheduled Zoning Board of Appeals meeting, unless
a special meeting is called.
   (C)   Decisions required under this section shall be by majority vote of the
full membership of the Zoning Board of Appeals, not just a majority of those
present.
   (D)   The Board of Appeals may affirm, annul or modify the order or action
of the Department of Public Works or applicable portion of the regulations of
this chapter.
   (E)   All decisions are final and may not be appealed, except as may be
provided by law.
   (F)   In its capacity as Appellate Board, the Board of Appeals shall either:
      (1)   Approve the application as presented upon a finding, point by
point, that all the criteria in §
8.24(D) are met;
      (2)   Subject the approval to certain changes or conditions, such as, but
not limited to, changes to sign dimensions or proposed location, changes to
materials of the sign or sign base/framework to be more complementary with the
overall site design or character of the area, addition of landscaping around
the base of the sign, or changes to sign illumination; or
      (3)   Deny the application.
   (G)   Any decision shall be in writing and the applicant shall be provided a
written explanation of the reasons for the decision and any conditions attached
to an approval.
(Ord. effective 5-26-2017; Ord. effective 1-1-2022)
CHAPTER 82: SWIMMING AND OTHER POOLS
Section
   
8.41   Definitions
   
8.42   Permit required
   
8.43   Application for permit; plans and specifications; fees
   
8.44   Fence requirements during construction
   
8.45   Construction and maintenance
   
8.46   Condition of water
   
8.47   Water supply
   
8.48   Discharge system
   
8.49   Accessory buildings
   
8.50   Location
   
8.51   Fencing
   
8.52   Lighting
   
8.53   Enforcement
§ 8.41 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OTHER POOLS. Any artificially constructed pool, not designed or used for
swimming, capable of holding water to a depth in excess of six inches or with a
surface area in excess of 50 square feet.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS. Any pool designed, used and maintained for swimming
purposes by an individual for use by his or her household and guests and
located on a lot as an accessory use to a residence. Unless otherwise
qualified, the term PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL shall be construed as including both
artificial and partly artificial pools. The term PARTLY ARTIFICIAL POOL shall
mean a pool formed from a natural body of water which has either so limited a
flow or such an inadequate natural circulation that the quality of water must
be maintained by artificial means. The term ARTIFICIAL POOL shall mean a pool
composed entirely of artificial construction.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.42 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to construct or establish a private swimming pool or
other pool as herein defined without having obtained a permit therefor in the
manner hereinafter prescribed.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.43 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS; FEES.
   Application for the construction and maintenance of a private swimming pool
or other pool shall be made to the building inspector by the owner of the
property or by the contractor who will construct said pool. The application
shall be accompanied by duplicate sets of plans, specifications and plot plans
of the property. The plot plan shall show the accurate location of the proposed
pool on the property, together with any proposed bathhouses or cabanas. The
plot plan shall also show the location, height and type of all existing fencing
or walls on the boundary lines of the property, together with the type and
height of such fencing or enclosure as may be required by §
8.51 of this chapter to prevent, within reason, any person from gaining access
beneath or through said fence when the pool is unguarded or unattended. Permit
fees are subject to the city fee rate schedule adopted by resolution. No permit
for a private swimming pool or other pool shall be issued by the building
inspector until the plans, specifications and plot plan have been approved by
the Director of City Services of the city, and such approval has been properly
certified on the plans. Such approval must be directly obtained from the
Director of City Services by the applicant.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.44 FENCE REQUIREMENTS DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   The application for a permit shall include a statement as to fencing to be
maintained during the period of the construction of the pool. If the fence or
enclosure required by §
8.51 of this chapter is not to be completed prior to the beginning of the
excavation for the pool, a temporary fence not less than 48 inches in height
and equally substantial as standard type snow fencing shall be constructed
before any excavation is commenced so as to completely enclose the excavation
and to prevent, within reason, any person from gaining access beneath or
through said fence when the excavation or pool under construction is unguarded
and unattended. In the event that the yard where the pool is being constructed
is completely fenced, with gates, the requirement for such temporary fencing
shall be waived, provided a written request to waive said requirement signed by
the contractor and by the resident of the premises is filed with the building
inspector at the time the application for permit is made. In the event that any
excavation is commenced without the provisions of this section being complied
with, the building inspector shall be empowered to forthwith order all
excavation or other construction to be terminated and to take any other action
which is necessary to protect the public interest, including the filling in of
any excavation, and the cost of all such work shall be a charge against the
person holding the permit for the construction of said pool.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.45 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   All material used in the construction of “private swimming pools” and “other
pools” as herein defined shall be waterproof and easily cleaned. Construction
and design of said pools shall be such that same may be maintained and operated
as to be clean and sanitary at all times. The owners of every private swimming
pool and other pool shall be responsible to maintain said pool in such
condition as to prevent breaks in the pool chassis or water from pool
overflowing into adjacent public or private property.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.46 CONDITION OF WATER.
   Pools shall be kept in accordance with the requirements of the County Health
Department and the state’s Department of Public Health.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.47 WATER SUPPLY.
   There shall be no physical connection between a potable public or private
water supply system and such pools at a point below the maximum water line of
the pool.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.48 DISCHARGE SYSTEM.
   All private swimming pools now existing or hereafter constructed within the
city shall be provided with one drainage outlet not in excess of three inches
in diameter extending from said pool to either a brook, storm sewer or lawn
sprinkling system on the premises on which said pool is located, said drainage
to be first approved by the Director of City Services after written application
therefor. No private pool drain shall be connected into the city’s sanitary
sewer system. Such water shall not be discharged at the curb or upon the
surface of any street between October 15 and March 30.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.49 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   Locker rooms, bathhouses, cabanas, shower rooms, toilets, runways and all
other physical facilities or equipment incident to the operation of any private
swimming pool shall be kept in a sanitary condition at all times.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.50 LOCATION.
   No private swimming pool or other pool shall be erected nearer than ten feet
to any lot line; provided, however, that where there are practical difficulties
or unnecessary hardship in the carrying out of the strict requirements relating
to location, the Board of Zoning Appeals, after public hearing, shall have the
power to authorize the location of such pool nearer than ten feet to any lot
line, provided that all other requirements of this chapter shall be complied
with and provided that said Board of Zoning Appeals may impose such further
conditions as it deems requisite for the protection of adjoining owners and of
the public in connection with the granting of such variance. The filing of an
application for variance, the giving of public notice of the hearing thereon,
and all other procedures in connection therewith, shall be in the manner
provided in Article XII of the city’s zoning ordinance.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.51 FENCING.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of the City Code, to protect the
general public all outdoor, in-ground swimming pools located in a residential
zone shall be enclosed by a fence, wall or other structure extending from the
ground to a point at least four feet and not more than six feet above the
ground. If an existing structure is used as part of the enclosure, such as the
side of a house or an accessory building, the maximum height limitation does
not apply to that structure.
(Ord. effective 7-29-2022)
§ 8.52 LIGHTING.
   No artificial lighting shall be maintained or operated in connection with
private swimming pools in such a manner as to be a nuisance or an annoyance to
neighboring properties.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.53 ENFORCEMENT.
   Every private swimming pool or other pool, as defined herein, constructed or
to be constructed in the city shall at all times comply with the requirements
of the Director of City Services. Any nuisance or hazard to health which may
exist or develop in, or in consequence of or in connection with any such pool
shall be abated and removed by the owner, lessee or occupant of the premises on
which the pool is located within ten days of receipt of notice from the
building inspector or Director of City Services, or within such lesser period
as may be specified in such notice.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
CHAPTER 83: FENCES
Section
Article I. General Fences Requirements
   
8.61   Requirements and restrictions
   
8.62   Maintenance of fences
   
8.62A   Appeals, interpretations and variances
   
8.62B   Board of Appeals hearings and decisions
Article II. Tower and Antenna Fences
   
8.63   Fencing of towers required
   
8.64   Definitions
   
Appendix A: Fence illustrations
Cross-reference:
   Satellite antennas, see
Chapter 52
ARTICLE I. GENERAL FENCES
   The intent of this chapter is to create openness and clear vision within the
city’s neighborhoods so that pedestrians and vehicles can safely proceed on
sidewalks and streets without views of other pedestrians and vehicles being
blocked by a fence.
§ 8.61 REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Fences or walls located in a side or rear yard shall not exceed six
feet in height, measured from the interior bottom of the fence or wall to the
uppermost portion of the sections in-between the support posts or pillars. A
gap no larger than six inches is allowed between the natural grade and the
bottom of the fence to allow for uneven grade. Support posts and pillars are
allowed a 12 inch height encroachment for decorative elements.
   (B)   Fences or walls erected in any front yard, including both street sides
of a through lot, shall not exceed 48 inches in height, measured from the
interior bottom of the fence or wall to the uppermost portion of the sections
in-between the support posts or pillars, and shall be no more than 50% opaque
for the sections of fence or wall in-between support posts or pillars. A gap no
larger than six inches is allowed between the natural grade and the bottom of
the fence to allow for uneven grade. Support posts and pillars are allowed a 12
inch height encroachment for decorative elements. Driveway entryway pillars may
be up to six feet in height, up to 30 inches in width/depth and allow an 18-
inch height encroachment for decorative elements (such as gas lamps).
   (C)   A fence or wall up to six feet in height shall be at least ten feet
off of the street right-of-way line on the street side yard of a corner lot, or
must be in alignment with the current house setback, whichever is less. Any
fence or wall within that ten foot setback, or closer than the established side
yard setback of the house, shall not exceed 48 inches in height, measured from
the interior bottom of the fence or wall to the uppermost portion of the
sections in-between the support posts or pillars, or shall have clear
visibility through it (such as a chain link fence or a metal rod fence) and be
set back at least one foot from the right-of-way line. In addition, no fence or
wall may be located in the clear vision area required by §
3.38 of the city code unless it is no more than 50% opaque.
   (D)   In the case of a flag lot, in consideration of the unique
characteristics of such lots, a fence as described in division (A) above shall
be permitted in any area where such fence would be permitted on an adjoining
lot, plus any area behind the rear lot line of any interior lot within 25 feet
of the subject property. In all other areas, a fence as described in division
(B) above shall be permitted.
   (E)   A fence or wall lawfully in existence as of the adoption of divisions
(B), (C) and (D) above that does not conform to the requirements of divisions
(B), (C) and (D) (a "preexisting fence or wall") may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No preexisting fence or wall may be enlarged or altered in a way
which increases its nonconformity.
      (2)   If a preexisting fence or wall is moved for any reason, it shall
thereafter conform to the regulations of divisions (B), (C) and (D).
      (3)   Repair and maintenance work may be performed on a preexisting fence
or wall on interior and corner lots only provided that its nonconformity as it
existed at the time this section was adopted is not increased. Repair and
maintenance are defined as replacing no more than 25% of a section of non-
conforming fence within a 12-month timeframe. Repair and maintenance work may
be performed on a preexisting fence or wall on through lots provided that its
nonconformity as it existed at the time this section was adopted is not
increased. Repair and maintenance are defined as replacing no more than 5% of a
section of non-conforming fence within a 12-month timeframe.
      (4)   Nothing in this section shall be deemed to prevent the
strengthening or restoring to a safe condition of a preexisting fence or wall
or part thereof declared to be unsafe by any official charged with protecting
the public safety, upon order of such official.
   (F)   Fences and walls shall be constructed and maintained vertical to the
contour of the adjoining land. All fences constructed or reconstructed
following the adoption of this section shall have the finished side facing
neighboring property. The back side of a fence shall face the owner's property
and shall contain the fence posts and bracing. Fences with double finished
sides including fence panels, decorative bracing and posts are permitted.
   (G)   There shall not be attached, affixed, or placed on any fence or wall
any spike, nail, barb (including barbwire), or other pointed instrument, and
all cleaved selvages and sharp points on wire fences shall be removed or bent
to eliminate any sharp extrusions.
   (H)   No fence or wall shall be constructed or maintained which is charged
or connected with an electrical current.
   (I)   Temporary construction fences or fences for protection around
excavations shall comply with all requirements of the National Building Code.
Such fences shall not be maintained for a period greater than a year without
approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (J)   Fences enclosing tennis courts shall not exceed 12 feet in height and
shall be of a standard open wire-mesh type and if in excess of six feet in
height shall not encroach upon the side yard required to be maintained under
the provisions of
Chapter 50, Zoning, of this code without the prior approval of the City
Commission. The City Commission, in considering applications to construct such
fences, shall give consideration to the character of the neighborhood and the
preservation of property values and may attach to its approval such conditions
regarding the location, character, landscaping, or treatment thereof as it may
deem to be reasonably necessary for the protection of the neighbors and for the
furtherance of the intent of this chapter.
   (K)   No fence or wall shall be erected within one foot of any lot line
abutting a street right-of-way line.
   (L)   Provisions of the city code in this title dealing with fencing
requirements for swimming pools may in some instances be inconsistent with the
requirements of this section. Any such inconsistencies shall be addressed by
filing for an exception as provided in division (M) below.
   (M)   The Board of Appeals may, for good cause, authorize exceptions from
the strict requirements of this chapter upon written application and following
a public hearing. The procedure for such application and hearing shall be as
set forth in §§
8.62(A) and
8.62(B) of this chapter.
   (N)   Prior to installing or having a fence installed upon a parcel of
property, the owner of the property or the owner's contractor must obtain a
fence permit from the city. The procedure for obtaining this permit will be set
forth in the fee resolution adopted by the city from time-to-time for other
required permits.
   (O)   The illustrations found at the end of this chapter are to assist with
the interpretation of these regulations as they pertain to interior, corner and
through lots.
(Ord. effective 10-26-2018; Ord. effective 11-1-2019; Ord. effective 3-26-2021;
Ord. effective 1-1-2022; Ord. effective 2-2-2024)
§ 8.62 MAINTENANCE OF FENCES.
   (A)   All fences shall be protected from deterioration with properly applied
paint, stain or other protective coating, with the exception of metal fences,
redwood and cedar fences, or fences constructed with pressure-treated lumber
which are of a type not customarily intended to be so painted, stained or
coated, but such fences shall be properly maintained to prevent deterioration.
   (B)   Fences shall be maintained to retain their original appearance, shape
and configuration. Elements of the fence that are missing, damaged, destroyed
or deteriorated shall be replaced and repaired to maintain conformity with the
original fence design.
   (C)   Any fence which because of a failure to comply with the provisions of
this chapter becomes unsafe so as to create a possibility of bodily injury or
becomes unsightly to neighbors or the general public is hereby declared a
nuisance. The building inspector shall serve the owner, agent or person in
control of the property upon which such fence is located, a written notice
describing the unsafe or unsightly condition and specifying the required
repairs or modifications to be made or requiring the fence or any portion
thereof to be removed, and shall provide a time limit for such repair,
modification or removal. Any person failing to comply with such notice within
the time limited therefor shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
(Ord. effective 11-4-1984; Ord. effective 10-26-2018; Ord. effective 11-1-2019)
§ 8.62A APPEALS, INTERPRETATIONS AND VARIANCES.
   (A)   Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall act as the Board
of Appeals for these regulations. The Board of Appeals shall have the authority
to interpret, consider appeals of administrator decisions, and consider request
for variances; provided, the Board of Appeals shall have no authority to hear
an appeal, interpret provisions or consider a variance from any matter that
relates to the construction or design specifications established by the City
Building Code. Such decisions shall be the sole province of the Construction
Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Appeals. Any person aggrieved by any decision or order of the Director
of Public Works or Zoning Administrator in connection with any provisions of
these regulations may appeal to the Board of Appeals within 30 days of the
decision or order.
   (C)   Interpretation. The Board of Appeals may interpret any aspect of the
regulations of this chapter. Such interpretation may be required by an
application, business owner, property owner, city official, the Zoning
Administrator or the Director of Public Works.
   (D)   Variances.
      (1)   The Board of Appeals shall hear variance requests on all
applications that do not conform to the provisions of these regulations,
relating to location, height, maintenance and opaqueness.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals shall use the following standards to determine
if a variance is warranted. All of the following standards shall be satisfied,
as applicable.
         (a)   The applicant has demonstrated a variance is needed due to a
practical difficulty on the site or unique condition that is more than mere
inconvenience.
         (b)   A variance is warranted due to circumstances exceptional and
peculiar to the property for which the variance is requested, and those
conditions do not exist generally throughout the city.
         (c)   The variance will not be a hazard to either clear vision or
overall safety and will be harmonious with the surrounding environment.
         (d)   If applicable, a variance would significantly bring a
nonconforming fence closer to conformity with this chapter.
         (e)   The variance will not be contrary to the purpose and intent of
the regulation(s) being considered for the variance.
(Ord. effective 11-1-2019; Ord. effective 1-1-2022)
§ 8.62B BOARD OF APPEALS HEARINGS AND DECISIONS.
   (A)   Notice regarding a proposed appeal, interpretation (if applicable to a
specific property) or variance shall be sent by mail at least 15 days prior to
the Board of Appeals meeting at which the request will be considered, to all
property owners of records within 300 feet of the property in question. The
notice shall contain a brief description of the request, the time and place of
the Board of Appeals meeting, the hours and location where the application may
be inspected, and the address to which written comments may be sent.
   (B)   Meetings to hear appeals, interpretations, or variance may be held the
same evening as the regularly scheduled Zoning Board of Appeals meeting, unless
a special meeting is called.
   (C)   Decisions required under this section shall be by majority vote of the
full membership of the Zoning Board of Appeals, not just a majority of those
present.
   (D)   The Board of Appeals may affirm, annul or modify the order or action
of the Department of Public Works or applicable portion of the regulations of
this chapter.
   (E)   All decisions are final and may not be appealed, except as may be
provided by law.
   (F)   In its capacity as appellate board, the Board of Appeals shall either:
      (1)   Approve the application as presented upon a finding, point by
point, that all the criteria in §
8.62A(D)(2) are met;
      (2)   Subject the approval to certain changes or conditions, such as, but
not limited to, changes to fence height, location, material, or opaqueness; or
      (3)   Deny the application.
   (G)   Any decision shall be in writing and the applicant shall be provided a
written explanation of the reasons for the decision and any conditions to an
approval.
(Ord. effective 11-1-2019; Ord. effective 1-1-2022)
ARTICLE II. TOWER AND ANTENNA FENCES
§ 8.63 FENCING OF TOWERS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain upon property
within the city a radio or television tower or antenna which is directly
accessible from the ground level, whether freestanding or attached to other
structures and supports, unless the base thereof or access thereto be
completely enclosed with fencing with a height not less than four feet nor more
than six feet. Such fencing shall be so constructed as to prevent, within
reason, any person gaining access beneath, through or over said fence, and
shall have gates or doors of the same height as the fence. Such gates or doors
shall be kept securely locked at all times except when work is being done on
such tower or antenna. All such fences and gates shall be constructed without
horizontal bars or rails which could be used for footholds for climbing and
shall conform with all the requirements of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 8.63)
§ 8.64 DEFINITIONS.
   The words TOWER or ANTENNA when used in §
8.63 of this chapter shall include all structures used in connection with the
sending or receiving of radio or television signals.
(Prior Code, § 8.64)
APPENDIX A: FENCE ILLUSTRATIONS
Exhibit 1: Interior Lot Fence Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2354.png]
Exhibit 2: Corner Lot Fence Example #1
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2352.png]
Exhibit 3: Corner Lot Fence Example #2
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2350.png]
Exhibit 4: Through Lot Fence Example
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2348.png]
 
(Ord. effective 3-26-2021)
CHAPTER 84: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE AND HOUSING REGULATIONS
Section
   
8.91   Adoption of Code
   
8.92   Amendments
   
8.93   Costs; owner responsibility
   
8.94   Saving clause
§ 8.91 ADOPTION OF CODE.
   The International Property Maintenance Code as published by the
International Code Council, Inc., 2018 edition, be and is hereby adopted as the
Property Maintenance Code of the city; for the control of buildings and
structures as herein provided; and each and all of the regulations, provisions,
penalties, conditions and terms of said property maintenance code are hereby
referred to, adopted and made part hereof as if fully set out in this article,
with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
8.92 of this chapter. A copy of the Property Maintenance Code is on file in the
office of the City Clerk.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.92 AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections are hereby revised:
   (A)   Section 101.1 is modified by inserting the City of East Grand Rapids
as the jurisdiction.
   (B)   Section 103.5 is modified by reference to the City Fee Rate Schedule
by resolution.
   (C)   Section 112.4 is modified to by reference to a civil infraction.
   (D)   Section 2.02 is modified by adding the definition of “family” to read
as follows:
      FAMILY: A single individual or a married couple together with his, her,
or their children, or a collective body of persons living together upon the
premises as a single housekeeping unit, utilizing a single common cooking and
dining facility, in a domestic relationship based upon birth, marriage, or
other relationship based upon a distinct domestic character. This definition
shall not include a society, club, fraternity, sorority, or other student
group, association, lodge, organization, or group of persons, which does not
constitute a recognized religious order, nor shall it include a group of
individuals whose association is temporary or seasonal in character or nature.
   (E)   Section 302.4 is modified by inserting 5 inches.
   (F)   Section 304.14 is modified by inserting May 1 to October 1.
   (G)   Section 602.3 is modified by inserting October 1 to April 30.
   (H)   Section 602.4 is modified by inserting October 1 to April 30.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.93 COSTS; OWNER RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Any and all expenses or costs incurred under the provisions of this
article for the demolition, removal, repair, boarding up, securing or
alteration of any building or structure or for the maintenance of the exterior
of any building or structure, or grounds adjoining a building or structure,
shall be paid by the owner or party in interest in whose name the property
appears.
   (B)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last city tax assessment roll shall be notified by the city of the amount
of the cost of either the demolition, making the building or structure safe, or
of maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or the grounds
adjoining the building or structure. The city shall double the cost it incurred
from outside contractors in order to recoup the city’s costs in arranging for
and supervising such contractors. The notice shall be provided by first class
mail at the address shown on the city’s records. If the owner or party in
interest fails to pay the costs within 30 days after mailing the notice of the
amount of the cost, the city shall have a lien for the costs incurred by the
city to bring the property into conformance with this ordinance and the code.
This lien shall be filed or recorded as provided by law. The lien shall be
collected in the same manner as provided for property tax liens under the
General Property Tax Act of the state, being M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 et seq.
   (C)   In addition to other remedies under this ordinance or the code, the
city may bring an action against the owner of the building or structure for all
costs incurred by the city in enforcing this article. The city shall have a
lien on the property for the amount of any judgment obtained pursuant to this
section. The lien shall take effect when it is recorded as provided by law. A
judgment in action brought pursuant to this section may be enforced against
assets of the owner, not just against the property.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
§ 8.94 SAVING CLAUSE.
   Nothing in this chapter or in the property maintenance code hereby adopted
shall be construed to affect any suit or proceeding pending in any court, or
any rights acquired, or liability incurred, or cause or causes of action
acquired or existing, under any act or ordinance repealed by the adoption of
this new code; nor shall any just or legal right or remedy of any character be
lost, impaired or affected by this chapter.
(Ord. effective 10-12-2018)
CHAPTER 85: REMOVAL OF BUILDINGS
Section
   
8.501   Permit required
   
8.502   Safeguards required
   
8.503   Restoration of premises
   
8.504   Penalty for violation
Cross-reference:
   House movers, see
Chapter 41, Article V
§ 8.501 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building shall be demolished or removed from premises situated in the
city without a permit first being obtained pursuant to the requirements of
Chapter 80 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 8.501)
§ 8.502 SAFEGUARDS REQUIRED.
   The person to whom a demolition or moving permit shall have been granted
shall be responsible for effecting such safeguards as shall be reasonably
necessary for the protection of persons and property from injury resulting from
the said demolition or moving operations. Such safeguards shall include the
proper barricading of any excavations and the maintenance of fences and/or
barricades reasonably required to keep persons from entering into any areas
made hazardous by said demolition or moving operations.
(Prior Code, § 8.502)
§ 8.503 RESTORATION OF PREMISES.
   Immediately following the completion of such demolition or moving, the
person to whom such permit shall have been issued shall restore the premises to
a sightly condition and shall put and keep said premises in such condition as
to comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   On a level lot the surface of said premises shall be made level; on
other than level lots the surface shall be graded to conform with the normal
contour of the lot;
   (B)   All debris of whatsoever nature shall be removed from said premises;
and
   (C)   All uncovered soil shall be seeded, sodded or otherwise cared for so
as to prevent blowing of dirt and dust and erosion of the soil.
(Prior Code, § 8.503)
§ 8.504 PENALTY FOR VIOLATION.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall have
committed a civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more
than $500.
(Prior Code, § 8.504) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
CHAPTER 88: INSPECTION OF RENTAL UNITS
Section
   
8.801   Certificate of compliance required
   
8.802   Issuance of certificate
   
8.803   Validity of certificate
   
8.804   Temporary certificate authorized
   
8.805   Scheduling of inspections
   
8.806   Suspension of certificate
   
8.807   Notice of suspended certificate to tenants
   
8.808   Appeal
   
8.809   Fee for certificate
   
8.810   Penalty for noncompliance
   
8.811   Owner defined
   
8.812   Rental unit requirements generally
§ 8.801 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   A rental unit located in a building containing two or more rental units
shall not be occupied unless a certificate of compliance has been issued by the
city for the rental unit. This requirement shall not apply to hospitals or
foster care homes that are inspected by a county, state or federal agency for
maintenance of health and safety standards.
(Prior Code, § 8.801) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.802 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE.
   Each rental unit must be inspected by the city prior to the issuance of a
certificate of compliance. The city shall issue a certificate of compliance for
a rental unit where the city finds that the rental unit meets all standards set
forth in this code. A list of the applicable code sections may be obtained from
the city building inspector. The owner of the rental dwelling must pay all fees
required by this chapter prior to the issuance of a certificate of compliance.
(Prior Code, § 8.802) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.803 VALIDITY OF CERTIFICATE.
   A certificate of compliance shall be valid for two years unless suspended as
set forth below. Each certificate of compliance shall contain an expiration
date. No certificate of compliance shall be valid beyond its stated expiration
date.
(Prior Code, § 8.803) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.804 TEMPORARY CERTIFICATE AUTHORIZED.
   Where a certificate of compliance is required, the city may issue a
temporary certificate of compliance until such time as the city is able to make
a compliance inspection in order to enable the city to balance the compliance
inspection workload. A temporary certificate of compliance may be suspended or
revoked by the building inspector in his or her discretion at any time if the
rental unit fails to meet all standards set forth in this code.
(Prior Code, § 8.804) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.805 SCHEDULING OF INSPECTIONS.
   The building inspector shall initially establish a schedule for the
inspection of all rental units covered by this chapter. Once a certificate of
compliance has been issued, the city will notify the owner of the dwelling at
least 60 days prior to the expiration of the certificate of compliance that a
reinspection is necessary. The owner shall then arrange for a compliance
inspection to take place prior to expiration of the certificate of compliance.
(Prior Code, § 8.805) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.806 SUSPENSION OF CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   The building inspector has authority to suspend a certificate of
compliance if a rental unit is not maintained in compliance with the standards
set forth in this code. Prior to suspending the certificate of compliance, the
building inspector shall serve upon the owner a notice to repair which informs
the owner of the items which need to be corrected and allows the owner ten days
to make such needed repairs.
   (B)   If the owner does not comply with the notice to repair, the building
inspector may suspend the certificate of compliance and shall issue a notice of
suspended certification to the owner which will inform the owner:
      (1)   That the certificate of compliance has been suspended and the date
of suspension;
      (2)   The reason for the suspension;
      (3)   That it is unlawful for any rental unit to continue to be occupied
for more than 60 days after the date of suspension of the certificate of
compliance;
      (4)   That any rental unit which is vacant at the time of the suspension
or which becomes vacant during the period of suspension shall not be rented or
reoccupied until a certificate of compliance is reinstated or a new certificate
of compliance is issued;
      (5)   That the certificate of compliance is to be returned to the
building inspector within ten days; and
      (6)   That tenants may be entitled to escrow rent monies as provided
under state law.
(Prior Code, § 8.806) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.807 NOTICE OF SUSPENDED CERTIFICATE TO TENANTS.
   The building inspector shall send a copy of the notice of suspended
certification to the occupant of the rental unit by regular mail.
(Prior Code, § 8.807) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.808 APPEAL.
   Suspension of a certificate of compliance may be appealed to the City
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 8.808) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.809 FEE FOR CERTIFICATE.
   Prior to being issued a certificate of compliance, the owner shall pay a fee
per rental unit as established by resolution of the City Commission. No fee
will be required for a temporary certificate of compliance.
(Ord. effective 1-1-2010)
§ 8.810 PENALTY FOR NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall have
committed a civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more
than $500. Each day that a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense.
(Prior Code, § 8.810) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989; Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
§ 8.811 OWNER DEFINED.
   For purposes of this chapter, the owner of the building in which a rental
unit is located shall be presumed to be the person or entity whose name appears
on the city’s real property tax rolls unless the city has been notified in
writing that some other person or entity is in fact the owner.
(Prior Code, § 8.811) (Ord. effective 6-16-1989)
§ 8.812 RENTAL UNIT REQUIREMENTS GENERALLY.
   The following requirements shall apply to rental units:
   (A)   The requirements of the Michigan Sate Construction Code as adopted by
Chapter 80 of this code;
   (B)   The requirements of the BOCA National Property Maintenance Code as
adopted by
Chapter 84 of this code;
   (C)   The requirements of §
5.101 of this code which require two off-street parking places per residential
unit and a minimum lot width of 50 feet for a multiple-family dwelling;
   (D)   The requirements of §
5.102 of this code which prohibits more than four rental units per building
unless approval has been obtained from the Board of Zoning Appeals; and
   (E)   The requirements of §
5.103 of this code that there must be at least 4,000 square feet of lot area
for each rental unit.
(Prior Code, § 8.812) (Ord. effective 6-5-1989)
TITLE IX: POLICE REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
91.   NUISANCES
      
92.   ANIMAL CONTROL
      
93.   MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
      
94.   MODEL ROCKET ENGINES
      
95.   FIRE AND EXPLOSIVES
      
96.   AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
      
97.   NOISE CONTROL
      
98.   FERTILIZERS
      
99.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
99A.   AMBULANCE SERVICE
CHAPTER 91: NUISANCES
Section
Article I. Definition; Abatement Procedures
   
9.1   Nuisance defined and prohibited
   
9.2   Abatement of nuisances
   
9.3   Remedies severable
   
9.4   Appeals; hearing
   
9.4-1   Alternate procedure
Article II. Litter
   
9.5   Definitions
   
9.6   Litter in public places
   
9.7   Use of litter receptacles
   
9.8   Sweeping litter into gutters
   
9.9   Litter thrown by persons in vehicles
   
9.10   Truck loads causing litter
   
9.11   Litter on private property
   
9.12   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
9.13   Clearing of litter by city
Article III. Noise
   
9.14   Noises enumerated and prohibited
   
9.15   Exceptions
   
9.16   Provisions not exclusive
Article IV. Abandoned Refrigerators
   
9.17   Abandoned refrigerators prohibited
Article V. Bill Posting
   
9.18   Bill posting in streets or parks
   
9.19   Bill posting in private places
   
9.20   Handbills
   
9.21   Reserved
   
9.22   Reserved
ARTICLE I. DEFINITION; ABATEMENT PROCEDURES
§ 9.1 NUISANCE DEFINED AND PROHIBITED.
   Whatever annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose
of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs or renders
dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake or stream; or in any way renders
the public insecure in life or property is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance. Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, whatever is
forbidden by any provisions of this chapter. No person shall commit, create or
maintain any nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 9.1)
§ 9.2 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   Where no other procedure is made specifically applicable by another
provision of this code, any structure, condition or activity prohibited by this
chapter may be abated by the City Manager in accordance with the following
procedure. The City Manager shall first investigate the existence of the
alleged nuisance to determine whether or not a nuisance as defined in §
9.1 exists and to further determine the person who has created or is committing
or maintaining such nuisance. He or she shall then give written notice to the
person or persons responsible for the creation, commission or maintenance of
such nuisance, specifying in particular the nature thereof, the corrective
action to be taken to abate the same and the time limit for abatement of such
nuisance, which shall be a reasonable time but not to exceed 15 days from the
time the notice is served. Such notice shall be served in accordance with §
1.10 of this code. If, at the expiration of the time limit in said notice, the
person responsible for the commission, creation or maintenance of any nuisance
shall not have complied with the requirements thereof, the City Manager shall
carry out the requirements of said notice. The cost of such abatement shall be
a debt owed the city by the person responsible for the commission, creation or
maintenance of such nuisance and if the nuisance is attributable to the use,
occupancy or ownership of any land or premises within the city, shall be
charged against such premises and the owner thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.2)
§ 9.3 REMEDIES SEVERABLE.
   Any action taken by the city to abate any nuisance under the provisions of §
9.2, or any other provision of this code, shall not affect the right of the
city to institute proceedings against the person committing, creating or
maintaining any nuisance for violation of this code nor affect the imposition
of the penalty prescribed for such violation. As an additional remedy, upon
application by the city to any court of competent jurisdiction, the court may
order the nuisance abated and/or the violation or threatened violation,
restrained and enjoined.
(Prior Code, § 9.3)
§ 9.4 APPEALS; HEARING.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, appeals from any notice or
order of any officer charged with the enforcement of this chapter shall be made
to the City Commission within ten days from the date of service of the notice
or order, provided that if the time limit specified for compliance is less than
ten days, the appeal shall be within the time limit specified for compliance.
The appellant shall file a written notice of appeal, specifying the ground
therefor with the City Clerk. With each notice of appeal filed, there shall be
paid a fee of $10. The City Commission may designate a committee of itself or a
specially designated board of appeals to hear the appeal which shall fix a
reasonable time for the hearing of the appeal and give notice thereof to all
interested parties in accordance with §
1.10 of this code. The committee shall, after the hearing has been concluded,
submit its report in writing to the City Commission with recommendations either
as to reversing or affirming the appeal. The City Commission, upon receipt of
the committee’s report, may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or make
such order or decision with regard to said appeal as is determined necessary
and shall have all the power of the officer from whom the appeal was taken.
(Prior Code, § 9.4)
§ 9.4-1 ALTERNATE PROCEDURE.
   In lieu of the procedure set forth above, the City Commission may hear the
appeal and following such hearing may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part,
or make such order or decisions with regard to said appeal as is determined
necessary and shall have all the power of the officer from whom the appeal was
taken.
(Prior Code, § 9.4-1)
ARTICLE II. LITTER
§ 9.5 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this article, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARBAGE. Include all refuse or waste attendant to the preparation, dressing,
cooking of, or dealing in, food.
   LITTER. Includes GARBAGE, REFUSE and RUBBISH as defined herein and all other
material which, if thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a
danger to public health, safety and welfare or to be offensive to those persons
occupying adjoining public or private property.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, playground, lake, stream, recreation
center or any other public area in the city, owned or used by the city or by
the school district and devoted to public purposes or to active or passive
recreation.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned vehicles, and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, yard clippings, leaves, wood, glass, bedding, crockery and similar
materials.
(Prior Code, § 9.5)
§ 9.6 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk or
other public place within the city except in receptacles provided for
collection thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.6)
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see §
2.8
§ 9.7 USE OF LITTER RECEPTACLES.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent such litter from being
blown or carried to or deposited upon any street, sidewalk or other public
place or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 9.7)
§ 9.8 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place, litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private sidewalk
or driveway. Persons owning or occupying property shall keep the sidewalk in
front of their premises free of litter.
(Prior Code, § 9.8)
§ 9.9 LITTER THROWN BY PERSONS IN VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or drop
litter from the vehicle upon any street or other public place within the city,
or upon private property.
(Prior Code, § 9.9)
§ 9.10 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any contents
thereof whether or not defined as litter from being blown or deposited upon any
street, alley or other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any
vehicle or truck, within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or
deposit in any street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky
substances, litter or foreign matter of any kind.
(Prior Code, § 9.10)
§ 9.11 LITTER ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied or vacant private
property within the city nor permit litter to remain or accumulate thereon,
whether owned by such person or not, except in approved receptacles for
collection thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.11)
Cross-reference:
   Littering, see also §
2.8
§ 9.12 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any property shall at all times maintain
the premises free of litter. Provided, however, that this section shall not
prohibit the storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for
collection.
(Prior Code, § 9.12)
Cross-reference:
   Combustible waste and solid waste, see
Chapter 21
§ 9.13 CLEARING OF LITTER BY CITY.
   (A)   Notice to remove.
      (1)   The City Manager is hereby authorized and empowered to notify the
owner or occupant of any property within the city, or the agent of such owner
or occupant, to properly dispose of litter located on such property.
      (2)   Such notice shall be given in accordance with §
1.10 of this code and shall specify a reasonable period of time for removal of
such litter.
   (B)   Action upon noncompliance.
      (1)   Upon the failure, neglect or refusal of any person so notified, to
properly dispose of litter during the period specified in the notice provided
for in division (A) above, the City Manager shall take such action as he or she
shall determine to be necessary to eliminate and dispose of such litter and in
such event, the cost thereof shall be charged against the person so notified
and shall be a debt owing to the city.
      (2)   If such person fails to pay the same on demand, the cost shall be
assessed against the property involved and shall be collected as a single lot
assessment in accordance with the City Charter and §
1.306 of this code.
Charter reference:
   Taxation, see Charter Ch. XI
ARTICLE III. NOISE
§ 9.14 NOISES ENUMERATED AND PROHIBITED.
   Each of the following acts is declared unlawful and prohibited, but this
enumeration shall not be deemed to be exclusive, namely:
   (A)   Animal and bird noises. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any person. No person owning or having charge, care, custody, or control of
a dog shall permit such dog at any time, by loud or frequent or habitual
barking, yelping, or howling, to cause annoyance to people in the neighborhood
or to persons utilizing the public walks or streets of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Construction and vehicle noises. The erection (including excavating
therefor), demolition, alteration or repair of any building, the excavation of
streets and highways, and the use of any pile driver, hammer, shovel, derrick,
tractor, roller, or any other mechanical apparatus in building or construction
operations between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except for work on
essential services, unless a permit is first obtained from the City Manager. In
addition, operating or allowing to be operated any motor vehicle which weighs
in excess of five tons for a consecutive period of longer than two minutes
while such vehicle is in a stationary location within 150 feet of residential
property except when:
      (1)   The vehicle or motor is being used by a public utility, municipal
department or other governmental agency to provide essential services;
      (2)   Buses are operating for the transportation of passengers;
      (3)   Any vehicle is standing within a completely enclosed structure; or
      (4)   The vehicle or motor is being used in the course of normal
productive work.
   (C)   Sound amplifiers. Use of any loudspeaker, amplifier or other
instrument or device, whether stationary or mounted on a vehicle for any
purpose except by speakers in the course of a public address which is
noncommercial in character and when so used shall be subject to the following
restrictions.
      (1)   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech.
      (2)   Sound-amplifying equipment mounted on vehicles shall not be
operated unless the sound truck upon which such equipment is mounted is
operated at a speed of at least ten mph except when said truck is stopped or
impeded by traffic.
      (3)   Sound shall not be issued within 100 yards of hospitals, schools or
churches.
      (4)   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that it will not be
audible for a distance in excess of 100 yards from the sound-amplifying
equipment and so that the volume is not unreasonably loud, raucous, jarring,
disturbing or a nuisance to persons within the area of audibility.
      (5)   No sound-amplifying equipment shall be operated with an excess of
15 watts of power in the last stage of amplification.
   (D)   Engine exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any
steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle except
through a muffler or other device which effectively prevents loud or explosive
noises therefrom;
   (E)   Handling merchandise. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in
connection with loading or unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction
of bales, boxes, crates and containers;
   (F)   Blowers. The discharge into the open air of air from any noise-
creating blower or power fan unless the noise from such blower or fan is
muffled sufficiently to deaden such noise;
   (G)   General noise. Making, causing, permitting or allowing to be made any
noise of any kind including, but not limited to, by yelling, by means of any
musical instrument or device, or by radio, audio system or motor vehicle sound
system in such manner as to destroy the peace and tranquility of the
surrounding neighborhood or to annoy or disturb the quiet and comfort of
persons in the vicinity or in any building or residence; provided that this
prohibition does not apply to bands and orchestras utilized as part of a school
activity, parade or similarly authorized musical production;
   (H)   Horns and signal devices. The sounding of any horns or signal device
on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion, except
as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching, apparently out of
control, or to give warning of intent to get under motion, or if in motion,
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for an
unnecessary and unreasonable period of time;
   (I)   Radio and musical instruments. The playing of any radio, television
set, phonograph or any musical instrument in such a manner or with such volume,
particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time
or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in
any office or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any
persons in the vicinity;
   (J)   Disturbing the peace. Use of any premises under a person’s care or
control in a manner which shall destroy the peace and tranquility of the
surrounding neighborhood; and
   (K)   Whistle or siren. The blowing of any whistle or siren, except to give
notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger.
(Prior Code, § 9.14) (Ord. effective 5-16-1997; Ord. effective 9-16-2023)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
7.42,
9.37(C),
9.38(D) and
9.403
§ 9.15 EXCEPTIONS.
   None of the terms or prohibitions of §
9.14 of this chapter shall apply to or be enforced against the following.
   (A)   Emergency vehicles. Any police or fire vehicle or any ambulance, while
engaged upon emergency business.
   (B)   Highway maintenance and construction. Excavations or repairs of
bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of the city or the state, during
the night, when the public safety, welfare and convenience renders it
impossible to perform such work during the day.
   (C)   Sound amplifier. Sound amplifiers operated by the city or by the
public schools in connection with city or school functions and subject to
control by the elected officials of the city or school.
(Prior Code, § 9.15)
§ 9.16 PROVISIONS NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The provisions of §§
9.14 and
9.15 of this chapter are in addition to the provisions of
Chapter 97 of this title.
(Prior Code, § 9.16)
ARTICLE IV. ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS
§ 9.17 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall have in his or her possession, either inside or outside of
any building, structure or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or any other similar
airtight container of any kind which has a snap latch or other locking device
thereon, without first removing the snap latch or other locking device, or the
doors, from such ice box, refrigerator or other similar container.
(Prior Code, § 9.17)
ARTICLE V. BILL POSTING
§ 9.18 BILL POSTING IN STREETS OR PARKS.
   No person shall attach, place, paint, write, stamp or paste any sign,
advertisement or any other matter upon any post, pole, tree, fire hydrant or on
any other object within any public street or park. Public officers posting any
election notices or other notices required or permitted by law shall be
excepted from the provisions of this section.
(Prior Code, § 9.18)
§ 9.19 BILL POSTING IN PRIVATE PLACES.
   No person shall attach, place, paint, write, stamp or paste any sign,
advertisement or other matter upon any house, wall, fence, gate, post or tree
without first having obtained the written permission of the owner or occupants
of the premises and having complied with all provisions of this code pertaining
thereto.
(Prior Code, § 9.19)
§ 9.20 HANDBILLS.
   No person shall scatter or distribute on or along any public street or on
any parking lot open to the public or distribute or place, or cause to be
distributed or placed on or in any motor vehicle on any public street or
parking lot open to the public, any commercial literature, advertising
material, commercial handbill or other advertising paper.
(Prior Code, § 9.20)
Cross-reference:
   Litter control, see Article II of this chapter
§ 9.21 RESERVED.
§ 9.22 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 92: ANIMAL CONTROL
Section
   
9.35   General provisions
§ 9.35 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Animal control in the City of East Grand Rapids is handled by Kent County
animal control officers pursuant to the Kent County Animal Control Ordinance.
(Ord. effective 9-16-2023)
CHAPTER 93: MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES
Section
   
9.51   Definitions
   
9.52   Rule of construction
   
9.53   General provisions
   
9.54   Offenses against persons
   
9.55   Offenses against property
   
9.56   Alcohol and drug offenses
   
9.57   Disturbance of the peace offenses
   
9.58   Offenses against government order
   
9.59   Vice offenses
   
9.60   Larceny offenses
   
9.61   School premises offenses
   
9.62   Weapons offenses
   
9.63   Reserved
   
9.64   Miscellaneous offenses
   
9.65   Violations and penalties
   
9.66   Confiscation/civil forfeiture
   
9.67   Severability
§ 9.51 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADDRESS OF RECORD. The address that appears on the check or the last known
address of record with the Secretary of State at the time the check was
presented for payment of goods and services.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any spirituous, vinous, malt, fermented liquor, beer,
wine, spirits, alcoholic liquids and compounds whether or not medicated,
proprietary, patented and by whatever name called, containing 0.5% or more of
alcohol by volume.
   CHECK. Any check, draft or order for the payment of money to apply on
account or otherwise, upon any bank or other depository.
   CITY BUILDING. Any building, or portion thereof, owned, leased or used by
the city for the exclusive or nonexclusive purpose of conducting its business
affairs.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. That term as defined in Public Health Code § 7104,
being M.C.L.A. § 333.7104, as amended.
   CULTIVATE. That term as defined in Section 3 of the MRTMA, being M.C.L.A. §
333.27953, as amended.
   DANGEROUS WEAPON. Any weapon likely to produce death or great bodily injury;
or, a weapon which, in the manner in which it is used or attempted to be used,
endangers life or inflicts great bodily harm.
   DATING RELATIONSHIP. Frequent, intimate associations primarily characterized
by the expectation of affectional involvement. This term does not include a
causal relationship or an ordinary fraternization between two individuals in a
business or social context.
   DISHONORED. Includes:
      (1)   Any check, draft or order drawn or written on any account, or
otherwise, upon any bank or depository, without sufficient funds for the
payment of same when presentment is made to the drawee; and
      (2)   Any check, draft or order drawn or written on any account which has
been closed with or by the bank or other depository upon which it is drawn.
   DRUG. A CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE as defined now or hereafter by the Public Acts
of Michigan.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. That term as defined in the Public Health Code § 7451,
being M.C.L.A. § 333.7451, as amended.
   MARIHUANA, MARIHUANA CONCENTRATE and MARIHUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT. Those terms
as defined in Section 3 of the MRTMA, being M.C.L.A. § 333.27953, as amended,
except that marihuana and marihuana-infused product when used in reference to
the MMMA shall mean those terms as defined in Section 3 of the MMMA, being
M.C.L.A. § 333.26423, as amended.
   MARIHUANA ACCESSORIES. That term as defined in Section 3 of the MRTMA, being
M.C.L.A. § 333.27953, as amended.
   MMMA. The Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, 2008 IL 1, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq., as amended.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, 2018 IL 1,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., as amended.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. A self-propelled vehicle.
   NARCOTIC DRUG. That term as defined in the Public Health Code § 7107, being
M.C.L.A. § 333.7107, as amended.
   PERSON. Any individual, corporation, trust, partnership or any other legal
entity.
   PRACTITIONER. That term as defined in the Public Health Code § 7109, being
M.C.L.A. § 333.7109, as amended.
   PRINCIPAL. The chief administrative employee of any public, private or
parochial elementary, secondary or high school.
   PROWLING. Willfully lurking about, lying in wait or moving stealthily about
private property as if in search of prey or plunder.
   PUBLIC HEALTH CODE. The Michigan Public Health Code, Public Act 368 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as amended.
   PUBLIC NUDITY. Knowingly or intentionally displaying in a public place or
displaying from a private place in such a manner as to allow the display to be
seen from a public place, or for payment or promise of payment by any person
including, but not limited to, payment or promise for payment of an admission
fee, any individual’s genitals or anus with less than a fully opaque covering
of the nipple and the areola. PUBLIC NUDITY does not include any of the
following:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding of a baby, whether or not the nipple or
areola is exposed during or incidental to the feeding:
      (2)   “Material” as defined in Public Act 343 § 2 of 1984; or
      (3)   “Sexually explicit visual material” as defined in Public Act 33 § 3
of 1978.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any parking lot, street, alley, park, sidewalk, public
building, any place of business open to the public or frequented by the public
or any portion thereof, and any other place which is open to public view to
which the public, or any portion thereof, has access.
   RETAIL FRAUD. A person had done one or more of the following:
      (1)   While a store is open to the public, alters, transfers, removes and
replaces, conceals, or otherwise misrepresents the price at which property is
for sale, with the intent not to pay for the property or to pay less than the
price at which the property is offered for sale;
      (2)   While a store is open to the public, steals property of the store
that is offered for sale; and/or
      (3)   With the intent to defraud, obtain or attempts to obtain money or
property from the store as a refund or exchange for property that was not paid
for or belongs to the store.
   RESIDENCE or PREMISES. A motel room, hotel room, home, apartment,
condominium or other dwelling unit, including the property and premises of the
same, or hall, meeting room or other place of assembly, whether occupied on a
temporary or permanent basis, whether occupied as a dwelling or specifically
for social functions and whether owned, leased, rented or used with or without
compensation.
   SCHOOL. Any public, private or parochial pre-elementary, elementary (grades
K-6), secondary (grades 7-12), high school or combination thereof.
   STALKING. A willful course of conduct involving repeated or continuing
harassment of another person that would cause a reasonable person to feel
terrorized, frightened, intimidated, threatened, harassed or molested, and that
actually causes the victim to feel terrorized, frightened, intimidated,
threatened, harassed or molested. As used in this section:
      (1)   COURSE OF CONDUCT means a pattern of conduct composed of a series
of two or more separate non-continuous acts, evidencing a continuity of
purpose;
      (2)   EMOTIONAL DISTRESS means significant mental suffering or distress
that may, but does not necessarily require, medical or other professional
treatment or counseling;
      (3)   HARASSMENT means conduct directed toward a victim that includes,
but is not limited to, repeated or continuing unconsented contact, that would
cause a reasonable individual to suffer emotional distress, and that actually
causes the victim to suffer emotional distress. HARASSMENT does not include
constitutionally protected activity or conduct that serves a legitimate
purpose; and
      (4)   UNCONSENTED CONTACT means any contact with another individual that
is initiated or continued without that individual’s consent or in disregard of
that individual’s expressed desire that the contact be avoided or discontinued.
UNCONTESTED CONTACT includes, but is not limited to, any of the following:
         (a)   Following or appearing within the sight of that individual;
         (b)   Approaching or confronting that individual in a public place or
on private property;
         (c)   Appearing at the workplace or residence of that individual;
         (d)   Entering onto or remaining on property owned, leased or occupied
by that individual;
         (e)   Contacting that individual by telephone;
         (f)   Sending mail or electronic communications to that individual;
and
         (g)   Placing an object on, or delivering an object to, property
owned, leased or occupied by that individual.
      (5)   VICTIM means an individual who is the target of a willful course of
conduct involving repeated or continuing harassment.
   TRUANCY. A person between six and 16 years of age who is out of school
during regular school hours, unless the absence is due to an illness,
suspension or expulsion from school, or when the person is either engaged in an
organized school program or acting at the direction of a parent or legal
guardian.
   WEAPON. Any pistol, air pistol, rifle, air rifle, shotgun, slingshot,
crossbow, bow, molotov cocktail, firebomb or bomb, knife having a blade three
inches in length or longer, shurkins (throwing stars) and nunchaku, not
including guns not in operating condition.
(Ord. effective 4-27-2001; Ord. effective 11-18-2016; Ord. effective 10-18-
2019)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.
§ 9.52 RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
   The rule that a penal statute is to be strictly construed shall not apply to
this chapter or any of the provisions thereof. All provisions of this chapter
shall be construed according to the fair import of their terms, to promote
justice and to effect the objects of the law.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.53 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   The following general provisions shall apply in all prosecutions for
offenses provided for in this chapter.
   (A)   Any person who aids, abets, conceals, counsels, facilitates, procures,
commands, persuades, solicits or assists in the commission of any offense
prohibited by this chapter shall be punished as if he or she committed or
perpetrated the actual offense.
   (B)   Any person who shall attempt to commit an offense prohibited by this
chapter, and in such attempt shall do any substantial act towards the
commission of such offense, but shall fail in the perpetration, or shall be
intercepted or prevented in the execution of the same, shall be punished as if
the offense were actually perpetrated or committed.
   (C)   Any person who conspires with one or more other persons to commit any
act prohibited by this chapter shall be punished as if such offense was
actually perpetrated and shall be punished as a principal.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.54 OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Commit an assault or battery upon another person with or without a
weapon;
   (B)   Orally, or by delivery of a writing or electronic communication,
threaten any physical violence or harm to any person or any member of such
person’s family;
   (C)   Deliver, or cause to be delivered, any letter, postal card, electronic
writing or other object containing obscene language or containing any words,
letters or marks with the intent to frighten, intimidate or cause annoyance to
any other person, or with the intent to extort or gain money or property of any
description belonging to another;
   (D)   Accost, molest or willfully annoy another person;
   (E)   Recklessly endanger the life, health or well-being of another person;
   (F)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral or obscene conduct in any
public place or place open to the public;
   (G)   Utter any vile, blasphemous, vulgar or obscene language in any public
place or in such a way as to subject the public to such language;
   (H)   Commit an assault or an assault and battery on his or her spouse or
former spouse, an individual with whom he or she has had a dating relationship,
an individual with whom he or she has had a child in common, or a resident or
former resident of his or her household. A police officer may arrest an
individual for a violation of this chapter if the officer has reasonable cause
to believe that the individual is violating or has violated this section
regardless of whether the police officer has a warrant or whether the violation
was committed in the officer’s presence. Notwithstanding any provision of this
code to the contrary, a person convicted of violating this division (H) shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and cost of prosecution or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 93 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court;
   (I)   Engage in stalking;
   (J)   Knowingly and willfully engage in any conduct which exposes a child
under 12 years of age to injury. This section shall not be construed as
preventing a parent, guardian or other person authorized by law from using
reasonable force to discipline a child;
   (K)   Knowingly and willfully utter any word or commit any act, which causes
or tends to cause any minor child under the age of 17 years to become neglected
or delinquent so as to come under the jurisdiction of the Family Division of
the Circuit Court;
   (L)   Maliciously, and with the specific intent to intimidate or harass
another person because of that person’s race, color, religion, gender or
national origin, do any of the following:
      (1)   Cause physical contact with another person;
      (2)   Damage, destroy or deface any real or personal property of another
person; or
      (3)   Threaten, by word or act, to do an act described in divisions (L)
(1) or (L)(2) above if there is reasonable cause to believe that an act
described in divisions (L)(1) or (L)(2) above will occur.
   (M)   By threats, intimidation or otherwise, and without authority of law,
interfere with, or in any way molest or disturb, without such authority, any
person in the quiet and peaceable pursuit of his or her lawful occupation,
vocation or avocation, or on the way to or from such occupation, vocation or
avocation;
   (N)   Willfully focus, point or shine a laser beam, directly or indirectly
upon another person or animal in any manner which would cause a reasonable
person to feel terrorized, frightened, threatened, harassed or annoyed and that
actually causes the victim to feel terrorized, frightened, threatened, harassed
or annoyed; or
   (O)   Possess a laser-pointing device unless that person is at least 18
years of age. A person under the age of 18 shall not be in violation of this
section if the possession of a laser-pointing device is necessary for his or
her employment, trade, occupation or has been required by a teacher at a
public, private or parochial school as device needed in furtherance of a school
assignment.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.55 OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Enter any dwelling house, apartment, private room, private garage or
private outbuilding without first obtaining the permission of the owner, or
person in charge of the building. This division (A) shall not apply to any
public safety officer or emergency medical personnel acting in the lawful
performance of his or her official duties;
   (B)   Enter or remain upon the lands or premises of another without lawful
authority, after having been forbidden to do so by the owner or person in
charge of the lands or premises;
   (C)   Prowl about the private premises of any other person, either by day or
night, without lawful authority or without the express consent of the owner or
person in lawful possession of such premises;
   (D)   Drive or park a motor vehicle on private property without lawful
authority knowing the same to be private without the express consent of the
owner or person in lawful possession of such premises. This division (D) shall
not apply to the parking lot of a business that is open to the public;
   (E)   Enter into any place, area, building or any part thereof, without
permission or where applicable, having first paid any fee, charge or other
consideration required for admission or failing to pay for services as required
before leaving. This division (E) shall not apply to any public safety officer
or emergency medical personnel acting in the lawful performance of his or her
official duties;
   (F)   Interfere with, move, disconnect or carry off any property not his or
her own, without lawful authority or the express consent of the owner or person
in charge of such property;
   (G)   Willfully, wantonly or recklessly destroy, damage, deface or tamper
with any property, private or public, not his or her own;
   (H)   Place any sign, advertisement or any other matter upon any lamppost,
electric light, telephone or other utility pole, fire hydrant, bridge,
pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk or public building without the consent and
authorization of the appropriate official. This shall not be construed as
preventing any public officer or official from doing any such act for any
purpose authorized by the laws of the state or the charter or ordinances of the
city;
   (I)   Mutilate, deface, conceal or tear down any official notice or placard
lawfully posted by any city officer or employee unless prior permission is
given by such officer or employee to remove such notice;
   (J)   Destroy, damage or in any manner alter or deface any drinking fountain
or public toilet or restroom, or deposit or throw any substance in any public
toilet which causes or may cause damage to it or put any substance in a water
fountain which may in any manner pollute the water therein. For purposes of
this division (J), DRINKING FOUNTAIN and PUBLIC TOILET shall mean any
facilities owned or operated by the city or any governmental unit as well as
facilities owned by private businesses where such facilities are open to and
can be used by the public;
   (K)   Open or attempt to open, interfere with, or damage any fire hydrant
without authority; or
   (L)   Swim, bathe, enter or wade in any creek, stream, pond, lake, quarry,
swimming pool or any other body of water not designed for the public use or not
open to the public at that time, or swim, bathe or wade in water on private
property not owned or lawfully occupied by such person, without express consent
of the owner or person in lawful possession thereof. This division (L) shall
not apply to swimming or entry into the water necessitated by an emergency
which threatens life or property.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.56 ALCOHOL AND DRUG OFFENSES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Be intoxicated or under the influence of an alcoholic beverage or
under the influence of any drug or any combination of alcoholic beverages and
drugs in any public place and either endanger directly the safety of another
person or the property of another person, or act in a manner that causes or
creates a public disturbance;
   (B)   Sell, give or furnish any drug to any person without first obtaining a
license to sell, give or furnish such drug, except as otherwise authorized by
state law;
   (C)   Sell, give or furnish any alcoholic beverage to any person who appears
to be or is reasonably suspected to be drunk or intoxicated;
   (D)   Purchase, consume or possess an alcoholic beverage if less than 21
years of age, except as provided in this chapter.
      (1)   In addition to the penalties set forth within this chapter, a
person convicted of violating this division (D) may be ordered to perform
community service and to undergo substance abuse screening and assessment or
substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation at his or her own expense.
      (2)   A public safety officer who has reasonable cause to believe that a
person under the age of 21 years has consumed alcoholic liquor may request that
the person submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis. The results of a
preliminary chemical breath analysis shall be admissible as evidence and a
legal presumption shall be made by the court that the person less than 21 years
of age has consumed or possessed alcoholic liquor if a preliminary chemical
breath analysis indicates a person’s blood contained 0.02% or more weight by
alcohol.
      (3)   This division (D) shall not be construed to prohibit a person under
21 years of age from possessing alcoholic beverages if any of the following
circumstances exist:
         (a)   The alcoholic beverages are possessed during regular working
hours and in the course of the person’s employment if such employment is by a
person properly licensed by the state, by the Liquor Control Commission or by
an agent of the Liquor Control Commission, and if the alcoholic beverage is not
possessed for such person’s personal consumption;
         (b)   The person is participating in an undercover decoy operation and
the person has purchased or received alcoholic beverages exclusively at the
direction of a state, county or local police agency as part of an undercover
operation;
         (c)   The person is consuming sacramental wine in connection with
religious services at a church, synagogue or temple; or
         (d)   The alcoholic beverage is either an over-the-counter or a
prescribed commercially prepared product which is intended for use as a
medicine to treat colds, coughs, allergies or influenza, and is being possessed
or used for that purpose.
   (E)   Knowingly transport or possess, in a motor vehicle, an alcoholic
beverage if less than 21 years of age. This section shall not apply if the
person is employed by a licensee under state law, the state’s Liquor Control
Commission, an agent of said Commission or a police officer where the transport
or possession of the alcoholic beverage occurs in the course of the person’s
employment;
   (F)   Knowingly, or upon failure to make diligent inquiry, sell, furnish or
give alcoholic liquor to a person less than 21 years of age. This shall not
apply to alcoholic beverages given under the authority of and pursuant to the
direction of a duly licensed physician, or to a sacramental wine offered by a
member of the clergy in connection with religious services within a church,
synagogue or temple;
   (G)   Falsely represent that he or she or any other person is 21 years of
age or older for the purpose of procuring the sale or furnishing of any
alcoholic beverage;
   (H)   Knowingly allow or permit any other person to operate a motor vehicle
or other piece of machinery owned or controlled by him or her when he or she
knows or should reasonably know that the other person is intoxicated or under
the influence of an alcoholic beverage or a controlled substance;
   (I)   Consume, possess or knowingly have under his or her control any open
container of alcoholic beverage in any public park, public school property or
upon any public street or public sidewalk. This section shall not apply if the
alcoholic beverage is consumed or possessed exclusively within an area which is
currently licensed for sale or consumption by the state’s Liquor Control
Commission, and if the person is otherwise lawfully entitled to consume or
possess the alcoholic beverage;
   (J)   Inhale, drink, eat or otherwise introduce into his or her respiratory
or circulatory system any model glue, or other inhalant with the intent of
inducing intoxication, elation, dazed condition, paralysis or irrationality or
in any manner distort or disturb the eyesight, thinking process, judgment,
balance or coordination of such person;
   (K)   Except as otherwise permitted by the MMMA, no person shall:
      (1)   Operate, navigate, or be in physical control of any motor vehicle,
aircraft, snowmobile, off-road recreational vehicle or motorboat while under
the influence of marihuana;
      (2)   Transfer marihuana or marihuana accessories to a person under the
age of 21;
      (3)   If a person is under the age of 21, possess, consume, purchase or
otherwise obtain, cultivate, process, transport or sell marihuana;
      (4)   Separate plant resin by butane extraction or another method that
utilizes a substance with a flashpoint below 100º F. in any public place, motor
vehicle, or within the curtilage of any residential structure;
      (5)   Consume marihuana in a public place or smoke marihuana on a
property where prohibited by the person who owns, occupies, or manages the
property, except for purposes of this subsection, a public place does not
include an area designated for consumption within the city that has authorized
consumption in designated areas that are not accessible to persons under 21
years of age;
      (6)   Cultivate marihuana plants if the plants are visible from a public
place without the use of binoculars, aircraft, or other optical aids or outside
of an enclosed area equipped with locks or other functioning security devices
that restrict access to the area;
      (7)   Consume marihuana while operating, navigating, or being in physical
control of any motor vehicle, aircraft, snowmobile, off-road recreational
vehicle, or motorboat, or smoke marihuana within the passenger area of a
vehicle upon a public way;
      (8)   Possess marihuana accessories or possess or consume marihuana on
the grounds of a public or private school where children attend classes in
preschool programs, kindergarten programs, or grades 1 through 12, in a school
bus, or on the grounds of any correctional facility; or
      (9)   Possess more than two and one-half ounces of marihuana within a
person’s place of residence unless the excess marihuana is stored in a
container or area equipped with locks or other functioning security devices
that restrict access to the contents of the container or area.
   (L)   Except as provided in the MRTMA, MMMA, and/or division (K) of this
section, the following acts by a person who is 21 years of age and older are
not unlawful:
      (1)   Possessing, using or consuming, internally possessing, purchasing,
transporting, or processing two and one-half ounces or less of marihuana,
except that not more than 15 grams of marihuana may be in the form of marihuana
concentrate;
      (2)   Within the person’s residence, possessing, storing, and processing
not more than ten ounces of marihuana and any marihuana produced by marihuana
plants cultivated on the premises and cultivating not more than 12 marihuana
plants for personal use, provided that no more than 12 marihuana plants are
possessed, cultivated, or processed on the premises at once;
      (3)   Assisting another person who is 21 years of age or older in any of
the acts described in this section; and
      (4)   Giving away or otherwise transferring without remuneration up to
two and one-half ounces of marihuana, except that not more than 15 grams of
marihuana may be in the form of marihuana concentrate, to a person 21 years of
age or older, as long as the transfer is not advertised or promoted to the
public.
   (M)   Permit or allow any premises owned, or controlled by him or her to be
used or occupied by persons engaged in the unlawful use of an alcoholic
beverage or a controlled substance;
   (N)   Purchase, possess, or use any tobacco products if less than 21 years
of age. A person less than 21 years of age who violates this division (N) is
responsible for a civil infraction and may be fined up to $500 plus court costs
and the costs of prosecution. This division (N) shall not be construed to
prohibit a person from possessing tobacco products if any of the following
circumstances exist:
      (1)   The tobacco products are possessed during regular working hours and
in the course of the person’s employment and the tobacco products are not
purchased or possessed for such person’s personal consumption; or
      (2)   The person is participating in an undercover decoy operation and
the person has purchased or received tobacco products exclusively at the
direction of a state, county, or local police agency as part of an undercover
operation.
   (O)   Falsely represent that he or she or another person is 21 years of age
or older for the purpose of procuring the sale or furnishing of any tobacco
product.
   (P)   Knowingly, or upon failure to make diligent inquiry, sell, furnish, or
give tobacco products to a person under 21 years of age.
   (Q)   No person under 21 years of age shall knowingly attend, frequent or be
an occupant at a place where the illegal consumption of alcohol by other
persons under the age of 21 is being allowed in violation of this division (Q),
or a place where other persons under the age of 21 are illegally in possession
of alcoholic liquor. This division (Q) shall not apply to a place where the
attendance is limited to the immediate family of the occupier of the premises
and at least one parent residing in that household is actually present. A
person who violates this division (Q) is responsible for a civil infraction and
shall be subject to a fine of up to $500 plus court costs and the costs of
prosecution.
(Ord. effective 4-27-2001; Ord. effective 11-18- 2016; Ord. effective 10-18-
2019; Ord. effective 2-14-2020)
§ 9.57 DISTURBANCE OF THE PEACE OFFENSES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Create or unlawfully engage in any disturbance, fight or quarrel in
any public place, except in reasonable self-defense when attacked without
reasonable provocation or in reasonable defense of another who was so attacked;
   (B)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous or vulgar
conduct or language;
   (C)   Without proper authority, conduct himself or herself in any public
place so as to obstruct the free and uninterrupted passage of the public;
   (D)   Disturb or unreasonably interfere with any service of worship or any
other assembly gathered for lawful purposes;
   (E)   (1)   (a)   Discharge, offer for sale, or possess any fireworks except
the type and under the conditions permitted by the Michigan Fireworks Safety
Act (M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq.);
         (b)   Ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks, as defined in the
Michigan Fireworks Safety Act (M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 et seq.):
            1.   On any day other than the following days: on December 31,
after 11:00 a.m. and until 1:00 a.m. on January 1; on the Saturday and Sunday
immediately preceding Memorial Day after 11:00 a.m. and until 11:45 p.m. on
each of those days; on June 29 to July 4 after 11:00 a.m. and until 11:45 p.m.
on each of those days; on July 5, if July 5 is a Friday or Saturday, after 11:
00 a.m. and until 11:45 p.m.; and on the Saturday and Sunday immediately
preceding Labor Day, after 11:00 a.m. and until 11:45 p.m. on each of those
days;
            2.   On public or school property, without the express permission
of the city or a permit from the city granting such permission to do so; or
            3.   On church property or the property of another, without express
permission from the property owner.
         (c)   Ignite, discharge, or use consume fireworks, or low-impact
fireworks, as defined in the Michigan Fireworks Safety Act (M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451
et seq.), while under the influence of alcoholic liquor, a controlled
substance, or a combination of alcoholic liquor and a controlled substance, as
the terms are defined in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code (M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et
seq.); or
         (d)   Sell consumer fireworks to an individual who is less than 18
years of age.
      (2)   A person who is guilty of a violation of this division (E) is
responsible for a civil infraction punishable by a fine of $1,000. Five hundred
dollars of the fine collected under this section shall be remitted to the City
Department of Public Safety which is responsible for enforcing the ordinance.
   (F)   Incite, cause or attempt to incite or cause any assembled group of
persons to act in a manner that is likely to or does endanger the safety of
another person or of property;
   (G)   By the use or means of telephone, perform any of the following:
      (1)   Disturb the peace, quiet or privacy of any other person or family
by repeated calls intended to harass or annoy the person or family to whom the
calls are made;
      (2)   Use obscene or offensive language, or suggest any lewd or
lascivious act;
      (3)   Attempt to extort money or anything of value from any person;
      (4)   Threaten any physical violence or harm to any person;
      (5)   Repeatedly and continuously ring the telephone of any person with
intent to disturb or harass such person;
      (6)   Knowingly and intentionally make a false report of a crime, fire,
traffic crash or medical emergency; or
      (7)   Repeatedly dial 9-1-1 except to report an emergency condition
requiring a police, Fire Department or emergency medical response.
   (H)   Create any loud noises or use any loudspeaker, sound amplifier or
other electrical or mechanical device intended to increase the volume of sound
at any place or places within the city in such a manner as to disturb
unnecessarily and without reasonable cause the quiet, comfort or repose of any
person or persons between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except as
allowed by permit issued by the city;
   (I)   Remain on the premises of any city building unless such person is
present for the purposes of conducting business with city officials or
attending, participating in or observing any hearing or meeting held in such
city building; or
   (J)   Permit or allow any loud noises, electrical, mechanical, human or
animal in origin, to be emitted from any place occupied or controlled by him or
her so as to disturb unnecessarily and without reasonable cause the quiet,
comfort or repose of any person or persons.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016; Ord. effective 3-1-2019)
§ 9.58 OFFENSES AGAINST GOVERNMENT ORDER.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Knowingly and willfully use any physical or verbal conduct which
obstructs, resists, hinders or opposes any public safety officer, police
officer, deputy sheriff, firefighter or any federal, county, state or city
employee who is acting in the lawful discharge of his or her duties;
   (B)   Knowingly and willfully furnish to any law enforcement officer/
firefighter, police, fire or medical dispatcher, or employee of the city,
acting in the lawful discharge of his or her duties, a false name, address, age
or date of birth or false or misleading information in connection with a fire,
crime, police inquiry, medical emergency or traffic accident;
   (C)   Escape, or attempt to escape or willfully engage in conduct that
causes or allows the escape of any person while lawfully in the custody of any
law enforcement officer;
   (D)   Impersonate a firefighter, public safety officer, law enforcement
officer, or other employee of the city or any government unit, without due
authority;
   (E)   Knowingly and willfully disobey any validly posted sign in any public
park or other public place;
   (F)   When operating a motor vehicle which has been stopped in response to a
law enforcement officer’s signal, leave or attempt to leave the scene unless
and until he or she has received permission to do so from the officer;
   (G)   Falsely indicate a lack of knowledge or when asked by a law
enforcement officer, a prosecuting attorney, the City Attorney or a judge, fail
to disclose, or conceal knowledge of the actual commission of a violation of
any statute or city ordinance from a prosecuting attorney, City Attorney, judge
or from a law enforcement officer investigating said violation. This division
(G) shall not be interpreted to conflict with the right of any person not to be
a witness against himself or herself or any other legally recognized privilege
or right;
   (H)   Knowingly and willfully fail to obey the command of any properly
identified law enforcement officer to stop or halt;
   (I)   Knowingly and willfully fail to obey the command of any law
enforcement officer, or any person acting at the direction of a law enforcement
officer, who is directing traffic or engaging in crowd control or cross a
police line without specific authority or the permission from a law enforcement
officer, or any person acting at the direction of the law enforcement officer,
who is at the scene in which the police line is constructed;
   (J)   Knowingly and willfully fail to obey the command of any law
enforcement officer, school official, the Mayor or other authorized
representative of the Department of Public Safety, Department of Public Works
and/or Recreation Departments, to leave a public park, school ground,
playground, boulevard, swimming pool, recreation area, school building or city
building;
   (K)   Equip a vehicle or possess within the passenger compartment of a motor
vehicle a radio receiving set that will receive signals sent on frequencies
assigned by the Federal Communications Commission of the United States of
America for police purposes, or use the same unless such vehicle is used or
owned by a peace officer, or a bona fide amateur radio operator holding a
technician class, general, advanced or extra class amateur license issued by
the Director of the Department of State Police. This section shall not be
construed as restriction to the use of radar detectors or the ability of a
person to transport within a vehicle an inoperable police radio;
   (L)   Engage in any profession, trade, occupation or other activity for
which a license is required by any federal law, state statute or city ordinance
without first obtaining, and thereafter maintaining, such license; or
   (M)   Make or file with the Public Safety Department any false, misleading
or unfounded statement or report concerning the commission or alleged
commission of any crime or public safety emergency occurring within the city.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.59 VICE OFFENSES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Engage in prostitution or solicit or accost any person for the purpose
of inducing the commission of any illegal or immoral act;
   (B)   Engage in gambling or any game of chance for money unless otherwise
permitted by law;
   (C)   Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant of any place where
prostitution, gambling, the illegal possession, use or delivery of a controlled
substance, the illegal sale, possession or use of intoxicating liquor, or any
other illegal or immoral business or occupation is permitted or conducted;
   (D)   Knowingly transport any person to any place for the purpose of
enabling such person to engage in gambling, prostitution or in any illegal or
immoral act;
   (E)   Keep, maintain or permit the use of a gambling room, table or
equipment, or any policy or pool tickets, to be used for gambling on any
premises occupied or controlled by him or her; or
   (F)   Permit or allow any premises owned, occupied or controlled by him or
her to be used or occupied by persons engaging in any act of prostitution or
any other illegal sexual activity.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.60 LARCENY OFFENSES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Commit the offense of larceny, by stealing, trick or conversion, of
the property of another, any money, goods or chattels, or any bank note, bank
bill, bond, promissory note, due bill, bill of exchange or other bill, draft,
order or certificate, or any book of accounts for or concerning money or goods
due or to become due, or to be delivered, or any deed or writing counting the
conveyance of land or any other valuable contract in force, or any receipt,
release or defeasance, or any writ, process or public record;
   (B)   Obtain or attempt to obtain money, goods, property or services by
fraud, trick or false pretenses;
   (C)   Knowingly obtain or attempt to obtain telephone service or the
transmission of a telephone message by the use of any false or fictitious
telephone credit number or telephone number of another without the authority of
the person to whom such credit number or telephone number was issued;
   (D)   Buy, receive, possess, conceal or aid in the concealment of stolen,
embezzled or converted money, goods or property, knowing the money, goods or
property to be stolen, embezzled or converted;
   (E)   Refuse or willfully neglect to return a motor vehicle, trailer or
other tangible property, which he or she has on a rental or lease basis under
any agreement in writing providing for its return to a particular place at a
particular time;
   (F)   As the agent, servant or employee of another, or as the trustee,
bailee or custodian of the property of another, or of any partnership,
voluntary association, public or private corporation, or of this state, or of
any county, city, village, township or school district within this state,
fraudulently dispose of or convert to his or her own use, or take or secrete
with intent to convert to his or her own use without the consent of his or her
principal, any money or other personal property, of his or her principal which
shall have come to his or her possession or shall be under his or her charge or
control by virtue of his or her being such agent, servant, employee, trustee,
bailee or custodian;
   (G)   By use of a computer, telephone or other electronic or mechanical
device, obtain or gain access to any data base, confidential records or other
information not his or her own without permission of the owner or keeper of
such information;
   (H)   Telephone in a false order to any food delivery service or a false
request to any service business and request that food be delivered to a
location or that services be rendered at a particular location;
   (I)   Knowingly and willfully defraud any taxicab, boarding house, hotel,
motel, inn, restaurant, gas station, service station or café by procuring any
transportation service, food, drink, entertainment, room, accommodation, gas,
oil or repairs with the intent not to pay for the same. This division (I) shall
not be interpreted to conflict with the right of any person to dispute the
amount, type or quality of goods or services for so long as the person gives
notice of the dispute, provides identification of his or her name and address
and the notice of the dispute is given before leaving the scene;
   (J)   Knowingly possess any tool, implement or device which has been
designed or adapted for breaking open any building or motor vehicle, or for
starting the engine of a motor vehicle without the regular key or for removing
sensor tags from property for sale at retail, with the intent to use or employ
the same for the purpose of willfully removing property not his or her own;
   (K)   Engage in retail fraud;
   (L)   With intent to defraud, make, draw, utter or deliver any check, draft
or order for the payment of money, to apply on account or otherwise, upon any
bank or other depository, knowing at the time of the making, drawing, uttering
or delivering, that the maker or drawer does not have sufficient funds in or
credit with the bank or other depository, for the payment of the check, draft
or order, in full upon its presentation, of the amount payable in such check,
draft or order in any amount;
   (M)   With intent to defraud make, draw, utter or deliver any check, draft
or order for the payment of money to apply on account or otherwise, upon any
bank, or other depository, unless the person has sufficient funds for payment
for same when presentment is due to the drawee in any amount, except where the
lack of funds is due to garnishment, attachment, levy or other lawful cause,
and such fact was not known to the person who made, drew, uttered or delivered
the instrument at the time of so doing; or
   (N)   With respect to divisions (L) and (M) above:
      (1)   As against the maker or drawer thereof, the making, drawing,
uttering or delivering of a check, draft or order, payment of which is refused
by the drawee, when presented in the usual course of business, shall be a prima
facie evidence of intent to defraud and of knowledge of insufficient funds in
or credit with such bank or other depository, provided such maker or drawer
shall not have paid the drawee thereof the amount due thereon, together with
all cost and protest fees, within five business days after receiving notice
that such check, draft or order has not been paid by the drawee; and
      (2)   Where such check, draft or order is protested on the ground of
insufficiency of funds or credit, the notice of protest thereof shall be
admissible as proof of presentation, nonpayment and protest, and shall be prima
facie evidence of intent to defraud and knowledge of insufficient funds or
credit with such bank or other depository.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.61 SCHOOL PREMISES OFFENSES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Trespass upon or loiter in or upon any public, private or parochial
school building or school property in the city for any reason whatever, unless
such person is a regularly enrolled student or parent or guardian thereof or a
school official, teacher or other public or school employee, or has received
permission from the principal or other person designated by the principal to be
in or upon or to remain in or upon such public, private or parochial school
building or school property. However, that such permission need not be secured
by persons engaging in or attending a school for a City Park and Recreation
Commission authorized activity or by persons using school playground or
playground equipment after school hours, or when school is not in session,
unless such entry or use shall have been otherwise prohibited by a published or
posted rule or regulation of the school board, school principal or other
person, board or committee with the authority to prohibit such use or entry;
   (B)   Willfully or maliciously make or assist in making any noise,
disturbance or improper diversion by which the peace, quietude, or good order
of any public, private or parochial school is disturbed;
   (C)   By violence, threats of violence or other form of coercion, force or
attempt to force any public, private or parochial school student or other
person to give or to lend any money or other thing of value to any person at
any time;
   (D)   Damage, destroy or deface any public, private or parochial school
building or the grounds, outbuildings, fences, trees or other appurtenances or
fixtures belonging thereto; or
   (E)   By threats, intimidation or otherwise, and without authority of law,
interfere with, molest or disturb, without such authority, any person in the
quiet and peaceable pursuit of an education or participation in school
sponsored or school controlled activities at a public, private or parochial
school, or while that person is on the way to or from such school.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.62 WEAPONS OFFENSES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Sell, offer to sell or have in his or her possession any knife having
the appearance of a pocketknife, the blade or blades of which can be opened by
manipulating a button, applying pressure on a handle or other mechanical
contrivance, except under such conditions as are provided by state law;
   (B)   Carry a dagger, knife, dirk, stiletto, double-edged nonfolding
stabbing instrument of any length, or other dangerous weapon, except hunting
knifes adapted and carried as such, concealed on or about his or her person or
in a motor vehicle, concealed or otherwise, operated or occupied by him or her,
except in his or her dwelling house or place of business or on other land
possessed by him or her;
   (C)   Possess weapons of the martial arts without a legitimate cause which
is related to the person’s occupation or business and except on the person’s
own private property;
   (D)   Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, paintball, missile, air-soft
pellet or object from any moving vehicle or toward any person, vehicle or
property of another; or
   (E)   Without authority by law, discharge any firearm, air rifle, air
pistol, paintball gun or other dangerous weapon, within or into the city,
except on a proper range or facility established for that purpose. This
division (E) shall not apply to the discharge of blank ammunition as part of a
city-approved event, parade or funeral ceremony.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.63 RESERVED.
§ 9.64 MISCELLANEOUS OFFENSES.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Engage in public nudity;
   (B)   Make any immoral exhibition or indecent exposure of his or her person
in a public place or knowingly do so in a private place where the exhibition or
exposure may be viewed by a person located in a public place;
   (C)   Engage in any window peeping;
   (D)   Swim or bathe in the nude in any public place or on private property
without the specific permission of the owner;
   (E)   Expectorate, urinate, defecate or perform any other act that creates a
hazardous, unsanitary or deleterious condition in any public place or upon the
property of any other person. This division (E) shall not apply to the proper
use of public restroom facilities;
   (F)   Knowingly cause any earth, ashes, mortar, papers, stone, brick, ice,
snow, dirt, manure, filth, excrement, chips or rubbish of any description to
fall or be thrown into the path of or hit any vehicle traveling within the city
limits;
   (G)   Operate any motorized vehicle, including snowmobiles, on any city park
property;
   (H)   Maliciously throw or place glass, nails, tacks or other dangerous
pointed or edged substances in or on any beach, highway, public property or on
any private walk or driveway not his or her own;
   (I)   Engage in truancy;
   (J)   If under the age of 12 years, loiter, idle or congregate in or on any
public street, highway, alley or park between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m., unless the minor is accompanied by a parent or guardian, or some adult
delegated by the parent or guardian to accompany the minor; or
   (K)   If under the age of 16 years, loiter, idle or congregate in or on any
public street, highway, alley or park between the hours of 12:00 midnight and
6:00 a.m., immediately following, except where the minor is accompanied by a
parent or guardian, or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian to
accompany the minor, or where the minor is upon an errand or other legitimate
business directed by his or her parent or guardian.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.65 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided in this chapter, any person
convicted of violating any provision of this chapter shall be punished as
follows:
   (A)   For all marihuana-related violations:
      (1)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described in §
9.56(K)(1), (K)(2), (K)(3), (K)(4), (K)(7), or (K)(8), who possesses or
cultivates not more than the amount of marihuana allowed by §
9.56(L), delivers without receiving any remuneration to a person who is at
least 21 years of age not more than the amount of marihuana allowed by §
9.65(L), or possesses with intent to deliver not more than the amount of
marihuana allowed by §
9.65(L), a person is responsible for a civil infraction and may be punished by
a fine of not more than $100 and forfeiture of the marihuana.
      (2)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described in §
9.65(K), a person who possesses or cultivates not more than twice the amount of
marihuana allowed by §
9.65(L), delivers without receiving any remuneration to a person who is at
least 21 years of age not more than twice the amount of marihuana allowed by §
9.65(L), or possesses with intent to deliver not more than twice the amount of
marihuana allowed by §
9.65(L):
         (a)   For a first violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and forfeiture of the
marihuana;
         (b)   For a second violation, is responsible for a civil infraction
and may be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 and forfeiture of the
marihuana; and
         (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, is guilty of a misdemeanor
and may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 and forfeiture of the
marihuana.
      (3)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described by §
9.56(K)(1), (K)(4), or (K)(7), a person under 21 years of age who possesses not
more than two and one-half ounces of marihuana or who cultivates not more than
12 marihuana plants:
         (a)   For a first violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished as follows:
            1.    If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100 or community service, forfeiture of the marihuana, and
completion of four hours of drug education or counseling; or
            2.    If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100 and forfeiture of the marihuana.
  
         (b)   For a second violation, is responsible for a civil infraction
and may be punished as follows:
            1.    If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500 or community service, forfeiture of the marihuana, and
completion of eight hours of drug education or counseling; or
            2.    If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500 and forfeiture of the marihuana.
      (4)   Except for a person who engaged in conduct described in §
9.65(K), a person who possesses or cultivates more than twice the amount of
marihuana allowed by §
9.65(L), or delivers without receiving any remuneration to a person who is at
least 21 years of age more than twice the amount of marihuana allowed by §
9.65(L), shall be responsible for a misdemeanor, but shall not be subject to
imprisonment unless the violation was habitual, willful, and for a commercial
purpose or the violation involved violence.
      (5)   If a state law requires the classification of an act violating this
chapter as a civil infraction, it shall be a civil infraction. If a state law
requires the classification of an act violating this chapter as a misdemeanor,
it shall be a misdemeanor punishable as provided in §
1.13 of this code unless otherwise expressly provided in this chapter.
      (6)   Except as otherwise provided, acts involving marihuana and that
violate this chapter shall be misdemeanors punishable as provided in §
1.13 of this code.
      (7)   This chapter does not prevent a court from deferring or discharging
proceedings or sentencing a person who has not previously been convicted of an
offense under any local, state or federal law relating to narcotic drugs, cocoa
leaves, marihuana, or stimulant, depressant, or hallucinogenic drugs, under the
Public Health Code § 7411, being M.C.L.A. § 333.7411, as amended.
   (B)   For all other violations of this chapter and except as otherwise
specifically provided in this chapter, a person convicted of any such violation
shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 and cost of prosecution or by
imprisonment in the county jail for a period not to exceed 93 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. effective 4-27-2001; Ord. effective 11-18-2016; Ord. effective 10-18-
2019)
§ 9.66 CONFISCATION/CIVIL FORFEITURE.
   All weapons, items or devices which were used to violate any of the
preceding sections of this chapter are, upon conviction of the person
responsible, forfeited to the city, unless the weapons, items or devices were
used without the knowledge of the owner.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
§ 9.67 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, division, sentence, clause or phrase of this chapter is held
to be unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, such decision shall not
affect the validity of the remaining portions of this chapter.
(Ord. effective 11-18-2016)
CHAPTER 94: MODEL ROCKET ENGINES
Section
   
9.71   Standards prescribed
   
9.72   Pyrotechnics prohibited
   
9.73   Prohibited firings
§ 9.71 STANDARDS PRESCRIBED.
   It shall be unlawful to manufacture or to sell to the public, either at
wholesale or retail, model rockets, model rocket engines and missile type kits
which do not comply with the following standards.
   (A)   All model rockets and model rocket engines shall be designed to be
launched remotely in such a manner that the operator may exercise complete
control over the instant of launching. This standard does not apply to engines
used to power winged model aircraft.
   (B)   All model rockets capable of ascending to an altitude of 200 feet or
more shall be equipped with a parachute recovery system or other device to
destroy the aerodynamic balance of the model before it descends.
   (C)   All model rockets shall be constructed of wood, plastic, rubber, paper
or similar materials and shall contain no substantial metal parts.
   (D)   Model rocket engines shall not be capable of spontaneous ignition in
air, or in water, or under pressure, or as a result of motion or jarring, or
when subjected to a temperature of 170°F or less, or in glycerin.
   (E)   Model rocket engines shall not constitute a fire hazard.
   (F)   If the propulsive force of a model rocket engine results from the
combustion of chemical ingredients, such ingredients shall be pre-mixed and
ready for use so that the user is not exposed to hazard in the mixing or other
preparation of same.
   (G)   If manufactured from metal, a model rocket engine shall contain a
blowout disc or other safety release to prevent rupture of the casing in the
event of internal over pressure.
   (H)   Model rocket engines shall not operate with an instantaneous and
violent expansion of gas or a relinquishment of energy causing rupture of the
motor casing and accompanied by noise.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 9.72 PYROTECHNICS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to manufacture or sell model rockets or model rocket
engines for pyrotechnic purposes, such as the production of a spectacular
display of color or light or sound or any combination thereof.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 9.73 PROHIBITED FIRINGS.
   It shall be unlawful to fire, ignite or launch any model rockets or model
rocket engines within the city limits which do not comply with the provisions
of §
9.71 and, in addition to the requirements contained in said §
9.71, it is further declared to be unlawful to launch any model rocket within
100 feet of any building, to launch any model rocket except by remote means
fully under the control of the operator or to launch any model rocket in any
direction more than ten degrees from the vertical, with the exception of
rocket-powered model airplanes.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
CHAPTER 95: FIRE AND EXPLOSIVES
Section
   
9.90   False alarm
   
9.91   Fire equipment
   
9.92   Obstructing hydrants prohibited
   
9.93   Opening fire hydrants
   
9.94   Fire inspection
   
9.95   Storage of combustible waste
   
9.96   Outdoor furnaces and accessory structure heating devices
   
9.97   Open fires prohibited
   
9.98   Fire pit regulations
   
9.99   Nuisance burning
   
9.100   Flammable liquids regulations
   
9.101   Special permits for hazardous businesses
   
9.102   Adoption of International Fire Prevention Code by reference
§ 9.90 FALSE ALARM.
   No person shall willfully turn in, sound or cause to be communicated to the
Fire Department a false report or alarm of fire.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
§ 9.91 FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall willfully molest, take for his or her own private use, or
damage in any manner, any firefighting equipment or apparatus or anything
pertaining to the firefighting system, or drive any vehicle upon or against any
hose or equipment of the Fire Department.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
§ 9.92 OBSTRUCTING HYDRANTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall place any obstruction whatever, nor shall any person
responsible for such obstruction permit it to remain, within 15 feet of any
fire hydrant.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
§ 9.93 OPENING FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person, except an employee of the city in performance of his or her
duties, shall open or use any fire hydrant, except in case of emergency,
without first securing written permission from the Division of City Services
for such use, and paying or agreeing to pay for the water to be used. In no
case shall any wrench or tool be used on any fire hydrant other than a
regulation Fire Department hydrant wrench.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Hydrant use, see §
2.30
§ 9.94 FIRE INSPECTION.
   Any sworn member of the Public Safety Department is hereby empowered to
enter at any and all reasonable times upon and into any premises, building or
structure for the purpose of examining and inspecting the same, to ascertain
the conditions thereof with regard to fire hazards and the condition, size,
arrangement and efficiency of any and all appliances for firefighting. The
Public Safety Director is hereby empowered to appoint members of the regular
personnel of the Fire Department to make the inspection herein provided, who
shall report in writing the results of the inspection to the Public Safety
Director and who are hereby empowered to make such written orders for the
correction of any hazard or deficiency in firefighting appliances as the Public
Safety Director is authorized to make. Every order made by the Public Safety
Director or by authorized members of the Public Safety Department shall be
promptly obeyed and complied with.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
§ 9.95 STORAGE OF COMBUSTIBLE WASTE.
   No person owning or being responsible for any premises shall permit any
wastepaper, ashes, oil, rags, waste rags, excelsior or any combustible material
of a similar nature to accumulate thereon, unless contained in fireproof
receptacles.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Combustible waste, see also
Chapter 21
§ 9.96 OUTDOOR FURNACES AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURE HEATING DEVICES.
   (A)   Definitions.
      CLEAN WOOD. Wood that has no paint, stains, or other types of coatings,
and wood that has not been treated or combined with any petroleum product,
chemical, preservative, adhesive, or other substance.
      OUTDOOR FURNACES AND ACCESSORY STRUCTURE HEATING DEVICES (hereinafter
OUTDOOR HEATING DEVICES). Sometimes referred to as a "hydronic heater," any
boiler, stove, furnace, or other appliance designed or intended to provide heat
and/or hot water to any residence or accessory structure which operates by the
burning of wood, coal, corn, or other type of solid fuel, and which is not
located in a residence but in an accessory structure. Not included in this
definition is a device which is fueled by natural gas, propane, fuel oil, or
electricity if the device has been inspected and approved by the city's
mechanical inspector.
   (B)   Restrictions. It is unlawful to install or operate an outdoor heating
device or cause or permit the installation or operation of an outdoor heating
device within the city except as specifically authorized and permitted by this
section. Any outdoor heating device existing within the city on January 1,
2024, may remain except as provided in division (E) below, but must be operated
in compliance with this section.
   (C)   Installation standards. Every owner or person in control of an outdoor
heating device installed on or after January 19, 2024 shall comply with the
following requirements and standards:
      (1)   No outdoor heating device shall be located on a parcel that is part
of a condominium subdivision or a platted subdivision.
      (2)   No outdoor heating device shall be located on a parcel of land less
than three acres in area.
      (3)   No more than one outdoor heating device shall be permitted on any
parcel of land.
      (4)   Such outdoor heating devices shall meet all specifications provided
by the manufacturer and must conform to any state construction code provisions.
      (5)   An outdoor heating device shall be installed 50 feet or more from a
property line and at least 300 feet from the nearest building which is not on
the same parcel as the outdoor heating device.
      (6)   No outdoor heating device shall be installed or located in the
front yard setback of a parcel.
   (D)   Operating standards.
      (1)   Outdoor heating devices shall not be used to burn any fuel other
than a fuel listed by the manufacturer as a fuel that the device has been
designed to handle. Outdoor heating devices should not be used to burn
recyclable materials, plastic, rubber, paper products, trash, garbage, or yard
waste, or any wood that does not meet the definition of clean wood.
      (2)   An outdoor heating device shall have a permanent chimney equipped
with a spark arrester which extends at least 15 feet above the ground surface.
      (3)   No outdoor heating device shall be operated from April 15 - October
15, inclusive in any calendar year.
      (4)   Ashes or waste resulting from burning fuel in an outdoor heating
device shall not be accumulated or stored on the premises.
      (5)   All fuel materials shall be neatly stacked or stored.
   (E)   Existing outdoor heating devices.
      (1)   The owner or person in control of an outdoor heating device which
exists in the city as of January 19, 2024, shall operate such device in
conformance with the operating standards set forth in division (D) above.
      (2)   Prior to the completion or consummation of the sale or transfer of
any real property upon which, as of January 19, 2024, there exists an outdoor
heating device that does not meet current EPA qualified smoke emission
standards for hydronic heaters, the outdoor heating device shall be replaced
with an outdoor heating device that meets the operation standards of this
section or shall be removed.
   (F)   Nuisance. Any outdoor heating device installed or operated in
violation of this section is declared to be a nuisance. In addition, nothing in
this section shall be deemed to bar, limit, or otherwise affect the rights of
any person or the city to take legal action regarding damage or nuisance caused
by the use of such outdoor heating device. A nuisance may exist because of
frequency of use, smoke, odor, noise or other factors which the city or a court
finds meets the definition of a nuisance found in §
9.1 of this code or under state law.
   (G)   Conflicts. This section shall not be construed as an exemption or an
exception to any other provision of the City Ordinances, including but not
specifically limited to the city's Zoning Code or any other code adopted by
reference as an ordinance for which the city is the enforcing agency, including
the Building Code or Property Maintenance Code. In the event of a conflict
between the provisions of this section and any other ordinance or any provision
of law, the more restrictive provision shall apply.
   (H)   Enforcement.
      (1)   All outdoor heating devices shall be subject to inspection by the
city's Fire Marshal to assure that the provisions of this section have been and
continue to be satisfied.
      (2)   The Department of Public Safety and Building Inspection officials,
including the Director of Public Safety, the Director's designees, the City
Building Inspector, and the Inspector's designees, are authorized and
designated to issue notices and municipal civil infraction citations for
violations of this section.
      (3)   The City Building Inspector, the Director of Public Safety, and
their approved representatives are hereby designated as the authorized city
officials to issue municipal civil infraction citations for violation of this
section.
   (I)   Penalty. A violation of this section is a municipal civil infraction,
for which the fine shall be not less than $100 no more than $500 for the first
offense and not less than $250 nor more than $1,000 for subsequent offenses, in
the discretion of the court, in addition to all other costs, damages and
expenses incurred by the city in enforcing the section. For purposes of this
section, SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a violation of this section committed with
respect to a separate incident by the same person within 12 months of a
previous violation of the section for which said person admitted responsibility
or was adjudicated to be responsible. Each day that such a violation occurs
shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to the municipal civil
infractions/penalties provided herein, the city may institute civil proceedings
for injunctive, declaratory, or other equitable relief necessary to enforce
this section.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017; Ord. effective 1-19-2024)
§ 9.97 OPEN FIRES PROHIBITED.
   Incineration of leaves, paper or other combustible material outside of a
building or structure is prohibited. Notwithstanding the above, wood may be
burned in a fire pit or chiminea so long as such burning is in accordance with
all regulations issued by the City Manager and approved by the City Commission.
Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prevent the use of grills for
cooking food.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
§ 9.98 FIRE PIT REGULATIONS.
   As authorized by §
9.97 of the city code:
   (A)   All fire pits or chimineas must be free standing with a spark cover;
   (B)   No hand dug fire pits are permitted. Permanent fire pits must be
surrounded by non-flammable materials and have a spark cover;
   (C)   Fire pits or chimineas must be six feet from any building or fencing
and 25 feet from combustible materials;
   (D)   No brush, leaves, trash or debris shall be used as fuel. Only firewood
burning is allowed;
   (E)   Fires must be attended by an adult at all times and shall not be
burned between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.; and
   (F)   The Public Safety Department may require extinguishment if they
determine a fire in a fire pit is a potential fire hazard.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
§ 9.99 NUISANCE BURNING.
   It shall be a nuisance and unlawful for any person to burn or allow to be
burned, at any time or place, any material so as to exude obnoxious odors, or
emit sparks or burning embers.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
2.4,
9.205 and
9.206
§ 9.100 FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS REGULATIONS.
   The use, storage and processing of flammable liquids shall conform to the
flammable liquids regulations of the state found at R 28.601 through R 28.740
of the MAC. Any person violating any of said regulations or failing to comply
therewith shall be guilty of a violation of this code.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
Cross-reference:
   Special permit, see §
9.101(B)
§ 9.101 SPECIAL PERMITS FOR HAZARDOUS BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Special permits shall be issued by the Public Safety Director for the
uses, occupancy and operation of certain dangerous and hazardous businesses as
herein specified. Any permit may be revoked at any time by the Public Safety
Director or his or her assistants for the violation of any pertinent law or
provision of this code.
   (B)   Permits are required to:
      (1)   Transport, use or store explosives;
      (2)   Handle, use or store flammable liquids in quantities in excess of
500 gallons;
      (3)   Operate spray rooms or booths;
      (4)   Store hazardous chemicals; and
      (5)   Fumigate buildings.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
§ 9.102 ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE PREVENTION CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of § 3(k) of Public Act 279 of 1909 as
amended, being M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k), the International Fire Code, 2015 Edition,
including all appendices as promulgated and published by the International Code
Council (ICC), is hereby adopted as the Fire Code for the city regulating and
governing the safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards
arising from the storage, handling and use of hazardous substances, materials
and devices, and from conditions hazardous to life or property in the occupancy
of buildings and premises as herein provided, and providing for the issuance of
permits and collection of fees therefor. The geographic limitations referred to
in §§ 3404.2.9.5 and 3406.2.4.4 of the 2015 International Fire Code wherein
storage of Class I and Class II Liquids in above-ground tanks outside of
buildings is prohibited are hereby established as the entire city.
   (B)   The following sections of the 2015 International Fire Code are hereby
revised:
      (1)   Section 101.1: Insert City of East Grand Rapids;
      (2)   Section 109.3: Insert Misdemeanor, $500, and 90 days; and
      (3)   Section 111.4: Insert Misdemeanor, $500, and 90 days.
   (C)   In the event of a conflict between the provisions of the International
Fire Code and the provisions of this chapter, the provisions of this chapter
shall prevail. Complete printed copies of the International Fire Code, herein
adopted, are available for public use and inspection at the office of the City
Clerk.
(Ord. effective 12-15-2017)
CHAPTER 96: AIR POLLUTION CONTROL
Section
Article I. Purpose and Definitions
   
9.201   Legislative finding; intent and purpose
   
9.202   Definitions
Article II. Unlawful Emission of Air Pollution Contaminants
   
9.203   Air contaminant or water vapor prohibited
   
9.204   Standards for density of emission
   
9.205   Open burning
   
9.206   Emission of particulate matter
   
9.207   Abnormal conditions and breakdown of equipment
Article III. Installation Permits and Certificate of Operation
   
9.208   Installation permit required; plans and specifications
   
9.209   Exemptions from installation permit
   
9.210   Issuance or denial of installation permit
   
9.211   Inspection of work; stop orders
   
9.212   Certificate of operation issued and posted
   
9.213   Operation of new processes and equipment
   
9.214   Permit fees
   
9.215   Variances and appeals
   
9.216   Reserved
   
9.217   Rules for air pollution control
ARTICLE I. PURPOSE AND DEFINITIONS
§ 9.201 LEGISLATIVE FINDING; INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The City Commission hereby finds and determines that the excessive
emission of air pollution contaminants within the corporate limits of the city
and the resultant effect upon the public health, safety and welfare requires
the adoption of a comprehensive and integrated plan of air control.
   (B)   It is further found that it is necessary to the public health, safety
and welfare to reduce air pollution caused by excessive soot, cinders, fly ash,
dust, noxious acids, fumes, gases and other air contaminants.
(Prior Code, § 9.201)
§ 9.202 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AIR CONTAMINANT. A dust, fume, gas, mist, odor, smoke, vapor or any
combination thereof.
   AIR POLLUTION. The presence in the outdoor atmosphere of air contaminants in
quantities, of characteristics and under conditions and circumstances and of a
duration which are injurious to human life or property or which unreasonably
interfere with the enjoyment of life and property, and which are reasonably
detrimental to plant and animal life in this state and excludes all aspects of
employer-employee relationships as to health and safety hazards. Nothing in
this chapter shall apply in any respect to motor vehicles.
   BRIDGEWALL. Any wall at the rear of the grate or stoker that acts as
deflector or radiant heat reflector for the furnace gases and as a stop to the
fuel bed or a rear wall to the ash pit.
   CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION. A certificate issued by the Director authorizing
the use of any process, fuel burning, refuse burning or control equipment for
the period indicated after it has been found that it can be operated in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   CHIMNEY. Any conduit, duct, vent, exhaust structure or opening of any kind
whatsoever capable of and used for the emission of smoke, soot, cinders,
noxious acids, gases, fly ash or industrial dusts.
   COMBUSTION EQUIPMENT. Any furnace, incinerator, refuse burning equipment,
boiler apparatus, fuel burning equipment, device, mechanism, stack or structure
used in the process of burning fuel or combustible material.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of City Services or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   FLY ASH. Any gas or air-borne particles larger than one micron
(approximately .00004 inch) and consisting essentially of fused ash and/or
unburned combustible material.
   INDUSTRIAL DUSTS. Any gas or air-borne particles larger than one micron
emanating from a manufacturing process or material storage or handling.
   OPEN BURNING. A fire from which the products of combustion are emitted
directly into the open air without passing through a stack or chimney.
   PARTICULATE MATTER. The material, except uncombined water, that exists in a
finely divided form as a liquid or solid at standard conditions.
   PROCESS EQUIPMENT. Any equipment, device or contrivance for changing any
materials whatever or for storage or handling of any materials, and all
appurtenances thereto, including ducts, stacks, and the like, the use of which
may cause any discharge of an air contaminant into the outdoor atmosphere, but
not including that equipment specifically defined as “fuel burning equipment”
or “refuse burning equipment” in this chapter.
   REFUSE BURNING EQUIPMENT. Any equipment, device or contrivance used for the
destruction of garbage, rubbish and/or other wastes by burning, and all
appurtenances thereto.
   REPAIR. Any work which requires the heating or power equipment to be wholly
or partially dismantled and which results in the restoration of the heating or
power equipment to its original state.
   RULES. The rules and regulations for air pollution control as approved and
adopted by the City Commission.
   SALVAGE OPERATION. Any operation conducted in whole or in part for the
salvaging or reclaiming of any product or material.
   SMOKE. The visible finely divided material that escapes from a substance
during combustion except such materials as are otherwise covered by this
chapter.
   SMOKE CHART. The “Ringelmann Smoke Chart” for the purpose of providing the
standard of comparison for grading the density of smoke, as such Ringelmann
Smoke Chart is published and used by the Federal Bureau of Mines.
   SMOKE INDICATOR. Any device electrically or mechanically operated, fixed or
movable, consisting of photoelectric devices, mirrors or series of mirrors
which will allow firefighters or other persons operating boilers and/or other
fuel burning equipment to determine the density and color of smoke and/or the
ingredients of smoke, noxious fumes, acids, oxides, industrial dusts, or other
air contaminants being expelled into the atmosphere.
(Prior Code, § 9.202) (Ord. effective 5-31-1991; Ord. effective 8-14-1992)
ARTICLE II. UNLAWFUL EMISSION OF AIR POLLUTION CONTAMINANTS
§ 9.203 AIR CONTAMINANT OR WATER VAPOR PROHIBITED.
   No person shall cause or permit the emission of an air contaminant or water
vapor, including an air contaminant whose emission is not otherwise prohibited
by this chapter, or an air contaminant or water vapor which reacts or may react
with any other air contaminant or natural air, and which causes or will cause
detriment to the safety, health, welfare or comfort of any person, or which
causes or will cause damage to property or business.
(Prior Code, § 9.203)
§ 9.204 STANDARDS FOR DENSITY OF EMISSION.
   No person shall cause or permit to be discharged into the atmosphere from
any single source of emission an air contaminant of a density equal to or
darker than No. 2 of the smoke chart except:
   (A)   Smoke of a density equal to but not darker than No. 2 of the smoke
chart may be emitted for not more than three minutes in any 30-minute period;
or
   (B)   Smoke of a density equal to but not darker than No. 3 of the smoke
chart may be emitted for not more than three minutes in any 60-minute period,
but such emission shall not be permitted on more than three occasions during
any 24-hour period.
(Prior Code, § 9.204)
§ 9.205 OPEN BURNING.
   No person shall cause or permit open burning at any place within the city.
(Prior Code, § 9.205)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
2.4 and
9.97
§ 9.206 EMISSION OF PARTICULATE MATTER.
   It is unlawful for any person to cause or allow the emission of particulate
matter from any source in excess of the emission schedule of the rules.
(Prior Code, § 9.206)
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §§
9.98 and
9.217
§ 9.207 ABNORMAL CONDITIONS AND BREAKDOWN OF EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Emissions exceeding any of the limits established in this chapter or
the rules as a direct result of abnormal conditions in or breakdown of a
process, fuel burning, refuse burning, control or related operating equipment
beyond the control of the person owning or operating such equipment shall not
be deemed to be in violation of this chapter or the rules; provided, that the
Director is immediately notified of the abnormal conditions and/or breakdown of
equipment and the owner or operator of such equipment outlines a corrective
program by which the emissions from such equipment shall be brought within the
permissible limits of this chapter and the rules.
   (B)   Such program shall be approved by the Director if the Director is
satisfied that upon completion of the corrective program the emissions from
such equipment shall be within the permissible limits of this chapter and the
rules and the corrective program satisfies the requirements of the city heating
and refrigeration ordinance.
   (C)   (1)   If approved, the Director shall order the corrections to be
completed within a reasonable time limit which shall be not less than seven nor
more than 30 days after the approval is given.
      (2)   If a certificate of operation is not issued for such equipment
within the time limit specified herein, the Director shall issue an order in
writing requiring the owner or operator of such equipment to cease operating
the same until such time as a certificate of operation has been issued.
(Prior Code, § 9.207)
ARTICLE III. INSTALLATION PERMITS AND CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION
§ 9.208 INSTALLATION PERMIT REQUIRED; PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Except as herein provided, no person shall construct, install,
reconstruct or alter any process, fuel burning, refuse burning or control
equipment pertaining thereto, which may be a source of air contaminant, for use
within the city until an application, including not less than two sets of plans
or specifications, or both, of the process, fuel burning, refuse burning or
control equipment and structures or buildings used in connection therewith, has
been filed by the person or his or her agent in the office of, and has been
approved by, the Director, and until an installation permit has been issued by
the Director for such construction, installation or alteration.
   (B)   Upon written request and submission of adequate supplementary data,
the Director may amend the original installation permit application. Such
application shall be submitted in accordance with the rules.
(Prior Code, § 9.208)
§ 9.209 EXEMPTIONS FROM INSTALLATION PERMIT.
   (A)   The provisions of this article shall not apply to:
      (1)   Maintenance structural changes or minor repair which does not
change capacity of such process, fuel burning, refuse burning or control
equipment and which does not involve any change in the quality, nature or
quantity of emission of air contaminants therefrom;
      (2)   Equipment utilized for any mode of transportation;
      (3)   Fuel burning, refuse burning and cooking equipment utilized in
connection with any structure designed and used exclusively as a dwelling for
not more than three families;
      (4)   Laboratory equipment used exclusively for chemical or physical
analysis or experimentation;
      (5)   Motor vehicles;
      (6)   Portable brazing, soldering or welding equipment; and
      (7)   All gas fuel and No. 1 and No. 2 fuel-oil burning equipment used
for space heating, service water heating and electric power generation.
   (B)   Nor to the following equipment:
      (1)   Comfort air-conditioning or comfort ventilating systems which are
not designed to remove air contaminants generated by or released from specific
units of equipment;
      (2)   Cold storage refrigeration equipment;
      (3)   Vacuum pumps in laboratory or pilot plant operations;
      (4)   Equipment used for portable steam cleaning; or
      (5)   Equipment used for hydraulic or hydrostatic testing.
   (C)   Nor to the following equipment or any exhaust system or collector
serving exclusively such equipment:
      (1)   Blast cleaning equipment using a suspension of abrasive in water;
      (2)   Bakery ovens where the products are edible and intended for human
consumption;
      (3)   Confection cookers where the products are edible and intended for
human consumption; or
      (4)   Containers, reservoirs or tanks used exclusively for:
         (a)   Storage of butane, propane or liquefied petroleum gas; or
         (b)   Storage of lubricating oils.
(Prior Code, § 9.209)
§ 9.210 ISSUANCE OR DENIAL OF INSTALLATION PERMIT.
   (A)   The Director shall acknowledge the receipt of the application and
shall notify the applicant in writing of its approval or denial within 30 days.
   (B)   The application, plans and specifications shall be approved by the
Director when they are found to be in accordance with the requirements as set
forth in this chapter and the rules.
   (C)   Upon approval of the application and payment of the permit fee
specified herein, the Director shall issue a permit for the construction,
installation or alteration of such processing, fuel burning, refuse burning or
control equipment.
   (D)   When an application is denied, the applicant shall be notified in
writing from the Director of the reasons therefor.
(Prior Code, § 9.210)
§ 9.211 INSPECTION OF WORK; STOP ORDERS.
   (A)   The Director shall have the right and duty to enter upon any premises
on which equipment is being constructed, installed, altered or repaired
pursuant to an installation permit issued under the provisions of this chapter
for the purpose of inspecting such work to see that it is being done in
accordance with the plans and specifications of this chapter.
   (B)   If the Director determines that such equipment is not being
constructed, installed, altered or repaired in accordance with the plans and
specifications and installation permit therefor, or is otherwise in violation
of the provisions of this chapter and the rules, he or she shall issue an order
requiring that all work pursuant to such installation permit cease.
   (C)   Such order shall be in writing and shall be personally served upon the
permit holder and any other interested party and shall be posted upon the
premises.
   (D)   No further work shall be carried out under such installation permit
until the permit holder provides the Director with satisfactory assurance that
the work shall be corrected so as to conform to the plans and specifications of
the installation permit and/or the provisions of this chapter and the rules.
(Prior Code, § 9.211)
§ 9.212 CERTIFICATE OF OPERATION ISSUED AND POSTED.
   (A)   After the completion of the construction, installation, alteration or
repair for which the installation permit was issued, and the Director has
conducted such tests as he or she may deem necessary as provided for in the
rules, and has determined that such equipment can be operated pursuant to and
in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, the Director shall issue a
certificate of operation to the permit holder.
   (B)   Such certificate shall be kept posted at all times on or near the
installation for which it was issued.
(Prior Code, § 9.212)
§ 9.213 OPERATION OF NEW PROCESSES AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall operate or cause to be operated any new or
altered process, fuel burning, refuse burning or control equipment or any
equipment therefor for which an installation permit was required or was issued
until an inspection has been made by the Director.
      (2)   The person responsible for the installation, construction,
alteration or repair of such equipment for which an installation permit is
required shall notify the Director when the work is completed and ready for
final inspection, which inspection shall be made promptly after such
notification.
   (B)   No equipment shall be operated for any other purpose or in any other
manner than that for which the installation permit was approved and for which a
certificate of operation has been issued unless otherwise authorized in writing
by the Director.
(Prior Code, § 9.213)
§ 9.214 PERMIT FEES.
   A permit fee, determined as follows, shall accompany each application for a
permit: $5 for each installation examined where the value thereof is $1,000 or
less, and an additional $1 for each additional valuation of $1,000 or fraction
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 9.214)
§ 9.215 VARIANCES AND APPEALS.
   (A)   (1)   Any person may apply to the City Commission for a variance from
the provisions of this chapter and/or the rules or to appeal a decision of the
Director.
      (2)   Applications for variances and appeals shall be filed with the City
Clerk and shall be accompanied by an application fee of $50.
      (3)   Such application shall contain the name and address of the
applicant, the premises and installation for which the variance or appeal is
sought, a description of the installation and the reason or reasons for seeking
the variance or appealing the decision of the Director.
   (B)   (1)   The City Commission shall grant a variance from any provision of
this chapter or the rules and suspend the enforcement thereof as to any person
who shows that compliance by the person with this chapter or the rules in the
acquisition, installation, operation and maintenance of facilities and
equipment would constitute an undue hardship on the person and would be out of
proportion to the benefits to be obtained thereby.
      (2)   A variance shall not be granted under the provisions of this
section where the person applying therefor is causing air pollution which is
injurious to the public health.
      (3)   Any variance granted shall not be construed to relieve the person
who shall receive it from any liability imposed by other law for the commission
or maintenance of a nuisance.
   (C)   (1)   Any variance granted pursuant to this section shall be granted
for such period of time, not exceeding one year, as is specified by the City
Commission at the time of granting the variance.
      (2)   The variance may be extended by the City Commission.
      (3)   Any variance granted may be conditioned on the person receiving the
variance making reports to the commission periodically as to the progress which
the person has made towards reaching compliance with the provision of this
chapter.
   (D)   Any decision of the Director which is appealed may either be affirmed,
reversed or modified by the City Commission following a hearing at which both
the person seeking the appeal and the Director may have an opportunity to
present evidence and argument on issues of fact.
(Prior Code, § 9.215) (Ord. effective 5-31-1991)
§ 9.216 RESERVED.
§ 9.217 RULES FOR AIR POLLUTION CONTROL.
   (A)   Rule 1. Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      INCINERATOR. A device specifically designed for the destruction, by
burning, of garbage or other combustible refuse or waste material.
      OUTER AIR. All space outside of buildings, stacks or exterior ducts.
      PROCESS WEIGHT. The total weight of all materials introduced for purposes
of combustion.
      PROCESS WEIGHT RATE.
         (a)   A rate established as follows:
            1.   For continuous or long-run steady-state source operations, the
total process weight for the entire period of continuous operation or for a
typical portion thereof, divided by the number of hours of such period or
portion thereof;
            2.   For cyclical or batch source operations, the total process
weight for a period that covers a complete operation or an integral number of
cycles, divided by the hours of actual process operation during such period; or
         (b)   When the nature of any process or operation or the design of any
equipment is such as to permit more than one interpretation of this definition
the interpretation that results in the minimum value for allowable emission
applies.
      SOURCE OPERATION. The last operation preceding the emission of an air
contaminant, which operation:
         (a)   Results in the separation of the air contaminant from the
process material or in the conversion of the process materials into air
contaminants, as in the case of combustion fuel; and
         (b)   Is not an air pollution abatement operation.
      SOURCE SAMPLE. A sample of the emission from an air contamination source,
collected for analysis from within a stack or an effluent stream.
      STANDARD CONDITIONS. A gas temperature of 60°F and a gas pressure of 14.7
pounds per square inch absolute.
   (B)   Rule 2. Information required. The plans and specifications required
under §
9.208 of this code shall include the following information:
      (1)   Expected composition of effluent stream, both before and after the
installation of an air cleaning device, including emission rate, concentration,
volume and temperature;
      (2)   Expected physical characteristics of particulates;
      (3)   Type of air cleaning device, if any;
      (4)   Location and elevation of the emission point and other factors
relating to dispersion and diffusion of the contaminant in the outer air, and
the relation of the emission point to nearby structures, window openings, and
other information necessary to appraise the possible effects of the effluent;
      (5)   If necessary to ascertain compliance, the tests to be made of the
completed installation by the applicant. The Director may waive testing of
certain new installations if operating performance of similar installations
indicates this is not needed; and
      (6)   Any other reasonable and pertinent information that may be required
by the Director.
   (C)   Rule 3. Authority of agents. When a person files plans and
specifications as the agent of an owner, the owner shall furnish the agent with
a letter of authorization for filing of the plans and specifications, and this
letter shall be submitted with the plans and specifications.
   (D)   Rule 4. Points of measuring density. The density of a smoke plume
shall be measured at the point of its emission, except that when the point of
emission cannot be readily observed it may be measured at an observable point
on the plume nearest the point of emission.
   (E)   Rule 5. Darkness grading devices. Darkness of visible emissions of
smoke shall be graded by using the “Ringelmann Smoke Chart” as published by the
United States Bureau of Mines in “Information Circular 7718” or by means of
devices which result in measurements of equal or better accuracy.
   (F)   Rule 6. Emission of particulate matter. It is unlawful for any person
to cause or allow the emission of particulate matter from any source in excess
of the emission schedule listed in Table l165.
   (G)   Rule 7. Diluting and concealing emissions.
      (1)   Unless prior written approval is obtained from the Director, no
person shall build, erect, install or use any article, machine, equipment or
other contrivance, the sole purpose of which is to dilute or conceal an
emission without resulting in a reduction in the total release of air
contaminants to the atmosphere.
      (2)   This rule does not apply to the control of odors.
   (H)   Rule 8. Notices.
      (1)   The owner or his or her authorized agent shall notify the Director
in writing not more than 30 days after the completion of an installation when
it will be placed in operation.
      (2)   At the same time and where applicable, he or she shall notify the
Director of the time, place and person who will conduct tests he or she will
perform on the installation.
      (3)   If the Director is to witness the test and the stipulated time is
inconvenient, he or she may request a postponement to some other reasonable
time.
   (I)   Rule 9. Tests by owners.
      (1)   The Director shall be permitted to witness the tests.
      (2)   The cost of tests upon which the approval of the report, plans and
specifications was based shall be paid by the owner of the installation.
      (3)   Tests shall be conducted in the manner set forth in the application
or by another method acceptable to the Director and the results of the test
shall be submitted to the Director.
   (J)   Rule 10. Air cleaning devices. An air cleaning device shall be
installed, maintained and operated in a satisfactory manner and in accordance
with this code and these rules.
   (K)   Rule 11. Collected air contaminants.
      (1)   Collected air contaminants shall be removed and disposed of in
conformity with this code and these rules and at such intervals as are
necessary to maintain the equipment at the required operating efficiency.
      (2)   Collection and disposal shall be performed in a manner so as not to
introduce contaminants to the outer air. (See following pages for tables.)
Table 1: Particulate Master Emission Schedule
Table 1: Particulate Master Emission Schedule
                           Maximum Allowable Emission
Source                     at Operating Conditions     Capacity Rating in 1,000
                           (Lbs. Particulate Per 1,000 Lbs. Steam Per Hour
                           Lbs. Gas)
A. Fuel burning equipment
1. Pulverized coal
(includes cyclone
furnaces)*
2. Other modes of firing** 0 - 100                     0.65
                          100 - 300                   0.65 - 0.45
                          Over 300
                          Rating in Lbs. Water Per    Capacity Rating in Lbs.
                           Hour                        Steam Per Hour
B. Incinerators                                        
1. Residential apartments  0 - 200                     0.65
                          200 and over                0.30
2. Commercial and          0 - 400                     0.65
industrial
                          400 and over                0.30
3. Municipal               All                         0.30
*See Figure 1 below for maximum emission values.
Note: It is required that a maximum allowable emission listing be applied for
to the Air Pollution Control Commission for all pulverized coal (and cyclone)
furnaces having capacity ratings in excess of 1,000,000 pounds of steam per
hour.
**Note: It is required that a maximum allowable emission listing be applied for
to the Air Pollution Control Commission for all furnaces in this group having
capacity ratings in excess of 300,000 pounds of steam per hour.
Table 2. Allowable Rate of Emission Based on Process Weight Rate
Process Lbs./Hr. Weight Rate Tons/Hr. Rate of Emission Lbs./Hr.
Table 2. Allowable Rate of Emission Based on Process Weight Rate
Process Lbs./Hr. Weight Rate Tons/Hr. Rate of Emission Lbs./Hr.
100              0.05                 0.55
200              0.10                 0.88
400              0.20                 1.40
600              0.30                 1.83
800              0.40                 2.22
1,000            0.50                 2.58
1,500            0.75                 3.38
2,000            1.00                 4.10
2,500            1.25                 4.76
3,000            1.50                 5.38
3,500            1.75                 5.95
4,000            2.00                 6.52
5,000            2.50                 7.58
6,000            3.00                 8.56
7,000            3.50                 9.49
8,000            4.00                 10.40
9,000            4.50                 11.20
10,000           5.00                 12.00
12,000           6.00                 13.60
16,000           8.00                 16.50
18,000           9.00                 17.90
20,000           10.00                19.20
30,000           15.00                25.20
40,000           20.00                30.50
50,000           25.00                35.40
60,000           30.00                40.00
70,000           35.00                41.30
80,000           40.00                42.50
90,000           45.00                43.60
100,000          50.00                44.60
120,000          60.00                46.30
140,000          70.00                47.80
160,000          80.00                49.00
200,000          100.00               51.20
1,000,000        500.00               69.00
2,000,000        1,000.00             77.60
6,000,000        3,000.00             92.70
Process weight: The total amount of all material introduced into an
industrial operation, including solid fuels, but excluding liquid fuels and
gaseous fuels when these are used as fuels and air introduced for purposes of
combustion.
Process weight rate:
(a) For continuous or long-term operation: The total process weight for the
entire period of operation or for a typical portion thereof, divided by the
number of hours of such period or portion thereof.
(b) For batch operations: The total process weight for a period which covers
a complete operation or an integral number of cycles, divided by the hours of
actual process operation during such period.
 
Figure 1. Maximum Emission of Particulate Matter from Pulverized Coal Furnaces
Maximum allowable emission - pounds of particulate per 1,000 pounds of gas
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2152.png]
 
Steam Capacity Rating - 1,000 Pounds of Steam per Hour
Note: It is required that a maximum allowable emission listing be applied for
to the Air Pollution Control Commission for all pulverized coal (and cyclone)
furnaces having capacity ratings in excess of 1,000,000 pounds of steam per
hour.
Cross-reference:
   Related provisions, see §
9.206
CHAPTER 97: NOISE CONTROL
Section
   
9.401   Title and purpose
   
9.402   Definitions
   
9.403   Prohibited noise
   
9.404   Test procedures
   
9.405   Test equipment standards
   
9.406   Certificate of compliance
   
9.407   Future adjustments
   
9.408   Penalties
   
9.409   Enforcement regulations
Cross-reference:
   Noise, see
Chapter 91, Article III of this code
§ 9.401 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as the “Noise Control Ordinance of the
City of East Grand Rapids”.
   (B)   The purposes of this chapter are to abate certain loud, unnecessary,
unnatural and unusual noises and to establish maximum noise limits from motor
vehicle and transportation noise, construction power equipment noise and other
general environmental noise.
(Prior Code, § 9.401)
§ 9.402 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANCI. The American National Standards Institute or its successor bodies. All
acoustical terminology shall be that contained in ANSI A1.1 “Acoustical
Terminology”.
   ARI. Air Conditioning and Refrigeration Institute or its successor bodies.
   ASHRAE. The American Society of Heating, Refrigerating and Air Conditioning
Engineers or its successor bodies.
   ASTM. The American Society for Testing Materials or its successor bodies.
   DECIBEL. A logarithmic unit of measurement which indicates the ratio between
two quantities (commonly electrical or sound energy levels, or pressure
levels). (See-sound pressure level).
   DIRECTOR. The City Manager or his or her duly authorized representative.
   DISCRETE TONE. A sound wave whose instantaneous sound pressure varies
essentially as a sinusoidal function of time.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities, municipal departments or commissions, or any governmental
agencies, of underground or overhead gas, electrical, steam or water
transmission or distribution system, collection, communication, supply or
disposal system, including poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes,
conduits, cables, public safety (police and fire) vehicles and equipment, fire
alarm boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, electric
substations, telephone exchange buildings, gas regulator stations, and other
similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith, reasonably necessary
for the furnishing of utility service by such public utilities, municipal
departments, commissions or any governmental agencies, or for the public
health, safety or welfare.
   FLUCTUATING NOISE. A noise whose sound pressure level varies significantly
but does not equal the ambient environmental level more than once during the
period of observation.
   IEC. International Electrotechnical Commission or its successor bodies.
   IMPULSE NOISE. Characterized by brief excursions of sound pressure which
significantly exceed the ambient environmental sound pressure. The duration of
a single impulse is usually less than one second.
   INTERMITTENT NOISE. A noise whose sound pressure level equals the ambient
environmental level two or more times during the period of observation. The
period of time during which the level of the noise remains at an essentially
constant value different from that of the ambient noise level is on the order
of one second or more.
   ISO. International Organization for Standardization or its successor bodies.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any passenger vehicle, truck, truck-trailer or semitrailer
propelled or drawn by mechanical power.
   OCTAVE BAND. A frequency band with lower and upper cut-off frequencies
having a ratio of two. The cut-off frequencies of 707 hertz and 1,414 hertz
define an octave band in common use.
   PERIOD OF OBSERVATION. The time interval during which acoustical data are
obtained. The PERIOD OF OBSERVATION is determined by the characteristics of the
noise being measured and should also be at least ten times as long as the
response time of the instrumentation. The greater the variance in indicated
sound level, the longer must be the observation time for a given expected
accuracy of the measurement.
   PERSON. Every natural person, partnership, association or corporation which
may own, operate or control those devices or facilities herein described.
   REPETITIVE IMPULSE NOISE. More than five impulses per hour.
   SAE. Society of Automotive Engineers or its successor bodies.
   SOUND LEVEL or NOISE LEVEL. For airborne sound, a weighted sound pressure
level, obtained by the use of metering characteristics and A-weighting as
specified in the referenced standards. When the A-weighting is employed, it
must be indicated.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL OF A SOUND. In decibels, is 20 times the logarithm to
the base ten of the ratio of the pressure of this sound to the reference sound
pressure having the value of two by 10.4 dynes per square centimeter.
   STEADY-NOISE. A noise whose level remains essentially constant.
   ZONING DISTRICT. Districts established by the zoning ordinance of the city
and found in Chapter 50 of this code.
(Prior Code, § 9.402)
§ 9.403 PROHIBITED NOISE.
   (A)   (Repealed)
   (B)   (Repealed)
   (C)   (Repealed)
   (D)   (Repealed)
   (E)   (Repealed)
   (F)   (Repealed)
   (G)   No person shall sell, or offer for sale, a new motor vehicle that
produces a maximum noise exceeding the following noise limit at a distance of
50 feet from the centerline of travel, under test procedures, standards and
recommended practices as itemized below and with reference to §§
9.404 and
9.405 of this chapter. Such stock as is certified to the Director as of
December 13, 1973, shall be exempt from the prohibition contained in this
division (G). Test procedures shall be in substantial conformity with standards
and recommended practices established by the Society of Automotive Engineers,
Inc., including SAE Recommended Practice J-184, and ANSI Standards A1.1-1960
and S1.4-1961167.
Type of Vehicle Noise Limit dB(A)
Type of Vehicle                     Noise Limit dB(A)
Motorcycle (test procedures per SAE Proposed Standard J-331):
Manufactured before July 1, 1973    88
Manufactured after July 1, 1973     86
Manufactured after January 1, 1975  84
Manufactured after January 1, 1980  75
Any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight of 10,000 pounds or more (test
procedure per SAE Standard J-366a):
Manufactured before July 1, 1973    88
Manufactured after July 1, 1973     86
Manufactured after January 1, 1975  84
Manufactured after January 1, 1980  75
Passenger car, motor-driven cycle and any other motor vehicle (test procedures
per SAE Standard J-986a):
Manufactured before January 1, 1973 86
Manufactured after January 1, 1973  84
Manufactured after January 1, 1975  80
Manufactured after January 1, 1980  75
 
   (H)   (1)   (a)   No person shall operate within the speed limits specified
in this division (H)(1) either a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles of a
type subject to registration at any time or under any condition as to exceed
the following noise limit for the category of motor vehicle, measured at a
distance of not less than 50 feet from the center line of travel, under ANSI
Standards S1.1-1960 and S1.4-1961, and SAE Standard J-184 with meter set for
fast response and the A-weighted scale.
Noise Limit in Relation to Posted Speed Limit (dB(A))
Type of Vehicle 35 mph or Less Over 35 mph
Noise Limit in Relation to Posted Speed Limit (dB(A))
Type of Vehicle                  35 mph or Less Over 35 mph
Any motor vehicle with a manufacturer’s GVW rating of 10,000 pounds or more
and any combination of vehicles towed by such combination:
Manufactured before July 1, 1973 88             90
Manufactured after July 1, 1973  86             90
Any motorcycle:
Manufactured before July 1, 1978 82             86
Manufactured after July 1, 1978  78             82
Any other motor vehicle and any combination of motor vehicles towed by such
vehicle:
Manufactured before July 1, 1978 78             82
Manufactured after July 1, 1978  73             79
 
         (b)   This section applies to the total noise from a vehicle or
combination of vehicles and shall not be construed as limiting or precluding
the enforcement of any other provisions of this code relating to motor vehicle
mufflers for noise control.
      (2)   No person shall operate a motor vehicle or combination of vehicles,
of a type subject to registration, at any time or under any condition when the
noise limit herein established is exceeded under stationary test procedures as
outlined for this section by the regulations as promulgated under §
9.409.
Type of Vehicle Stationary Engine Speed Microphone from Vehicle Noise dB(A)
                                                                         Stationary  Microphone Noise
Type of Vehicle                                                          Engine      from       dB(A)
                                                                         Speed       Vehicle
                                                                         Maximum
                                                                         governor
                                                                         speed (not
                                                                         applicable
                                                                         to vehicles
                                                                         without
Any motor vehicle with a manufacturer’s GVW rating of 10,000 pounds or governors). 35 feet
more, and any combination of vehicles towed by such motor vehicle        Ungoverned  from       93
                                                                        vehicles of centerline
                                                                         this class  of vehicle
                                                                         shall be
                                                                         tested as
                                                                         provided
                                                                         for in
                                                                         subsection
                                                                         9.403H1
                                                                                    
Any motorcycle                                                           75% of
   Manufactured before July 1, 1978                                   motor speed 75 inches  99
                                                                         at maximum  from near
   Manufactured after July 1, 1978                                    developed   side of    95
                                                                         horsepower  vehicle

Any other motor vehicle and any combination of motor vehicles towed by
such vehicle                                                             75% of      20 inches
   Manufactured before July 1, 1978                                   motor speed from end   94
                                                                         at maximum  of
   Manufactured after July 1, 1978                                    developed   tailpipe   90
                                                                         horsepower
 
   (I)   No person shall operate, sell, lease or agree to sell or lease any of
the types of equipment herein enumerated which shall exceed the noise level
herein established at a distance of 50 feet, under test procedures and
Standards SEA J-184, SAE J-952b, ANSI S1.1-1960, ANSI S1.4-1961 and with
reference to §§
9.404 and
9.405 hereof.
Type of Equipment Noise Limit (dB(A))
Type of Equipment                  Noise Limit (dB(A))
Construction and industrial machinery such as crawlers tractors, dozers,
rotary drills and augers, loaders, power shovels, cranes, derricks, motor
graders, paving machines, off-highway trucks, ditchers, trenchers, compactors,
scrapers, wagons, pavement breakers, compressors, and pneumatic powered
equipment and the like but not including pile drivers
Manufactured after July 1, 1973    88
Manufactured after January 1, 1975 86
Manufactured after January 1, 1980 80
Agricultural tractors and equipment
Manufactured after July 1, 1973    88
Manufactured after January 1, 1975 86
Manufactured after January 1, 1980 80
Powered commercial equipment of 20 hp or less intended for infrequent use in a
residential area, such as chain saws, pavement breakers, log chippers, powered
hand tools and the like
Manufactured after July 1, 1973    84
Manufactured after January 1, 1980 80
Powered equipment intended for repetitive use in residential areas. Such
equipment includes lawn mowers, small lawn and garden tools, riding tractors,
snow removal equipment
Manufactured after July 1, 1973    74
Manufactured after January 1, 1975 70
Manufactured after January 1, 1978 75
 
   (J)   No person shall alter, modify or change any exhaust muffler, intake
muffler or other equipment designed to abate noise or any motor equipment
unless such alteration, modification or change shall reduce the noise emitted
by such equipment. Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the
replacement of worn noise abatement equipment certified as meeting or exceeding
specifications of the manufacturer’s original equipment.
   (K)   (1)   In C-1 Commercial Zoning Districts, at no point on the boundary
of a residence district shall the sound pressure level of any individual
operation, or the combined operations of any person, firm or corporation,
exceed the decibel levels in the designated octave bands shown below for the
zoning districts indicated as measured using test equipment per ANSI Standards
S1.1-1960, S1.4-1961, S1.11-1966, S1.12-1967, and SAE J-184, and with reference
to §§
9.404 and
9.405 hereof.
Octave Band Center Frequency (Hz) Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) Along
                                  District Boundaries (daytime, steady noise)
Octave Band Center Frequency (Hz) Maximum Sound Pressure Levels (dB) Along
                                  District Boundaries (daytime, steady noise)
31.5                              72
63                                71
125                               65
250                               57
500                               51
1,000                             45
2,000                             39
4,000                             34
8,000                             32
 
      (2)   Maximum repetitive impulse noise sound pressure levels to be ten
(dB) lower than the values shown for steady noise.
      (3)   For monitoring purposes, the A scale levels (slow response) of 55
dB(A) and 62 dB(A) respectively for residence districts may be used. Any noise
levels in excess of these values constitute a violation of this division (K)
(3).
      (4)   Where noise levels below the above-mentioned 55 dB(A) and 62 dB(A)
are measured, the octave band test is to be applied in order to determine
compliance with this section.
      (5)   Maximum nighttime sound pressure levels (9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. are
to be seven (dB) lower than the values shown for daytime steady noise for each
octave band center frequency.
   (L)   In residential zoning districts, any property use shall conform with
the performance standards stated in division (K) above for residence district
boundaries; provided, that performance standards shall in every case be applied
at the boundaries of the
lot on which such use is established.
   (M)   The maximum sound pressure levels established in divisions (K) and (L)
above to be applied to the boundaries of a lot shall not apply to construction
sites. Construction site noise level shall be regulated by division (D) above.
   (N)   In all instances in which a C-1 Commercial District does not adjoin a
residence district, the performance standards governing noise shall apply at
the nearest residence district boundary line, as these districts are defined
and designated under the provisions of the zoning chapter (Chapter 50).
   (O)   Any property uses established in a commercial district shall be so
operated as to comply with the following performance standards governing
vibrations: In a C-1 Commercial Zoning District, any property use creating
earth-shaking vibrations such as are created by drop forges or hydraulic surges
shall be controlled in such manner as to prevent transmission beyond the lot
lines of earth-shaking vibration is perceptible without the aid of instruments.
   (P)   No person shall sell or offer for sale any engine-powered pleasure
vessel, engine-powered craft or motorboat which may exceed the following noise
limit as measured at the distance of 50 feet under test procedures per SAE J-
952b and with reference to SEA J-184 and ANSI Standards S1.1-1960, S1.4-1961
and §§
9.404 and
9.405 of this chapter:
 
                                   Noise Limit dB(A)
Manufactured before January 1, 1975 85
Manufactured after January 1, 1975  76
 
   (Q)   (1)   No person shall sell or offer for sale a new power-driven
recreational or off-highway vehicle, including dune buggies and snowmobiles,
go-carts, and minibikes that produce noise measured at the distance of 50 feet
exceeding the following, under test procedures per SAE J-952b and with
reference to SEA J-184 and ANSI Standards S1.1-1960, S1.4-1961 and §§
9.404 and
9.405 of this chapter.
 
Type of Vehicle                 Noise Limit dB(A)
Snowmobile
Manufactured after July 1, 1973 82
Manufactured after July 1, 1974 73
Any other vehicle including dune buggy, all-terrain vehicle, go-cart and
minibike
Manufactured after July 1, 1973 82
Manufactured after July 1, 1975 73
 
      (2)   This division (Q) shall not be interpreted to include motor homes,
off-highway trucks, construction equipment and other equipment included under
divisions (G) and (I) above.
   (R)   (1)   No person shall operate a motor-driven vehicle of a type not
subject to registration for road use, at any time or under any condition of
acceleration or deceleration as to exceed the following noise limits as
measured from the distance of 50 feet under ANSI Standards S1.1-1960 and S1.4-
1961 and SAE Standard J-194 with meter set for fast response and the A-weighted
scale.
 
                                Noise Limit dB(A)
Manufactured before July 1, 1973 86
Manufactured after July l, 1973  82
 
      (2)   This division (R) shall not be interpreted to include the operation
of off-highway trucks and construction equipment, regulated under division (I)
above.
(Prior Code, § 9.403) (Ord. effective 5-16-1997)
§ 9.404 TEST PROCEDURES.
   Test procedures as to noise levels emitted by motor vehicles and by engine-
powered equipment when offered for sale shall conform to SAE Standards and
Recommended Practices:
   (A)   SAE J-184: qualifying a sound data acquisition system, SAE Recommended
Practice;
   (B)   SAE J-331: SAE Standard for sound levels for motorcycles, as it is
proposed on the effective date of this chapter;
   (C)   SAE J-336a: exterior sound level for heavy trucks and buses, SAE
Recommended Practice;
   (D)   SAE J-952b: sound levels for engine-powered equipment, SAE Standard;
and
   (E)   SAE J-986a: sound levels for passenger cars and light trucks, SAE
Standard.
(Prior Code, § 9.404)
§ 9.405 TEST EQUIPMENT STANDARDS.
   Test equipment standards applicable to tests and measurements described and
required herein are:
   (A)   ANSI S1.1-1960: acoustic terminology (ISO R131), (IEC 50-08);
   (B)   ANSI S1.4-1961: general purpose sound level meters (IEC 123-1961);
   (C)   ANSI S1.11-1966: octave, half octave and third octave band filter sets
(IEC-225-1966);
   (D)   ANSI S1.12-1967: laboratory standard microphones; and
   (E)   IEC 179-1965: precision sound level meters.
(Prior Code, § 9.405)
§ 9.406 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
   The Director may require, upon reasonable notice, that the manufacturer,
distributor, importer or designated agent shall certify in writing to the city
that any vehicle or equipment sold or offered for sale within the city comply
with the applicable provisions of the appropriate subsections of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 9.406)
§ 9.407 FUTURE ADJUSTMENTS.
   It is the intent of the city to periodically reevaluate the future noise
level limits and other standards contained in this noise control chapter and,
if it is determined to be appropriate, to adjust such standards either upward
or downward in light of future possible advances in technology or the state of
the art.
(Prior Code, § 9.407)
§ 9.408 PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate the provisions of this chapter shall have
committed a civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more
than $500. Each day that a violation occurs or continues shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition, any installation or equipment, including motor
vehicles, maintained or operated contrary to the provisions of this chapter
shall be thereupon deemed to create a public nuisance and shall be subject to
abatement.
(Prior Code, § 9.408) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
§ 9.409 ENFORCEMENT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The City Manager may establish regulations for the implementation or
enforcement of this chapter. Any regulation promulgated under this section
shall pertain only to the means, manner or method of implementation or
enforcement of the chapter and shall not change, alter or amend the
requirements of the chapter. The regulations promulgated hereunder, or
amendments or changes thereof shall become effective upon review and approval
by the City Commission.
   (B)   Any person who violates the regulations promulgated under this
provision shall have committed a civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a
civil fine of not more than $500. Each day that a violation occurs or continues
shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Copies of the regulations promulgated under this section shall be kept
on file at the office of the City Clerk and at the office of the Director.
These regulations shall be available for public inspection and copying during
normal business hours.
(Prior Code, § 9.409) (Ord. effective 9-14-1996)
CHAPTER 98: FERTILIZERS
Section
   
9.501   Statement of purpose
   
9.502   Prohibition
   
9.503   Exception
   
9.504   Labels
   
9.505   District boundaries
§ 9.501 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   On the basis of scientific studies made by the city, it has been determined
that certain commercial fertilizers used within the Reeds Lake Drainage
District enter into Reeds Lake and Fisk Lake by way of the city storm sewer
system and cause excessive growth of vegetation within said lakes and otherwise
contaminate the waters of said lakes and that it is necessary in order to
prevent future injury and damage to the waters of said lakes to regulate the
use of commercial fertilizers within the said Reeds Lake Drainage District.
(Prior Code, § 9.501)
§ 9.502 PROHIBITION.
   No commercial fertilizer containing in excess of 1% by weight of anhydric
phosphoric acid shall be applied on lawns within the Reeds Lake Drainage
District or otherwise be so used that the same or any part thereof may enter
into the city storm sewer system serving said district.
(Prior Code, § 9.502)
§ 9.503 EXCEPTION.
   The provisions of §
9.502 shall not apply to any lots or parcels of real estate as to which the
Michigan Department of Agriculture shall have determined, on the basis of tests
and soil samples, that a large amount of anhydric phosphoric acid is required
to maintain lawn in healthy condition.
(Prior Code, § 9.503)
§ 9.504 LABELS.
   The city shall supply to vendors, within the city and adjoining areas,
labels to be affixed to commercial fertilizers offered for sale containing the
legend “This fertilizer contains less than 1% by weight of anhydric phosphoric
acid and is approved for use within the Reeds Lake Drainage District, East
Grand Rapids, Michigan.”
(Prior Code, § 9.504)
§ 9.505 DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The Reeds Lake Drainage District includes that area within the city shown on
the map prepared by the city engineer dated February 18, 1980, as follows.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/e891675111339d2704d4b18fe6816c7479343f0f/
IMAGES/0-0-0-2154.png]
 
(Prior Code, § 9.505)
CHAPTER 99: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
9.601   Definitions
   
9.602   False alarm
   
9.603   Appeals
   
9.604   Alarm system installation, permit required
   
9.605   Alarm dialers prohibited
   
9.606   Alarm boxes prohibited
§ 9.601 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM BOX. A device which is directly connected to the Public Safety
Department dispatch board.
   ALARM BUSINESS. The business of any individual, partnership, corporation or
other entity selling, leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering,
replacing, moving or installing any alarm system.
   ALARM DIALER. A device which mechanically or electronically places telephone
calls to the Public Safety Department upon activation.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any device or piece of equipment or any assembly of equipment
and devices (other than an alarm dialer or alarm box as herein defined)
designed or arranged to signal visibly, audibly, electronically, mechanically
or by any combination of these methods the presence of a hazard to which the
Public Safety Department is expected to respond.
   ALARM USER. Any person, whether owner, occupant or tenant, upon whose
premises an alarm system is maintained or operated within the city.
   FALSE ALARM. Any activation of an alarm system eliciting a response by
Public Safety Department personnel where an emergency situation does not in
fact exist. A FALSE ALARM includes, but is not limited to, the improper
activation of an alarm system through a mechanical failure, malfunction,
improper installation or the negligence of the user of an alarm system or of
his or her employee or agent; but does not include an alarm caused by violent
conditions of nature, interruption of electrical or telephonic service to the
alarm user, or by a third party not within the control of the alarm user or
alarm business, or by other extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject
to control by the alarm user or alarm business.
(Prior Code, § 9.601) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985)
§ 9.602 FALSE ALARM.
   No alarm user shall maintain, use or allow the use of an alarm system that
signals repeated false alarms. To defer the cost of responding to false alarms,
the alarm users will pay to the city a fee established by resolution of the
City Commission for each occasion that the alarm system is activated and
responded to by the Public Safety Department which is a false alarm. The fee
shall increase for each subsequent call in a calendar year. The city shall bill
the alarm user fee. If the alarm user fails to pay the fee within 30 days after
billing, the unpaid fee shall be added to and made a part of the next city tax
bill against the subject premises and collected in the same manner as provided
by law for the collection of city taxes on real estate as a single lot
assessment pursuant to §
1.306 of the code.
(Ord. effective 3-26-2010)
§ 9.603 APPEALS.
   Any alarm user may file a written notice of appeal with the Director of
Public Safety within ten days of receipt of the bill provided in §
9.602. Appeals shall be heard by the Director within 20 days after the filing
of the notice of appeal. The Director has authority to waive the imposition of
the fee set forth in §
9.602 if it is determined that the alarm user or alarm business has made a good
faith effort to determine the cause of the false alarms and to correct the
problem.
(Prior Code, § 9.603) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985)
§ 9.604 ALARM SYSTEM INSTALLATION, PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No alarm business shall install and no person shall have installed an alarm
system without first registering with the city for a fee of $5 per year, and
submitting proof of license with the state for alarm installation.
(Prior Code, § 9.604) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985)
§ 9.605 ALARM DIALERS PROHIBITED.
   No alarm system in use in the city shall employ an alarm dialer. Any alarm
dialers in use as of the effective date of this chapter shall be removed within
90 days of said date.
(Prior Code, § 9.605) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985)
§ 9.606 ALARM BOXES PROHIBITED.
   No alarm system in use in the city shall employ an alarm box. Any alarm box
in use as of the effective date of this chapter shall be removed within 90 days
of said date.
(Prior Code, § 9.606) (Ord. effective 11-18-1985)
CHAPTER 99A: AMBULANCE SERVICE
Section
   
9.701   Findings
   
9.702   Adoption of agreement
   
9.703   Primary ambulance service area
§ 9.701 FINDINGS.
   The City Commission finds the following:
   (A)   There is a need to ensure that residents in the Grand Rapids
metropolitan area that are the recipients of emergency medical services receive
enhanced care in an efficient manner;
   (B)   Part 209 of the state’s Public Health Code, Public Act 368 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as amended, authorizes local governmental
units to do the following:
      (1)   Contract for ambulance pre-hospital life support services;
      (2)   Regulate ambulance pre-hospital life support operations, providing
the standards are not in conflict or less stringent than those provided in the
Public Health Code; and
      (3)   Defray costs through the collection of fees for services or by the
creation and levy of special assessments.
   (C)   A number of local governments comprised of the cities of East Grand
Rapids, Grandville, Grand Rapids, Kentwood, Rockford and Wyoming, as well as
Plainfield Charter Township, (“participating municipalities”) and American
Medical Response, Life EMS, and Rockford Ambulance (collectively, the “EMS
Providers”) have developed an agreement to define emergency ground ambulance
service areas for each EMS Provider and establish standards for such services.
(Ord. effective 3-18-2016)
§ 9.702 ADOPTION OF AGREEMENT.
   The city hereby approves and adopts the agreement for allocation of primary
emergency ground ambulance service areas among EMS Providers dated January 14,
2016, between the participating municipalities and the EMS Providers pursuant
to the provisions of the Municipal Partnership Act, Public Act 258 of 2011,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 124.111 et seq., as amended, and the state’s Public Health
Code, Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. effective 3-18-2016)
§ 9.703 PRIMARY AMBULANCE SERVICE AREA.
   (A)   Findings. The City Commission finds the following:
      (1)   There is a need to ensure that residents and recipients of
emergency medical services receive enhanced care in an efficient manner;
      (2)   The city, along with other municipalities in the county
(“participating municipalities”), have joined together pursuant to the
Municipal Partnership Act, Public Act 258 of 2011, being M.C.L.A. §§ 124.111 et
seq., as amended, and Part 209 of the state’s Public Health Code, Public Act
368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., to develop and enter into an
agreement with three emergency ground ambulance providers, American Medical
Response, Life EMS and Rockford Ambulance (collectively, the “EMS Providers”),
for ambulance pre-hospital life support services, to regulate ambulance pre-
hospital life support operations by providing standards, and to defray costs
through the collection of fees for services or by the creation and levy of
special assessments; and
      (3)   The participating municipalities and the EMS providers have entered
into a formal agreement originally dated January 14, 2016, to designate primary
emergency operating rights in certain areas, to improve patient and system
outcomes by ensuring continuity of services, to establish transparency in
operations and to develop data reporting standards (“agreement”).
   (B)   Designation of primary service area. Pursuant to the agreement, the
city has designated a primary emergency ground ambulance service area to the
provider or providers listed in the agreement. The agreement contemplates
periodic review of emergency ground ambulance service providers and the service
areas to which they are primarily assigned. During this review process, it is
possible for other emergency ground ambulance service providers to be
authorized to act and to be assigned a primary service area. Unless and until
such assignment is made, only a currently authorized emergency ground ambulance
service provider may operate within the city.
   (C)   Penalties. Any violation of division (B) above is a municipal civil
infraction. Each and every time a violation occurs is a separate offense. In
addition to seeking civil fines for the violation of this section, the city may
also seek injunctive relief to bar future violations.
(Ord. effective 3-18-2016)
TITLE X: TRAFFIC
   Chapter
      
101.   TRAFFIC CODE
      
102.   BICYCLISTS
      
103.   TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
104.   DRUNK DRIVING COST RECOVERY
      
105.   HELMET ORDINANCE
CHAPTER 101: TRAFFIC CODE
Section
   
10.1   State vehicle code adopted
   
10.2   References in state vehicle code
   
10.3   Enforcement; sanctions in state vehicle code
   
10.4   Uniform Traffic Code adopted
   
10.5   References in Uniform Traffic Code
   
10.6   Enforcement; sanctions in Uniform Traffic Code
   
10.7   Reserved
   
10.8   Taxicab stands
   
10.9   Snow removal
   
10.10   Embracing prohibited
   
10.11   Passenger vehicle equipment
   
10.12   Vehicles parked during darkness
   
10.13   Parking of vehicles
   
10.14   Parking on lawn extension
   10.15 – 10.25   Reserved
§ 10.1 STATE VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the Home Rule Cities Act, Public Act 279
of 1909, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 117.1 et seq., the Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 et seq., is adopted
by reference, as if fully set forth herein.
   (B)   The city further adopts by reference § 625(l)(c) of the state’s
Vehicle Code, pursuant to authority under M.C.L.A. §§ 117.3(k) and 117.4i. A
violation of § 625(l)(c) of the state’s Vehicle Code is punishable by one or
more of the following:
      (1)   Community service for not more than 360 hours;
      (2)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days; and
      (3)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.2 REFERENCE IN STATE VEHICLE CODE.
   References in the state’s Vehicle Code to “local authorities” shall mean the
City of East Grand Rapids, Kent County, Michigan.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.3 ENFORCEMENT; SANCTIONS IN STATE VEHICLE CODE.
   (A)   The state’s Vehicle Code may be enforced by any public safety officer
or other employee of the city authorized to enforce criminal ordinances or
authorized to issue civil infractions.
   (B)   The penalties provided by the state’s Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference, provided, however, that the city may not enforce any provision of
the state’s Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days, except as provided by M.C.L.A. §§ 117.3(k) and 117.4i,
which allow the city to adopt § 625(l)(c) of the state’s Vehicle Code, Public
Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. § 257.625, by reference in an adopting
ordinance and shall provide that a violation of that ordinance is punishable by
one or more of the following:
      (1)   Community service for not more than 360 hours;
      (2)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days; and
      (3)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
   (C)   When any person is found guilty of a misdemeanor or responsible for a
civil infraction pursuant to this section, the judge or magistrate shall
summarily determine and tax the costs of the action which shall include all
expenses, direct and indirect, to which the city has been put in connection
with the violation or infraction up to the entry of judgment.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.4 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships and villages as promulgated
by the Director of the Department of State Police pursuant to the
Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 24.201 et seq., and made effective October 30, 2002, is adopted by reference
as if fully set forth herein.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.5 REFERENCES IN UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   References in the Uniform Traffic Code to “governmental unit” or
“municipality” shall mean the city of East Grand Rapids, Kent County, Michigan.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.6 ENFORCEMENT; SANCTIONS IN UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code may be enforced by any public safety officer
or other employee of the city authorized to enforce criminal ordinances or
authorized to issue civil infractions.
   (B)   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code are adopted by
reference, provided, however, that the city may not enforce any provision of
the Uniform Traffic Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is
greater than 93 days.
   (C)   When any person is guilty of a misdemeanor or responsible for a civil
infraction pursuant to this section, the judge or magistrate shall summarily
determine and tax the costs of the action which shall include all expenses,
direct and indirect, to which the city has been put in connection with the
violation or infraction up to the entry of judgment.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.7 RESERVED.
§ 10.8 TAXICAB STANDS.
   In designating taxicab stands in accordance with Uniform Traffic Code rule
139 (R 28.1139 of the MAC), the following shall apply
   (A)   Taxicab stands shall be assigned to taxicab owners authorized to do
business in the city upon the payment of $10 for each space assigned.
   (B)   Sufficient spaces shall be assigned to each owner to accommodate his
or her needs and when assigned shall be for the exclusive use of the owner to
whom the particular space is assigned for the duration of the license year as
set forth in Title VII, Chapter 71 of this code. Such assignment shall be
deemed a permit subject in all respects to the provisions of Title VII, Chapter
71 of this code.
   (C)   Assignments shall be made so as to give each owner equal access to
prospective users as nearly as possible. The traffic engineer shall have
authority to alter or rotate assignments at any time.
   (D)   The taxicab stand assignee’s rights shall be subject to the provisions
of this chapter and the rights of the owners of land abutting the street at the
stand location.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.9 SNOW REMOVAL.
   No person shall move or deposit snow in such a manner to interfere with an
adjoining owner’s use of a driveway or access walk. The City Manager shall have
the authority to issue regulations for the enforcement of this section. Such
regulations shall be subject to review by the City Commission at the next
meeting of the Commission following issuance of the same. The license issued to
a snow removal contractor under §
7.90 of this code may be revoked by the City Clerk upon violation by said
contractor of the provisions of this chapter or the regulations issued
hereunder.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.10 EMBRACING PROHIBITED.
   No operator of a motor vehicle shall embrace, or be embraced by another
person, while his or her vehicle is in motion.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.11 PASSENGER VEHICLE EQUIPMENT.
   No passenger vehicle shall be operated upon any street or roadway unless
such motor vehicle is properly equipped with fenders or with mudguards of not
less than eight inches in width.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.12 VEHICLES PARKED DURING DARKNESS.
   Vehicles which are parked during the hours of darkness shall have a red
light on the left rear thereof which is visible for a distance of 200 feet, or
a red reflector or reflex mirror on the left rear which shall be visible in the
lights of a motor vehicle for a distance of 200 feet.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.13 PARKING OF VEHICLES.
   No motor vehicle shall be parked within ten feet of the extended edges of a
public or private driveway or alley. The prohibited parking area shall be
measured from the hard-surfaced portion of the driveway edges extended
laterally to the street edge or curb, excluding the driveway approach taper,
flare or radius.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.14 PARKING ON LAWN EXTENSION.
   No person shall drive upon, park or stand any vehicle between the curb or
curb line and the lot line nearest the street, said area being commonly known
as the lawn extension, whether or not any sidewalk or curb is actually in place
on such street.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§§ 10.15 – 10.25 RESERVED.
CHAPTER 102: BICYCLISTS
Section
   
10.31   Driver regulations applicable
   
10.32   Number and manner of carrying persons
   
10.33   Operation on roadways
   
10.34   Speed
   
10.35   Control
   
10.36   Carrying packages
   
10.37   Parking
   
10.38   Riding on sidewalks
   
10.39   Lights
   
10.40   Siren and whistles prohibited
   
10.41   Brakes
   
10.42   License required
   
10.43   Issuance of licenses; records
   
10.44   Prior registrations continued
   
10.45   Alteration of numbers and registration prohibited
   
10.46   Penalties
   
10.47   Conflict
§ 10.31 DRIVER REGULATIONS APPLICABLE.
   Every person riding a bicycle upon a street or highway shall be granted all
of the rights and shall be subject to all of the duties applicable to the
driver of a vehicle under Chapter 101 of this code, except as to those
provisions which by their nature can have no application.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.32 NUMBER AND MANNER OF CARRYING PERSONS.
   No person shall ride upon any bicycle:
   (A)   Other than upon or astride a permanent and regular seat attached
thereto; or
   (B)   Which is being used to carry persons in any manner other than as
specified in division (A) above.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.33 OPERATION ON ROADWAYS.
   No person riding a bicycle shall:
   (A)   Fail to ride as near to the right side of the roadway as practicable;
   (B)   Ride two or more abreast on any roadway; or
   (C)   Fail to exercise due care when passing a standing vehicle or one
proceeding in the same direction.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.34 SPEED.
   No person shall operate a bicycle at a speed greater than is reasonable and
prudent under the conditions then existing.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.35 CONTROL.
   The hands of the operator shall be on the handlebars at all times except
when he or she is in the act of signaling.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.36 CARRYING PACKAGES.
   No person riding a bicycle shall carry any object which prevents his or her
keeping both hands on the handlebars at all times. Parcels, including school
books, may be carried only in baskets or carriers mounted on the front fender
or on the top or sides of the rear fender.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.37 PARKING.
   No person shall park a bicycle upon a street other than in an upright
position and either against the curb, or upon the sidewalk by the curb, or
against a building, and in all cases in such a manner as to afford the least
obstruction to pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.38 RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Ride a bicycle upon a sidewalk within a business district;
   (B)   Disobey any sign erected on any sidewalk or street which prohibits the
riding of bicycles thereon; or
   (C)   When riding a bicycle upon a sidewalk, fail to yield the right-of-way
to any pedestrian or fail to give audible signal before overtaking and passing
such pedestrian.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.39 LIGHTS.
   Every bicycle when in use from one-half hour after sunset until one-half
hour before sunrise, shall be equipped with a lamp on the front which shall
emit a white light visible from a distance of at least 300 feet to the front
and with a red reflector on the rear which shall be visible from all distances
from 50 feet to 200 feet to the rear when directly in front of lawful upper
beams of head lamps on a motor vehicle. Use of a rear red light is permitted
but shall be in addition to and not in place of the red reflector.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.40 SIREN AND WHISTLES PROHIBITED.
   No person, except public safety personnel, shall operate a bicycle equipped
with any siren or whistles.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.41 BRAKES.
   Every bicycle shall be equipped with a brake which will enable the operator
to make the braked wheels skid on dry, level, clean pavement.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.42 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall ride or propel a bicycle on any street or alley unless such
bicycle has been registered with the Public Safety Department and unless a
license issued by the Public Safety Department bearing a distinctive number is
attached to the bicycle in such manner as to be plainly visible. Licenses shall
not be covered, obscured, altered or defaced in any manner and they shall be
kept free from dirt or any other substance.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.43 ISSUANCE OF LICENSES; RECORDS.
   Upon application to the Public Safety Department, the Public Safety
Department shall assign a number to each bicycle so registered and shall issue
and deliver to the owner thereof a license, in such style and arrangement as
the Public Safety Director shall determine, which shall have the registration
number thereon. Records of all applications and of all licenses issued shall be
kept for five years by the Public Safety Department.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.44 PRIOR REGISTRATIONS CONTINUED.
   All registrations made and licenses issued heretofore under any prior
ordinance of the city shall remain in force and effect and shall, from the
effective date of this code, be considered as registered under the terms and
provisions hereof.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.45 ALTERATION OF NUMBERS AND REGISTRATION PROHIBITED.
   No person shall wilfully or maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or alter
the serial number of any bicycle registered pursuant to this chapter; provided,
however, that nothing contained in this chapter shall prohibit the Public
Safety Department from stamping numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no
serial number can be found or on which said number is illegible or insufficient
for identification purposes.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.46 PENALTIES.
   Any person who shall violate any provision of this chapter shall have
committed a civil infraction and may be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more
than $100.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.47 CONFLICT.
   In case of conflict between this chapter and Chapter 101 with respect to
provisions regulating the operation and use of bicycles, the provisions of this
chapter will prevail.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
CHAPTER 103: TRAFFIC VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
10.61   Bureau established
   
10.62   Location
   
10.63   Offenses, disposition of
   
10.64   Procedure
   
10.65   Notice of violation
   
10.66   Schedule of violations
   
10.67   Impoundment
   
10.68   Release of impounded vehicle
§ 10.61 BUREAU ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to § 8395 of the Revised Judicature Act, as added by Public Act 154
of 1968, a Parking Violations Bureau, for the purpose of handling alleged
parking violations within the city, is hereby established. The Parking
Violations Bureau shall be under the supervision and control of the Public
Safety Director.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
Statutory reference:
   Related provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 600.8395
§ 10.62 LOCATION.
   The Public Safety Director shall, subject to the approval of the City
Commission, establish a convenient location for the Parking Violations Bureau,
appoint qualified city employees to administer the Bureau and adopt rules and
regulations for the operation thereof.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.63 OFFENSES, DISPOSITION OF.
   No violation not scheduled in §
10.66 of this chapter shall be disposed of by the Parking Violations Bureau.
The fact that a particular violation is scheduled shall not entitle the alleged
violator to disposition of the violation at the Bureau and in any case the
person in charge of such Bureau may refuse to dispose of such violation in
which case any person having knowledge of the facts may make a sworn complaint
before any court having jurisdiction of the offense as provided by law.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.64 PROCEDURE.
   No violation may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau except at the
specific request of the alleged violator. No penalty for any violation shall be
accepted from any person who denies having committed the offense and in no case
shall the person who is in charge of the Bureau determine, or attempt to
determine, the truth or falsity of any fact or matter relating to such alleged
violation. No person shall be required to dispose of a parking violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau and all persons shall be entitled to have any such
violation processed before a court having jurisdiction thereof if they so
desire. The unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the
Parking Violations Bureau shall not prejudice him or her or in any way diminish
the rights, privileges and protection accorded to him or her by law.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.65 NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   The issuance of a traffic ticket or notice of violation by a public safety
officer of the city shall be deemed an allegation of a parking violation. Such
traffic ticket or notice of violation shall indicate the length of time in
which the person to whom the same was issued must respond before the Parking
Violations Bureau. It shall also indicate the address of the Bureau, the hours
during which the Bureau is open, the amount of the penalty scheduled for the
offense for which the ticket was issued and advise that a warrant for the
arrest of the person to whom the ticket was issued will be sought if such
person fails to respond within the time limited.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.66 SCHEDULE OF VIOLATIONS.
   The following violations may be settled at the Parking Violations Bureau
when so provided in this chapter by imposition and payment of fines as set
forth in a resolution adopted by the City Commission from time to time.
   (A)   Uniform Traffic Code violations.
U.T. Code Section Offense
(as amended)
U.T. Code Section Offense
(as amended)
R28.1458          Unattended vehicle with motor running, or with key in
                  ignition
R28.1617          Bicycle parking violations
R28.1801          Parking too far from curb
R28.1802          Parking too far from curb on one-way street
R28.1803          Angle parking violations
R28.1804          Violation of loading/unloading permit
R28.1809          Parked without dimming lights
R28.1813          Parking in alley unless authorized by sign
R28.1814          Parking for purpose prohibited by rule 814
R28.1814(a)       Displaying vehicle for sale
R28.1814(b)       Washing, working on or repairing vehicle
R28.1814(c)       Displaying advertising
R28.1814(d)       Selling merchandise
R28.1814(e)       Storage over 48 hours
R28.1818          Loading zone violation
R28.1819          Bus or taxicab unauthorized parking
R28.1820          Bus stop, taxicab stand violation
R28.1821          Parking meter violations
R28.1822          Meters, not parked within space
 
   (B)   State Vehicle Code violations.
MVC Section  Offense
(as amended)
MVC Section    Offense
(as amended)
257.674        Parking in location prohibited by § 674
257.674(1)(a)  On sidewalk
257.674(1)(b)  In front of a public or private driveway
257.674(1)(c)  Within an intersection
257.674(1)(d)  Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant
257.674(1)(e)  On a crosswalk
257.674(1)(f)  With 20 feet of crosswalk, or 15 feet of highway intersection
257.674(1)(g)  Within 30 feet of a flashing beacon, stop sign or traffic-
               control signal located at the side of a highway
               Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
257.674(1)(h)  a point on the curb immediately opposite the end of a safety
               zone
257.674(1)(i)  Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing
257.674(1)(j)  Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to a fire station or
               within 75 feet on opposite side of a street
257.674(1)(k)  Alongside or opposite a street excavation or obstruction, if the
               stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic
257.674(1)(l)  Double parking
257.674(1)(m)  Upon a bridge or other elevated highway structure or within a
               highway tunnel
257.674(1)(n)  In violation of official sign
257.674(1)(o)  Within 500 feet of an accident with police officer in attendance
257.674(1)(p)  In front of a theater
257.674(1)(q)  Blocking emergency exit
257.674(1)(r)  Blocking fire escape
257.674(1)(s)  In handicapped parking space
257.674(1)(t)  In access aisle adjacent to handicapped parking space
257.674(1)(u)  Blocking curb cut or ramp for use by handicapped persons
257.674(1)(v)  Within 500 feet of fire with fire apparatus in attendance
257.674(1)(w)  In violation of an official sign restricting the period of time
               for or manner of parking
257.674(1)(x)  Parking meter violations
257.674(1)(y)  Obstructing mailbox
257.674(1)(z)  In a place or in a manner that blocks the use of an alley
257.674(1)(aa) In a place or in a manner that blocks access to a space clearly
               designated as a fire lane
 
   (C)   City code violations.
 
Code Section Offense
10.12        Parked at night without light/reflector
10.13        Parked near or on opposite driveway
10.14        Parking on law extension
 
   (D)   Additional city parking violation. The following violation may be
settled at the Parking Violations Bureau by the imposition and payment of a
fine as set forth in a resolution adopted by the City Commission from time to
time:
      (1)   Parking in fire lane; and
      (2)   Overtime parking in time restricted zones:
         (a)   First hour or fraction of hour; and
         (b)   Each additional hour or fraction thereof.
   (E)   Penalties for nonpayment. If the penalty listed in divisions (A) or
(B) above is not paid or postmarked within ten days of issuance of the notice
of violation, the penalty shall be twice the amount of the penalty set forth in
divisions (A) or (B) above; if not paid or postmarked within 45 days, the
penalty shall be four times the amount of the penalty set forth in divisions
(A) or (B) above. The traffic ticket or notice of violation shall indicate that
the violation fee shall be so increased if not timely paid.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.67 IMPOUNDMENT.
   A vehicle which is parked in violation of any provision of this code in such
manner that it endangers the public or obstructs traffic, or which is
abandoned, is hereby declared to be a public nuisance. In addition to placing a
traffic ticket or parking violation notice on said vehicle, the city may remove
or cause said vehicle to be removed to the vehicle pound. The owner or operator
of any vehicle which has been removed may have said vehicle released by paying
all violation charges at the Parking Violations Bureau, which are due against
said vehicle and paying all costs of impoundment to the towing contractor of
the city. Any lienholder may claim an impounded vehicle by entering into an
indemnity agreement with the city to save harmless from any and all liability
the city may incur at the hands of the registered owner for releasing said
vehicle to said lienholder, and upon paying all charges due against said
vehicle. The aforementioned charges shall include, but not be limited to, all
parking violation charges outstanding against the vehicle, and all costs of
impoundment.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
§ 10.68 RELEASE OF IMPOUNDED VEHICLE.
   Any owner or operator of an impounded vehicle who shall have denied
committing the offense shall have the vehicle returned by requesting the
vehicle at the Department of Public Safety and posting bond or security
sufficient to pay such towing and impound charges should the offense be found
to have been committed. Such bond or security shall be returned should the
offense be found to have not been committed.
(Ord. effective 12-16-2016)
CHAPTER 104: DRUNK DRIVING COST RECOVERY
Section
   
10.80   Title and purpose
   
10.81   Definitions
   
10.82   Liability for expense of an emergency response
§ 10.80 TITLE AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This chapter shall be known as “the drunk driving cost recovery
ordinance of the City of East Grand Rapids”.
   (B)   The city finds that a significant number of the traffic arrests and
traffic accidents in the city involve drivers operating a motor vehicle while
under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or a
combination thereof. Furthermore, the city finds that there is a greater
likelihood of personal injury or property damage in accidents involving a
driver operating under the influence of an intoxicating liquor or a controlled
substance, or combination thereof. As a result, the city finds that a greater
operational and financial burden has been placed on the city’s public safety
services by persons operating a motor vehicle under the influence of
intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, and that it is necessary to
recover these increased emergency response costs.
(Prior Code, § 10.80) (Ord. effective 12-14-1990)
§ 10.81 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. Providing or utilizing public safety officers, emergency
medical or rescue personnel by the city, or by a private individual or
corporation operating at the request or direction of the city, in connection
with any incident involving a driver of a motor vehicle operating under the
influence of an intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or a combination
of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance. Such incidents shall include
any accident involving a motor vehicle where one or more of the drivers was
operating the motor vehicle while under the influence of an intoxicating liquor
or a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a
controlled substance; and any traffic stop and arrest by a public safety
officer when the driver was operating the motor vehicle while under the
influence of an intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or a combination
thereof.
   EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE. All direct and reasonable expenses related
to an emergency response. These expenses shall include, but are not limited to,
the costs of police, firefighting, emergency medical and rescue services, the
salaries and wages of any personnel responding to the incident, the salaries
and wages of any personnel engaged in investigating the incident and all costs
of any reports connected therewith, all costs connected with the supervision
personnel responding to or investigating any incident, all costs connected with
the administration and processing of chemical tests of the blood, breath or
urine of the driver, and all costs related to any prosecution of the person
causing the incident.
(Prior Code, § 10.81) (Ord. effective 12-14-1990; Ord. effective 4-26-1991)
§ 10.82 LIABILITY FOR EXPENSE OF AN EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   Person liable. Any person is liable for the expense of an emergency
response if that person, while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or a
controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance, proximately causes any incident resulting in an emergency response.
   (B)   Presumptions. For the purpose of this chapter, a person is under the
influence of an intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or the
combination of an intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance, when his or
her physical or mental abilities are impaired to a degree that he or she no
longer has the ability to operate a motor vehicle with the caution
characteristic of a sober person of ordinary prudence. Further, it shall be
presumed that a person was operating a motor vehicle while under the influence
of an intoxicating liquor if a chemical analysis of his or her blood, urine or
breath indicates that the amount of alcohol in his or her blood was in excess
of 0.07%.
   (C)   Charge against person. The expense of an emergency response shall be a
charge against the person liable for the expense under this chapter. The charge
constitutes a debt of that person and is collectible by the city for incurring
those costs in the same manner as in the case of an obligation under a
contract, expressed or implied.
   (D)   Cost recovery schedule. The Public Safety Department shall
periodically evaluate the actual costs incurred in making such emergency
responses and determine an average cost during emergency responses. This amount
shall be amended from time to time to reflect increases or decreases in the
salaries of public safety officers as reflected by the current collective
bargaining agreement, along with the costs for police vehicles and other
necessary equipment.
   (E)   Collection by the court. The Director of Public Safety, or his or her
designee, shall forward the average cost developed in division (D) above to the
court having jurisdiction over the city, and that court shall impose this cost,
as restitution to the city, during the imposition of any sentence upon any
person liable under this section.
(Prior Code, § 10.82) (Ord. effective 12-14-1990; Ord. effective 9-14-1996;
Ord. effective 4-1-2005)
CHAPTER 105: HELMET ORDINANCE
Section
   
10.101   Purpose
   
10.102   Definitions
   
10.103   General requirements regarding bicycle helmets
   
10.104   Penalties and enforcement
§ 10.101 PURPOSE.
   The city hereby finds and declares that:
   (A)   Disability and death resulting from injuries sustained in bicycling
accidents are a serious threat to the public health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the city, and the prevention of such disability and death is a goal
of our community;
   (B)   Head injuries are the leading cause of disability and death from
bicycling accidents; and
   (C)   The risk of head injury from bicycling accidents is significantly
reduced for bicyclists who wear proper protective bicycle helmets.
(Prior Code, § 10.101) (Ord. effective 10-13-1995)
§ 10.102 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. A person who travels on a bicycle seated on a saddle seat from
which that person is intended to and can pedal the bicycle.
   PASSENGER. Any person who travels on a bicycle in any manner except as an
operator.
   PROTECTIVE BICYCLE HELMET. A piece of headgear which meets or exceeds the
impact standards for protective bicycle helmets set by the American National
Standards Institute (ANSI) or the Snell Memorial Foundation, or which is
otherwise approved by the Director of Public Safety.
   PUBLIC BICYCLE PATH. A right-of-way under the jurisdiction of the state or
city for use primarily by bicycles and pedestrians.
(Prior Code, § 10.102) (Ord. effective 10-13-1995)
§ 10.103 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS REGARDING BICYCLE HELMETS.
   (A)   No person under the age of 18 years shall operate or be a passenger on
a bicycle on a public roadway, sidewalk or public bicycle path unless at all
times when the person is so engaged he or she wears a protective bicycle helmet
of good fit fastened securely upon the head with the straps of the helmet.
   (B)   No person shall rent, lease or loan a bicycle for the use of another
person under the age of 18 years unless that other person is in possession of a
protective bicycle helmet of good fit at the time of such rental, lease or
loan.
(Prior Code, § 10.103) (Ord. effective 10-13-1995)
§ 10.104 PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   A person who violates a requirement of §
10.103 of this chapter prior to January 1, 1997, shall be warned of the
violation by a public safety officer, but shall not be issued a citation.
Beginning January 1, 1997, a violation of §
10.103 of this chapter is a civil infraction punishable by a fine of not more
than $50.
   (B)   Any public safety officer observing a person operating or being a
passenger upon a bicycle without wearing a protective bicycle helmet and
reasonably believing the person to be under 18 years of age may stop and
temporarily detain such person for purposes of establishing identity and
issuing an appropriate warning or citation.
(Prior Code, § 10.104) (Ord. effective 10-13-1995)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   PUD AGREEMENTS
      
II.   MICHCON FRANCHISES
TABLE I: PUD AGREEMENTS
 
Ord. No. Effective  Description
         Date
–      10-29-2004 Planned unit development agreement to establish Jade Pig
                    Venture Planned Unit Development
                    Planned unit development agreement to approve amended
–      9-19-2005  PUD from 1992 for Rose’s Building Company (The Gilmore
                    Collection)
–      1-17-2014  Planned unit development agreement to establish Croswell
                    Avenue Townhouses Planned Unit Development
                   
 
TABLE II: MICHCON FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Effective Date Description
                        Franchise agreement with Michigan Consolidated Gas
–      8-1-1994       Company to do local gas business in the city for a
                        period of 30 years
                       
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section              Code Section
15.231 et seq.                7.123
24.201 et seq.                10.4
28.451 et seq.                9.57
29.1 et seq.                  1.94,
                              7.8
29.3c                         7.78
29.19                         1.95
30.401 et seq.                1.227
36.1 to 36.12                 5.13
37.1101 et seq.               1.601
37.2101 et seq.               1.601
117.1 et seq.                 10.1
                              9.102,
117.3(k)                      10.1,
                              10.3
117.4i                        10.1,
                              10.3
124.111 et seq.               9.702,
                              9.703
125.51                        5.208
125.51 et seq.                5.200,
                              5.208
125.52                        5.208,
                              5.213
125.581 to 125.590            5.17
125.1501 et seq.              2.34,
                              8.3
125.1508a                     8.2
125.1508b                     8.2
125.1522                      8.8
                              5.2,
                              5.18,
125.3101 et seq.              5.47,
                              5.102,
                              5.125
125.3405                      5.110
125.3514(2) through (6)       5.75
125.3604(7)                   5.103
125.3803(d)                   5.201
125.3811 through 125.3825     5.200
125.3815                      5.201
129.91 et seq.                1.65
129.201 et seq.               1.212
168.1 et seq.                 1.519
168.542 et seq.               1.513
168.644f(1)                   Charter §
                              6.3
211.1 et seq.                 8.93
211.14                        1.42
247.651 et seq.               3.38,
                              7.132
257.1 et seq.                 9.57,
                              10.1
257.1 to 257.923              5.76
257.625                       10.3
257.683 et seq.               7.91-1
280.1 et seq.                 2.180
280.1 to 280.630              7.163
286.841 et seq.               7.150
323.1301 et seq.              5.303,
                              5.304
324.1301 et seq.              5.303,
                              5.304
324.8301 through 324.8336     7.86,
                              7.88-1
324.8504                      7.88-1
                              2.1,
324.11501 et seq.             2.43,
                              2.49
324.80101 through 324.80199   3.65,
                              3.66
                              2.48,
                              5.8,
                              5.13,
333.1101 et seq.              6.1,
                              9.51,
                              9.701 -
                              9.703
333.7104                      6.21,
                              9.51
333.7107                      9.51
333.7109                      9.51
333.7303                      6.22
333.7401 et seq.              6.22
333.7411                      9.65
333.7451                      6.21,
                              9.51
333.12901                     6.1,
                              6.2
333.16631                     2.48
                              5.13,
333.26421 et seq.             6.21,
                              7.150,
                              9.51
333.26423                     9.51
333.26423d                    5.13
333.27101 et seq.             7.150
                              6.21,
333.27951 et seq.             7.150,
                              9.51
333.27953                     9.51
400.701 et seq.               5.7,
                              5.9
408.1001                      2.43
462.109                       7.160
484.2101 et seq.              7.123
484.2102                      7.122
484.3101 et seq.              7.120,
                              7.122
484.3104(2)                   7.135
484.3105(1)                   7.123
484.3105(3)                   7.123
484.3105(4)                   7.123
484.3106(1), (2) and 484.3115 7.124
484.3106(2)                   7.123
484.3106(5)                   7.123
484.3106(7)                   7.127
484.3106(8)                   7.127
484.3108                      7.129 -
                              7.131
484.3110(4)                   7.132
484.3110(5)                   7.133
484.3113(1)                   7.130
484.3113(4)                   7.130
484.3113(5)                   7.131
484.3113(6)                   7.134
484.3115(2)                   7.137
484.3115(3)                   7.124
484.3115(4)                   7.124
559.101 to 559.272            5.8
559.166                       5.8
560.101 et seq.               5.14
560.101 to 560.293            5.14,
                              5.402
560.111 to 560.120            5.402
                              1.606,
                              1.651,
600.101 et seq.               1.671,
                              1.672,
                              1.691
600.2916                      6.3
600.8395                      10.61
600.8705                      1.653
701.1 et seq.                 5.9
722.111 to 722.128            5.9
764.1 et seq.                 1.681
764.9c                        1.681
764.9f                        1.681
                              
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code Section Code Section
Prior Code Section Code Section
1.1                1.1
1.2                1.2
1.3                1.3
1.4                1.4
1.5                1.5
1.6                1.6
1.7                1.7
1.8                1.8
1.9                1.9
1.10               1.10
1.11               1.11
1.12               1.12
1.13               1.13
1.14               1.14
1.15               1.15
1.31               1.31
1.70               1.70
1.71               1.71
1.72               1.72
1.73               1.73
1.91               1.91
1.92               1.92
1.93               1.93
1.94               1.94
1.95               1.95
1.101              1.102
1.102              1.103
1.103              1.104
1.121              1.121
1.151              1.151
1.152              1.152
1.153              1.153
1.154              1.154
1.155              1.155
1.156              1.156
1.157              1.157
1.158              1.158
1.159              1.159
1.512              1.512
1.514              1.514
1.515              1.515
1.516              1.516
1.517              1.517
1.518              1.518
1.519              1.519
1.651              1.651
1.652              1.652
1.653              1.653
1.654              1.654
1.671              1.671
1.672              1.672
2.1                2.1
2.2                2.2
2.3                2.3
2.5A               2.5A
2.6                2.6
2.7                2.7
2.8                2.8
2.9                2.9
2.12               2.12
2.20               2.20
2.21               2.21
2.22               2.22
2.23               2.23
2.24               2.24
2.25               2.25
2.25-1             2.25-1
2.25-2             2.25-2
2.26               2.26
2.27               2.27
2.28               2.28
2.29               2.29
2.30               2.30
2.31               2.31
2.32               2.32
2.33               2.33
2.34               2.34
2.35               2.35
2.150              2.150
2.151              2.151
2.152              2.152
2.153              2.153
2.180              2.180
2.181              2.181
2.182              2.182
2.183              2.183
2.184              2.184
2.185              2.185
2.186              2.186
2.187              2.187
2.188              2.188
3.5                3.1
3.6                3.2
3.100              3.61
3.101              3.62
3.101-1            3.63
3.102              3.64
3.103              3.65
3.104              3.66
3.105              3.67
3.106              3.68
3.107              3.69
3.108              3.70
3.109              3.71
3.110              3.72
3.111              3.73
3.112              3.74
3.113              3.75
5.200              5.200
5.201              5.201
5.202              5.202
5.203              5.203
5.204              5.204
5.205              5.205
5.206              5.206
5.207              5.207
5.208              5.208
5.209              5.209
5.210              5.210
5.211              5.211
5.212              5.212
5.213              5.213
5.214              5.214
5.221              5.221
5.222              5.222
5.223              5.223
5.224              5.224
5.225              5.225
5.226              5.226
5.227              5.227
5.301              5.301
5.302              5.302
5.303              5.303
5.304              5.304
5.305              5.305
5.401              5.401
5.402              5.402
5.403              5.403
5.404              5.404
5.405              5.405
5.406              5.406
5.501              5.501
5.502              5.502
5.503              5.503
6.1                6.1
6.2                6.2
6.3                6.3
6.21               6.21
6.22               6.22
6.23               6.23
6.24               6.24
6.31               6.31,
                   6.33
6.32               6.32
7.1                7.1
7.2                7.2
7.3                7.3
7.4                7.4
7.5                7.5
7.6                7.6
7.7                7.7
7.8                7.8
7.9                7.9
7.10               7.10
7.11               7.11
7.12               7.12
7.13               7.13
7.14               7.14
7.15               7.15
7.16               7.16
7.17               7.17
7.18               7.18
7.19               7.19
7.20               7.20
7.21               7.21
7.31               7.31
7.35               7.35
7.36               7.36
7.37               7.37
7.38               7.38
7.39               7.39
7.40               7.40
7.41               7.41
7.42               7.42
7.43               7.43
7.44               7.44
7.45               7.45
7.46               7.46
7.48               7.48
7.49               7.49
7.51               7.51
7.53               7.53
7.54               7.54
7.55               7.55
7.56               7.56
7.57               7.57
7.58               7.58
7.61               7.61
7.62               7.62
7.63               7.63
7.64               7.64
7.65               7.65
7.66               7.66
7.67               7.67
7.68               7.68
7.76               7.76
7.77               7.77
7.78               7.78
7.79               7.79
7.80               7.80
7.81               7.81
7.82               7.82
7.83               7.83
7.95               7.95
7.96               7.96
7.97               7.97
7.98               7.98
7.101              7.101
7.102              7.102
7.103              7.103
7.104              7.104
7.105              7.105
7.106              7.106
7.107              7.107
7.108              7.108
7.109              7.109
7.110              7.110
7.111              7.111
7.112              7.112
7.113              7.113
7.114              7.114
7.115              7.115
7.116              7.116
7.117              7.117
7.118              7.118
7.120              7.120
7.121              7.121
7.122              7.122
7.123              7.123
7.124              7.124
7.125              7.125
7.126              7.126
7.127              7.127
7.128              7.128
7.129              7.129
7.130              7.130
7.131              7.131
7.132              7.132
7.133              7.133
7.134              7.134
7.135              7.135
7.136              7.136
7.137              7.137
7.138              7.138
7.139              7.139
7.140              7.140
8.63               8.63
8.64               8.64
8.501              8.501
8.502              8.502
8.503              8.503
8.504              8.504
8.801              8.801
8.802              8.802
8.803              8.803
8.804              8.804
8.805              8.805
8.806              8.806
8.807              8.807
8.808              8.808
8.810              8.810
8.811              8.811
8.812              8.812
9.1                9.1
9.2                9.2
9.3                9.3
9.4                9.4
9.4-1              9.4-1
9.5                9.5
9.6                9.6
9.7                9.7
9.8                9.8
9.9                9.9
9.10               9.10
9.11               9.11
9.12               9.12
9.14               9.14
9.15               9.15
9.16               9.16
9.17               9.17
9.18               9.18
9.19               9.19
9.20               9.20
9.201              9.201
9.202              9.202
9.203              9.203
9.204              9.204
9.205              9.205
9.206              9.206
9.207              9.207
9.208              9.208
9.209              9.209
9.210              9.210
9.211              9.211
9.212              9.212
9.213              9.213
9.214              9.214
9.215              9.215
9.401              9.401
9.402              9.402
9.403              9.403
9.404              9.404
9.405              9.405
9.406              9.406
9.407              9.407
9.408              9.408
9.409              9.409
9.501              9.501
9.502              9.502
9.503              9.503
9.504              9.504
9.505              9.505
9.601              9.601
9.603              9.603
9.604              9.604
9.605              9.605
9.606              9.606
10.80              10.80
10.81              10.81
10.82              10.82
10.101             10.101
10.102             10.102
10.103             10.103
10.104             10.104
                   
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
–      10-4-1982   6.21 -
                     6.24
–      11-4-1984   8.62
                     2.1 -
–      11-18-1985  2.3,
                     2.9,
                     2.12
                     9.601,
–      11-18-1985  9.603 -
                     9.606
–      10-6-1986   2.150 -
                     2.153
–      10-20-1986  7.68
–      4-20-1987   2.9,
                     2.12
                     2.1,
–      9-19-1988   2.9,
                     2.12
–      1-16-1989   7.1 -
                     7.21
–      2-20-1989   7.35 -
                     7.46
–      6-5-1989    8.812
                     8.801 -
–      6-16-1989   8.809,
                     8.811
–      11-16-1990  1.31,
                     1.104
–      12-14-1990  10.80 -
                     10.82
                     1.514,
–      2-15-1991   1.515,
                     1.518,
                     2.153
–      4-26-1991   10.81
–      5-31-1991   1.121
–      5-31-1991   9.202,
                     9.215
–      6-28-1991   5.401 -
                     5.405
                     2.1,
–      9-14-1991   2.5A,
                     2.6,
                     2.7
                     2.20,
–      11-29-1991  2.21,
                     2.32,
                     2.34
–      1-31-1992   3.2
–      2-15-1992   1.3
                     1.31,
–      5-29-1992   1.102 -
                     1.104
                     2.1,
                     2.20,
                     2.23,
–      8-14-1992   2.25,
                     2.25-1,
                     2.26,
                     2.30,
                     2.34
–      8-14-1992   5.302
–      8-14-1992   9.202
–      9-18-1993   7.101 -
                     7.118
–      4-1-1994    1.31
–      8-1-1994    TSO Table II
–      9-17-1994   2.3
–      2-17-1995   5.221 -
                     5.227
–      10-13-1995  10.101 -
                     10.104
                     1.13,
                     1.651 -
–      9-14-1996   1.654,
                     1.671,
                     1.672
–      9-14-1996   2.35
–      9-14-1996   3.2
–      9-14-1996   7.46
–      9-14-1996   8.504,
                     8.810
–      9-14-1996   9.408,
                     9.409
–      9-14-1996   10.82
–      9-27-1996   5.222,
                     5.224
                     5.401,
                     5.403,
–      5-16-1997   5.406,
                     9.14,
                     9.403
–      11-14-1997  2.6
–      5-29-1998   7.95 -
                     7.97
–      7-7-1998    5.406
                     7.95,
–      6-16-2000   7.96,
                     7.98
                     5.403,
                     5.406,
–      1-26-2001   7.48,
                     7.49,
                     7.51
                     5.501 -
–      3-30-2001   5.503,
                     7.53 -
                     7.58
                     9.51,
–      4-27-2001   9.56,
                     9.65
–      1-18-2002   2.180 -
                     2.188
–      11-1-2002   7.120 -
                     7.140
–      11-28-2003  1.151 -
                     1.159
–      10-1-2004   6.31 -
                     6.33
–      10-29-2004  TSO Table I
–      1-28-2005   2.1,
                     2.7
–      4-1-2005    10.82
–      9-19-2005   TSO Table I
–      4-17-2006   3.80
–      2-16-2007   5.406
–      4-10-2009   3.100 -
                     3.112
–      1-1-2010    7.32,
                     7.52
–      1-1-2010    8.809
–      3-26-2010   9.602
–      5-18-2012   7.50
                     2.41 -
–      11-15-2013  2.76,
                     2.78 -
                     2.88
                     5.1 -
                     5.4,
                     5.6 -
                     5.23,
                     5.26 -
                     5.29,
–      11-29-2013  5.35 -
                     5.39,
                     5.41 -
                     5.52,
                     5.56 -
                     5.61,
                     5.64 -
                     5.125
–      1-17-2014   TSO Table I
–      1-17-2014   5.20
                     5.12,
–      2-27-2015   5.28,
                     5.62,
                     5.63
–      3-27-2015   1.601 -
                     1.606
                     5.28,
–      10-2-2015   5.70,
                     5.114
–      2-26-2016   5.20
–      3-18-2016   9.701 -
                     9.703
                     1.96 -
                     1.99,
                     1.100,
                     1.101,
–      10-14-2016  1.220 -
                     1.227,
                     1.681,
                     1.682,
                     1.691,
                     1.692
–      10-14-2016  2.140 -
                     2.142
–      11-18-2016  5.27
–      11-18-2016  7.71 -
                     7.75
                     9.51 -
–      11-18-2016  9.62,
                     9.64 -
                     9.67
–      12-16-2016  9.71 -
                     9.73
                     10.1 -
                     10.6,
                     10.8 -
–      12-16-2016  10.14,
                     10.31 -
                     10.47,
                     10.61 -
                     10.68
                     3.1,
                     3.2,
–      1-14-2017   3.130 -
                     3.132,
                     3.140 -
                     3.147
                     8.1,
                     8.11 -
–      5-26-2017   8.16,
                     8.18 -
                     8.25
                     1.32 -
                     1.34,
                     1.41,
                     1.42,
                     1.65,
–      7-28-2017   1.66,
                     1.131 -
                     1.140,
                     1.210 -
                     1.216,
                     1.301 -
                     1.311
–      7-28-2017   2.100 -
                     2.108
–      7-28-2017   5.20
–      7-28-2017   7.85 -
                     7.92
                     1.510,
–      9-29-2017   1.511,
                     1.513
–      12-15-2017  9.90 -
                     9.102
                     2.1,
                     2.4 -
                     2.5-1,
                     2.10,
–      10-12-2018  2.11,
                     2.13 -
                     2.15,
                     2.77,
                     2.79
                     8.1 -
                     8.10,
                     8.41 -
–      10-12-2018  8.50,
                     8.52,
                     8.53,
                     8.91 -
                     8.94
–      10-26-2018  8.61,
                     8.62
–      11-16-2018  3.31 -
                     3.49
                     4.1 -
                     4.15,
                     4.18,
                     4.20,
                     4.21,
–      11-16-2018  4.23,
                     4.24,
                     4.26 -
                     4.33,
                     4.41 -
                     4.49
–      12-3-2018   7.150 -
                     7.152
–      10-18-2019  6.21 -
                     6.24
                     9.51,
–      10-18-2019  9.56,
                     9.65
–      3-1-2019    9.57
–      3-15-2019   5.18,
                     5.61
                     5.7,
                     5.10,
                     5.14,
–      9-14-2019   5.36,
                     5.65,
                     5.72,
                     5.74
–      11-1-2019   3.38
                     8.61,
–      11-1-2019   8.62 -
                     8.62B
–      11-15-2019  5.75
–      11-15-2019  7.160 -
                     7.171
–      12-13-2019  1.4
–      2-14-2020   9.56
–      4-20-2020   1.4
–      5-1-2020    7.150–
                     7.152
–      6-12-2020   1.151
–      6-12-2020   3.130
–      9-19-2020   8.9
                     1.220,
–      12-7-2020   1.222,
                     1.227
–      3-26-2021   8.61,
                     Ch. 83, App. A
–      7-30-2021   7.124
–      10-1-2021   5.37
                     5.100,
–      1-1-2022    5.101,
                     5.103
–      1-1-2022    8.24,
                     8.25
                     8.61,
–      1-1-2022    8.62A,
                     8.62B
–      1-29-2022   5.103,
                     5.104
–      4-1-2022    2.107,
                     2.108
–      4-29-2022   2.180 -
                     2.188
                     5.26,
                     5.27,
                     5.28,
–      5-13-2022   5.30,
                     5.37,
                     5.59,
                     5.77
–      5-13-2022   8.17
-        7-1-2022    3.130
-        7-29-2022   5.111,
                     5.116
-        7-29-2022   8.51
-        12-1-2022   5.103
                     5.84,
-        1-28-2023   5.85,
                     5.89,
                     5.90
                     5.92,
                     5.93,
-        1-28-2023   5.95,
                     5.97,
                     5.98
                     5.16,
                     5.27,
-        3-30-2023   5.36,
                     5.61,
                     5.68,
                     5.70
-        6-30-2023   5.201
-        9-1-2023    5.406
-        9-16-2023   5.31,
                     5.32
-        9-16-2023   9.14
-        9-16-2023   9.35
-        1-19-2024   9.96
-        2-2-2024    8.61
                     5.7,
                     5.27,
-        2-19-2024   5.61,
                     5.68,
                     5.70
-        9-14-2024   5.20
                    
 
